US	52590119	R3ENE11I99CIX2	0679731210	156485389	The Leopard	Books	4	18	21	N	N	A Rough Gem in the Annals of Historical Fiction	This is the allegorical tale of a Sicilian prince, and his extended family, during the overthrow of the nobility, land reform, and unification of the Italian states in the 1860s.  The prince and his family represent the old way, and the next generation represents the new.  The author is himself a descendant of Sicilian princes, and, as you might expect, he depicts his protagonist, Don Fabrizio, as a benevolent lord and accomplished scholar.  This book was very popular when it came out in 1960, and deserves its durability.  The prospective reader should be aware of a few factors.  First, there is a disturbing clash of chronology.  The author attempts a Michener-like intergenerational view, yet its flash-backs and flash-forwards result in a distortion of timeline.  In the midst of one narrative, the author makes an unexplained and out of context reference to a future bomb manufactured in Pittsburgh.  If this hadn't been published posthumously, an editor would have remedied these passages.  Then there is the language.  We are often aware that we are reading a translation.  It is not Giuseppe di Lampedusa's language, but that of Archibald Colquhoun.  (Just say those two names aloud and you will hear the difference between Italian and English).  Finally, the book is entertaining.  \\"'There is endless good in him,and it is not only I who say so.  Isn't that true Father Pirrone?'  The excellent Jesuit found himself suddenly facing an unpleasant dilemma. He had been Tancredi's confessor,and he knew quite a number of his little failings: none very serious, of course, but such as to detract quite a good deal from the endless goodness of which the Prince had spoken; and all such, he almost felt like saying, as to guarantee an unwavering marital infidelity.  This, of course, could not actually be said both for sacramental reasons and from worldly experience.\\"	2005-09-21
US	52590119	R179C2JTRM9UAD	0891410309	145328948	General John Sedgwick, the story of a Union corps commander	Books	3	5	5	N	Y	A Great Man, His Loyal Corps, and Their Battles	Mr. Winslow's scholarship in this diary of General John Sedgwick's day to day thoughts, words, and actions during the Civil War is second to none.  As he points out, there is very little in print about this soldier, who was second in the hierarchy of command for Union forces, and who several times during the war was their acting commander.  He was a West Pointer, extremely capable, and remarkably non-political in a time of enormous political intrigue.  He was born and raised in Cornwall, Connecticut, one of the most attractive landscapes on Earth, and was on the verge of retiring there when the war broke out.  No one would have criticized him for retiring, as he had distinguished himself in the Mexican Wars and had long planned a retirement.  Much of what Mr. Winslow presents is derived from original documents, including war dispatches and General Sedgwick's letters to his sister.  The dialog is very credible, and the descriptions of the action are both clear and thorough.  Not surprisingly, since this is an accurate view of war, the descriptions of the inaction are thoroughly detailed, too.  The boredom, discomforts and snafus are interwoven, just as they are in life.  Mr. Winslow's editors were remiss, however, in the omission of maps, diagrams, and photos.  As good as the descriptions are, there is no way the reader can visualize the action when we don't know where we are or why the terrain was material factor.  And why only one photo, when only three or four more would give the reader a sense of the principal characters?  This is an excellent book for Civil War buffs who are missing the thread provided by General Sedgwick's Sixth Corps, which was involved in most of the war's major engagements.  I also recommend it to former students of Sedgwick Middle School, in West Hartford, CT, who might wonder for whom our school was named.  No review would be complete without mentioning Sedgwick's last words before being shot dead at Spotsylvania, \\"They couldn't hit an elephant at this distance.\\"phant at this distance.\\"	2005-09-13
US	52590119	RZ11TQFVWBF71	B0001PIOXY	111063788	The Tante Marie's Cooking School Cookbook : More Than 250 Recipes for the Passionate Home Cook	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A Genuine Learning Experience	I selected five recipes more or less randomly from the book and made them in preparation for this review.  Over the course of a couple of months I made the roasted almonds, paella, boned leg of lamb with tapenade stuffing, vegetable charlotte, and tiramisu.  Normally I take recipes as guidance (which Ms. Risley recommends), but for this exercise I followed them as closely as possible (except that I used blanched almonds, and I barbecued the lamb).  I loved all of the dishes and my guests did, too.  My learning curve was very steep, and I extended my culinary technique considerably.  For instance, I'd never considered butterflying a leg of lamb before.  Now?  No problem!  Ms. Risley composes her chapters and recipes very like Julia Child, by which I mean that she interposes considerable guidance on culinary technique among her recipes.  It works for Julia and it works for Mary, too.  I have one regular houseguest who now pulls this book from the bookshelf in the kitchen and requests me to make anything from it.  I figure there are enough excellent recipes in this book to make me look good for years to come.	2005-09-09
US	52590119	R31P0B051HVR7	019280264X	569473707	Mansfield Park (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Savor This Jane Austin Masterpiece	Mansfield Park has it all. Of course it has Austin's dexterous English, but it also has the social commentary of class and gender which we also expect from her. It has all the feel of a retrospective, and it is remarkable in the extreme that Austin saw her own world with eyes so very like our own. If the quintessence of the creative writer's craft is the development and maintenance of tension, then this is the quintessential Austin novel, and possibly her best. We ache for Fanny when she is transported from her home as a young girl and fails to find either comfort or happiness in the manor house of her aunt and uncle. We are as edgy as the characters themselves as they mount a home theatrical production which places in relief each of their deficiencies, and foretells the guileless decency of our young protagonist. Our nerves are as knotted as hers when the scheming and fabulously wealthy Crawford stalks her, brandishing matrimony as a weapon. And even as we are turning the final dozen pages, the faulty judgment of Fanny's love interest, her cousin Edmond, instills lingering doubts as to whether a satisfying outcome is achievable. Let me provide a preview of Austin's delicious language and the underlying tension it conveys: \\"The evening passed with external smoothness, though almost every mind was ruffled, and the music which Sir Thomas called for from his daughters helped to conceal the want of real harmony.\\" And here Austin portrays the controlling male mindset in dealing with their female marionettes: \\"In thus sending her away, Sir Thomas perhaps might not be thinking merely of her health...he might mean to recommend her as a wife by showing her persuadableness.\\" And just how depraved is Mr. Crawford? \\"Curiosity and vanity were both engaged, and the temptation of immediate pleasure was too strong for a mind unused to make any sacrifice to right...he could not bear to be thrown off by the woman whose smiles had been so wholly at his command; he must exert himself to subdue so proud a display of resentment; it was anger on Fanny's account [for rebuffing him]; he must get the better of it, and make Mrs. Rushworth Maria Bertram [her maiden name] again in her treatment of himself.\\" In Mansfield Park, we have pure evil in a position of commanding power, pitted against a powerless angel. And one by one, the angel's natural allies line up against her. There are a hundred paths to disaster, and only one to the sweetest victory.o subdue so proud a display of resentment; it was anger on Fanny's account [for rebuffing him]; he must get the better of it, and make Mrs. Rushworth Maria Bertram [her maiden name] again in her treatment of himself.\\" In Mansfield Park, we have pure evil in a position of commanding power, pitted against a powerless angel. And one by one, the angel's natural allies line up against her. There are a hundred paths to disaster, and only one to the sweetest victory.	2005-09-06
US	52590119	R1ZEHEEX1MA0HO	B0006BVZAW	505530524	Design and Color in Islamic Architecture;: Afghanistan, Iran, Turkey (Smithsonian publication 4741)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Breathtaking in Concept; Awe Inspiring in Execution	For forty years this lavishly illustrated book has been the definitive work on Islamic design and architecture.  It preserves for posterity the design intricacies of tombs, caravanserais, madrasas, mosques, and mausoleums throughout Iran, Afghanistan, and Turkey.  And while we are viewing the stunning, full page color plates, we receive an accompanying historical narrative, covering some eight hundred years, from the Seljuks to the Ottomans.  We have verse from Omar Khayyam, drawings of ancient cities, and illustrations of construction techniques.  And our disbelieving eyes widen to the stunning color and creativity in the glazed tiles and mosaics.  When it was published in 1968 there was little available for scholars of design and architecture in Afghanistan, Iran, and Turkey.  That this monumental contribution to the study of Islamic design and architecture is the work of a husband and wife team's ten thousand mile journey is an inspiration.	2005-08-24
US	52590119	R1OOJ8SF8UZ8KE	0571216404	537366497	Why the West has Won	Books	5	161	170	N	N	2485 Years of Hindsight	Not before the Greeks, not before the 480 BC battle of Salamis, the largest naval engagement in history, pitting the Panhellenes under Themistocles against the Achaemenid Persians under their king, Xerxes, did personal freedom clash against totalitarianism. The decisive factors in that and the other \\"Landmark Battles in the Rise of Western Power\\" described in Victor Davis Hanson's 463 pages of gore now seem fundamental to civilization, but they were not always so. Hanson's theme is that some six elements in the Western pursuit of war have led us to our current world view. They are 1) personal freedom, which \\"does not begin earlier than the Greeks,\\" 2) civic militarism, in which duty calls citizens to the defense of their property and ideals, 3) civilian audit, placing limits on the independence of the military, 4) scientific tradition, bringing both its logic and its technology, 5) decisive shock battle by disciplined infantry, 6) and private property, providing soldiers a vested interest in the outcome. Hanson also refers to these factors in aggregate as \\"secular rationalism,\\" once the reader becomes familiar with the elements of the term. For most of the \\"case studies,\\" as he calls them, Hanson uses a uniform analytic framework. First, he provides a summary of what happened, with attention to the specific methodology of bloodletting. Second, he presents an explanation (he uses the term \\"exegesis\\") of how the victor had developed the specific military superiority described in the summary. Then he interprets the historical significance of the victory. As a professor of the classics, Hanson frequently cites historic antecedents, which he refers to as \\"the classical paradigm.\\" In addition to Salamis, 480 BC, we get Gaugamela, 331 BC, Cannae, 216 BC, Poitiers, 732 AD, Tenochtitlan, 1521, Lepanto, 1571, Rorke's Drift, 1879, Midway, 1942, and Tet, 1968. The afterward, \\"Carnage and Culture After September 11, 2001,\\" will comfort any who doubt that we will ultimately defeat global terrorism. Above I stated that most of the case studies follow the same format. The chapter on Vietnam does not. It is more heavily weighted toward exegesis. It is an articulate depiction of why the war tore at America's conscience, and why things turned out the way they did. I have seen nothing better written about America in Vietnam. Overall, this book will give you an appreciation of the copious amounts of blood which have been spilled to create and preserve our Western values. And that bloodletting is far from over.t global terrorism. Above I stated that most of the case studies follow the same format. The chapter on Vietnam does not. It is more heavily weighted toward exegesis. It is an articulate depiction of why the war tore at America's conscience, and why things turned out the way they did. I have seen nothing better written about America in Vietnam. Overall, this book will give you an appreciation of the copious amounts of blood which have been spilled to create and preserve our Western values. And that bloodletting is far from over. <br />	2005-08-22
US	52590119	R9ZHHUA9QM1LZ	0385720386	288543952	Carnage and Culture: Landmark Battles in the Rise to Western Power	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	2485 Years of Hindsight	Not before the Greeks, not before the 480 BC battle of Salamis, the largest naval engagement in history, pitting the Panhellenes under Themistocles against the Achaemenid Persians under their king, Xerxes, did personal freedom clash against totalitarianism.  The decisive factors in that and the other \\"Landmark Battles in the Rise of Western Power\\" described in Victor Davis Hanson's 463 pages of gore now seem fundamental to civilization, but they were not always so.  Hanson's theme is that some six elements in the Western pursuit of war have led us to our current world view.  They are 1) personal freedom, which \\"does not begin earlier than the Greeks,\\" 2) civic militarism, in which duty calls citizens to the defense of their property and ideals, 3) civilian audit, placing limits on the independence of the military, 4) scientific tradition, bringing both its logic and its technology, 5) decisive shock battle by disciplined infantry, 6) and private property, providing soldiers a vested interest in the outcome.  Hanson also refers to these factors in aggregate as \\"secular rationalism,\\" once the reader becomes familiar with the elements of the term.  For most of the \\"case studies,\\" as he calls them, Hanson uses a uniform analytic framework.  First, he provides a summary of what happened, with attention to the specific methodology of bloodletting.  Second, he presents an explanation (he uses the term \\"exegesis\\") of how the victor had developed the specific military superiority described in the summary.  Then he interprets the historical significance of the victory.  As a professor of the classics, Hanson frequently cites historic antecedents, which he refers to as \\"the classical paradigm.\\"  In addition to Salamis, 480 BC, we get Gaugamela, 331 BC, Cannae, 216 BC, Poitiers, 732 AD, Tenochtitlan, 1521, Lepanto, 1571, Rorke's Drift, 1879, Midway, 1942, and Tet, 1968.  The afterward, \\"Carnage and Culture After September 11, 2001,\\" will comfort any who doubt that we will ultimately defeat global terrorism.  Above I stated that most of the case studies follow the same format.  The chapter on Vietnam does not.  It is more heavily weighted toward exegesis.  It is  an articulate depiction of why the war tore at America's conscience, and why things turned out the way they did.  I have seen nothing better written about America in Vietnam.  Overall, this book will give you an appreciation of the copious amounts of blood which have been spilled to create and preserve our Western values.  And that bloodletting is far from over.ately defeat global terrorism.  Above I stated that most of the case studies follow the same format.  The chapter on Vietnam does not.  It is more heavily weighted toward exegesis.  It is  an articulate depiction of why the war tore at America's conscience, and why things turned out the way they did.  I have seen nothing better written about America in Vietnam.  Overall, this book will give you an appreciation of the copious amounts of blood which have been spilled to create and preserve our Western values.  And that bloodletting is far from over.	2005-08-20
US	52590119	R3CFJD1OQ4Z9QP	1564744000	835164469	Black and Red and White: Essays	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Our Diversity is Our Wealth	Published in 2002, this is the most recent release in Sonia (Sunny) Seherr-Thoss's trilogy of essays.  Here she finds her clearest voice and her most clearly articulated themes.  They cover a multitude of subjects; they are thought-provoking, touching, and they are fun.  Twenty readers would describe this book so differently, you'd wonder if they'd all read the same book.  Here's my interpretation.  There is a natural rhythm, momentum, diversity, and innate creativity which simultaneously unites and differentiates all life...and not Madison Avenue, nor governmental bureaucracies will ever harness life's essential energy.  Mankind in aggregate must bring its sights to bear on the targets of highest value, mutual respect for one another, and for the Earth which we all call home.  My favorite chapter is the one titled \\"Villages.\\"  The author describes nine of them, poetically listing their virtues, and concluding that they are nothing less than \\"sanctuaries of culture.\\"  My favorite image is of Count Frontenac \\"stomp-dancing with the sweating warriors.\\"  I told you this would be fun.	2005-08-17
US	52590119	R2I60XVT586KFN	0743226712	53542661	1776	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	"...I do not think myself equal to the command I [am] honored with."	David McCollough's book will change the meaning of the date, 1776, for all who read it.  We learn that Washington's diffidence in accepting his commission was justified.  His strategic and tactical blunders, at Brooklyn, Lower Manhattan, Kips Bay, and Fort Washington resulted in considerable criticism and dissention among his senior officers.  When Washington opened a letter from General Greene to his adjutant, Joseph Reed, he learned that the two men closest to him had joined the chorus of critics.  The principal charge, of indecision, stung the most because he knew it to be true.  In fact credit for America's only two successes in 1776 is due to others, Knox for the Ticonderoga guns which won the day at Boston, and Joseph Reed for the seed of the desperate plan to attack Colonel Johann Rall's Hessians at Trenton.  That America survived its first year of infancy is miraculous, and that Washington is credited with it is difficult to reconcile with the historic record.  What McCollough does portray is Washington's perseverence and spirit, and how he harnessed the motivating power of freedom to overcome unimaginable adversity.  Things could have turned out very differently.	2005-08-01
US	52590119	R2JUAEW24QMOZW	087685479X	159371697	Let it Come Down	Books	2	6	15	N	N	A Promising Path...	Paul Bowles' Let it Come Down is a footpath into the woods which appears promising at its entrance, but eventually peters out.  Our protagonist, Dyer, arrives friendless in post-war Tangier and quickly finds the love of his life (a prostitute), and his true calling (illicit currency exchange).  He navigates past the expatriate shoals and the native doldrums, and experiences his first original thought (steal the money) when he arrives too late at the foncier.  You figure out \\"foncier\\" from context, but the trail narrows further and eventually the context peters out, too.  The trail's end is a hashhish induced torpor in which childhood memories erupt and the essense of irrationality is explored.  No worry; we're sitting on a sunny terrace outside Thani's wife's family's shack in the hills of the Spanish Zone, the policia seem to be several miles away, and the birds are singing.  Let it come down.	2005-07-22
US	52590119	RU82VY58FPDM	0735506361	146961630	Wills, Trusts, and Estates, Sixth Edition (Casebook)	Books	5	28	28	N	Y	Don't Settle for Imitations	Whether you are the law student to whom the book is addressed, or just a savvy layman who needs to fill some gaps quickly, this book just may be all you'll ever need on wills, trusts, and estates.  I ordered ten books to research my paper on inter vivos trusts and over half the footnotes reference Dukeminier.  In each topical area, the general statutes are explained, often with ancillary explanations of tax treatment, then the authors dive into cases, explaining how the cases were argued and adjudicated.  The text flows so well that you feel as though you are having a conversation with the authors.  I particularly enjoyed the entertaining anecdotes drawn from pop culture.  Do not let the cost of this book be a factor in your decision to purchase it; you may find yourself refering to it when you attend to your own will, trusts, and estate.	2005-07-09
US	52590119	RTB5Y1C5E1SDE	1564742555	147942971	And the Rivers Run Red	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Struggles for the Soul of Modernity	With this brief book, Sunny, as her friends call her, reports on her off-the-beaten-track travels to Egypt, India, Iran, Afghanistan, and Turkey.  She then returns to the U.S. for her introspective observations in the southwestern desert.  She and her husband travel by camper, for flexibility of itinerary, and to insulate themselves from other tourists.  She positions a chapter of affectionate reflections on her historic hometown of Litchfield, Connecticut, as a transition to the themes which find voice in her other writings.  When Sunny shifts from intrepid foreign correspondent to more contemplative musings, the reader must depress the clutch and speed-shift to catch up.  In the earlier chapters of the book she entertains; with the latter she engages our intellect.  Herein she addresses the struggles for the soul of modernity, including population versus natural resources, labor versus management, technology versus mankind, urbanism versus ruralism, democracy versus totalitarinism, church versus state, idealism versus realism, and capitalism versus socialism.  In the end, we'll have filled our daily requirements in history, ethics, politics, economics, geography, and philosophy; all in 126 pages.	2005-07-05
US	52590119	R3AC4UAK2N6A5G	1564741281	521056899	Human to Be and Other Essays	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Homo Non-Sapiens	With \\"Human to Be,\\" Sunny Seherr-Thoss joins her voice with the good company of eco-biologists such as Niles Eldridge (see this reviewer's review of \\"Dominion\\") in warning mankind of the self-inflicted risks to our survival as a species.  In an innovative and creative stroke, the author, representing mankind, addresses the reader in the first person, and we are not remotely comfortable with this provocative self-awareness.  She coins the term \\"homo non sapiens\\" to refer to the disconnect between how we should relate to our planet and how we actually do.  Prepare yourself for a re-evaluation of the social contract, and for a re-appraisal of your values.  And if you thought you'd read the last word in the debate between self-reliance and entitlement, read on.	2005-07-05
US	52590119	R12TLLJYWT13PN	0520208455	416661030	Dominion	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	The Ballad of the Hunter-Gatherer	Niles Eldgedge is well-credentialed to sound the alarm for the profound disequilibrium which underlies homo sapiens' relationship with his world.  He is a paleontologist and curator of invertebrate paleontology at the American Museum of Natural History in New York.  He is co-author, with Stepen Jay Gould, of the theory of \\"punctuated equilibrium,\\" which explains evolution's non-linear genetics.  So when we see phrases such as \\"agriculture declares war on our local ecosystems,\\" we need to take note.  The central theme is that, with the development of agriculture, ten thousand years ago, man's population has expanded beyond a sustainable level.  Our destruction of non-renewable resources, and our careless attitude toward biodiversity are likely to be the proximate causes of our own extinction.  As for what can be done about this threat, he proposes to edit the book of Genesis: \\"The People decided to curb their population numbers.  They determined to curtail evnironmental damage and the loss of other species. They decided to conserve the world's remaining ecosystems.  And they embraced sustainable development, matching economic growth to the carrying capacities of their surroundings.  The People lived.  And it was very good.\\"	2005-06-16
US	52590119	R2RF9R6MDTP1UJ	0141180633	167202132	Vineland (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Wonderfully Written, Enigmatic, Seductive, and Weird	Reading Pyncheon is like listening to Shakespeare; at first it seems verbose and impenetrable, but after a while it becomes lyrical and witty.  For me this pattern repeated each time I picked the book up to continue where I'd left off.  The writing is fabulously clever, and when read carefully it provides endless amusement.  But I would be surprised if others didn't have the same attention defecit I experienced, because the caracateured characters are not memotely realistic, and their lives are not remotely interesting.  I hung in there for the prose, but never really cared why Zoyd's wife/Prarie's mother, Frenesi, had disappeared, or what Takeshi had to do with it.  I'd recommend the book to anyone who might be sympatico with these aging hippie ex-druggies reflecting on their misspent youth.  But Pyncheon is extremely talented at the craft of writing, and if his plot is enigmatic, his style is seductive.	2005-05-26
US	52590119	R21FQVOBQIHC8F	0743482832	764423438	The Tempest (Folger Shakespeare Library)	Books	5	30	35	N	N	"...his complexion is perfect gallows"	The Folger Shakespeare Library presents the optimal format for reading Shakespeare's single plays.  Each book provides the background and context of the play, a brief description of the theater as Shakespeare would have known it, and a brief bio of the writer himself.  But the most useful feature is the notation on the page facing the text, explaining Shakespeare's usage of words and phrases.  There is a wealth of scholarship embedded in these brief notes.  An experienced reader of Shakespeare may skip them, to maintain the momentum of the play, but even we may tarry to ascertain his ken.<br /><br />The Tempest is the birthplace of \\"there's nothing ill can dwell in such a temple,\\" \\"he receives comfort like cold porridge,\\" \\"what's past is prologue,\\" \\"misery acquaints a man with strange bedfellows,\\" \\"Oh, brave new world*,\\" and \\"his complexion is perfect gallows.\\"  It is Shakespeare's farewell to London, and it is imaginative and enlightening.  It is also timeless, often giving rise to contemporary settings in its production.<br /><br />Prospero's supernatural powers, permeating the action of the play, will take an additional effort at the \\"willing suspension of disbelief\\" which we always take to the theater.  Yet we are not at all reluctant when, in his epilogue, he boldly asks us to applaud his players.<br /><br />*  This phrase, \\"...brave new world...\\" was penned in 1611, and should not seem so \\"new\\" to our modern ears as it does.	2005-05-17
US	52590119	RH210CDO63T1U	006054094X	264716684	1421: The Year China Discovered America	Books	1	37	52	N	N	Captain Menzies' 500 Page Hypothesis	Dear John, I don't want to discourage you from lending/giving me books.  But 1421 is just too much.  I was sceptical of the scholarship of a British submarine officer with no Chinese language and no scholarship credentials.  It seemed unlikely that he would be the discoverer of a long lost Chinese civilization, and the chronicler of its achievements.  I recall that you had reservations about his conclusions, and that's one of the reasons you shared the book with me.  Well, I didn't take notes, but in the first three chapters alone we have ample evidence to conclude that 1421 is just so much historical fiction.  It's too much to believe that Vasco de Gama and other Portuguese exporers had utilitarian navigation charts (as opposed to ornamental ones), that were developed by the 1421 Chinese armada.  For the Chinese to have made charts of the accuracy credited by Captain Menzies, they would have had to have been able to determine longitude.  For this they would have to know that 1) the earth was spherical, 2) that the universe was heliocentric, 3) and have had chronometers accurate to a few minutes a year.  And they would have had to have this knowledge PRIOR to departing.  And they would  have had to have had this knowledge and technology aboard several of the ships in the fleet.  Then there is the matter of the size of the ships.  Four hundred eighty feet?  One and a half football fields?  They might have made a royal barge that size for use on quiet water, but not an ocean-going vessel, and certainly not a fleet of them.  Made of TEAK?  Because of its high silica content, teak woodworking requires carbide-tipped saws and drills which they didn't have.  Their metallurgy was limited to soft ores, such as gold, copper, tin.  They didn't have high carbon steel.  But wait, it gets better: Menzies states they had provisions (including fresh water) for thirty thousand men, enabling them to stay at sea for three months without landfall.  Sorry, this is science fiction.  How do you chart a coast you can't see?  And if you do follow the coastline, reprovisioning is no problem.  The touch I like the best is the billowing silk sails.  Perhaps for a spinnaker on a racing dinghy, but not for the South Atlantic.  Not for the Arctic Ocean.  And not one shred of evidence survived the political holocaust upon their return?  Not one chronometer?  And no ships built over 100 feet for the next three hundred years?  I think that to best enjoy this book the reader has to suspend belief...as you would for fiction.  But then good fiction requires the development and maintenance of creative tension, which is also lacking in what amounts to Captain Menzies' 500 page hypothesis.  Thanks, again for lending me this book; all Chinese history is exciting.  But I put it in the category of \\"Bridges of Madison County,\\" or \\"Flashman,\\" in which the author makes the case that the events COULD have actually happened, even though the reader knows perfectly well that they didn't.  Yours truly, Ralphdo you chart a coast you can't see?  And if you do follow the coastline, reprovisioning is no problem.  The touch I like the best is the billowing silk sails.  Perhaps for a spinnaker on a racing dinghy, but not for the South Atlantic.  Not for the Arctic Ocean.  And not one shred of evidence survived the political holocaust upon their return?  Not one chronometer?  And no ships built over 100 feet for the next three hundred years?  I think that to best enjoy this book the reader has to suspend belief...as you would for fiction.  But then good fiction requires the development and maintenance of creative tension, which is also lacking in what amounts to Captain Menzies' 500 page hypothesis.  Thanks, again for lending me this book; all Chinese history is exciting.  But I put it in the category of \\"Bridges of Madison County,\\" or \\"Flashman,\\" in which the author makes the case that the events COULD have actually happened, even though the reader knows perfectly well that they didn't.  Yours truly, Ralph	2005-05-03
US	52590119	R3SFT23C15LATT	0691122946	25166027	On Bullshit	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Useful to All; Vital to a Select Few	While this brief essay will clearly be useful to the casual practitioner, comprising a broad readership, it will resonate most vibrantly with the introspective artist.  Take, for instance Professor Frankfurt's distinction between lying and BSing.  The liar's focus is external; he lies to avoid the consequences of truth, or to  enjoy the benefits of conscious deception.  Both motivations require an awareness and appreciation of the truth.  The BSer has no such moral clarity; he trods a path devoid of destination; he is simply out for the exercise.  There is no pretense of ends justifying means.  The BSer's intent is solely to appear knowledgable where he is not.  Most damning is Professor Frankfurt's assertion of the inevitability of BS in a society which values Renaissance-like mastery of multiple disciplines when there are in fact so few multidisciplinarians among us.  This book will also make a thought-provoking gift, notwithstanding the obvious risk of affront.	2005-05-01
US	52590119	RUMR77ROQ1JHX	0785407200	502025919	Kidnapped (Lake Illustrated Classics, Collection 2)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Building Character Through Adversity	Our friend, David Balfour, probably ten years old, but oft mistaken for fifteen, is shanghaied, shipwrecked, and engaged in a bond of friendship with the most heroic of scoundrels.  We trek with him through the Scottish highlands, learning their dialect, and earning their friendship.  We sleep in the heather and travel at night to avoid apprehension by the \\"redcoats,\\" loyal to the King.  We are victims of misunderstanding, with no political aptitude, yet, by virtue of our friendships, are considered enemies of the king.  Chance, perseverence, endurance, comraderie, and some creative play-acting bring us to safety in this most wonderful of Robert Lewis Stevenson novels.  Purchase a weather-beaten, yellow-paged old copy of this treasure, and transport yourself to the raw Scottish seacoast of 1751, learning manhood on the come.	2005-04-30
US	52590119	R2AKSUZVU5D6NK	B0007K64IA	578936218	A poacher's tale,	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Biography of a British Poacher, Alfred T. Curtis	This is the true story of an illiterate Essex lad who lives the life many dream of, and pays the price.  Curtis sets nets and catches finches for sale in the local shops where customers buy them for their melodic song.  This may seem innocuous to us, but it's illegal and he has dozens of scrapes with the law.  When his poaching becomes a full time occupation, he is sent to truants school.  Society would prefer Curtis to be an unskilled, but legal, laborer, while he is drawn to the highly skilled, illegal field of poaching songbirds.  Society largely wins, and he grows to adulthood living hand to mouth with his wife and seven children.  There is a certain amount of trout fishing, rabbit snaring, and even rat catching, to feed someone's pet owl, but Curtis' love is finches.  I borrowed this book from a poaching buddy of mine, and when I had to give it back, I bought my own copy, because they ain't making any more of 'em.	2005-04-15
US	52590119	R2WNW5E00LVYO4	B0007JMP9S	418238415	The earthly paradise	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Christopher Columbus in Trinidad, Hispanola, and Haiti	C.S. Forester's fiftheenth novel, written in 1940, features Admiral Columbus in command of the Holy Name, on his third voyage to the Americas.  The Columbus depicted is a character drawn from Greek tragedy; his greatness ill-conceals the seeds of his own distruction.  Columbus and his brother, Bartholemew, introduce what amounts to a New World Inquisition, burning natives at the stake to save their souls.  Forester is likely accurate in his portrayal of the first encounters between natives and Europeans, and also in the contradictions between Christianity's peaceful intent and it's bloody practice.  This book is not as good as The Gun, or The African Queen, but it's good enough to make you feel salt water seeping into your boots as you jump from the ship's launch to the beaches of the New World.	2005-04-14
US	52590119	R22J87OIA6SRDR	0425103633	884941430	Murder in Mesopotamia (Hercule Poirot)	Books	2	2	7	N	N	You'll Figure Out What Happened Before M. Poirot Does	Honestly, I knew with certainty who the killer was before Poirot showed up, on page 76.  It was very difficult to anticipate how the murderer did it, because basically that technique wouldn't have worked more than one time in a hundred.  And the motive was difficult to figure out, basically because there wasn't one.  I bought my copy in an airport transit lounge, and it served the purpose of killing two hours and introducing me to Agatha Christie and to Hercule Poirot.  Overall, though, I think I'll stick to Sherlock Holmes.  Oh, and don't buy this book expecting to learn about Iraq or archeology.	2005-04-10
US	52590119	RO8Q1PDQYANA9	0140432140	76352212	The Warden (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	You're In For A Treat	This is the first in Trollope's Barchester series, and it is a must read.  It's a nineteenth century Bonfire of the Vanities, in which almost any course of action other than that which the leading characters select would lead to an amicable solution.  Chapter by chapter, Reverend Harding's guilt over his lucrative clerical sinecure builds, like a tightly wound spring.  And ironically, Rev. Harding and Mr. Bold, his adversary, and future son-in-law, are not actually opposed on the merits of the case, yet events sweep them toward confrontation.  The misunderstandings and missed opportunities are of epic proportions, and the tension builds throughout the story to its bitter and hopeless conclusion.  In the end, hardly anyone escapes unscathed, and the reader is thoroughly exhausted.	2005-04-07
US	52590119	R241W3A8PYLPC1	0385475772	772348994	Nine Parts of Desire: The Hidden World of Islamic Women	Books	5	20	28	N	Y	This is Going to Hurt...	Oh, if it were only the veils.  The subordination.  The illiteracy.  But being a woman in the Middle East is more like perpetual torture.  Genital mutilation, stolen children, stonings to death, whippings, rape, and summary execution.  Geraldine Brooks explains just how much of it is explained by religion, and when autocratic theocracy steps in to finish the job.  A Wall Street Journal reporter assigned to Cairo, Brooks is a student of Islam, and of Arabic.  She explains the rift between the Shia and Sunni sects, and opens our eyes to the Prophet's trials and tribulations with the women of his household.  We learn how he made up the rules of Islam as he went along, in order to advance his own lust, and in the process, made slaves of Islamic women forever.  Sometimes you will laugh, but it won't be for long, because unfathomable cruelty will crop up a few pages further on.  Ms. Brooks has the journalistic talent of the young Norman Mailer; she sees layers of meaning behind every scene she describes, most of it lost on the scene's participants.  She brings to life the ghastly reality of life behind the minarets and souks.  She exposes the hypocracy and outright lies of Islam's apologists, and gives us the straight story, no matter how it hurts.  You can read Bernard Lewis to learn the academic side of modern Islam.  You'll have to read Geraldine Brooks to find out how it sounds, smells, and feels.	2005-04-03
US	52590119	R2DTF3WV7MB5RN	0394555090	951161016	Theodore Rex	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The Right Man for the Job	It is difficult to imagine how different the world would be now if not for Theodore Roosevelt.  He was driven by a moral certitude which may have disappeared forever from the American political landscape, and he changed the country and the world for the better.  When concensus proved impossible, he forced his will through, reforming the essense of Americanism.  See the last two pages for Edmund Morris's lengthy catalog of the achievements of Roosevelt's administration, and try to imagine how he achieved them, mostly in the face of implacable opposition.  Morris's book is scholarly, yet accessible, and every one of it's 555 pages of text is entertaining.  For instance, in the course of this history book, you will learn how the Teddy Bear came to be named.  This story of eight years in the making of America will make you proud.	2005-03-19
US	52590119	R2SZKHU4XHDIS9	0684800004	473076433	Java Man : How Two Geologists' Dramatic Discoveries Changed Our Understanding of the Evolutionary Path to Modern Humans	Books	1	4	9	N	Y	Because Zero Stars Wasn't an Option	Here we have the magnificent tale of a \\"geochronologist\\" who gained access to one of the world's most interesting hominid fosils (\\"Java Man\\"), makes the acquaintence of several the world's most renowned paleoanthropologists, and whose ego screws up everything.  You would think that if Carl Swisher planned to make a living in one of the technological backwaters of paleoanthropology, he would make himself useful as a team player.  Instead he has managed to become a pariah at the Institute of Human Origins, and gave them the finger as he walked out the door (his side of the story).  To be sure, Teuku Jacob, the Indonesian scientist who summarily confiscates all Indonesian finds to make himself indispensable, is a tough customer.  So, Carl, use someone else's fossil, or (here's an inspiration) find your own.  What Java Man is all about is how Swisher wasted his sponsors' money in an increasingly acrimonious effort to promote a technology (\\"advanced potassium-argon dating techniques\\") which might have been very useful in the hands of an eager-to-please summer intern.  Perhaps a more charitable view is that this book is meant to show the sponsors of his research why he failed to have the slightest (positive) impact on his objectives.  Honestly, folks, if you are animated by hominid evolution, you'll learn more from any ten consecutive pages of Ian Tattersall than all of this 235 page rant.	2005-02-24
US	52590119	R1KS5LQC84FGO5	0786881879	46562128	Five Equations that Changed the World: The Power and Poetry of Mathematics	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Not the Book it Claims to Be, But Excellent Nonetheless	Throughout history, innovators in science have risen from obscurity to fame by virtue of some original inspiration.  These are the tales of five such pilgrims and their journeys.  They are facinating biographical sketches of young boys, some poor or frail, whose life's work brought into clearer focus some aspect of the world around us.  In the course of the book the author coaxes us to a better understanding of the state of knowledge before and after these innovators.  We learn about gravity through Isaac Newton, hydrodynamic pressure through Bernoulli, electromagnetics from Faraday, thermodynamics from Clausius, and special relativity from Einstein.  Michael Guillen's book isn't about equations, or even math, as a quick flip through the pages will illustrate.  But the general reader, whom Guilen knows well through his television work, will not be disappointed by the lack of mathmatical notation.  Ultimately we come away believing that, understanding the five protagonists, we understand their contribution, ...if not the language of their legacies.	2005-02-22
US	52590119	R1AKOOM2J7ZQ5U	0471430005	477480319	Enterprise Risk Management: From Incentives to Controls	Books	5	17	21	N	Y	Remarkably Succinct Coverage of a Hot New Topic	You bought Jorion, Pearson, and Hull; you slammed headfirst into the quantitative quagmire of risk management, and you may even have passed the Financial Risk Manager exam, sponsored by the Global Association of Risk Professionals, but are you prepared to become your company's \\"Risk Champion?\\"  Can you explain to laymen why loss distributions are not normal?  Can you illustrate the \\"sweet spot\\" in the profit/risk tradeoff?  If you aren't quite there yet, pick up James Lam's new book, Enterprise Risk Management, From Incentives to Controls.  It's a book you can read on the five hour flight from New York to Los Angeles, and its melodies will linger in your memory.  This book has changed the way I communicate with people both in and outside the risk management profession.  Read it with a highlighter in your hand, and keep the book within easy reach.	2005-02-04
US	52590119	R3D3587RZY8OS6	0451171357	85902037	The Agony and the Ecstasy: A Biographical Novel of Michelangelo	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Michaelangelo's  Italian Renaissance Brought to Life	Irving Stone has given us an exceptionally readable fictionalized history of the life of Michaelangelo Buonarroti.  Stone's ten pages of bibliography hint at his scholarship; we trust his command of history. Yet he brings the novelist's perspective in breathing life into his protagonist.  Nor is it only Michaelangelo himself whose character we explore, but all of the important people in Michaelangelo's life.  For instance we get as tired of his father, Lodovico's, complaints about his career choice as Michaelangelo himself must have been. And Pope Julius II's incredibly thoughtless treatment of him is explained in full detail.  I recommend this book to anyone who wants to get started in art history with one of its most interesting artists.  It is must reading for anyone planning a visit to Florence or the Vatican.  If I have one complaint, it is Stone's curious and disruptive use of common words carrying uncommon meaning.  An example is \\"fabric,\\" by which Stone means \\"construction.\\"  Without explanation, he gives the word its meaning as the root word in \\"fabrication.\\"  And his consistent use of the word \\"sculpture\\" as a transitive verb is similarly disruptive.  Why not \\"sculpt?\\"  Nonetheless I loved this book, found it impossible to put down, and I strongly recommend it.	2005-01-15
US	52590119	R3KVWMQZ93V29J	0140185976	304026032	The Moon and Sixpence (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Disturbing, Thought-Provoking, Enlightening	In The Moon and Sixpence, Maugham introduces the artist Charles Stickland, whom we wish never to meet outside these pages.  He is a thoughtless and irrational genius, wholly unconcerned about any opinion of his painting other than his own.  In fact he is throughly unconcerned about any type of disapprobation.  Without using the phrase, Maugham interprets Strickland as an \\"idiot savant,\\" who is blissfully unaware of any other person's feelings.  He abandons his wife and children, he induces a suicide in a lover, and is unaccountably remorseless for these and other trespasses against human decency.  It is Strickland's ostentatious remorselessness which turns the reader against him, and his genius isn't sufficient to mitigate our, well, disapprobation.  We already knew that great artists don't always have to be great people; what Maugham does, however, is take us to the extremes of both.  Therein lies the creative tension, and it remains with us for a very long time after we turn the last page.	2005-01-15
US	52590119	R3E31I36XWAWR7	1930865120	430010707	Junk Science Judo: Self-Defense against Health Scares and Scams	Books	4	27	40	N	Y	Another Triumph in the Civil War Against Science	Steven Milloy is a journalist, and pundit whose principled stand on behalf of scientific logic benefits all of us.  He stands side by side with Stephen Jay Gould and Michael Schermer in debunking the outrageous claims of pseudo science.  Milloy attempts to provide a framework to evaluate the nonsensical claims made by individuals and organizations with agendas which are independent of the facts.  It is this framework he calls \\"junk science judo.\\"  Actually what he provides us is the kind of suspicious phraseology and statistical trickery often employed by scammers.  In most cases it would take a thorough review of the claimants' research techniques and statistical interpretation to spot the scam.  We come away suspicious of almost any claim.  All in all, though, Milloy is readable and he is right. Don't miss his column, \\"Junk Science,\\" on the Opinion page of FoxNews.com.<br /><br />Postscript:  With the passage of time I've become aware of a blind spot in Milloy's vision. It doesn't appear in this book, but it does repeatedly in his columns and website.  He denies global warming, which is reliably documented by science.  Where junk science enters the debate is in the extent of human causality.  To date there is no credible evidence for human causality; it is an issue pressed by political populists and our competitors in global trade.  Global warming is good science; human causality is junk science.  Science shows that if humans disappeared from the Earth, global warming would continue, and likely continue to accelerate.  Milloy is so incensed by the assertion of human causality that he denies warming altogether.  In his acceptance of the politicization of the debate, he plays into the hands of his adversaries.  His willingness to distort facts in support of this cause unnecessarily introduces doubt about his objecivity in other issues.	2005-01-15
US	52590119	R3LS738THIBJYV	0812563123	27779639	The Hunchback of Notre-Dame (Tor Classics)	Books	5	13	19	N	N	The Original Title Would Have Worked for Us	This epic tragedy pits a beautiful, earthbound angel against a venal, earthbound devil, and is set amid the squalor of Medieval Paris.  Our protagonists alternately dance and skulk through the chapters, leading to a desperate and heart-wrenching conclusion.  Could our angel be a witch; could our devil redeem himself?  We desperately hope for any outcome other than the one we fear, and we cannot believe that Hugo would taunt us with such elemental beauty, and then destroy it before our eyes.  My  only complaint is not with Hugo, but with the translation of the title.  Why couldn't we anglophones be trusted with \\"Notre Dame of Paris?\\"  The book is less about Quasimodo than about the conflict between Medieval Paris's lofty aspirations for man and the depredations of daily life.	2004-12-14
US	52590119	R1R0HBB4PO159K	1863305246	978980108	Highways to a War	Books	3	0	4	N	N	But Some Highways are More Direct than Others	I take my hat off to Christopher J. Koch, and give five stars to the job he does in re-creating the ambiance of Saigon and Phnom Penh during the war. But when I average in the zero stars for the meandering 100 page introduction he gives his protagonist, the war correspondent Mike Langford, and the zero stars for credibility, he ends up with three. Credibility? NVA captains simply were not giving three day tours of the Ho Chi Minh Trail to war correspondents, then releasing them. And our protagonist's mad rush to return to Phnom Penh after it had fallen to anarchic, cutthroat barbarians? Sorry. But still, Koch evokes the \\"Sweet Bird of Youth\\" with his retrospective of Saigon street life. Memo to Christopher Koch: on your next book, please color code the pages containing the story, so we can more easily skip the filler.	2004-12-13
US	52590119	R1RIMLIDGKHGW3	0812505158	691093854	The War of the Worlds (Tor Classics)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Good Science Fiction, Based on Sound Science	H.G. Wells crafted his pioneering science fiction in a time when taxis were drawn by horse, indoor light came only from candles, and when far less was known by the general reader about astronomy and astrophysics.  It was an era when the fiction of science and the fact of science were more easily interwoven.  Even in our Speilberg-wise, video game era, when wars are intergalactic, as opposed to merely interplanetary, Wells' seminal work fascinates us, even if it doesn't chill us.  In fact, the scientifically literate reader should be able to anticipate the defeat of the Martian invaders based on general knowledge and Wells' own foreshadowing.	2004-12-13
US	52590119	R3DUVV0ZLOR1VM	0385503490	730501801	The Island at the Center of the World: The Epic Story of Dutch Manhattan and the Forgotten Colony that Shaped America	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Giving Historical Revisionism a Good Name	Russell Shorto's wonderful book about the early Dutch settlers in lower Manhattan at once sets the record straight and explains New York's uniqueness. It was the Dutch who settled Manhattan, not the English. In fact they built a wall (at Wall Street) to keep the English out (not to keep the Indians out, as is popularly thought). The detail about daily life in early Manhattan is emerging from old records only now being translated from 17th Century Dutch. Shorto sums up the principal difference between early contemporary settlements in New England with the word \\"tolerance.\\" From its earliest years, Manhattan represented a remarkable ethnic diversity, and it was the vibrant tension of heterogeneous rivalry which energized the early colony. We meet fur traders, lawyers, carpenters, innkeepers, soldiers, Indians, saloon-keepers, and a larger than life peg-legged administrator named Peter Stuyvesant. We watch the early Dutch settlers build the city; we see exactly how it thrived as a trade entrepot, and we finally understand how it came to be transferred into British hands without a shot. It is a fascinating story, and Shorto brings it to life by parting the thick haze of history with a daunting catalog of historical fact.  Shorto's editor was lax or timorous in dealing with his prolix prose, and the reader is invited to find the longest sentence; my best was 103 words (page 51).	2004-11-29
US	52590119	R1DY205T8DPB02	1585670804	493108022	Freddy the Politician	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Brooks Captures the Essence of Politics	When the Beans leave for an extended trip to Europe, it's up to the animals to run the farm themselves.  They start up The First Animal Bank of Centerboro, teaching themselves what banks are all about in the process.  Then they decide to start up the First Animal Republic, and to elect a president.  Interestingly one of the candidates is an outsider, blown in by an ill wind.  Of all the animals Brooks might have chosen for this role, it's a woodpecker!  And from Washington DC, no less!  Have to love it.  This woodpecker says he knows better than the locals what's good for them, and starts using dirty tricks to win the election.  The local candidate is Mrs. Wiggins, the cow.  Our favorite pig, Freddy, is her campaign manager, and there is so much trickery on both sides that we don't know whether to laugh or cry.  As usual, there are lots of lessons for the careful reader to learn.  These animals are so very like us.	2004-11-26
US	52590119	R3TDFI4KP3DWUO	0743205839	576682884	John Paul Jones: Sailor, Hero, Father of the American Navy	Books	4	3	7	N	N	At Least He Was On Our Side	It is said that if you like sausage, don't watch it being made.  By the same logic, if you like John Paul Jones, you will not like seeing him in the making.  The \\"Father of the American Navy\\" had virtually one victory at sea, never commanded an American ship, never wore an American uniform, and never said, \\"I have not yet begun to fight.\\"  The true hero of Jones' signature single ship engagement, against the British frigate Serapis, was a lowly seaman, William Hamilton.  In the turning point of the battle, Hamilton dropped a hand grenade through a half-open hatch on the deck of the Serapis from the Bonhomme Richard's mainsail yard, igniting a chain reaction of explosions below deck.  John Paul Jones was mired in the political patronage and backbiting which characterized the age, and had few if any values worth fighting for other than his own legacy.  He was an indefatigable self-aggrandizer whose core competence was his willingness to sacrifice the lives of the men under his command.  His name wasn't even \\"Jones;\\" he appended that common surname in order to facilitate his rehabilitation after killing a sailor  This is decidedly not a hagiography; author Evan Thomas presents John Paul Jones as deeply flawed.  But thank God he was on our side.	2004-10-05
US	52590119	R15HLV73149HT5	0671510991	945585365	Diplomacy (Touchstone Book)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Memoirs of an Exceptional Diplomat	Dr. Kissinger's affection for his adopted country is refreshing in this age of national self-doubt.  He continuously refers to America's \\"exceptionalism\\" as embodying a new motivation in foreign affairs and in diplomacy.  Now, ten years after its publication, Dr. Kissinger's book can explain how we are still so sorely misunderstood by the community of nations, and particularly by our allies.  Throughout history, nations have followed policies which support their own self-interest, \\"realpolitik,\\" or have created alliances against the powerful, \\"balance of power.\\"  Still others have cast a protective net over one geopolitical realm or another, \\"spheres of influence.\\"  For the first time in history, America represents a nation which has been motivated principally by doing what is right.  Basing foreign policy on liberty, democracy, and self-determinatioin is the essence of \\"Wilsonian\\" statecraft, or simply \\"exceptionalism.\\"  As a German Jew, Dr. Kissinger was a beneficiary of America's altruism, generosity, and melting pot immigration policies.  He has repaid that debt by serving America at the highest levels of government.  Cynics have written that Dr. Kissinger is obsessed with crafting his own legacy.  The fact is that America benefitted from his historic perspective as a representative of American exceptionalism.  He played historic roles in the US' opening to China, in the negotiations to end the Vietnam war, and the policies leading to the end of the cold war.  His insight corrects some past interpretations of modern American history, and can illuminate our path forward.  Dr. Kissinger points out that exceptions to American exceptionalism have occured when our policies conflict with our ideals, such as in Vietnam.  The bad old ways of handling foreign affairs are still standard operating procedures among our fellow nations and an enhanced understanding of them is critical if American exceptionalism is to energize our future.  Dr. Kissinger has written an awe-inspiring book about the formative years of an exceptional country, and even if he does feature himself in a few chapters, he can be forgiven.  He can only serve as an affirmative model for future diplomats.  The more we have like him, the longer our country will serve as a champion of democracy and self-determination.iring book about the formative years of an exceptional country, and even if he does feature himself in a few chapters, he can be forgiven.  He can only serve as an affirmative model for future diplomats.  The more we have like him, the longer our country will serve as a champion of democracy and self-determination.	2004-09-29
US	52590119	R1TN6G0OONSVE4	0805070893	702232531	Why People Believe Weird Things: Pseudoscience, Superstition, and Other Confusions of Our Time	Books	4	11	15	N	Y	Thanks, Michael, Every Little Bit Helps.	The irony of our modern, technological society is that the general public is so blissfully unaware of the magnificence of science. Why are people so drawn to the paranormal, to creationism, pseudoscience, and superstition? Why are false explanations for events given equal time with the true ones? Michael Schermer entertains us with his debunking and his refutations. Where Schermer is strongest is not in his disclosure of a particular scam, but in explaining generically how thinking goes wrong. He provides a framework in which to understand why so many of our fellow citizens fall into the thrall of the ridiculous. I have two recommendations for a future printing of this book. One is to spend less time on holocaust deniers; they're not worth it. The second is to include common misconceptions on health and nutrition (talk about believing weird things!). Schermer, a regular contributor to Scientific American, erects a principled and witty defense in the civil war against science.	2004-07-26
US	52590119	RWL733YL6TZ7N	0811729931	733568753	Wilderness Living	Books	5	57	58	N	N	All you [might] need to know...	Gregory Davenport's book is a masterpiece of clarity and brevity, and it covers all the bases.  Use it as a reference book, as opposed to a cover-to-cover read.  For instance, it starts off with a chapter on making buckskin.  It's just the right level of detail if you're tanning a hide, but too much for the casual reader.  Another example is the wonderful chapter on making snares.  Davenport lists some nineteen types, all illustrated, and all with a practical application.  Davenport's education was clearly of the outdoor variety, at the expense of the indoor variety, resulting in some cumbersome syntax, and excessive passive voice, but perhaps his editor is more to blame for that.  Overall, it is a genuine masterpiece, and my copy is already dog-eared with use.	2004-07-26
US	52590119	R3QZ78269DKA8J	158465242X	98660804	Mammal Tracks and Sign of the Northeast	Books	5	5	5	N	N	What Kind of Critter Was Here?	Do you find yourself scratching your head when you examine tracks in the snow in your back yard?  Have you wondered what beast left that distinctive scat on a wooden footbridge?  Diane Gibbons' book is going to illuminate your world.  Where the book is most useful is in differentiating among the signs of closely-related animals, such as wolf, coyote, and fox.  And then there are the seldom-seen, difficult to identify signs, such as martin tracks and lynx scat.  The book is wonderfully illustrated, and makes a great reference for the swift and accurate identificatioin of the tracks and signs of all mammals in the nine northeastern states.  The diagrams illustrating the range of each animal are a welcome bonus.	2004-07-26
US	52590119	R1TR27IAC0HMVE	1564409937	419905858	New England Indians (Illustrated Living History Series)	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Wide-Ranging Expertise	C. Keith Wilbur's expertise on the fascinating subject of the daily lives of the New England Indians is stunning.  Anyone who has wondered how they withstood the harsh winters, how they sheltered and clothed themselves, and how they raised their families, will have his questions answered.  The topics are endless: firemaking, snares, stone tools and weapons, needles and thread, canoes, language, ornamentation, their Iroquois adversaries, and the first contact with European settlers; it's all here.  Where the archaeological and historic record is equivocal, the author makes educated guesses, such as the probable way stone tools were hafted to their shafts.  One exception stands out, and that is his guess as to the earliest dates for Indian habitation in New England.  For some reason Wilbur states this date as 32,000 years ago.  In fact, there is no evidence that humans inhabited New England earlier than 15,000 years ago, following the end of the Wisconsin Ice Age.  With this minor (and unnecessary) error, the book constitutes a rich compendium of factual detail about New England Indian life.	2004-07-25
US	52590119	R1VQHY79ZVMDW9	0141312335	565996713	Freddy Goes to Florida	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	The Book Which Got Me Into Reading	In 1955 I was eight, and the eldest of three brothers.  My mother couldn't go to the grocery store with all of us so she'd drop me off at the children's room at the West Hartford, CT, public library, and pick me up on the way home.  It was there that I discovered Freddy, and that pig spoke my language!  It was Freddy, his wonderful compatriots on the Bean farm, and their fabulous adventures, that started me out right.  Freddy Goes to Florida is the first of the series, and is where I recommend starting your own adventures with Freddy the Pig.  Hats off to Overlook Press for re-publishing these books in their original look.	2004-03-21
US	52590119	R18MSLNUJQOC0F	0141312343	227248045	Freddy the Detective	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	Always Gets His Animal	You are going to love finding out who killed the crow, who stole the model train, and how Freddy rids the barn of those nasty rats.  And Freddy makes us feel pity for those who need to be sent to jail.  Whether assembling clues, shadowing the suspicious, or selecting a judge, Freddy is the right pig for the job.  And you'll hardly recognize our old friend in his disguises.	2004-03-21
US	52590119	R14WEF5K5B53AU	0874512557	648612021	Indian New England Before the Mayflower	Books	3	31	34	N	N	Fascinating, Informative, and Flawed	Of course I was attracted to this book for all the reasons you are, and it does present some interesting insights into aboriginal life in our region.  Mr. Russell is strongest in is knowledge of Algonquian vocabulary and on the subjects of hunting and cultivation.  Prepare yourself for an extensive discussion of maize.  And who knew that the Pamola was \\"the spirit of the night air?\\"  The reader will be disappointed, however, in the shallow treatment of arts and clothing.  Illustrations are principally rough sketches, and some of the few photos are of museum dioramas.  One illustration shows tools \\"possibly used to remove bark from trees,\\" though those tools appear identical to what are called pestles for grinding maize in other illustrations and photos.  Readers with high regard for science should completely skip the chapter titled \\"Health and Illness,\\" because it is infuriating.  It is one thing to report the Indians' superstitions, and quite another to endorse them.  Even so, Mr. Russell's confusing superstition for fact shows up in other chapters, and detracts from the book's value.  He shouldn't say that wild animals are known to eat tobacco as a remedy for snakebite if there is not the slightest evidence to support it.  And to suggest, as he does, that \\"certain medicine men were especially sensitive to atmospheric pressure changes and relative humidity,\\" enabling them to predict rain two days away is, well, irresponsible, and detracts from Mr. Russell's overall scholarship.  Still, I rate the book a three out of five, because anyone with such an obvious affection for the New England Indian is a kindred spirit.	2004-03-21
US	52590119	R3R1RAUHQN5UYN	1852238593	607938517	A Poacher's Way	Books	5	0	0	N	N	We're All a Little Bit of a Scoundrel	For anyone who has shot a deer out of season, a wild turkey out his dining room window, or cast a line into a well-stocked (but private) pond, (or has seriously considered doing any of the above), A Poacher's Way will stimulate your pulse.  Our protagnist, Shino, shines a clear, albeit morally equivocal light on the fine art of taking from the wild what should be yours, and would be, too, if the damn rules wern't, well, the rules. Using the venal Jervis as the squire's gamekeeper, and everyone's antagonist, is the author's strategem for enlisting our wholehearted support for his hardworking yeoman poacher.  We feast on phesant, rabbit, sea trout.  We learn dog handling; we learn to set snares, to get off the mud flats in a thick fog, and to recognize the scat of any game.  We work all night with Shino and come back bone tired to catch a brief kip before heading out to dig worms in the morning.  Everyone in the tavern, indeed in the village, is Shino's friend and accomplice.  Even the cobbler tells Shino when Jervis gets new boots, so that he might sooner recognize an unfamiliar footprint in the wood.  And well before the end of the book, the reader, too, becomes Shino's accomplice.	2004-03-21
US	52590119	RAOQ7ZLAXGF5H	038081904X	477107089	Abandon Ship!	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Damn That Torpedo	As a teenager in the early sixties I caddied for Charlie McVay frequently at the Litchfield Country Club, in Litchfield, CT.  We thought then that we knew the story of the sinking of the Indianapolis, and we thought then that we knew the man who had been held responsible for the tragic loss of life, hours before the end of World War II.  But it wasn't until Richard Newcomb's Abandon Ship! that any of us who knew McVay were able to understand the Admiral's profound pathos.  The military's bungling, its cover-up, its stonewalling, its court martial of an innocent man, culminating in its gross miscarriage of justice, are more often the stuff of fiction.  But it wasn't fiction, and Newcomb gives us every damning detail to prove it.  Peter Maas provides an afterward showing how McVay was eventually exonerated, 32 years too late to save the the Indianapolis' last victim, my old friend, Admiral McVay, who shot himself to escape his grief.  Abandon Ship! is for anyone who values truth, and who is engaged by tragedy.	2004-03-21
US	52590119	R33NE5SK7N3FSZ	0275978060	699883617	The U.S.-Japan Security Alliance: Why It Matters and How to Strengthen It (The Washington Papers)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Why It Matters	Mr. Osius' new book is written for the general reader, and will have broad appeal.  The key to its appeal is found in the subtitle: \\"...Why it Matters...\\"  The morning after I finished the book I read two articles on foreign policy in the Wall Street Journal, which I found more interesting and understandable thanks to Mr. Osius' book.  Neither article had to do with the US - Japan Security Alliance, per se.  One article dealt with new tensions across the Taiwan Strait, and the other speculated on the likely impact of China's WHO membership.  Mr. Osius has drawn on his extensive experience as a Foreign Service Officer and White House foreign policy advisor to explain how the US - Japan security alliance is shaped by, and in turn shapes, US interests in three other foreign policy hotspots, Korea, Taiwan, and China.  The book tackles some of the region's most contentious foreign policy issues with refreshing objectivity; it is decidedly not the State Department's party line.	2002-08-28
