US	52596864	R147PVJFNONCYV	1928832431	36230324	Aquinas's Shorter Summa: Saint Thomas's Own Concise Version of His Summa Theologica	Books	5	77	80	N	Y	Understanding Aquinas clarifies other historical issues	I need not restate the lenghty and obvious praises of previous reviewers, they did an excellent job of summing up the work on the intellectual level. <br /> <br />I did however find in this work answers to many of the questions so many people ask regarding judicial, political and historical issues these days and yes even a few to fill the gaps left in a lifetime of research into the basic philosophies of other great and important historical figures. <br /> <br />I believe that if one really wants to understand our own country and it's founding fathers and mothers and their philosophies and where their belief systems came from a study of this work would be an essential addition to many others that they used to formulate their ideals and ideologies. <br /> <br />Many passages from Aquinas will stay with me for the rest of my days but the two I have chosen below will be kept readily avqailable for future consideration and contemplation. <br /> <br />\\"God alone can create.  Consequently the rational soul is produced by God alone.\\" <br /> <br />And, \\"A man's happiness or beautitude consist in the vision whereby he sees God in his essence.\\"  <br /> <br />One could spend a lifetime just pondering and trying to live up to just these two and it would not be in vain. <br /> <br />This is a book journey that every American should take.  It is not the most easily understandable work, unless you take the time to really read it, not just skim it's pages. <br /> <br />One must begin with a committment and determination to stay engaged at all times or a great deal of it's wisdom will pass before the minds eye unnoticed.  <br /> <br />An excellent work.	2005-08-03
US	52596864	R34B3LU5U0FPIQ	0966720369	341815023	Presidential Blips: Dips, Flips, Lip, Pips, Quips, Rips, Slips, Tips and Zips : Thousands of Fantastic Facts and Anecdotes About Our Chief Executives	Books	3	0	3	N	N	Interesting facts, funny and a good read while traveling	Presidential Blips: Dips, Flips etc. is a fun read even though it needs to be updated, which I am sure the author is doing.  I enjoyed it immensely. <br />It is terribly sad that in today’s ghastly political climate many of the bloopers and missteps by our leaders depicted in this book would result in calls for censure, resignation or impeachment.<br />Just like the stupid stuff going around about VP Cheney giving Patrick Leahy a very long overdue and deserved dressing down. I mean it is not like Democrats have been all flowers and frills lately. They need to give us a break and just get over it.<br />It is actually refreshing to see politicians let their true feelings and personality traits come through once in a while. <br />My God why is no one asking Howard Dean, Ted Kennedy, Al Gore, or John Kerry to go to &quot;Anger Management&quot; courses, they have said offensive things recently.<br />And we are practically inundated with much worse in threaters, on TV and everywhere else today. <br />Gee let us not forget that Bill Clinton verbally attack an interviewer an no one seemed insensed about that. Or Hillary Clinton, who now suggest it for Cheney but who is herself reported to have yelled and used that same &quot;F&quot; word towards a Jewish person in the past and she was not sent to &quot;Anger Management&quot;. Let us not forget the throwing of things in the White House (the peoples house) either. The hypocrisy is astounding. <br />It proves that they are all just human after all and not the Gods, Kings, Potentates or Prophets they sometimes think themselves to be.  Nor are any of them the unblemished indispensable models of perfection we mere mortals sometimes try to cloak them in.<br />So, I very much enjoyed this book, which was a great airport and traveling companion, mostly due to the rather short nature of the information given.  You could pick it up laugh a little and put it down and later take it up again without feeling like you lost the momentum of the book.  <br />I’ll tell you though, just to get my conservative dig into the mix.  The one thing that really stood out in my mind, that completely justified me calling all politicians hypocrites. Is the fact that everyone on the left seemed to (including you know who) complain about the 70-80 million dollars spend by Ken Starr to do his job, as directed by that enabler Janet Reno herself.  Yet in this book it says Bill Clinton spend 45 million (yep million with an m) just to go to China and accomplish nothing.<br />It must have been one of those legacy building taxpayer funded attempts at a legacy to match Richard Nixon’s historic breakthrough in China or Ronald Reagan's tearing down of the Berlin Wall.<br />I wonder how much Hillary spent taking that month or more long, around the world tour, with Chelsea when she found out Bill and all his cohorts in the White House and his Cabinet had willfully lied to the American people about his affair. Or how about all those taxpayer dollars to fund those so-called listening tours (which we all know without a doubt were illegal campaign trips) to New York to solidify her win of a Senate seat to keep the family involved in politics.  I heard all these little trips came to many hundreds-of-millions of dollars!<br />They have marital problems and the poor children of America and the homeless and the out of work citizens must suffer and pay for her to travel and “just get away or listen.”<br />Gee where is Michael Moore when really disgusting political Blips were in progress? I enjoyed this book and recommend it for it's historical and it's comical nature.	2004-07-01
US	52596864	R4GJVZYZZMN8K	1581823541	590294150	Right from the Heart: The ABC's of Reality in America	Books	5	3	10	N	Y	Wonderfully presented listing of Average  American Concerns	Phil Valentine’s “Right from the Heart” is a fascinating book. <br />He writes in a way to meet the intellectual needs and address the frustration and anger that exist in the citizenry because of what we see going on in our cities, communities, schools and legal system around the country and in the world.<br />I particularly enjoyed the way this book is set out and the idea of just going through the alphabet the way he did.  Although I am sure he limited himself and his issues by doing so; because one could get four or five of these books out and address a completely different set of important alphabetical issues each time. <br />To be honest I had a few disagreements with some of his assertions, for instance I believe strongly and completely in the implementation of the death penalty in a timely fashion, not as a deterrent but as a necessary, beneficial and justifiable punishment for anyone who commits crimes against the well being of society.  He seems to think life imprisonment is the cure all.  I do not, under “Ledbetter’s Law” you would get two chances on your first adult crime you would get rehabilitation, under the second you would spend time in jail or prison, but on your third conviction it would be the “end of the road jack.” <br />You see I believe that every citizen has a right to those basic assumptions and assurances indicated in the preamble to the Constitution of the United States of America.  Anyone who twice takes them away from another citizen has thereby forfeited his protection under that same constitution.<br />Anyone who uses a weapon in the commission of a crime or sells drugs to our kids or kidnaps or murders or abuses anyone in the commission of a criminal act has likewise deprived a deserving citizen of those same assurances; and regardless of their ridiculously invented sociological or hereditary excuse they deserve punishment for it. Naturally the Good Samaritan and one who does so in self-defense or for the protection ofproperty would be exempted. <br />As a matter of fact I would have to sit down with Phil and address several of his immigration assertions, education ideals, union theories and quite a few other comments and rebuttals.<br />Yet he is on the right track to identify the issues he does and he has put voice to the concerns of the true “grass roots” American and the “Average American” who rarely sees their concerns and fears addressed in today’s political arena where it is simply attack, attack and attack, again and again everyone else on a personal level.<br />Most of these politicos have no idea of how average Americans feel, what they need and want and even if they do it is still their way or the highway. They sit in their rich homes, live their protected lives, with servants and pompous luxury and pretend to feel our pain, but they do not see that they and their faltering philosophies and policies are the cause of it.  <br />All in all I found Mr. Valentine to have made good use of the alphabet to address the many pressing issues of our present unique American social situation and conditions. I comment him on writing an easily readable, to the point, informative book without a lot of needless verbiage attached.  <br />Highly recommend it to the brave of heart who want to know what “most intelligent, ethical and patriotic American’s” are thinking about these days.  <br />571	2004-07-01
US	52596864	R3K1LB3T5GY9HK	0895261448	353169735	Goodbye, Good Men: How Liberals Brought Corruption into the Catholic Church	Books	5	31	35	N	Y	Were not slouching to Gomorrah anymore...we're there!	How do you give a five star rating to a book and author that informs you about the utter contemptability in thought, word and deed, of those orchestrating a total destruction of one of humanities greatest pillars of civility, morality and social stability.<br />It would appear that those now intrusted with monitoring, administering and supervising something so sacred and so trusted by the Ameircan people, in the past, have been obsorbed by the neo-liberal entities representing Satan, a great darkness in our society's soul and the minions of evil who disguise themselves under the cloak of false compassion, the tolerance of intolerance, the acceptance of sinful conduct and the attack upon all that is holy.<br />This is the great curse of our society, that we go about our business as the world outside our own little universes is being torn asunder by the forces of evil and degeneracy and deviant personal physical self-gratification.<br />So the authors are bascially telling us that once again another moral institution has been infiltrated by deviant progressive liberals, self-centered immoral women activist, perverts and gutless submissive male administrators who submit, and have changed this bastion of morality and godliness , the church, into a haven for Gays, Lesbians, femi-nazi nuns, evil doers and the ungodly.<br />This is a tale of woe upon the soul of mankind and the entire world for that matter.  Just one more nail in the coffin of the American Dream. The church, it seems, even the Pope has become impotent to stem this tide of evil and things are progressing much like we have been forewarned by sacred religious text.  Abraham Lincoln was right, we will never be destroyed from an outside enemy but from within our borders by our own arrogance, deviance and a generation of young people, led by disreputable adults, who will totally disrespect civilized society.<br />An interesting but sad and frustrating look at the state of affairs in our church and in America.  I found that I could only stomach a handful of pages at a time, and then had to put it down to calm down and or recover my composure before continuing. It brings on such a sense of betrayal and unimaginable saddness that reading it in its' entirety would cause one to lapse into a drepressed state.<br />Although I am sure those who support deviance and sexual immorality and hedonistic tendencies and excessive liberalism will find this book comical, uplifting and prophetic. Thank you Mr. Rose for exposing this holocaust within our religious institutions.found that I could only stomach a handful of pages at a time, and then had to put it down to calm down and or recover my composure before continuing. It brings on such a sense of betrayal and unimaginable saddness that reading it in its' entirety would cause one to lapse into a drepressed state.<br />Although I am sure those who support deviance and sexual immorality and hedonistic tendencies and excessive liberalism will find this book comical, uplifting and prophetic. Thank you Mr. Rose for exposing this holocaust within our religious institutions.	2004-02-01
US	52596864	R35P7QA57J8Z54	0895261111	247571994	Persecution: How Liberals Are Waging War Against Christians	Books	5	13	24	N	N	Factual, informative eye-opening sad tale of persecution	This book tells it like it is, I have seen this hypocritical persecution in action, I have watched others in powerful places enforce it and subscribe to it because they support it or simply because they are cowards to stand up to it for fear of those stormtrooping icons of deviance and destruction in the ACLU and other immoral, unpatriotic, unconstitutional and anti-American entities.  Regardless of what other neo-lefty reviewers write and get published in these reviews, Christian persecution is alive and well in America.  And like in the Lord of the Rings movie a great darkness and evil is stirring in the judiciary that seeks power at all cost which will one day if not checked consume America and make it a place where religion is performed in the back allies of America, just like the left says Abortions were in the past.    <br />Persdecution of the faithfull has become a sport for those special interest moguls whom John Kerry and his crowd are too cowardly to admit they serve like those devilish black ridders seeking the ring of power.	2004-01-31
US	52596864	R2FZAE2CAB3XJ8	076152553X	349784694	The Tyranny of Good Intentions: How Prosecutors and Bureaucrats Are Trampling the Constitution in the Name of Justice	Books	4	17	24	N	N	Identifies the problems but no real solutions	I began reading The Tyranny of Good Intentions looking for insights into underlying causes of our judicial, political and social systems century long erosion towards despotic activities in Americas legal, political and judical systems. I got that and much more.  The authors paint a picture condemning both sides of the political spectrum here and I do not agree with those who say it is biased one way or the other. <br />It certainly highlights some of the great abuses of governmental power supported by activist, apathetic and corrupted judges, police officers, administrators and the various social organizations invented by government.  It would appear that the lower-level representatives run amuk in our society causing hate and discontent and freely abuse anyone they spotlight as a viable target or a good mark, guilty or not. The authors bring these travesties, that takes place daily across our country, to light very well I think. The book depicts the persecution of those long believed grass roots American concepts of truth, justice and the American way, which we all (well most of us) have come to trust in.<br />Plea-bargains for expedience and asset forfeiture laws for expedience are wrong and just as bad and destructive of basic human and civil rights as abortions for expedience are, and redistricting for expedience or political favor are, or lifelong incumbency in political offices is as well as those terrible subsidies for votes are, which the great George Will identified in his book Restoration. <br />I did find a few principles that the vast majority of “WE the People” do not believe in or support at all, even though these authors support and defended them.  In most cases I am a Blackstone supporter I guess, but in a few cases I am soundly a Bentham advocate.   <br />As an Administration of Justice Major in college I found that the search for Truth and Justice and Civilized Society are much more compelling than simply winning a case and that they should come first, and must come first, before those treacherous privileged communications do and/or the rampant suppression of evidence that take place today. I find both easily defendable but the bringers of injustice and chaos in the search for truth. In other words they are grossly misused today. <br />The current system is just a game as the authors rightly indicate and honestly convicting or acquitting a suspect is of little concern to the games lawyers, police and judges play. Especially in this media feeding frenzy we have today where ones 15 minutes of TV fame is more important than truth, or exposure to the press is more important than justice.<br />In the area of integrity, honor, rightious justice and truth I believe we have terribly lost our way as a society and our Supreme Court has betrayed their most sacred charge, keeping the search for truth at the forefront of their decisions. <br />As a sideline one particular passage struck me as very interesting and humorous.  The author indicates on page 128 that Leonard W. Levy’s book A License to Steal is full of horror stories that illustrate the Gestapo-like application of the Assets Forfeiture Act. He may be right.  Many a reviewer summoned their very best rhetorical vocabulary to support their assertions even if they did not wholeheartedly agree with the authors and attacked the states misconduct.<br />Yet in reviewing several other book reviews I found it interesting that when David Limbaugh tried in his book Persecution to highlight the same types of misuse of state and government power, which is also out of control in regards to the establishment clause, reviewers lambasted him as a nut case and unworthy of respect.  A little inconsistent don’t you think?<br />In any case I found this book both informative and contradictory at the same time.  there are just too many instances to address them all in this short forum. I suppose many people who think for themselves will probably find it so.  It in no way identifies an all encompassing formula for correcting the problems it identifies in others; nor does it even acknowledge the ones it creates itself in the stances the authors take.   <br />I enjoyed the book but I found much of its legalese and assertions could not be supported by good ole common sense.  It was disturbing in that regard, but a valuable asset to have on the shelf with others like Max Boots Out of Order when discussing the tremendous fallacies in our political and judicial systems in the 21st century.<br />Jim	2004-01-05
US	52596864	R3JDTTG9XCAW9K	0785263926	310069768	Taking America Back: A Radical Plan to Revive Freedom, Morality, and Justice	Books	3	35	46	N	Y	Interesting read and mostly on the mark.	I found Mr. Farah's book interesting, energetic, provocative and entertaining. I am sure he will get the usual counter culture attacks like most conservatives do. <br />I agree with many of his ideals and his concerns, however I did not buy all of his viewpoints. As it should be.<br />Yet he does, as have so many others before him, illuminated the slide towards self-destruction we are on.  The slide that most great civilizations have taken in ages past.<br />We humans just never seem to get it right, even when we do have a written history to go by.  Seems like the intellectuals and elitist...the same ones who murdered Christ...are once again dead set on destroying our social character as well.<br />We are no different than Rome, Greece, Egypt or any other great civlization, all of them became mobbish, decadent and without faith, to one extent or another and we are headed that way.<br />When a candidate for President of the United States of America indicates that the population should refrain from talking about God, Guns, and Gays, as if they have no place in our voting philosophies, in other words illicite sexaul behavior, immorality and no change for self-defense are the order of the day, we are in big trouble.<br />When the destruction of the insitutions of marriage become the goal of courts, politicians, social service providers and religious orders then no one can fault Mr. Farah for his tirades against the modern culture. <br />When pornography, vulgar language and lyrics becomes protected speech by courts, out of control, and the abuse of children in school who are trying to believe in God become the norm people like Mr. Farah are our only recourse.<br />I applaud his efforts and this book that once again lays it on the line for all to see the great hypocrisies of the left and their foot soldiers. Hopefully America will awaken to a new realization that by following the insanity that is hard core progressive thought and the madness of the far left, they have been pulled into the service of a dark lord...hmm, perhaps Middle Earth and a great quest to vanguish him or her...is not so far away after all!<br />Go Frodo, go!<br />Jim	2003-12-22
US	52596864	R30AF650Q8JW1O	0520219783	87667485	Damned Lies and Statistics: Untangling Numbers from the Media, Politicians, and Activists	Books	4	12	34	N	Y	Sadly many Americans let stistics and polls run their lives	So Joel Best tells us what many of us already know, that statistic and polls lie.<br />But there are a great deal of non-thinking political puppets out there who cannot fathom this fact and accept the lies. They refuse to believe that surveys and polls are as corrupt as the ideologies behind those who create them and are usually more corruptible than our politicians who use them. <br />Anyone who sees a Dan Rather, Ted Kennedy, Charles Schumer, 60 Minute, Katie Couric, Al Franken or any other liberals poll number and believes them to be fair and balanced or honest has to be as gullible as a five year old or just plain stupid. <br />Any poll, any question, any set of questions can be manipulated to produce the results that the questioner desires and once spoken on a Tim Russert, Wolf Blitzer or other left leaning TV spin shows the press repeats it as if gospel and if it helps some deviant liberal cause it becomes truth by repetition.<br />It reminds me of two statements of the Hitler regime: tell a lie loud enough, often enough and long enough and the people will eventually believe it to be true. And then, isn't it fortunate for rulers that the people do not think?<br />Sound perfectly appropriate for anyone who puts their faith in damn lies, polls and statistics.	2003-10-26
US	52596864	R5IDD9WL23UQM	0029347130	788682090	Restoration: Congress, Term Limits and the Recovery of Deliberative Democracy	Books	5	22	28	N	Y	A political thinker to rival the founders, must read!	RESTORATION<br />In this book George Will has proven himself to be one of the great political thinkers of our times. His wisdom, although presented in 1992 in Restoration over a decade ago, is still vitally relevant to today and tomarrow and to the future of the American Republic as when he wrote it. <br />I have spent decades as have many other average Americans, being frustrated, over the sorry state of affairs in our nation and especially in our government institutions. <br />Many of us have had a nagging feeling that something was causing our nation to slowly slide into the hands of unconstitutional, unpatriotic, unethical, immoral, greedy, power hungry, elitist who pretend to care about \\"WE the People.\\" But really care only about padding their own nest, enriching themselves and their families with material and monetary things, and to ensure their political longevity.<br />They seek only to acquire unwarranted influence and with it manipulate the mob and sheepish unenlightened among us for their deviant personal near-treasonous self-gratification.<br />Communism, socialism, mob rule democracy (dispised by our founders)or life-term representative encumbancy, it makes no difference to them, as long as they are on the top of the social aristocracy, and the rest of us are on the bottom. Nepotism and narcissism runs rampant in their ranks and this shows each and every day whether they are conducting business in the House or Senate, or during elections and reelection campaigns. <br />They will, as Bill and Hillary have so eloquently demonstrated, do, say and support anything that will help them get and stay in power, as members of that society of disgusting ladies and gentlemen, known as the 20th and 21st century politician...<br />George will brings all these [] tactics, the senseless selfish unprofessional conduct, the sickening behavior in direct violation of their sacred charges and honor to light. He highlights their failure to respect their sworn oaths and theirduty.<br />He explains how and why our political process, our political representatives and our judiciaries have failed us.<br />The devils or evils of our destruction if you will are incumbency, redistricting, subsidies, excessive pay for public service and a retirement system that breeds contempt for the constitution. Do away with these and the world and the nation would begin to heal and we would have a chance of returning to a true patriotically moral public servant like representative democratic-republic.<br />This is a great book, one of the best I have ever read and Mr. Will would get my vote as the man who could help us heal our nations. A must read for one who can stomach the truth of just how bad things have gotten in Washington...	2003-07-28
US	52596864	R30AB574DQ6G1J	0062734768	870056882	Robert's Rules in Plain English	Books	4	15	17	N	Y	Another indespensable elementary primer!	This is another book that should be required and rigorously reviewed and taught at all levels of education, elementary, secondary, high school and first year college. One of the troubles with our society and our young people today is that the more we seem to try to spend on them and teach them the more we move aways from basic critical thinking and basic knowledge requirements for success, towards merely using them as social or political tools for our own ends. They need basic foundational knowledge to survive in the world and the school systems are not giving that due to purely partisan curriculums on many campuses. This basic knoweldge of how meetings and debates/government should work is essential to giving our children the skills necessary to be active, participating citizens in our ever shrinking world. <br />A great beginning book that even children can learn from.<br />I have already given out dozens to organizations for both adults and youth groups as a means to enlighten them on appropriate processes in getting involved in groups, clubs, government and other entities.	2003-07-07
US	52596864	R3PP7QWOBZE44P	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	5	28	59	N	Y	Scathing indictment of the folly of Democrats and Liberalism	First and foremost the negative, vicious, callous and mindless single-star ratings given to this in-depth factual, quote-filled  and referenced book, are clear examples of the utter innate hypocrisies embedded in and indicative of the irrational thought processes and unpatriotic tendencies of many of the liberal persuasion.  They surely prove that Treason by Ann Coulter has hit a nerve in the neo-liberals who actually have read it, and simply ignited the intolerance, hatred, bigotry, and partisan idiocy of those who have not, yet rate it badly, just to bring down the averages in the star system. <br />On a lighter note having completed the book, I find Ann Coulter to be one of the most prolific critical thinkers of our time.  Seeing through the many layers of false and misleading journalistic and political lines of rhetoric to find the truth and underlying meanings of the horrendously biased and hypocritical view most liberal icons, media types and so-called progressive representatives hold dear. <br />Not all Democrat and liberals are such nincompoops and egg-head-like as to buy into the traitorous acts of these false Gods of liberalism.  Yet too many simply follow along like sheep and/or robots repeating the great lies propagated by their fearless leaders.<br />It is actually sad to see them exposed so profoundly by people like Coulter, Bernard Goldberg, Mona Charen and Tammy Bruce. But then like Ronald Reagan against the Soviet threat, I may feel for them, but I herald their self-destructive nature and their demise for they (hardcore liberals) are America’s Evil Empire. <br />In this book, regardless of the spin placed upon any quote or story or event by the biased liberal media and the political pundits of the deviant, degenerate, anti-patriotic, anti-flag waving or singing, socialistic/communist-loving left; Ann Coulter guides us through the Democrat and liberal maze of intrepidity, in spreading falsehoods, even in the face of facts to the contrary.<br />Sheun-spins the radical special interest group anti-American barrages and lays the truth bare for all to see and examine and she attempts to correct the falsehoods and rewriting of the constitution, history and best referred to model of the world by the left for their own political and influential gains. <br />No this is an intense book, a good book, a book filled with facts withheld from the American people for decades and a book that needs to be read by everyone who values the truth and/or dissenting interpretations (something liberals are prejudices against and cannot tolerate).<br />I'll tell you something else...I will never again look upon those icons of the Democrat Party so higly praised and heralded at public Decmocrat led functions in the future, like Roosevelt, Truman, Kenndey, Byrd, Clinton, most hollywood types and many others in the same way again. It will seem more like a celebration of treason, treachery, corrutpion and deviance than a celebration of great men or women or their deeds, to see liberals slobbering at the mouth, over these traitors of the American character, with praise, like James Carville or Paul Bagala do each and every day.<br />It is impossible to read this book in one sitting due to that intensity but well written, informative, well planned and pertinent to both past as well as current events. Coulter is willing to tell the truth knowing that she will receive the ire and unsubstantiated ridicule of the left, which again is indicative of their inability to take what they give out. Only hers is more factual than theirs has obviously ever been. <br />Great read, highly recommended.	2003-07-07
US	52596864	R2361CTFOOYWGY	0762103949	501463123	A Nation of Heroes	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Should be given to every elemetary student as a primer!	A Nation of Heroes by Readers Digest is a fine testament to the inner strengths of the American character, soul and spirit.<br />In addition it is a great way to remember the sacrifices of a forgotten and rapidly passing section of our population that deserves much more praise, appreciation, tribute and respect than they have received by those of us who reap the rewards of their personal sacrifices. <br />It is now impossible to understand just how servere that sacrifice was unless we hear these stories over and over and over again and pass them on to our posterity.<br />Immediately after reading the first story in this fabulous book, I found myself mentally drifting back to that excellent book entitled “Flag of Our Fathers” by James Bradley. His in-depth and inspirational stories about that diverse group of Americans who helped raise the American Flag at Iwo Jima (to include his own father) kept me spellbound and filled my eyes with tears of joy and sadness and pride and respect.<br />The same is true here and these short stories (just the right length) are in keeping with the better literary works of Reader’s Digest.<br />This book will take a place of honor, displayed for all my students to see when school starts again this year and I will no doubt incorporate it into the Words of Wisdom Program we conduct each and every mourning for the patriotic benefit of our staff and students.<br />I must also add at this point, that the story on page 48 about “No Medals for Joe,” touched me deeply and reminded me of the many WWII service members I have helped to get medals they never received during various conflicts while I was in the military. And then present them with an appropriate presentation that was shared with family and friends.<br />There are so many who never get that special moment like Joe did and that is a true American tragedy as their ranks continue to shrink every day.  I hope that Reader’s Digest will continue to put out these small hero booklets out to the public and I would love to contribute other stories to their collection in the future. Such as an enlisted Marine named, Charles Christly in one of the devistating Okinawa campaigns, or Mya Newman who was an actual survivor of the Japaneese internment of women depicted in the movie about the same a few years back. <br />To the digest on A job well done, congratulations.	2003-07-06
US	52596864	R17ZZQ0WLU1CDE	0785263683	69262870	Seen and Heard: America's Youngest Political Pundit Tackles the Lies and Truths of Politics and Culture	Books	5	15	26	N	Y	Out of the mouths of babes and educated children!	Kyle William’s “Seen and Heard” is a unique work because of the way in which he presents his material. While others present this same material on a higher plain of thought brought about only by life experiences, journalistic practice, additional education and social interactions, Kyle, has proven with this book, that he is there equal in critical thinking. He brings the issues down to a more easily read and understood level. In other words, without trying to be sarcastic or offensive to anyone, he “puts it in crayon” for all to read and heed. <br />Oh, he does not say or impart any information that is new or earth shattering to most compassionate conservatives or those Americans who still have a true sense of ethics, morality, patriotism, individual responsibility, merit and a true understanding of the freedom of mind, conscious, speech and activities. And it is true that he may not convince a single hard core left-wing liberal to rethink their position; those who believe in the moral corruption, social chaos, and utter tyranny of like-minded ultra-liberals in the Senate and House of Representatives. But his down to earth, simply stated, average American view of these issues makes his presentation refreshing.<br />His subjects have been rehashed a thousand times again and again by advocates of the left and the right. We see in Ann Coulter a sophisticated conservative view interlaced with humor, wit and gile that many do not appreciate. In Michael Savage we find the ragging underlying currents of a nation and a people disgusted with those in power who represent those postions that are just too very far left. Savage represents those who are sick of the decay and who want to know how to stop the tidal wave of social degeneration pouring across the land, in our courts, media and political arenas. <br />In those like Rush Limbaugh, Shaun Hannity, Dick Morris, Doctor Laura and many others we see the exposure of the great hypocrisies of those on the left as theyare pulled kicking and screaming into the sunlight like vampires. Those who condemn through jealousy, intolerance, prejudice and hate anyone on the right who is successful in dealing rationally, effectively and morally with this nation’s problems.<br />Avoiding effectively dealing with these issues for the mere sake of votes. Hence the fear that the next several Supreme Court nominations will give the highest court in the land the strength it needs to turn back the destruction that the left wing activist have wrought upon this great nation of ours. <br />Kyle seems to understand the dilemma America is in today and the chaos that the left’s philosophies and ideologies bring, and he has become the George Andres of the young people of America. <br />Mr. Andres is the former Marine in Florida who after serving and defending his country honorably refused to be intimidated by a despicable homeowners association over his American Flag. This association, that decided to use rules and regulations, to force Mr. Andres to remove his American Flag are much like the liberals of today. Yet being young, and attacked by the left, will not keep Kyle quiet. <br />It is interesting to ponder how a person as young as Kyle could become so well versed on so many issues and honestly, morally and ethically remain upon the right path about each of them. It is very reassuring. There may be hope for the next generation yet. To best sum Kyles work up, I would say he is very patriotic. <br />This country was founded upon people like Kyle Williams and Mr. Andres fighting unjust, immoral and unethical rules, laws and court decisions. As a matter of fact John Adams and countless other patriots proclaimed that it is not just a right to stand up to and battle with unjust rules, laws and court decision...but our “sacred duty” to do so. <br />Kyle Williams stands up and fights the forces of socialism, darkness and degeneracy. That he is doing it as a fourteen year old puts him in a unique class of American. If only all young people had his maturity and his education, the entire world would be a much better place. Klye is home schooled, no wonder the left is so afraid of him. <br />Having followed Kyle for some time now I do not find him manipulated or influenced unduly by anything but his own well founded convictions and critical thinking skills. To claim otherwise as many on the left will do is once again to engage in hate, intolerance, prejudice and character assassination, the cornerstones of their ideologies.<br />And as Kyle says “the lefts attacks proclaiming intolerance on my part will continue without them acknowledging or ever noticing their own.”<br />A well written, reader friendly, inspirational work. I highly recommend it for both young and not so young Americans. <br />855 Words	2003-06-26
US	52596864	RPRK78RRYBQOR	0895261391	468254470	Useful Idiots: How Liberals Got It Wrong in the Cold War and Still Blame America First	Books	4	20	25	N	Y	A hard to swallow...or condemn , fair and balanced book!	I sure do not know what all the broo-ha-ha from the left is all about, nor do I find the completely glaring raves from the right any more rewarding. In fact anyone who attacks or heralds this work and who is politically aligned more than likely only breezed through it or did not read it at all.<br />It is a fine work, but a work that attacks and heralds both sides. It should not have received the mindless one star evaluations that so many automatons of the left have obviously given it. Nor I think the five star rattings of the die hard right.<br />It is however, a work that should be in every modern history class in American High Schools. It demonstrates just how idiotic, egotistical, corruptible, illogical and completely void of common sense both sides of the political, judicial, and social spectrums can be. <br />I have to admitt that as a conservative I almost put it down during the first and second chapters. I actually thought I had been dupped into buying a left-wing hate mongering book in the disguise of a right-wing leaning book. <br />But as I struggled through the feelings that Mona was attacking conservatives and my own beliefs, I realized that she was in fact better at being fair and balanced than Mr. O'Reilly, Shaun Hannity and Alan Colms or any of the rest of the political commentators today.<br />She seemed to be the adult version of Kyle Williams, the 14 year old columnist on WND.com, who is more poltically savy than many of his elders these days. You see he, being young, has not fully aligned himself yet and can point out the flaws in both sides. Mona just does it with more experience and style. I commend her for it.<br />Mona Charen seems to take the right to task at the outset of each chapter or each subject and rip the conservatives scabs off their own booboos, pulling down the facade of self-righteousness, which exposes the open wounds of their own mistakes, errors and folly. Then she presents varioius researched facts that place a bandage on oursucking chest wounds while comparing our mistakes with with the naieve, dangerous and damaging philosophies and ideologies of many prominent left-wing socialist (communist) sympathizers. <br />Sure one could look at this as a completely biased book in favor of the right, but I sure did not. I found it a fair assessment of the stupidity of both sides.  As I began to grow accustomed to the scheme of manuver she had chosen, I became more interested, enthralled and captivated by it; yet I also found myself significantly uncomforable with my own perceived tower of political invulnerablitiy. In short she made me question my own conservatives pride due to some pretty significant bungling by those on the right in the past. <br />Charen has made me stop and reconsider that there are terrible mistakes being made on both sides and no single person has all the answers nor the correct remedies for all that ails us. It just seems that the left has more than it's fair share.<br />Perhaps that is as good a place to start as any...both sides finally for the first time admitting that both are right in some ways and both are wrong in some ways and that moving to far in either direction is mindless, partisan rubbish. <br />I truly believe however that Senators Kennedy, Schumer, Leahy, Boxer, Feinstein, Byrd, Clinton and a few others are much too far left and that many others in congress from the left are just misguided parisan Mongols. But there are some on the right who could also use an attitude adjustment to meet in the middle. Not the Schumer, Kennedy or Boxer middle, but the true middle. But unless those icons of mindless liberalism change we will never get there.<br />Perhaps we should take all of the icons who now rule both sides with iron fist, like Dashcle, Byrd, Schumer, Lott, Delay and others and brush them aside and begin again with representatives, beliefs, laws, rules and judical opinions that will somehow speak to both sides of the most pressing issues we face today. <br />In any case Mona clearly demonstrates that Democratic Republics, \\"are\\" the last best hope of the world and it is absolutely assured that immoral communism or facism, and/or degenerate socialism and any other government controlled by tyrants an aristocracy or a fearless leader is unacceptable and causes more human destruction by far. <br />A very good book, a little hard to dive into at first and just a little bit too stiff for my liking but, I still highly recommend it for the reader, young and old, who enjoys seeing both sides being pelted with their own brain-dead mistakes.	2003-06-18
US	52596864	RLKIPQYASP3E8	0785263535	779051969	The Savage Nation: Saving America from the Liberal Assault on Our Borders, Language and Culture	Books	4	5	8	N	Y	Although childlike in it's rage, Savage is telling the truth	Michael is saying what millions of average, everyday, grass roots American's feel in spite of what the intellectual elitist of the left say about him, and in spite of the way they try to protray and condemn him. Whenever anyone touches a nerve with them they begin the old character assassination game simply because they cannot fight him on the issues nor the truth of what is being said.<br />Savage is no different than some of the raving maniacs of the far-left like Kristen VanDen Heuvel, Maxine Waters, Charles Rangel and Barbara Lee, who have said some of the most racist, hateful and disgusting things about conservatives for decades.<br />Even though he presents his material like Jerry Springer might, it is no reason to discount it. So what if he acts like a teenager in a rage.  Most people feel his frustration about what is going on in our country, society and communities today. <br />Hillary Clinton talks about the people who impeached her hubby as perverting the constituiton, well she and those on the left like her and her husband have been doing so for 100 years and have mutilated it beyond recognition for their own benefit.<br />Most Americans believe this, which is why they believe her book and more than likely the one coming form Bill are and will be actually works of fiction not fact.<br />Of course most Americans just hold all of their frustration in and try to deal with it differently. Savage reminds everyone of that age old quote from a once popular radio commentator who told his audience, \\"go to your windows and stick your heads out and scream, I'm tired as hell...and I'm not going to take it anymore!\\" <br />In Savage those upset with mindless liberalism, find a voice crying in the wilderness, albeit a pretty gruff, attack dog-like, pointed, straight-forward and costic one. He isn't afraid to stand up and say what they are thinking and so he resonates with the American people. <br />I personally prefer the kinder-gentler more sophisticated and humourousattacks on failing liberalilsm and the democrats presented by Shaun Hannity, Bill Scarbourogh, Ann Coulter, Bill Bennett and Gerorge Will myself, but I can stomach Mr. Savage because he speaks the truth.<br />Those who criticize him here are simply the partisans of the left letting loose their frustrations and anger at his popularity and support from the American public. So be it.<br />It is an interesting if not a five star book. I gave him the benefit of the doubt and raised an origianl three to a four on honesty grounds. The truth hurts and angers the left.<br />A good read for anyone who wants to know the undercurrents of dissatisfaction out here in the real America and not the halls of confustion and ineptitude in Washington D.C. and the political pundit circuits.	2003-06-18
US	52596864	R1F24DGJ2GPN17	0942617320	985566538	The Thousand Year War in the Mideast: How It Affects You Today (An Uncle Eric Book)	Books	4	28	47	N	Y	Interesting, thought provoking and filled with gile	With the reading of this last book in Mr. Maybury’s original nine book series “The Thousand Year War in the Mideast,\\" I have finished them all.  I enjoyed them all even though the Clipper Ship was not as good as the rest. Too many funnel stories.<br />Yes, I have already ordered the WWI and WWII books for my further enjoyment.<br />I find Richard Maybury a remarkably intellectual thinker and presenter of his view of history, politics, law, various economics factors, and of course many other issues. There is however a great deal of nothing more than his personal opinion on certain issues.<br />Enjoy them, yes without a doubt?  Did I learn from them, I believe that I leaned a great deal? Do I accept every idea or assertion that he makes, no of course not?<br />He may be brilliant in his presentation, form and style but to accept his assertions as gospel, because I like those qualities, would be foolish indeed.  I find some of what he attempts to sell as absolute fact and “the other side” as he calls it, quite thought provoking; but some of it I find completely unsubstantiated by other works on the same subjects.<br />In his attempt to get his nephew to see the other side...he quite often seems to blindly and incorrectly \\"take\\" the other position as if it were the only possible way of looking at the issue, which is completely inappropriate and often untrue.<br />For instance, as a former Marine who took great pride in singing “from the halls of Montezuma...to the shores of Tripoli” and learning the history behind it, I take great exception to his implication that America was nothing more than a complete lackey to the English and the Europeans.<br />One page 205 he tells us that “This will be the first case of the U.S. fighting the Europeans’ wars for them.”  I find that an odd lack of research when in the college edition of “The National Experience” A History of the United States by Blum, McFeeley, Morgan and Schlesinger, Jefferson’s determination to stay out of entangling alliances and “wars” was not undone, by his mere desire or naivet&eacute; to be the puppets of the Europeans or the lackeys’ of some other power; but because he - actually found paying tribute - for immunity from attack to be too costly and humiliating to America. In short it was intolerable to him as President of this nation to grovel to another nation.<br />This could just as easily be looked upon as a positive step to inventing the concept of international waters and the idea of free trade agreements! In any case, it resulted in an 1805 peace with the Pasha stopping his tributes and later the end of all tributes in that area in 1816, according to their account.<br />So I believe that Mr. Maybury, although learned and scholarly, has failed to consider all sides of the issue, the times these events were conducted in, and the necessary mentality of those dealing with the world and an emerging new nation and world player.  If we would have done nothing, tribute paying would have continued, does he believe that would be a good thing?  Encouraging such high seas confrontations?<br />Could he be implying that we just do as liberals seem to want us to do with incidents of killing, by simply ignoring attacks on our property and the loss of life and write them off?  Hey, what’s a few dead Americans here or there if we can secure favor with an enemy and understand him or her right?  I am glad most of our presidents do not have that mentality, although the last one did, which was a real shame.<br />In addition as an emerging nation could Mr. Maybury really and truly believe that we should have been isolationist for the last 250 years?  Democrats say yes out of one side of their mouths while saying no to any Republican who professes the same concept.  It is a good word when they use it but a curse word when someone else does.<br />If we had been, then we would have gone the way of the Incas, Aztecs, American Indians and the French and justabout every other defeated nation or people on earth.  Non-involvement except for trade would be a great plan, in a world that never entered into the technological age, or that did not enter into the flying machine age or the age of rocket boosters, or the submarine age or the aircraft carrier age or the nuclear, biological and chemical age.<br />But that is not the world we live in.  If we were still getting around with wooden ships, and balloons and horses and such, it would be fine to espouse those philosophies, but thank God we were flexible and fluid enough to adapt, adjust and become a world power broker and player in those days, and overcome the enemies who would by now be teaching our children how to speak their language by force.<br />I believe Mr. Maybury’s opinion go astray when they do not consider the real world and how it has holistically evolved.  Sometimes even bad decisions were for the best of reasons when viewed from the long view.  Sure we have made mistakes in the past, but he cannot assure anyone that not making those decisions would have produced any safer a world then we have right now.  And the Middle East would be a hot spot with or without our minor involvement. By his own admission it was so long before the USA came onto the scene.<br />Unless of course he is trying to tell us a world owned, operated and ruled by a completely Islamic regime or tyrants like the Stalin’s, Hussein’s, Khomeini’s, Arrafat’s and Hitler’s and such would be better for us.  If we were the wimps he suggests we should have been in world affairs back then, then that is exactly what the status quo would be today.  No it is a good book, but the final solution to history as he sees it is an incorrect one, I think.<br />1000 Wordson or people on earth.  Non-involvement except for trade would be a great plan, in a world that never entered into the technological age, or that did not enter into the flying machine age or the age of rocket boosters, or the submarine age or the aircraft carrier age or the nuclear, biological and chemical age.<br />But that is not the world we live in.  If we were still getting around with wooden ships, and balloons and horses and such, it would be fine to espouse those philosophies, but thank God we were flexible and fluid enough to adapt, adjust and become a world power broker and player in those days, and overcome the enemies who would by now be teaching our children how to speak their language by force.<br />I believe Mr. Maybury’s opinion go astray when they do not consider the real world and how it has holistically evolved.  Sometimes even bad decisions were for the best of reasons when viewed from the long view.  Sure we have made mistakes in the past, but he cannot assure anyone that not making those decisions would have produced any safer a world then we have right now.  And the Middle East would be a hot spot with or without our minor involvement. By his own admission it was so long before the USA came onto the scene.<br />Unless of course he is trying to tell us a world owned, operated and ruled by a completely Islamic regime or tyrants like the Stalin’s, Hussein’s, Khomeini’s, Arrafat’s and Hitler’s and such would be better for us.  If we were the wimps he suggests we should have been in world affairs back then, then that is exactly what the status quo would be today.  No it is a good book, but the final solution to history as he sees it is an incorrect one, I think.<br />1000 Words	2003-06-16
US	52596864	R111AAYLPLV7NB	0942617282	79777142	The Clipper Ship Strategy: For Success in Your Career, Business and Investments (An "Uncle Eric" Book)	Books	3	23	24	N	Y	Interesting but dullest of the original 9 book series	I have to say that although I have been captivated by Mr. Maybury's books for some time, reading each one in order. I found this one interesting only about half the time.  Wehn I got half way through it I lost interest. It seemed to be going over and over and over and over the same old stuff which could have been imparted in half the time and half the pages, and just plain got boring. It simply did not hold my interest like the first seven. <br />After finishing it, I picked up the &quot;Thousand Year War&quot; a little apprehensively to see if Maybury had lost his flare after the success of his previous books, as so many do, sort of like movie sequals that never meet or match the standards of the original,  and luckily found that it was back on track with interesting, coherent information taht once again had me wanting to finish it in one setting. <br />Mr. Maybury needs to work The &quot;Clipper Ship&quot; over and could easily reduce it by half.<br />Of course I enjoy his work and will order the two follow on books WWI and WWII to round out my collection. All in all, he has made me a little bit wiser with this series and I still recommend it (all of them) to anyone who wants to understand the competing &quot;models&quot; that exist in the world and what makes the world go round.<br />Jim	2003-06-12
US	52596864	RO4RJJO7F8SAV	0942617142	923474167	Evaluating Books: What Would Thomas Jefferson Think About This? : Guidelines for Selecting Books Consistent With the Principles of America's Founder (Maybury, Rick. "Uncle Eric" Book.)	Books	4	25	30	N	Y	Sixth in a Series of Nine Books that can Change Your Life!	I have continued to read Mr. Maybury's books and the first five have filled me with knowledge and wonder at how uninformed I have been in the past about simple and basic issues that touch, influence and determine the coarse of a persons life each and evey day. <br />I have learned a great deal from his obvious intellectual prowess and his all encompassing views on many subjects and how they mesh together to form, affect and manipulate this world we live in. <br />One gets a sense of awe at how little they can trust those in power but how immensly important is it is that those without it stick together and ensure we be ever vigilante in our observations of elected officials. Those people we used to call public servants but who hav become nothing but self-indulgent life lont politicians. In other words they have become exactly what our Constitution and Bill of Rights were designed to prevent. <br />In this book, &quot;What Would Thomas Jefferson Think About This?&quot; I have found yet another source of knowledge that I must thank Uncle Eric for. Yet after reading the great book &quot;John Adams.&quot; I do not find that I have the awe and inspiration that allows me to make Jefferson my number one hero. Yes, he is a great man and I believe he was one of the greatest founders, however I find that I still place him behing George Washington and Adams on that account. <br />It is my philosophy just like it was Reverend Johathan Mayhew's and John Adam's that &quot;The people, are required to obey their government's law only when it is in agreement with Higher Law. And if the government violates that charge, it is our duty, and we are bound the fight it with every resourse at our disposal.&quot;<br />In a related topic Mayhew was a true Reverend, and it is unfortunate that the term has been turned into such a basphemous title today for those who use and claim the name are anything but Reverend. <br />In any case this 6th book in Mr. Maybury's series is yet another collectors item and gives the reader a sound foundation by which to judge the literature they choose to absorb and contemplate in creating their own ideological awareness and positions of items of critical importance to our country and our people.	2002-12-29
US	52596864	RVOQIZKYJBE98	094261710X	963356752	Whatever Happened to Justice?	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Number Four in the Series is Another Hit!	The learning just continues with this installation of Mr. Maybury's books. I learned a great deal about the economic arena in the first three and now he has taken us on a ride through the successes and failures of nations, governments and social entities that fail to follow the most basic rules of good government. <br />Mr. Maybury is fabulous in bringing complicated issues down to a level where average Americans and even our youth can understand them. <br />The sad truth about the world is that society itself is allowing young people to loose sight of the true and significant moral model of the world that they should have. Is this a direct result of a planned attack on the basic principles Mr. Maybury indicates are esential for a free people to survive or even the concept of freedom itself. Perhaps.<br />It is interesting to find that the absense of morality being intertwined with government has caused the downfall of so many economies in the past and contribut to the loss of the freedoms, civil liberties and individuality so cheerished by Americans for over 200 years. <br />It would appear that the world is slidding into a barbaric times where we will depend only on our own devices and our own intellect and when we turn so abruptly away from the inspiration of Divine Law we actually digress in our dealings with others rather than progress. <br />This book should be a wake up call to all who turn away from history and the facts of life in this area. Justice made and enforced only by men or women is not justice at all but mere Choas.<br />All we have build and all we have achieved stands on the brink of destruction brought about by our own egos and ignorance of histories lessons.<br />A great read and thought provoking book.	2002-12-29
US	52596864	R8L94UEYF7CF8	0060514558	921401083	Let Freedom Ring: Winning the War of Liberty over Liberalism	Books	5	23	41	N	Y	A man who speaks for the Average American Citizen	What can one say? Sean will be hated by the left and attacked as are so many others who speak the truth of the American social, political, judicial and economic situations America finds itself in due to the influences of those who care little for real Americans and real problems, but a great deal about power, control and oppression.<br />Sean Hannity speaks for the common man and woman, the average American citizen, the silent but suffering true mainstream entity in a world of the rich, famous and the powerful left.<br />All that he says in this book does represents the raging frustrations held inside a great many Americans, well at least three quarters of them. One quarter of the America people is left, one quarter is right, one quarter is too young to vote or care, and the other quarter is too disinterested or disgusted to participate.<br />Screaming about who has the most popular vote is just a bunch of smoke and mirrors, because the above analysis is the truth. That means that nearly 70 million people who could vote do not vote. Certainly enough to be the true deciders of the political agenda in America. Add to them the multiple millions of American Servicemembers deployed around the world who do not get to vote and any percieved popular mandate would seem insignificant by the left.<br />Sean wrote a fine book here, worthy of review by both sides, and it is an interesting, yes compassinate conservative, and slightly abrasive book. But no worse than out there from either side. He simply tries to counter the bias, we the people, see twenty-four seven in the many forms of media, intertainment and news that get sent into our homes every day. <br />&quot;Let Freedom Ring&quot; is a quick and easy read, meaningfull and touching. I applaud Sean for adding this to the list of books on the market to help America find itself. Great Job Sean. <br />I am anxiously awaiting Sean's counterpart Allan's book, which must surely be in the making. I am sure it will be a good readas well.	2002-12-29
US	52596864	RDRK3ONTZIHN6	0925279579	447555613	Original Intent:	Books	5	62	162	N	Y	Insightful, accurate and compelling.	To the truth-seeking honest student of American history, it's Founding philosophies and it's original constitutional principles \\"Original Intent\\" is an indispensable tool. <BR>  <BR>   One can read books like \\"We Hold These Truths\\" by Mortimer J. Adler, \\"Our Sacred Honor\\" by William Bennett and \\"American Scriptures\\" by Pauline Maier, and get a feel for the true \\"Spirit and Intent\\" of our founders and what they really envisioned.<br />   But unless one gives an actual intense reading of the Declaration of Independence, The Constitution of the United States, the Northwest Ordinance and other preliminary works, they will not get the full picture of America.<BR> <BR>   One should add to that, books like \\"The Federalist Papers\\" by Hamilton, Madison and Jay, \\"America's God and Country\\" by William Federer and of coarse this book, \\"Original Intent\\" by David Barton and one comes away with the inspired reality of just how ingenious, rational and tremendously educated and intelligent the men and women of that era were.<br />   To be truly fair and balanced a reading of the Anti-Federalist Papers should also be read to get an understanding of why so many are displeased with the coarse of the last 70 years. It is very intesting to see just how well our founders could prodict the failures we face today.<br />   The intellect and insight from both sides makes the current revisionist and manipulators of the constitution and history look like children with learning disorders. The rhetoric of these false historians is rejected by those who research for themselves the rich history of our nation. The rewriters do not even come close to identifying what the Constitution really imparts, means or implies.<br />   Today calling someone a constitutional scholar too often means someone who interprets the Constitution to fit the Special interest groups of his or her particular party affiliation, and of coarse their leader in Congress or the White House. <br />   This single book when read after the others listed above, explains why so much has gone wrong with our three branches of government and our political system. It also enlightens one as to why the Judiciary has become too tyrannical, despotic and elitist over the last 70 plus years. It is becoming a representation of \\"The King\\" we threw out during the war of independence. <br />   But the most significant point made. Which should have been capitalized and placed upon a page all by itself is the simple quote of Thomas Jefferson, perhaps one of our greatest President next to George Washington and John Adams is this.<br />  \\"I know of no safe depository of the ultimate powers of the society but the people themselves. And if we think them [the people] not enlightened enough to exercise their control with a wholesome discretion, the remedy is not to take it [power] from them, but to inform their discretion by education.\\"<br />   This then is the telling point of American failure in politics and social policy. When we let a left leaning Department of Education and the special interest allies that control them dictate through unelected judges to decide the coarse of the relationship between religion, morality, freedom and Democracy in the American education system, we move unto shakey ground. This concept, which is in direct violation of the intent of our founding documents and philosophies creates a war between virtue and diviance. We are losing.<br />   The extreme left is winning and our founding fathers dream is coming to a screeching halt. America has as a result, had nothing but heartache and chaos ever since we, like the characters in the movie \\"The Fellowship of the Rings,\\" forgot those historical ideals which should not have been forgotten. <br />   This is a book that will no doubt draw fire from the left and so-called progressives. But it is an essential read to anyone seeking the truth, not revisionist rewrites of history. It is essential to understanding how the courts have wrested the powerof government from it's rightful place, with the people through teh voting booth and the Executive and Legislative branches of government. It is a call to arms for Strict Constitutionals, conservatives and true patriots everywhere. A must read. <br />Congratulations to David Barton.	2002-12-29
US	52596864	R2TEIFS4TG4KDK	0942617142	923474167	Evaluating Books: What Would Thomas Jefferson Think About This? : Guidelines for Selecting Books Consistent With the Principles of America's Founder (Maybury, Rick. "Uncle Eric" Book.)	Books	4	8	12	N	Y	Sixth in a Series of Nine Books that can Change Your Life!	I have continued to read Mr. Maybury's books and the first five have filled me with knowledge and wonder at how uninformed I have been in the past about simple and basic issues that touch, influence and determine the coarse of a persons life each and evey day. <br />I have learned a great deal from his obvious intellectual prowess and his all encompassing views on many subjects and how they mesh together to form, affect and manipulate this world we live in. <br />One gets a sense of awe at how little they can trust those in power but how immensly important is it is that those without it stick together and ensure we be ever vigilante in our observations of elected officials. Those people we used to call public servants but who hav become nothing but self-indulgent life lont politicians. In other words they have become exactly what our Constitution and Bill of Rights were designed to prevent. <br />In this book, \\"What Would Thomas Jefferson Think About This?\\" I have found yet another source of knowledge that I must thank Uncle Eric for. Yet after reading the great book \\"John Adams.\\" I do not find that I have the awe and inspiration that allows me to make Jefferson my number one hero. Yes, he is a great man and I believe he was one of the greatest founders, however I find that I still place him behind George Washington and Adams on that account. <br />It is my philosophy just like it was Reverend Johathan Mayhew's and John Adam's that \\"The people, are required to obey their government's law only when it is in agreement with Higher Law. And if the government violates that charge, it is our duty, and we are bound the fight it with every resourse at our disposal.\\"<br />In a related topic Mayhew was a true Reverend, and it is unfortunate that the term has been turned into such a basphemous title today for those who use and claim the name are anything but Reverend. <br />In any case this 6th book in Mr. Maybury's series is yet another collectors item and gives the reader asound foundation by which to judge the literature they choose to obsorb and contemplate in creating their own ideological awareness and positions of items of critical importance to our country and our people.	2002-12-29
US	52596864	R155GYXAF7OWJX	0942617347	133823025	The Money Mystery: The Hidden Force Affecting Your Career, Business and Investments, 2nd ed. (Maybury, Rick.)	Books	5	14	16	N	Y	Number Three in a Nine Book Series and Just as Good!	It is amazing to say this but I feel like I am actually taking another course of study that should be part of my college curriculum. Mr. Maybury's books have allowed me to examine an area of study that I have been intimidated by for years. Economics never held any fasination for me in the past but when I am done with his series of books I may actually look into seeking further education in that subject. His books have given me the confidence to tackle that foe. <br />One cannot wait to finish whichever book they are currently reading to move on to the next in the series in order to avoid loosing any of the recall from the previous ones. This is book three and I am already eying number 4, \\"Whatever Happened to Justice,\\" on my bookshelf.<br />Mr. Maybury has opened up the world of history, economics, money management, political backroom tactics, moral issues and government, bringing them all together in an easily understandable way to help us increase our understanding and improve ourselves. <br />Great Book.	2002-12-29
US	52596864	R2HB6IZS3XKJ3Z	094261710X	963356752	Whatever Happened to Justice?	Books	5	20	21	N	Y	Number Four in the Series is Another Hit!	The learning just continues with this installation of Mr. Maybury's books. I learned a great deal about the economic arena in the first three and now he has taken us on a ride through the successes and failures of nations, governments and social entities that fail to follow the most basic rules of good government. <br />Mr. Maybury is fabulous in bringing complicated issues down to a level where average Americans and even our youth can understand them. <br />The sad truth about the world is that society itself is allowing young people to loose sight of the true and significant moral model of the world that they should have. Is this a direct result of a planned attack on the basic principles Mr. Maybury indicates are esential for a free people to survive or even the concept of freedom itself? Perhaps.<br />It is interesting to find that the absense of morality being intertwined with government has caused the downfall of so many economies in the past and contribute to the loss of the freedoms, civil liberties and individuality so cheerished by other countries and Americans for over 200 years. <br />It would appear that the world is sliding into a more barbaric time where we will depend only on our own devices and our own intellect to save us. But when we turn so abruptly away from the inspiration of Divine Law we actually digress in our dealings with others rather than progress. <br />This book should be a wake up call to all who turn away from history and the facts of life in this area. Justice made and enforced only by men or women and their own prejudices is not justice at all but mere Choas.<br />All we have build and all we have achieved stands on the brink of destruction brought about by our own egos and ignorance of histories lessons.<br />A great read and thought provoking book.	2002-12-29
US	52596864	R2S4M36ER7EYI1	0942617312	1732292	Whatever Happened to Penny Candy?	Books	5	49	54	N	Y	Number two in a nine book series that every student needs!	I was hooked on Richard Maybury's series after reading \\"Are you Liberal or Conservative? Or Confused?\\" I immediately ordered the entire series and have not regretted it for an instant.<br />I began with number one and moved through them all in the correct order, or at least the recommended order by the author.<br />\\"Let's talk about Personal, Career and Financial Security\\" was the first and just wet the curiosity. It left you wanting to know more. <br />This book began the meat and potatoes of a series that is easy to read, written on an understandable level for everyone and enlightening to all concerning the many mysteries of historical, economic and governmental issues and interminglings that have to do with social, moral, political and so many other issues. <br />I would recommend this series as a Middle School Required reading text with in depth discussions and working groups for the youth of America to be better informed than they now are about the world and how it all works and fits together.<br />Mr. Maybury's elaboration of the various \\"Models\\" that people create for the world they try to live in was a very thought provoking exercise and explained a great deal about the great divide that currently separates the American consciousness.<br />Two down and still batting a thousand. Great job Mr. Maybury.	2002-12-29
US	52596864	RJ5WA3H6F77TL	0942617223	382140414	Ancient Rome: How It Affects You Today (Uncle Eric Book)	Books	5	104	109	N	Y	History on a level that may inspire other to seek further	I was surprise to see so few reviews of this seventh book in the nine book series from Mr. Maybury. It astonished me even more to find a library review that seemed to attack him. This could not have been a person who has given the \\"Uncle Eric\\" series a fair and balanced hearing. <br />To attack Mr. Maybury for presenting a compressed view of history on the grounds that they put forth, proves that they do not fully understand nor comprehend the overall spirit and intent of his books. As a matter of fact I found that review rather childish, inept and unjustifiable. <br />In any case I find this book no different than all the rest, a good read, informative and thought provoking. Mr. Maybury tells us way back in his first book of this series...that they are all simply one man's opinion of how we have arrived where we are today. It is up to the reader to research futher and consider whether they want to accept his evaluation or not. Surely tolerance itself would dictate he get a just hearing in that regard. Big government does oppress the people, and anyone who does not agree with that is just plain simple-minded. <br />I found this book thought provoking, challenging and educational on a level that I guess the library in queston cannot comprehend. <br />As a primer to history, economics, moral issues, government, polictics, money and countless other subjects Mr. Maybury brings a method that should be more widely used to educate our children. At least on the most basic level to spart their interest and bring such matters down to a level of simplification that does not turn the young reader off. <br />Surly we must instruct them that they should never take one persons opinion as a gospel to the truth or history or anything but to deny them the benefit of his rather extraordiary talents is a much worse sin upon enlightenment than anything Mr. Maybury has perpetrated.<br />All writings, no matter how well cloaked or clothed in the dust jackets of the historian, journalist,constitutional scholar or other famous authors is after all \\"just opinion\\" derived at by looking at something someone else has produced, and trying to glean what was in their minds when they put pen or quill to paper or parchment.<br />Librarians should remember that and not be so harsh upon people like Mr. Maybury for there is no more truth and fiction in his works than in many many others that sit upon the library shelves.<br />Great introductory book to history as it relates to todays world. I would strongly recommend it to the beginner.	2002-12-29
US	52596864	R1RO3BL9PI0M3A	1879402297	369856442	The Qur'an: A Translation	Books	3	72	129	N	Y	Interesting, Informative, Necessary to know WHY!	After the constant ruckus with terrorist I decided to read the Qur'an for the simple reason that Sun Tzu taught in his Art of War writings...that we should \\"know our enemy,\\" So I jumped into Abdullah Yusuf Ali's translation of the Qur'an... <br />I realized after reading other introductory books that it is likely that Islam would not consider any English translation of the Qur'an a true indication of its original meaning. But it is close and the best we mere mortals can do. After reading this version of the Qur'an, it is clear that the whole world is to come under the purview of God or Allah! In Islamic terminology God is simply called Allah.<BR> <BR>I also believe that the Qur'an actually charges Muslims to fight against any and all who pervert their religion from within, such as Osama Bin Laden and the terrorist of 9-11. Muslims who believe otherwise have been misdirected and mislead due to ignorance, illiteracy and oppressive leadership.<br />Yes, the Qur'an teaches not to trust the West but it also condemns without question the terrorist activities of Osama bin Laden. As Bernard Lewis says, \\"there is no precedent or authority in Islam\\" for 9-11. <br />I have been fascinated by the similarities in all religions and I am also equally distressed at the conflicts that develop between various sects, denominations and major beliefs systems in the world. They are all basically saying the same thing. It just gets said in different ways and from a slightly different perspective. Then some jerk says, \\"my way is the only way and all hell breaks loose.\\"<br />Even though they are all trying to achieve the same thing, \\"oneness with, mercy from...and communion with God.\\" No matter what a religion calls its Deity, the bottom line is that they are all referring to God. Islam and other religions are no different. Allah is God, Jehovah is God, Jesus is God, the great \\"I Am\\" is God and on and on... <br />In reading this version of the Qur'an as translation by Abdullah Yusuf Ali. Inoticed that you wind up with religious rhetoric similar in speech to almost all other religions. Be good, do no harm, but stand up for your belief, and practice brotherly love, relief and truth in all things.<br />Do all that you have promised to do, and do not encroach upon another person or their property.  The same basic principles exist in them all. Here are ten common founding principles:<br />1. GOD IS, WAS and always WILL BE<BR>2. God had a hand in creating all things<BR>3. God controls all things to a certain degree and sent messengers to guide and change us for the better. <BR>4. God has rules and requires obedience<BR>5. Human beings are unable to control their worst desires, and like water, will seek the lowest most base activities possible without God's influence<BR>6. God judges all, the good and the bad<BR>7. God will ultimately reward the good and punish the wicked<BR>8. God will forgive a repentant soul, but not a lying hypocrite<BR>9. We should remain faithful, punish deviance, and provide brotherly love, relief and truth to those who follow his teachings and/or repent.<BR>10.To sum this all up in all religions \\"It is best for mankind to believe in and obey God and his messengers and do not turn away from him.\\" All religions that seek God carry these basic tenants, all of them. <br />I have not found one that says you cannot have civilization, industry and modernization or that you cannot have healthy and wholesome, movies, parks and skyscrapers, freedoms, liberties and comfort. <br />They do say...do not become deviant, greedy or corrupt, gluttonous, decadent, murderous, materialistic, hedonistic, or licentious. In short restraint is the better path and liberal excessiveness and progressive physical self-gratification as practiced today in many quarters in the West, with their sinful nature, is evil and wrong... <br />An interesting and informative read, I highly recommend...	2002-08-03
US	52596864	R3MLMUJ6WL003R	0446672289	231487583	The Death of Common Sense: How Law is Suffocating America	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Interesting, disturbing, and frustrating.	The atmosphere in America has changed. \\"Americans feel on a daily basis that their society is falling apart, that things aren't working right.\\" Mr. Howard is exactly right. <br />Although Mr. Trafficant who was...expelled from Congress may actually be guilty of the charges alleged of him. His comments about how the American people view and fear their government, the judicial system and the various organizations that solidify the awesome and terrifying power of the political machines in American, are in large part true. <br />This is not because all those entities could not work if filled with virtuous men and women as the Federalist Papers charge. But because they have been bogged down in 200 plus years of misdirection, partisanship and political corruption, the kind of corruption that seeps into any long running program, party, powerful entity or political machine.<br />We could fix this degradation in our national political process by moving back onto a better path. But influential people today have, as Mr. Richard Maybury says in his excellent \\"Uncle Eric\\" series of books, on government and finances, lost their mental, emotional and political view of the true and best \\"American model\\" for our nation politically, socially, morally and judiciously. <br />All it would take to fix this would be the will of the people united in a common cause to once again \\"create that more perfect union,\\" or MODEL spoken of in the Preamble to our Constitution. It could be done, it should be done, but the question is do we have the will to make it come to pass? One draw back to excessive diversity is a lack of cohesiveness on the important issues that face our nation and the world. <br />It is astounding that the summation of all the laws ever written since it's creation are already contained in the precepts, principles, and guidance given and envisioned within the Preamble to the Constitution, and the Articles and the Amendments that go with it. It is such a shame that nations tend to legislate and opinionate themselves into nonexistence. Even when they have it right, they seem to need to interfere and make things worse.<br />Mr. Howard has done all of us a great service by producing this book and it is unfortunate that it has not received the prominence and accolades it is due, a great read...	2002-07-28
US	52596864	R18JRWH6RMZUYP	0942617207	379649328	"Uncle Eric" Talks About Personal, Career and Financial Security (An "Uncle Eric" Book)	Books	3	36	39	N	Y	Maybury plants the seed of curiosity and makes you want more	Do not confuse the 3 star rating with a negative evaluation. Quite the opposite is true. However when reading a series like this one must put them all into perspective. <br />I thouroughly enjoyed this book. It was just too short, it was overpriced for the length of the text and it is simply the tip of a much larger iceburg of political, social and historical thought that makes you close it saying \\"is that all there is, I want more, give me MORE!\\" Very well done actually, because it draws you into the other eight books in the series, and if you do not have them I highly recommend getting them all before you start.<br />I began by reading Mr. Maybury's \\"Are you Liberal or Conservative, or just confused?\\" Which I rated at five stars and was instantly hooked. I ordered the rest of the collection (the other eight) in one batch so as to get them all together so I could get started reading them in his recommended sequence as soon as possible. <br />This book however was no more than an hour read or so and left me starving and anxious to get into the rest of the soup.<br />His books are actualy fun to read and easily pull you into the world of \\"Uncle Eric.\\" His considerable talents to educate, fasincate and bring the subject down to a desktop level of understanding, helping you to contemplate what was, what is and what should be in poltics, the economy, morality, education, justice and many other subjects is refreshing.<br />I have since moved on to \\"What ever happened to penny candy?\\" and am just as captivated by it as the last two. This first book sets the basic foundation for all his others, which is that there are models out there that we each react to. Regardless if it is moral, social, poltical, educational, family life, community standards and the like. There are good ones and there are bad ones. There are historically proven models and there are new age individuals who want to tear many of the existing models down and rebuild them sort of speak in their own image or opinion of how things should be. This can be good or it can be devistating on our citizenry and our children. So it is vitally important to understand models in general and to create beneficial models for ourselves and society. Needless to say we are not doing very well in many areas, but fair in others. <br />In any case this is the starting line and the finish line is eight books away. I highly recommend Mr. Maybury's books for anyone from any background, persuasion and/or political party. If nothing else they make you think. Aristotle said, or was it Socrates? In any case one of them said, \\"an unexamined life is not worth living,\\" so read these books and ponder his simple assertions against your own beleifs and ideals.  <br />I understand he is writing more books along this same line about the world Wars and such, for our future enjoyment, I will more than likely order them as well.<br />A great series to read and enjoy. Good job Mr. Maybury.	2002-07-28
US	52596864	RZX1YFPSATCCX	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	1	1	N	N	John and Abigail-The truest of American Patriots and Heros.	Being an avid reader and small time collector of books like Mr. Adams and Mr. Jefferson myself, I have had a copy of John Adams and the American Revolution by Catherine Drinker Bowen 1950, which covered John Adams in his youth, and up to and through the Revolution, on my shelf for years. I had not taken the time to pull it down in all these years until I recently ordered and finished John Adams in this earliest incantation by David McCollough. <br />Mr. McCollough has done a superb job and I have to commend him. Immediately upon finishing his book on the later part of Mr. Adams life, I pulled that old copy down and began digesting it as well, to learn about his early life and developmental influences.<br />After finishing this newest gripping yet lengthy book, one, which seemed to call me back each time I put it down, to continue on. I had to take a few days to contemplate the wealth of knowledge, information and wisdom contained therein. The honor and respect the author has given to Mr. and Mrs. Adams is simply superb. John Adams was one of the greatest men to live and Abigail perhaps the greatest founding woman. <br />As much as I love doing these reviews I felt completely incompetent to do justice to this wonderful work of art. I cannot give the author enough credit for a job well done. I have to say that Mr. Adams is perhaps the most relevant and amazing patriot of all time. I could not help but try to put to poetry how I felt, although badly I suppose, upon finishing this book. Here goes...\\"I believe that we shall never see...a patriot quite as great as he.\\" Ha, ha.<br />I have to say that Mr. Jefferson was a disappointment in this book. But that may be simply because the author did a wonderful job of pulling you into life with Mr. Adams. His struggles, accomplishments, sacrifices and tribulations were marvelously portrayed. Much like a well-trained or very talented actor can do on the big screen when given that special part. Like Bruce Willis in the Die Hard Series, he was made for the part. <br />I am sure that if a book as comprehensive as this one was written on Jefferson, Madison, Washington and a few others they would relieve some of the distress or tarnishing of a few reputations created by this book. <br />In any case John Adams and Abigail Adams have moved to the head of the line of my American Heroes chart. Not simply because of their honesty, or his man-on-the-street character, but because of their dedication to God, country, community, family, each other and self, which is inculcated and backed up in these pages. Their willingness to sacrifice nearly every hope for peace, joy, contentment and togetherness for their country and something greater than themselves is just overwhelming. I dare say no other surviving founders gave so much for so long as did the Honorable John Adams. <br />None have impressed me with such inspiration, fortitude, long suffering and loyalty as these two American icons. If only our children and the Supreme Court Justices for that matter, cared as much about knowing them and honorable/virtuous citizenship laws as they do about Michael Jackson and Madonna our nation would not be hanging on the edge of social, moral, political and judicial chaos and despair. <br />I will never again look as fondly as I have in the past on Thomas Jefferson who appears to come off as an insufferable jerk in this book. If only half of what is written here is true, I may still cheer him for his profound intellect in political philosophical matters and rhetorical writing about what constitutes good government. But in his personal dealings with others, his character and his loyalty to family and friends, I will always hereafter find him a scoundrel, a failure and a back-stabber. <br />John and Abigail Adams should be heralded before all others as the most patriotic, sacrificing and loyal Americans ever to grace our little part of the world, and Mr. McCullough brings that experience to life for us. Their unequaled sacrifice cannot be duplicated by any since, past or present. They should be the leading example of patriotism, citizenship, statesmanship and service to others, for each and every person entering into politics. <br />A wonderful book, a great read and an inspiring legacy. Good job sir...	2002-07-18
US	52596864	R35YFD47XFIMDI	0895261537	698227269	What's So Great About America	Books	5	14	19	N	Y	Honest look at America's faults and strengths by a wise man.	After watching an interview of Mr. D'Souza a few days ago. I was so impressed with his answer, presentation and his intellectual prowess that I put aside my copy of John Adams and my edition of the \\"Qur'an\\", a translation by Abdullah Yusuf Ali and picked up his book. I started the Ali translation because as a fan of Sun Tzu I wanted to know the enemy who wanted to make war on my country and me as well. <br />After watching this interview and the unique outlook that Mr. D'Souza brought to the issue of America and its foreign and domestic enemies I picked up \\"What's so great about America.\\" I must say that I was pleasantly surprised by the time I finished. That I could finish it in only two days meant that it was gripping and an easy and interesting read.<br />What an amazing, rational and reasoned view of America from a past, present and futuristic position. Mr. D'Souza holds a mirror up to all of us from both an outside and an inside perspective and makes us see some unpleasant truths, yet shows us the silver lining as well.<br />Unfortunately most Americans cannot even imagine what we here in this great country look like to the rest of the world. Unless of coarse one has traveled, it is difficult to judge the bounty, in comparison to so many we all, I say again WE ALL, black, red, yellow, white and other, have here in America. Being a military career retiree I have been blessed with that unique opportunity to see the world and develop a healthy respect, admiration and love of country which Mr. D'Souza speaks of. I think that graduation from high school should include a weeklong survival trip to a third world country to open the eyes of our young people. <br />Mr. D'Souza has a decidedly unique perspective on so many issues that face us in the global arena today. It is sad that our TV talk shows host and Newspaper editors have lost this talent for true unbiased reporting and his simple honesty on so many issues.  It is just impossible for the Chris Matthews and BillO'Reilly's of the world to address these issues as candidly and honestly as Mr. D'Souza seems to do.<br />Of course the most refreshing part of this book was that Mr. D'souza was not flaunting any political or particular ideology like most of us do. He was truly being fair and balanced, applauding and condemning both sides equally I think.<br />This impressive \\"tell it like it was and is\\" book at first made me a little squeamish, nearly putting it down and going back to my previous reads after the first 10 pages or so. That was because I probably had the same reaction most people do after reading the first chapter. I started to think hey, this guy is just knocking America and is nothing more than an advertising agent for Osama Bin Laden or some other Middle Eastern anti-American wacko and hate monger. Who does he think he is!<br />But I stuck it out and read a little further and then realized with humble reevaluation that he was right in all that he was saying. It was my own ego and personal pride that had flared up in premature indignation at being called so many bad things, which were simply his relaying of what was in the minds of some of those on the outside looking in.<br />I realized after a little more self-critical evaluation as a member of a larger society, and after putting my temper on hold. That what he was saying was true down to the last point. We are a representation of those sinful, deviant, hedonistic and disgusting things, in some parts of our culture, like Hollywood and the film Industries, the Porn Industries and various other institutions, which other cultures see when they evaluate America. Even if we as individuals, families and/or communities do not participate in those degrading acts or industries, it is a part of the American culture and that is what the Islamic and Muslim societies find disgusting and intolerable. In a sense they hate today's excessive liberalism and unethical progressiveness, which seems to have no more of a moral compass than a rabbit or a bunch of Gardner snakes.  <br />But what Mr. D'Souza finally begins to make clear is that this is the tendency others have to only see the tarnished brass and pewter fixtures of our society and by doing so ignore the silver and gold that ornaments the American people and many of our institutions as well.<br />There are still plenty of Tocqueville worthy individuals and communities left our there to respect and 9-11 also proved that there is a grand and good spirit in America that rest just beneath the surface in great and vast numbers, just like the Fremen' in the movie \\"DUNE\\". We are better in so many areas than most think and we should not be ashamed of it. <br />If I had been advising Mr. D'Souza however, I would have recommended his last statement be a saying from John Steuart Mill, which would have fit our post 9-11 character beautifully.<br />Slightly modified for the 21st century, it goes like this, \\"War is an ugly thing but not the ugliest of things; the decayed and degraded state of moral and patriotic feelings, which thinks that nothing is worth fighting for is much worse. A citizen who has nothing for which he/she is willing to fight, nothing they care about more than their personal safety, are miserable creatures who has no chance of being free...unless made and kept so by the exertions of better beings than themselves.\\"<br />It would have fit his premise perfectly that America is worth supporting, defending, cherishing and being proud of. Great job Mr. D'Souza and I promise not to say, \\"I am also writing a book\\" if I ever get the honor to meet you...	2002-07-09
US	52596864	R3PWKO7GQ74RMT	1400046610	957571830	Slander: Liberal Lies About the American Right	Books	5	34	56	N	Y	The nemesis of the left and new standardbearer of the right!	Bill O'Reilly began the hunt for truth by asking elementary and tough questions of the filthy rich, overpaid, left leaning elitist in the News Media and entertainment industries.<br />Bernard Goldberg then exposed the middle-school truths about the corruptly biased superstructure of the media and so-called mainstream newsroom anchorpersons and the manipulators of information.<br />Now Ann Coulter puts faces to actions and throws on the finishing touches to the disgustingly open, manipulative and blatant hypocrisies, hate and camouflaged anti-conservative rhetoric of those who falsely profess to be liberal, independent, moderate and/or centrist. <br />The other day I had the good fortune to watch several interviews between Ann Coulter and a number of clearly liberal and bias talk show hosts and interviewers. The fireworks were magnificent and I could not for the life of me initially understand why all these people who normally hoodwink the American audience with their fake composure, self-control and false sophistication seemed to be so animistic towards her.<br />So, after she beat James Carville down to parade rest for being an interrupting overbearing fool and offensive slob on crossfire. I decide to get into her book, which I had ordered through Amazon.com, immediately received and placed on my shelf for future attention.<br />Fifteen pages into it, I found the answer I was looking for. It was staring me right in the face and continued throughout the book. The reason these people, who have been so grossly overpaid with their six, seven and in some cases idiotic eight figure salaries, were so upset when Ann when she comes onto their shows. Is because she just out classes them so profoundly that they are intimidated. She is so intellectually and educationally beyond their level of competence that they cannot possibly debate, dispute, counter or contradict any of her well-founded assertions. So they simply hate her. They find that they are so far below and out of her class that it drives them nuts. <br />Mr. Spock once made an observation on the original Star Trek that a newly discovered alien species was so far evolved above humans...that the only appropriate comparison would be human evolution above that of the amoebae.<br />This analogy works perfectly for where Ann Coulter is above these liberal spinners of the news. These, manipulative, intolerant liberal, egotistical charlatans on ABC, NBC and CBS like Ted Koppel, Katie Couric, Dan Rather, Tim Russert, Chris Matthews, Bryant Gumbel, Diane Sawyer, Connie Chung, Mat Lauer and others are simply unable to hold a candle to her in an honest, courteous and professional debate.  As she so aptly says, \\"it is a stunning reflection on the left's monopoly of the news that an opinionated, partisan talk radio host is more accurate than television news programs.\\"<br />They will try anything to catch her in a way that will allow them to show her up, humiliate her or catch her in a too hastily thought out response to leading or nonsequitur questions. They fail miserably because she is right. They have no basis from which to debate, but to attempt character assassination, word confusion and false innuendoes.<br />The wonderful and challenging verbiage, candidness, interwoven humor and sagacity of this book strikes a note of understanding, of just how this uneven match up would irk these inept liberal interviewers. Only fifteen pages into the book and you realize these misfits, who have helped to dumb down our children and our nation themselves are simply put, dumb compared to the likes of Ms. Coulter.<br />Even I, who prided myself on a rather vast vocabulary, believing as one of our past Presidents, that one should learn and use a new word every day, could not readily keep up with her. I found that I had to place a dictionary and thesaurus next to me while reading to keep from skipping an unfamiliar word. An act I swore I would never do as a child.<br />If nothing else Ann has made manyof us aware of our incompetent lack of mastery of the English language. Could this be the lefts negative influence on our public schools, when they care more about outlawing prayer, God or the Pledge of Allegiance and more about teaching the forced acceptance of deviant homosexual conduct...than actually educating us? <br />The unquestionable command of the English language Ann uses no doubt causes liberals to scamper for their dictionaries and more than likely irks them to no end. This book has placed her head and shoulders above the everyday anchorperson, interviewer and talk show host.<br />I also appreciated the wonderful opportunity she gives us to highlight the good guys from the bad because unlike Bernard Goldberg. She puts the names there of the good, the bad and the hypocritical in plain sight for you to circle, highlight and/or underline for future references. <br />I once watched Katrina Vanden Heuvel speak at a Democratic Fund Raiser where she just raked conservatives over the verbal rhetorical partisan coals and called them things I did not think appropriate in public discourse and I thought to myself, my, what a neo-leftist fanatically liberal hate-monger she was.<br />Well I think she has finally met her match from the conservative side in Ann Coulter although I must add, Ann fights back superbly and does it with much more style and class. So bring on the titans of the left and the right, \\"We the People\\" are sitting in the gallery watching this spectacle unfold.<br />A terrific book, great read and an honest evaluation and no holds barred open exposure of her opponents. This book should be the required main course after Bernard Goldberg's initial appetizer. It exposes the liberal bias run amuck in our society, which produces not one but two idiot Judges who can ban the Pledge of Allegiance merely over the term \\"under God\\"...	2002-06-28
US	52596864	R3AJG5YZMF1VYA	0942617231	323663211	Are You Liberal? Conservative? or Confused? (An "Uncle Eric" Book)	Books	4	53	79	N	Y	Interesting, thought provoking, not infalible...but fun	I agree with Mr. Maybury's assessment of the situation we find ourselves in today in America. I particularly enjoyed finding that he agreed with both Patrick Henry and James Madison and that they both gave an accurate prediction about the upcoming problems, downfalls and failings of an ever-mutating Federalist mentality that is ripping the heart out of our founding principles. It killed the true goal of our founders, which was to allow states and communities to remain diverse, different and unique and economically and socially controlled by the people who lived in them. If you did not agree socially or politically with one community and/or state you could move to another and live comfortably knowing you would be around others with similar beliefs, opinions and characteristic. <br />In other words they did not want us to become exact mental, emotional and social clones or mere automatons of a Federal Government \\"1984\\" mentality run amuck. People like Earl Warren and Warren Burger succeeded in putting us on that destructive hedonistic and anti-American coarse by hijacking the judiciary.<br />Local control as Patrick Henry and Thomas Paine advocated, would undeniably put the decision making process in the hands of the voters and real-democracy at the lowest levels, they did not believe in Stare Decisis which kills a true ever-changing democracy. They wanted the \\"one person one vote\\" majority-rule concept to flourish on a local level, instead of having a federal government, which steals that basic right, concept and liberty at every opportunity by manipulating entities at every level and corrupting the courts.  <br />Certainly government at the federal level was and still is necessary for some very basic issues, like those identified in the Preamble to the Constitution for instance, but never at the level it is at today. <br />It all comes back to that corrupting influence of power. I found it strange that he did not speak of term-limits as a counterbalancing protectionfor his Juris Naturalis ideology, the only real protection to saved us from the decline in founding principles as society grew, matured, evolved and became corrupted. A corruption that transformed the philosophy of the people, by the people, and for the people; to one of me, we, our party and an \\"our cause only mentality.\\"  <br />As much as I enjoyed his wit, humor, intelligent discourse and insight, which will undoubtedly cause me to read the rest of his books, which I highly recommend as a Middle School introduction to all his subjects, I could not possibly agree with all his teachings, opinions and/or assertions. Perhaps it is just that in his attempt to cover so many bases he seemed to have numerous contradictory comments that makes one stop and say wait a minute that is just not true. <br />For instance he asked, \\"has anyone ever suggested to you that government may not be necessary?\\"  That is a foolish question today, of coarse it is. <br />He also asserts for instance that the right wants to stamp out sin and the left wants to stamp out inequality of wealth. These are interesting assertions but facades and falsehoods and assumptions that have no real basis. Those comments could be just as easily phrased like this, \\"the right wants to make people merit conscious and responsible for their actions by teaching morality and the left wants to rob from those who work to give to those who don't. Both of these statements would be equally as true, but give a completely different impression to the reader.<br />How can the left be said to believe in stamping out the inequality of wealth when so many of them, and I do mean, many of them, are filthy rich and getting richer every day at the expense of the poor and middle class in America. They are in fact the arrogant Aristocracy of the western civilization so hated by the Middle East. It is not our government or our true American values and culture that the Middle Easterners hate so much, but the liberal rich people and their hedonistic tendencies, policies and activities that irk them so much. When someone asks why Islam hates America it is simply because of liberal ideologies, policies and programs. It is as simple as that. <br />When I see Ted Turner, Hillary Clinton, Bill Clinton, Barbara Streisand, Dianne Feinstein, Ted Kennedy, Steven Speilberg, Hugh Hefner and several thousand other left-wing liberal icons give away their millions and/or billions and live on what I make, I will change my opinion of the left. But for today I disagree with Mr. Maybury's assertion about the goal of liberals, wanting to fix any inequalities, they create them.<br />They want power and the ability to oppress others at any cost and sit in their Eiffel towers dictating socialistic and hedonistic principle and rules of conduct on the rest of us peons. In others words I believe his definition of \\"Fascist\\" more aptly fits the modern day liberal than the word \\"liberal\\" does, and I would put fascist at the far left end of his scale rather than the right end, but hey it is his book.  <br />There are many other inconsistencies of thought and assertion in his writings, but nothing significant enough to recommend skipping this truly enjoyable book. I have ordered and will most certainly read all the others as well, but with a critical eye. I truly enjoyed his work, with only minimal reservations, because I do read everything with the critical eye he instructs his readers to use.<br />As a series of books for beginners in politics, social issues and economic studies I can stand by the four star rating and highly recommend his thought provoking comments to those from all political persuasions. After reading this book I would have to classify myself as a Nationalistic Juris Naturalis of the Original \\"Classical Liberal\\" Judeo-Christian Founding Fathers Persuasion. Wow, what a mouthfull. Where are you in the mix? <br />982 Words	2002-06-23
US	52596864	R3C62IUYV8ZCVV	189355404X	158845917	Creating Equal: My Fight Against Race Preferences	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	A man of honor, duty, country; philosopher, leader, Patriot!	Ward Connerly is continuing the quest and the dream of his Uncle James. A man who knew that it took sacrifice, tenacity and perseverance to reach any goal.<br />Ward's Uncle James also knew that sometimes it takes the ultimate sacrifice by one generation or even two or three to provide that golden opportunity, which America offers to those who know the prize that waits at the end of that long road of trial and tribulation. The prize that can and does wait for the next generation, or the next, or the next of every American who can still dream.<br />This is a realization lost at most levels of government and social activism today, but not by average Americans and those special immagrants who flock to our shores  and our boarders\\"legally.\\" <br />Ward was able to more easily live and fulfill the American Dream, for himself and his family due primarily to the efforts of his Uncle and others like him.<br />In this book and in this ground breaking and rediscovered ideology and philosophy from our founding past, within the minority community, Ward elevates himself to equal status with many great historical figures of our past like Patrick henry, Booker T. Washington, Abraham Lincoln and Martin Luther King Jr.<br />In addition he joins ranks with the likes of Colin Powell, Condoleezza Rice, JC Watts, Clarence Thomas and so many others over the past 200 years. In short those who refuse to claim victim-hood but who rather claim full and equal citizenship. They do not hate America, they love it, and search for the brass ring wherever it may present itself, not just at the top of the economic ladder.<br />These giants of the minority community looked at the timidity of those around them, who knew a wrong was being ignored, allowed, permitted and yes even encouraged by segments of society and decided to stand on their own two feet. They bravely turned away from the spiritually, morally, professionally and civilly deficiencies of the victicrates of the modern civil rights movementand took a courageous and decisive stand against them.<br />They claimed full citizenship and full responsiblity for their own destinies and actions and thereby took their place among the great Americans of our time.<br />In defiance of the thought police, the status quo, political correctness and reverse discrimination. Mr. Connerly led a crusade to battle racism, quotas, preferences and anti-American social corruption, which had seeped into the very fabric of the American education system, mainstream thought, politics and high-society.<br />As more and more Americans now turn away from the belittling hypocrisies and bigotry of the progressive movement in this area of preferences that claims eternal victim-hood. Ward Connerly needs to be recognized and remembered for his Paul Revere like gallop across the Aemrica scene exposing the degenerative affects upon our country and our freedoms and liberties by this now mutated, oppressive and ineffective force called quotas and preferences. <br />Creating Equal is an inspiring book, about a family with a commendable and praiseworthy past who chose the path of honor, duty and country. It is a book about a true American Hero who had \\"True Grit,\\" who has definitely joined my list of highly respected American authors.<br />A book with a revelation for the future and those not so reasoned, rational and patriotic, those minority icons stuck in the past and filled with vengeance, greed and hate. A great read.	2002-05-10
US	52596864	R3GN5E8N5XLESV	1585004200	190641744	The Mindset of a Martial Artist	Books	4	2	4	N	N	An excellent first introduction, to any Martial Art Form	Before I begin let me first and foremost impart that there are so many holistic (facets) aspects of martial arts training that to speak only of one is to stray down a path that is counterproductive in and of itself. Martial arts is a combination of a multitude of mental, physical, emotional and spiritual factors that must be seen from a Gods-eye view to be accurately appreciated.<br />Because of this, I would venture to say that even an ineffectual system, which does not actually prepare a student for \\"mortal combat,\\" but which teaches them other aspects of the craft as it were. Is better than no system at all or not having become involved in martial arts period.  <br />By that I mean the respect it inculcates, the discipline it enforces, the camaraderie it teaches along with team work, self-control, confidence, honor, and its requirement for physical exercise and sacrifice is well worth the negative aspects it may also offer.<br />In defense of rote learning and repetition of techniques used in many facilities, they have their important function. Even though I do not believe that Mr. Clerc was totally against them in his book, he only meant that they are not the sum total or epitome of martial arts training or even the most important part for that matter. Mental acuity, flexibility, adaptability, fluidness, counter movement and much more are far more critical in self-defense, than merely learning a set of static movements, as he implies.<br />They (forms) do however allow, for the strengthening and toning of muscles needed to master the other skills and they tend to assist in the underlying development of so many other aspects of the martial artist, such as concentration, endurance, balance, breathing, resistance, stamina, power and others. Try as a beginning student in martial arts to hold a forward lunge punch position for five minutes for instance. The beginner will be lucky to endure 25 seconds of such exertion and muscle strain. So they do have a very important purpose. However Mr. Clerc is correct that they are merely the tip (visible portion) of the massive iceberg that is the serious study and training of marital arts <br />If the art being taught is worth anything at all, it will, on top of all else, teach the student how to avoid confrontation, especially if they are not as good as they think they are, but even more so, if they are that good. For any martial art that creates bullies or ultra-ego offensive showoffs, due to belt colors or rank, as I have seen many do. Has violated its first and foremost duty and failed to teach its student anything of value. <br />It is true that, regardless of what anyone else may say \\"the greatest martial artist of all...is the one who never has to use his skills.\\" So learning to bend with the flexibility of the young oak sapling rather than standing ridged like the might oak must also include lessons in using this vast martial arts knowledge in avoiding confrontation as well. It is much like defensive driving where you watch the road five hundred yards in front of you constantly. This is the first and foremost principle of the true martial artist. Knowing that you have the skill to defend yourself as a last resort, but using all your training, cunning and \\"reading of the situation and your potential attackers,\\" to counter with wisdom, humility, intelligence and counter-activity any potential threats, before resorting to violence towards another.  <BR> <BR>That being said, I have also often contemplated the same difficulties as Mr. Clerc in evaluating the modern martial-art trends particularly here in America. From Karate to Taekwondo the Americanization of the martial arts has as Mr. Clerc indicates. Become nothing more than assembly lines of unearned advancements through a wide variety of colored belts to a \\"Peter Principle\\" position of incompetence. Read the book you will certainly agree. <br />Unfortunately, and it pains me to say this, as one who has been inside the beltway sort of speak, the new systems are designed along the lines of \\"a pyramid scheme.\\" Designed to give an instructor or group of individuals first a business of his own, then money in the bank and also prestige that is often times not deserved, in the overall scope of actually teaching students to be capable of defending themselves in real world situations. <br />There has been a regressive process going on for years, a watered down of the ancient and esteemed philosophy of martial arts. It seems to be an American tendency, to accept a cheapened version of everything, to save a buck or a minute's time or the exertion needed to truly achieve ones goal or earn its accompanying respect.<BR> <BR>The Americanization of the martial arts has lowered the bar so that in almost every activity less than qualified individuals will have an opportunity to succeed even when not ready.  They are allowed to participate in various activities, without having to truly earn the right through hard work, self-discipline, dedication, sacrifice, effective training and setting the highest of goals for oneself.  We have become so time sensitive that expediency has become the driving force rather than wisdom, understanding and true ability.<br />Mr. Clerc's book would be an absolute Godsend for just about every instructor, student and program regarding martial arts to have as a required and continuous read before beginning or entering any martial arts program, as well as a continuous reading requirement during that training. <br />It should be said at this point that there are some out there who do teach and preach this philosophy and it shows in the way they work-out and the way they compete, but that appears to be the exception rather than the rule. Mr. Clerc's view is a valuable tool to consider in evaluating the present historical position and the future of martial arts training.	2002-04-27
US	52596864	R2UA4HFUE3H8OK	0761534040	897968670	The New Thought Police: Inside the Left's Assault on Free Speech and Free Minds	Books	5	8	11	N	Y	Bruce relights pilot-light for mutual respect & civil debate	It is a rare thing indeed, when a book from a member of the other side of the political spectrum comes along that can inspire and/or move a compassionate conservative like myself. Bernard Goldberg's book \\"Bias\\" was such a book.<br />The \\"New Thought Police\\" by Tammy Bruce did it again and I believe it has an invaluable message for both sides. It is a bridge between two worlds that have been at each other's throats with the fanaticism of Yasser Arafat and Ariel Sharon since Bill Clinton came into office. <br />Bruce is an individual with whom I have little common ground on the social, political, moral or ethical issue today. However I am duly impressed with her as a rational, thinking, and compassionate human being, and I enjoy her intellectual prowess, unlike the viscerally inclined from the left wing \\"thought police\\".<br />With her there is at least hope for a brighter day and a mutually respectful coexistence. A great read, hope to see a second edition.	2002-04-24
US	52596864	RDCM97RNV64UL	031226660X	19959884	The Ten Things You Can't Say in America	Books	3	12	21	N	Y	Elder makes good points, I'd fire the editor	Ten Things You Can't Say in America<br />Mr. Elder has made some very good points in his book that might interest those constant readers of the thoughts and opinions of others. However, if one is looking for a riveting read or is interested in remaining engaged and awake during an the entire book. I would suggest \\"Bias\\" by Bernard Goldberg, \\"The Final Days\\" by Barbara Olsen, \\"America's Real War\\" by Rabbi Daniel Lapin, \\"The Conservative Mind\\" by Russell Kirk, \\"Uncivil Wars\\" by David Horowitz and the Bill O'Reilly books before this one.<br />Larry Elder is much better on the TV and Radio than in this book and it may be that he gets his information and answer across more efficiently in that forum. In trying to make this a 300 plus page book, he failed to do three things. First he failed to make it flow from one sentence to the next, or from paragraph to paragraph and from one chapter to the next. It simply does not flow, which I have decided must be a sign of bad publicists and/or editors. He definitely did not get anyone as capable and professional as those listed above did. <br />This could easily have been a 100 to 150 page book and much more interesting and engaging. It would certainly have been a much more reader friendly adventure than it was. Like I said some very good points. But they were drowned out by superfluous diatribe and never ending point making by using only two or three sources that became annoying in the long run, as it appeared that his whole book was based not on a wealth of research, but on just one mans opinions, Mr. John Lott. The book also unfortunately shifts with each paragraph form one subject to another entirely unassociated topic.   <br />Second the spelling, word use and phrase construction was atrocious throughout the book, at times to a point where the statements do not even make sense. Certainly I am no better but I do not have a publishing staff behind me either. I would say if he had proofreaders...fire them...and if he ever writesanother book, don't hire the same ones or he will fail again.<BR> <br />Finally Larry is correct on so many issues, bad schools, crime, guns, taxes, social security, racism, health-care, unemployment and illegitimacy. But he is dead wrong about drugs, smoking, governance and abortion. Yes a lack of individual responsibility has always been the modern day gargantuan failure of the liberal and progressive movements, but libertarians do not have the answers that our nation needs. What is needed is a conservative Supreme Court who will strictly interpret the Constitution and  bring back a sense that morality and virtue are acceptable, prefered and constitutional and we would see a huge turn around.<br />Encouraging minorities and lower income people to \\"marry the government\\" as Larry indicates is a form of continued slavery pure and simple, but we have always known these things and Larry does not make any profound statements or suggestions about them, he just revisits the facts over and over again. <br />He failed to address the moral decline in America and the deviance of the rich and infamous as a major problem in our nation, a very bad oversight in the opinion of many. <br />The most impressive chapter however was the one on taxes and just how simple it is for the Democrats and special interest icons, to manipulate so many simple-minded voters, who continue to elect liberals to office. The lazy, gutless and deviant among us are so easily conned into swallowing this redistribution of wealth insanity, hook, line and sinker that it is a compliment to call them imbecilic.   <br />This is a good informative book and a valuable source for statistics, polls and opinions. However the format leaves so much to be desired that it is no wonder that Mr. Elder did not enjoy the notoriety and praise for it that the others received for theirs. It simply gets bogged down in almost every chapter and puts the reader to sleep. <br />Not a three star due to Elder but due to shoddy publishing, editing and proofreading. Enjoyed struggling though it for the piecemeal bits of good info, but it is not on my top ten best books to read.  <br />670 Words, Jim Ledbetter,	2002-04-08
US	52596864	R2DWRYVDEK2IQ9	1893554449	265628111	Uncivil Wars: The Controversy  Over Reparations for Slavery	Books	5	9	15	N	Y	Valuable insight into the continued slavery of minorities	Mr. Horowitz will always be ridiculed and verbally assaulted by those who do not deserve to judge him for telling the truth. It would appear that honesty, integrity and truth for some has become a thing of the distant past. <br />Mr. Randall's rhetoric is an example of today's twisted social out of control world, of radicalized victimization, where anyone who has a beef with the way their life has panned out, can claim special status and receive the fruit of others labor. But more importantly the absolute hate of successful minoirty members who cannot come to appreciate the blessings God has given them in America. They simply hate everyone not of their own race for hates sake. In effect becoming that which they write about. It has become fashionable and appropriate to simply forget the real purpose of that struggle for true freedom and equality our founders engaged in.<br />Today it is fashionable to accept being ignorant of the truth, uneducated in fact, and compliant with the claims of the victim police. Nothing could be further from the truth. The self-appointed and manipulative bigots who thrive on racial and gender strife have brainwashed the minority, soon to be majority, communities in this country. <br />Yet the only enemy the black man or the free women face in the 21st century are the inner prejudices held by themselves towards those who have helped them. <br />In spite of these individuals David Horowitz is a breath of true Americanism and \\"common sense\\". Once again an \\"age of enlightenment\\" and a true unadulterated \\"age of reason\\" has raised its head, with this new book \\"Uncivil Wars,\\" all-be-it in a different form than before, upon the American scene.<br />David exposes those who childishly hide behind an even more evil racism than that of the past. It is the racism of those who have been helped out of the gutter of maltreatment, who are now trying to stuff those who assisted them into their previous position, in effect biting the hand that \\"freed\\" themsort-of-speak.<br />No, the evil that men and women now do, seems to come from the descendents, or students of those, who once fought the good fight like Martin Luther King Jr. Who have now twisted all their philosophies and good works. They have lost themselves in the name-calling and finger pointing to the point that they can no longer declare victory or move on to enjoying the simple victory of a previously noble cause. <br />They have now become the victims of their own mutated goals and have become the very thing, which they hated most. They live in a false past created by their own inconsistencies and the \\"monsters of their Ids\\".<br />That which they were originally justified in fighting for, has long ceased to exist. But they cannot relinquish their power and influence, for fear of becoming just normal Americans and average citizens.<br />Using the same tactics their oppressors once used in the distant past, they find that they just cannot give proper credit where and to whom it is properly due. The verbiage once appropriate in a just cause, is now just an ignorant rampage against anything not black or female and their continued antagonistic position is in fact beneath the dignity of the new found freedom and status they hold in the world.<br />Mr. Horowitz informs us and proves the point, that it is no longer the average or mainstream White citizen or culture that fosters hate, mistrust, prejudicial philosophies and racism anymore, but rather the fringe elements of the Black and female communities that do so.<BR> <BR>To admit to that truth, would in deed prove that we can become brothers and sisters and that these \\"hate mongers\\" are no longer needed in the 21st century.<br />If there is a heaven where honesty, integrity, humanity and true respect for equality are judged, where true liberty and freedom are evaluated by those who practiced it best. Mr. Horowitz will most certainly stand and watch those like Mr. Randall Robinson, Jesse Jackson and Barbara Leeof Berkley, being dragged off to the pits of eternal torment, for their inept bigotry and hypocrisy.<br />David Horowitz should be heralded in this world as a \\"true champion\\" of the oppressed and a genuine advocate of equality. His struggle is to give all people equality not the status of infinite victim. As with so many other books published in these trying times, this is a book for the honest, open and seeking mind.<br />True mainstream American, not the phony one portrayed by the media or Hollywood will find it enlightening and true, the others...well they will be the others...as they always are, and the hate of the far-left-wing-fanatics will remain. Hopefully Mr. Horowitz book will pull a few back to the middle and back to a reasoned, rational, honest and productive dialogue, where the future can be bright for all without the bigotry, racism and hate of the status quo from both sides. Hey, one can hope. <br />It is definitely sad and shameful, that in America when it comes to race, gender and politics, we seem to be the spitting images of the terrorist hatemongering untrustworthy Yasar Arafat and the stubborn fed up militaristic Ariel Sharon. Not a very good commentary on a nation that has accomplished so very much for so many in just 50 years or so.<br />We could be so much better than we are. Good job David...stay tuff and keep writing and sending out those ads.	2002-03-23
US	52596864	R3BC7Q5CMO66SA	0895261715	427240337	The Conservative Mind: From Burke to Eliot	Books	4	16	23	N	N	Necessary background info for the Conservative Minded	Russell Kirk has done a masterful job of presenting an in depth historical look at the foundations of \\"The Conservative Mind.\\" I read the hardback version which was a gift from a friend.<br />Of coarse as with so many other books of this length and intensity, one must take care not to nod-off, as they become engrossed in the rich philosophical treasures inculcated in it. Not because it is boring to be sure, but more so because of its' shear length and the mental necessity to take in and absorb each important word, phrase and paragraph. There is simply so much essential knowledge and awe inspiring wisdom and information presented here that one can easily overload themselves, if they try to take in too much at once. So my advice would be take your time and make this one of the long running adventures in your life, with a few smaller less intense books in between, like \\"Bias\\" or \\"The Final Days\\" for mental relaxation and vacation.<br />If the reader is like myself, they will spend a great deal of time highlighting, circling, underlining and writing comments in the margins of each and every page, making critical notes in the front and back of the book on the blank pages. This also extends the amount of time necessary to complete this magnificent book. A book that I place on par with Barbara Tuchman's, \\"The March to Folly\\" and William J. Federer's, \\"America's God and Country\\" among others.<br />One could spend many paragraphs trying to relay to others the vast amount of fascinating scholarly material within Mr. Kirk's book. But it is sufficient to say that for any student of history, the conservative movement and even one of a liberal persuasion this book is informative, enlightening and helpful in formulating philosophies, rebuttals and basic political ideals.<br />It seems terribly interesting to me, that in so many of these great philosophical works. The vast majority of societal problems we continue to encounter have been foretold and predicted by the great thinkers of the ages for centuries and even millennium, but we never seem to heed their warnings or avoid them. We just, strike out and step right onto the most negative paths possible with our eyes wide open. In short radical liberalism is incompatible with real civilization, yet we continue down the path anyway to corruption, deviance and self-induced social disintegration.<br />It is almost as if the radical or fanatic left leaning politicians and social elitist pick up these books of warning, which are so full of a prophetic wisdom. Then creep off into a cave somewhere and huddle like a bunch of \\"Lord of the Rings\\" trolls, deciding to make every error and mistake within them. In fact the platform for the lefts political parities and special interest group supporters seem to be a conscience determination not to follow the sage advise within the covers, but to take the well warn path of error and depravity.<br />An important read for one interesting in the foundations of social, political, economic and spiritual philosophy. Mr. Kirk is to be commended.of the ages for centuries and even millennium, but we never seem to heed their warnings or avoid them. We just, strike out and step right onto the most negative paths possible with our eyes wide open. In short radical liberalism is incompatible with real civilization, yet we continue down the path anyway to corruption, deviance and self-induced social disintegration. <br />It is almost as if the radical or fanatic left leaning politicians and social elitist pick up these books of warning, which are so full of a prophetic wisdom. Then creep off into a cave somewhere and huddle like a bunch of \\"Lord of the Rings\\" trolls, deciding to make every error and mistake within them. In fact the platform for the lefts political parities and special interest group supporters seem to be a conscience determination not to follow the sage advise within the covers, but to take the well warn path of error and depravity.<br />An important read for one interesting in the foundations of social, political, economic and spiritual philosophy. Mr. Kirk is to be commended.	2002-01-29
US	52596864	RE6WBB28YYEG4	0895261677	314528012	The Final Days: The Last, Desperate Abuses of Power by the Clinton White House	Books	5	24	41	N	Y	Co-presidency, co-conspirators, co-criminals fits perfectly.	The loss of Barbara Olson is a national tragedy, which will undoubtedly create a hole in the fabric of fair and balanced political debate. The scales of journalistic, commentary and literary debate that hold the left and right in balance before the American people has been offset by her loss.<br />Only the work of someone like Mrs. Olson and the honesty and openness of many of her associates from both sides of the isle will fill the void. Bernard Goldberg, David Shippers, Dick Morris, George Stephanopoulos and yes Barbara Olson are just the tip of the iceberg. Larry King was exactly right &quot;Barbara was a special lady. We will miss her.&quot;  <br />It is not necessary for most Americans to read the plethora of books from conservatives and liberals alike who were both outside and inside the Clinton administration to &quot;get the picture&quot; that this was the most corrupt, power crazed and unethical group of individuals to ever inhabit &quot;The Peoples House.&quot; I include in that group any and all who allowed themselves to look like total fools by coming out and denying in front of the cameras what they knew was the truth. That the boss was a dirty old man, a liar and corrupt to his very bones. <br />Sure every single administration in existence has had errors or mistakes and a skeleton or two in the closet that they want to remain buried.<br />But Bill and Hillary Clinton and their administrative enablers created armies of skeletons and piles of bones and half rotting corpses of political, ethical, financial and failed character errors that surpass all others.<br />Their misuse of power, office, governmental agencies, privilege, influence and the &quot;peoples trust&quot; is beyond equal and should remain a permanent example of how power and greed and lust can corrupt even the most, well intentioned. But when it comes to their rein of terror upon the American People no one in America's past, present or future will be so blatantly oblivious for the wrong they have done and the harm they have caused to this great country of ours.<br />Barbara has done a masterful job of adding to the chorus of voices and material that has exposed this blight upon the reputation of American Government. The utter failure of the Clinton's and their appointees to uphold the &quot;rule of law&quot; and the &quot;honor of the office&quot; is only equaled in treachery and ridiculousness by seeing the Senate of the United States of America. Those whom the founding fathers believed would be the true intellectual, rational and patriotic conscience of the country through thick and thin. Turn away from their sacred oaths, their duty and their most fundamental obligations to the Constitution and the founding principles of this Republic, to support, protect and defend their traitorous boss. It was simply a traitorous act to leave this criminal and his first-lady-accomplice in office. And they will never live it down as long as they live. Perhaps even after. Benedict Arnold had nothing on that completely partisan and unprofessional Democrat Senate Vote.<br />Dick Morris summed it up on page 206 when he said, &quot;the reflections...of a nations longtime heedlessness, surrender, and in many cases complicity, [towards the Clinton corruption], will be ugly. Refusing to face the Clinton [true legacy] is a national transgression from which there is, and should be, no pardon.&quot;    <br />In other words as Bill and Hillary Clinton virtually destroyed the reputation, honor and dignity of the office to which they were elected while dragging the American people, half of whom were willing disgraceful participants, into the gutter of degeneracy, disgrace, lies, abuses of power and criminal activity. We became almost as disgustingly passive and surrendering to them, as the German people were to Adolph Hitler. God forgive us all for that.<br />The only thing we can be thankful for is that they did not have aspirations of being King and Queen of the whole worldjust the United States of America. <br />If we...left, right and center, do not look at this corrupt regime for what it really was, Dick Morris' words would be completely appropriate. We will never find redemption.<br />This book is as important to the abuse of the pardon power by Bill Clinton, as David Shippers book is to the failure of the United States Senate to do it's duty, or Bill Oreilly's is to a failed media debate, and Bernard Goldberg's is to exposing the unquestioned bais in the major TV News outlets, or Willima Bennet's books are to exposing the failed character and culture of the political left.<br />Thank you Barbara for adding just one more piece to the puzzle that was American worst political failure and long running nightmare yet.	2002-01-01
US	52596864	R2K8KQOMQXVR6G	0895261901	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	5	106	149	N	Y	A revelation and a truth long, long overdue!	How will the world, the left, the right and even the so-called, but now lost...&quot;true center,&quot; respond and react to Bernard Goldberg's book &quot;Bias&quot;?&quot;<br />As with all things,&quot; as Mr. Spock would say, &quot;each according to his or her own talents and gifts,&quot; or something to that effect <br />I ordered &quot;Bias&quot; at the same time that I ordered John Adams, The No Spin Zone, The Final days and a few other books. When they arrive I place them neatly in order on my shelf and promise that I will get to them promptly. However as my pile of completed books' increases, so does unfortunately, the pile yet to be opened.   <br />For personal and obvious reasons, I moved &quot;Bias&quot; up on my list however and after a healthy dose of Bill O'Reilly, I dove into it. I admit that I did so from a conservative perspective. I make no bones about it, I am right of center, at least the real center not Dan Rathers. <br />I had long ago decided that the media was biased and left leaning, Mr. Goldberg has vendicated myself and millions of others. It was one of those just under the surface frustrations that millions of Americans feel, know and are disgusted about. However we never had the forum or the ability to prove or spread the word to others. Well, Mr. Goldberg has beautifully done so with intelligence, reason, flair, insight and simply truth. I could hear the collective sigh of relief from 100 million Americans to find, that someone has express in print what they have known for decades. Mr. Goldberg should be the next Time Magazine man of the year! Not a snowballs change because Time is just as left leaning as Dan Rather but it would be a great edition to collect. <br />I always looked at myself as leaning mostly right but knew I had a moderate eye towards most things. That comes form believing the political spectrum is not a line but a circle, go to far in either direction and you become the other side. I had that inner eye of understanding,compassion and compromise, but that has all changed now in regards to the media. I feel violated by this welcome truth and it will be hard to watch or trust these charlatans ever again in the TV newsrooms, the major magazines and the intertainment industry who are all involved in this deceiption.  <BR> <BR>I used to believe that I was in the middle and I may actually be there with millions and millions of other Americans. However Dan Rather always made our skin crawl, as did the other major anchormen and anchorwomen on CBS, NBS, ABC and a few other programs. Something did not feel right. We knew we were being pulled in a direction we did not want to go, but it was being secretly and subtly done.<br />We could sometimes find solace in CSPAN and CNN but were still feeling like outsiders looking into someone else manipulative game.<br />Then came FOX News, fair and balanced reporting, hard questions, no spin zones and people who would not bow down and kiss the feet of politicians, special interest icons nor the high powered, self-righteous egotistical hypocrites of organizations who were accustomed to having their every word obsorbed as gospel. It was grand to see them squirm. Fox has consequently become the most watched outlet in America, simply because we see both sides laid open for inspection where we can decide. No blatant or subtle left leaning manipulation by &quot;The Dan, The Tom, or the Peter&quot; anymore. Thank God.<br />As I said I thought I was in the middle, the center, the moderate position before, but after this new revelation and enlightening insight by Mr. Goldberg I realize that Dan Rather's middle is not, in the middle at all. He is, along with his cohorts falsely portraying the radical left as the middle, which pushes the normal compassionate and reasonable right way over into the far extreme right in his opinion, on the irrational progressive left wing politico-meter and thus deviously creates that vast right conspiracy. Filled with people likeyou and me who are just normal everyday American citizens.<br />An incredible tactic by Dan Rather and gang, but as Mr. Goldberg says, unprofessional, disgraceful and despicable journalism. Thus making those radical fanatics who sit in the center in his world politically correct and makes the real world, which holds most Average Americans wrong. <br />Mr. Golderg has wiped away the clouds of doubt that Dan Rather and his cronies have for decades placed between the truth and their dirtied character, and he has pulled aside the sable curtain of lies to expose the soft vulnerable biased underbellies of the major TV networks. <br />It is all summed up in one sentence in this book. &quot;The sophisticated media elite's don't categorize their beliefs as liberal but as simply the correct way to look at things. They think they're middle of the road-raging moderates-while everyone else (the people who live in the red states that Gerorge W. Bush carried) is on the fringe. It is scary to think that so many important people who bring America the news can be so delusional.&quot;<br />America has had an intuition about this for nearly forty years, but never had the facts, the information or the connections to bring it to the surface. I always called it the great liberal hypocrisy in my weekly columns and the arrogance of self-rightious profession of omnipotence by the far left. <br />Mr. Goldberg has done a masterful job of exposing the truth that we have all known and is a hero to many millions of Americans. I hope he has sent a wake up call to many, many on the left to look into the mirror and finally say maybe &quot;we are the guilty ones.&quot; Self examination as they have always told us, is good for the soul, maybe they should take their own advise. Great job Mr. Goldberg, &quot;the truth will set you free.&quot; <br />Perhaps the most refreshing, interesting and revealing book I will ever read. Finally, someone tells the truth about the media and it's utter disregard for truth, professionalism, honor and balanced reporting.	2001-12-25
US	52596864	R1GLRHW3NR8T9J	0879752734	324371027	The Age of Reason (Great Books in Philosophy)	Books	3	10	81	N	Y	Interesting if short sighted, beneath Paine's genius	I found Thomas Paine to be an interesting study on the road to a lifelong exploration of our founding fathers. It was in fact many of his ideas of governance that laid the foundation for our founding documents, at least those presented in his pamphlets &quot;Common Sense&quot; and &quot;The Rights of Man&quot;. I read the other pamphlets and decided as he did to make this my last before moving on to other greater minds.<br />Unlike most self-proclaimed scholars today who only read, study or quote the traditional 10 or 15 founders. I am fully aware that there are some 250 - 300 actual founders both men and women, who must be considered to get a true feel for the great history of the American birth.<br />Of coarse they are purposely obscured by the left to move their hedonistic agendas forward. In fact there are many other great contributors and minds listed in books like &quot;America's God and Country&quot; by William Federer. Or &quot;Original Intent&quot; by David Barton as well as &quot;Our Sacred Honor&quot; by William Bennett who lived prior to, during and after the Independence and Constitution era, who had even more profound philosophies that significantly helped to shape those 250 plus and their decendents thoughts.<br />After completing this book just one in a series of Thomas Paine Pamphlets. I realized that although most of our founding intellectuals, at least the vast majority of them, were kindred spirits in moral, ethical and ideological attitudes with my own and the vast majority of Americans. Yet there were some like Paine however, that I would have definite disagreements with, if we were to have a sit down discussion back then or even today.<br />Paine was so filled with the spirit of Independence, freedom, liberty, representative government, self-proclaimed reason and affection for his own personal idea of God, that it is very difficult at first to understand the overwhelming intolerance, self-centeredness and near psychotic hatred of the Word of God. Hate is the only word that adequately describes his view of Biblical matters, and that is perhaps why I found this book an embarrassment to his obvious intellect in other areas.<br />In all his other pamphlets I find a profound wisdom and intellectual nature. A nature that seems to drain from him, as if he had slashed his own wrist in writing this book, and let his brilliance seep out with his blood, due to his rigid and unrelenting attempt to discredit both the old and new testaments.<br />The comments on the back of the book pretty much sum up his ridiculous attack, but give the researcher a good look into the mind of some of the modern day anti-religion extremist of the liberal left thinking icons in the Democrat Party.<br />Yet I did not do what most, I assume do, as did many of the original founders when they got into his ranting and raving about time, names, events and verbiage. Which was to throw the book down and ridicule his reasoning.<br />Instead I stayed the course and remained engaged and found it and him fascinating. To see a man of such intellect on other political matters betray some of his own principles and concepts were intriguing to say the least. For instance he would marvel and preach the power, omnipotence, unquestioned ability and worthiness of praise of his vision of God. Yet in the next paragraph or chapter begin to put rules, regulations and restrictions upon that all-powerful God he had just created, because of some Biblical tale he wanted to debunk.<br />That was very odd for a man of such care in journalistic, political and intellectual acumen in previous works. In any case for the strong of heart and faith, this is still an important read to understand the history of America and our founders.<br />My faith was in fact not shaken a smidgen after finishing it. I actually found that it was even more strongly reinforced than before and after this I am pretty sure my faith will be able to withstand just about any attack. His logic is just plain flawed and only those dupted by a fanatic loyalty to Paine would be gullible enough to buy it hook, line and sinker.<br />I actually found myself slightly laughing at his onslaught as if he were a child throwing a tantrum and holding his breath in his anger &quot;until he died&quot; as many children threaten. I just waited for him to fall over faint from ranting and then start breathing again. My faith perfectly in tact and dismissing this misguided work as one giant brain fart, by an otherwise great man.just plain flawed and only those dupted by a fanatic loyalty to Paine would be gullible enough to buy it hook, line and sinker.<br />I actually found myself slightly laughing at his onslaught as if he were a child throwing a tantrum and holding his breath in his anger &quot;until he died&quot; as many children threaten. I just waited for him to fall over faint from ranting and then start breathing again. My faith perfectly in tact and dismissing this misguided work as one giant brain fart, by an otherwise great man.	2001-08-13
US	52596864	R3J818V7YBNEOK	1576737330	89800612	The Prayer of Jabez:  Breaking Through to the Blessed Life	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Funny how the little things grab you and hold on.	I was given this book as a gift from a friend whom I had counseled on numerous ocassions. It must have worked for they thought enough to return the favor by sharing this little book of knowledge with me. When I read it I thought great I will get though this one fast and have another book under my belt and then I will understand all the hype about this Jabez thing. Well it didn't work that way. As I started reading I found myself rereading and contemplating and actually coming into the practice of trying to remember this simple little four or five line prayer, depending upon how you say it. I found myself working it into my own prayers and actaully incorporating it into my prayers when I got to read in church. Funny how the little things grab you and hold on. I find that I think of this prayer alot during the day and behind the scenes try to find it's truths for my daily living and thoughts. I guess I have come to the conclusion that hey, it couldn't hurt and anything that brings me closer to walking in a path that God approves of is ok with me. I recommend a reading of this book to anyone who searches like the rest of us for truth and guidance. &quot;It couldn't hurt.&quot; The author did a great job and deserves the credit he is. I also advise not to listen to those who always find a reason to condemn anything religious or helpful to the spirit. Religion and it's power and strength in our lives scares the stuffins out of those who rely and depend only upon their own understanding, which is counter to the wisdom of the Proverbs. Decide for yourself and let the critics go jump in the lake.	2001-05-30
US	52596864	R3VUXV6R2K23SB	0895262436	266973565	Sellout: The Inside Story of President Clinton's Impeachment	Books	4	9	19	N	Y	How a President destroyed the &quot;rule of law&quot; in America.	Having just finished &quot;Sell Out,&quot; by The Honorable (a title I gladly give) Mr.David P. Schipper's. I found myself full of conflicting emotions. His book provides only a small portion of new information that has not already been covered in the plethora of other books previous submitted on the subject over the years. However, it does give a unique insider view in some areas and also places it all in chronological order for us to see the terrible con game played upon the American people and the &quot;rule of law&quot; by the Congress, the media and the White House.    I was glad to find an honest man had visited Washington D. C. and that there were a few good men and women left (the house managers). But I was struggling to get over an overwhelming feeling of sorrow. I was frustrated and had immeasurable contempt for those Congressional and senatorial members who had so bastardized our political system and misused their constitutional powers to protect Bill Clinton and that nonexistent and elusive mythical phantom called bipartisan cooperation. We all know there is no such thing. Bipartisan means moving to the left in sufficient steps to be standing in enemy territory, with shackles on your ankles and your hands raised over your head. It has become frightening to realize that the right may never understand, realize or comprehend this simple fact.    Mr. Schippers has done a masterful job of turning the spotlight upon yet another disgusting and tragic episode of failure and lawlessness in our nations history. The political corruption, actions and inaction's by our elected representative's is nothing short of reprehensible.    Not a single Democrat in the Senate deserves the title of &quot;Honorable&quot; and it will be very difficult to put that title at the beginning of any correspondence to them ever again. To so grotesquely violate a sacred oath as important as the one, which charges them to do equal, and impartial justice during the penalty phase of an impeachment as they did, is beyond contemptible and harbors upon treason. This was such a blatant act, as to make utter fools out of anyone who disputes it. What it has done, is to produce a bunch of vast left wing hypocrites and fanatical zealots that are readily depicted in the back of Mr. Schipper's book. There is not one ounce of desire to find the truth or produce justice in them, just an over venomous defense of the guilty.     It is not dutiful, honorable or virtuous to lie, deceive and violate ones solemn oath for Pete sake, even the Nazi war criminals demonstrated that kind of blind party loyalty.     Neither do the Republicans get off the hook quite so easily either, for this book also brought out the deceit and deception of the entire body to do injustice at the expense of their sacred honor and their patriotic duty. I am disgusted with the whole lot and I commend Mr. Schippers on giving us a birds eye view of just how bad our political system has sunken into the mire of greed, power brokers and unethical behavior. James Jeffords is just the latest and continuing example of this. This book proves five things conclusively as we move into the 21st century and a changing political mentality. First, that honor is a dying charter trait in politics and politicians. Two, that the worship of the bipartisan ideology is a false God used by politicians and pundits to disarm opponents, betray ideals and oppress the people. &quot;Party trumps everything&quot; as Mr. Schippers correctly informs us. Three, patriotism, duty and the &quot;value of a sacred oath&quot; mean nothing to politicians any longer. The Senate simply cannot be trusted as the founders intended. Four, the &quot;rule of law&quot; has been completely destroyed by William Jefferson Clinton and his administration. Some people are above the law. Five, the &quot;law of the land&quot; repeatedly mentioned by people like Senator Ted Kennedy. Has been transformed from an intelligent interpretation of universal truths, applied to civilized social behavior and responsibility, into some sick oppressive set of dictates instituted by special interest groups and social deviants, who control the population through the media, the press and the polls. This is a book every American should read even if their minds have been commandeered by that vast left wing hypocrisy. Who knows even they may see the light some day? Great job Mr. Schippers.  It would be an honor to shake your hand.	2001-05-30
US	52596864	R1XISBTMGAV606	0925279145	137688429	The Bulletproof George Washington: An Account of God's Providential Care	Books	5	20	23	N	Y	A book for &quot;every single&quot; American (new or born) to Read	Congratulations to David Barton for bringing back and retelling a wonderful chapter in our Nations history and the story that once was the staple of our childrens educational diet. Unfortunately those who continually attempt to strip us of our heritage and our Founders of their honor, have by and large, been successful in just about eliminating this story from our curriculums now-a-days. In short with great malace, they rob our children of a healthy historical education. A very sad commentary on both our education system and our political representatives as we move into the 21st century. The reasons for this shameful conduct, ideology and oppression is rediculous and unamerican in nature no matter what mantel is placed upon it.  And any court in the land that upholds such tyranny is quite frankly no more than traitors, to our country. The other day I watched a Fox News episode where a Militant spokesperson actually called George Washington and a few others &quot;Bad People.&quot; And indicated that their children should not be expected to attend any institution bearing their names. If this is what our youth, by our own hands are growing up to become and believe in, then America has truly lost it's soul. Can we get it back, sure, if we once again begin to read or let them read stories like this and honor such Ameircans as George Washington and bring back a patriotism that also honors our great emblems and symbols without being ashamed of them. This book should be required reading for all students and we should institute the beginning of a new train of thought for our children. An attitude in which we no longer accept the new age thought process of dishonoring our great leaders of the past, to the point of condemning our own heritage. But we should rather once again teach respect it and them once again and honor those who helped create this great nation. An enjoyable reading.	2001-05-26
US	52596864	R2PFME7699DS59	0486296024	424288287	Common Sense (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	3	19	43	N	Y	Profound in it Simplicity, yet awesome in it's Significance	I have yet to be disappointed, in my life long quest to find the &quot;wisdom of the ages&quot; in the words of the more than 250 founding individuals of this great country of ours. Many of them the spouses, friends and relatives of those freedom fighters so long ago. I often complain about the abhorant conduct of the left i.e. liberals and progressives, who seem to just totally ignore the treasure trove of knowledge and understanding in the writings of our founders. It is ashamed that so many people today read and evaluate these great works based upon their 21st century understanding and their predjudiced and biased life experiences. They ultimately fail to place themselves in an 18th century setting when evaluating. That is the reason so many so-called Constitutional scholars, who may be in possession of many degrees and honorary titles are such bafoons when trying to grasp the heart, character and vision of Amreica. Thomas Paine had a clarity of thought and understanding that escapes so many politicians, special interest groups, judges, and biased media moguls and journalist today. They haven't got a clue and yet they spout their spin as if they were all knowing and all seeing. Unfortunately so many sheepish citizens eat their misguided words and commentaries up and bow down to the false wisdom of a manipulative media machine. The single most important lesson to take from this offering on &quot;Common Sense&quot; is this &quot;A long habit of not thinking a thing wrong, gives it a superficial appearance of being right, and raises at first a formidable ourcry in defence of custom, and time makes more converts than reason.&quot; Nothing could be more true. Cases in point are the Separation of Church and State, which does not exist in the constitution or our founders writing. Abortion which is an act of murder has become a custom and accepted, buth the death penalty is reviled. The same is true of so many other socially deviant and destructive activities, giving needles and drugs and condemns out etc. All because time has made more converts than has reason, these negative activities have become customary. How sad for America and our posterity. Paine talked about Independence from an oppressive king, but his words fit our oppression from the extreme left and our fall from grace today as well. Paine's words are wisdom for the ages. If only people would read and listen. This and so many other books should be required reading starting in Middle School and up.	2001-05-12
US	52596864	R2MAIDDY41CMIT	0451625250	306825303	The Anti-Federalist Papers and the Constitutional Convention Debates (Mentor)	Books	4	76	126	N	Y	Significant points to ponder about why we made Mistakes.	The three most difficult books I have ever read, not because of content but just sheer intensity and repetitiveness were &quot;The Politics of Bad Faith&quot; by David Horowitz, the &quot;Federalist Papers&quot; by Jay, Madison and Hamilton and this book &quot;The Anti-federalist Papers.&quot;     Ketcham clearly gives us the basic facts on why numerous founders did not want to rush into ratification of the Newly Formed Constitution of the United States. In addition there is good justification why another convention to discuss these issues might have produced a better product and avoided numerous present day conflicts. But the time might also have been used to destroy the entire project and that would have been even a worse fate.     Their fears were completely justified and warranted for their worst fears have actually come true. It is interesting that these wise men could foresee so fare into the future based only on a document that was being worked on at the time.      I have often times pondered that the negative elements in our society, which to me are the fanatic liberals and the misguided progressive movement. Simply took all the fears of both the founding Federalist and the Founding anti-federalist and said hey let us join together to do all these wrong things and move off in this wrong direction that the others say is wrong with these documents and PESTO! You have the modern Democrat Party and all it's hypocrisy for us to observe and complain about. Just as foretold centuries ago.      In any case the basics of the Anti-federalist can be summarized in a few statements. Here they are.     1. The plan is to disregard the States in Favor of an all-powerful single and central Government, which they did not believe, could effectively represent the people. <br />2. That this central government would attempt to make carbon copies of all Americans based upon some elitist, special interest monopoly or aristocratic group of self-serving social engineers. Effectivelytaking away their true liberty and freedoms guaranteed by stronger state governments. <br />3. That the Supreme Court would work tirelessly towards the end of taking power from the states and depositing it in the Federal Legislature and then in pulling it into it's own hands.<br />4. That the power to tax was the power to enslave and manipulate the masses.<br />5. That even though virtuous men would start out in these positions of power, deviant and corrupt men and women would end up their, through design, corruption, creed and a lust for power. <br />6. That in a large Republic with only one central government the welfare of the people will be given over to a thousand opinions, special interest corrupters and to insane partisanship.<br />7. That, once politicians gain power or the people's money. They will never give it back.<br />8. That once the people surrender their power and their money. They can never take it back.<br />9. Standing armies rob the people of freedom.<br />10. That the government as envisioned in the constitution would not ensure that the people get adequate representation.<br />    These are the 10 most prominent I saw in this book, but of course there are more and although it is a sleep maker, the material in it is essential to a complete understanding of the Founding Era. In addition it is critical to any real Constitutional Scholar's Reading material. Recommend it for a long summer of exhaustive reading.	2001-04-23
US	52596864	R2ZUJJ0E9O5NPO	0767905288	579302723	The O'Reilly Factor: The Good, the Bad, and the Completely Ridiculous in American Life	Books	4	10	16	N	Y	An interesting read for the rebels among us.	Wonderfully fun and entertaining book. As I wrote about Jesse Ventura's book &quot;Ain't Got Time to Bleed&quot; they both have one unique quality that almost all other books do not have. This book actually sounds, looks and gives us the impression that, Bill did in fact write this book. And that he took the information, ideals and philosophies from his own head, not some group of paid consultants and/or professionals who seem to have helped Hillary Clinton for instance. I would bet my boxers that she did not actually write, &quot;It takes a Village.&quot;    Perhaps that is why we like the O'Reilly Factor and then turn to the Factor on late night TV to see more honesty and straight forward commentary and debate.    It is refreshing to find someone who just says what they feel and is believable in doing so. God, could it be that there is actually a no spin zone. Perhaps there is hope for America yet. Just the facts and back and forth discussion about real issues where the hypocrisy can be openly seen by us all and where you can tell the real bad apples by their unwillingness to visit the Factor.   I agree with much of Mr. O'Reilly's ideals and assertions, and the page 19 quote from the individual about government spending is certainly indicative of most of our nave citizens today. But that is both their fault and our education systems fault run by Demagogues that only us to be half educated.      I did not agree with the page 177 comment though about friends. As a matter of fact I was breezing through this book with so much admiration and respect even though I did agree with most everything else that I was taken aback by the comments.    I would much rather respect a person (especially a good friend) who puts his family especially his children (I have a great soft spot for kids) before his drinking, drug indulging, smoking, card playing, bar hopping, women chasing buddies. Than one who puts those things first before his wife, family and children any day.     In anycase this book is an easy read, fun, entertaining and insightful and hits at some significant social and political issues with a new perspective that should be shared by the vast majority of American citizens, but unfortunately isn't. Good book for everyone to look at.     A great book Mr. O'reilly. Loved it. Keep writing. The only bad part was it was too short. But it did leave me wanting more. And you are right I am sure we all have recommendations of names and organizations to go on your good and bad list.	2001-03-07
US	52596864	R2F5G1Q0ZVP5WB	0553111337	243328997	Flags of Our Fathers	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Profound in it Simplicity, yet awesome in it's Significance	Wow, I have read so many inspirational books in my lifetime, being an avid reader, that it would be premature and presumptuous of me to say right now, that this book (Flag of Our Fathers) is perhaps the best book I have ever had the pleasure to read. Having just finished it, I am sure I will ponder this question for many days before coming to that conclusion. But I can instantly say that every single American middle school, eighth grade student, (being currently employed at one) should be required to read this book and do a book report upon it. James Bradley has touched upon so many issues and needs of our society today, that it would be impossible in this forum to highlight even a fraction of them. Museums of tolerance are fine, art programs and fund drives are wonderful. But reading this book would keep the legacy and the memory of these reluctant heroes alive, throughout the ages. As a student of history, our founding fathers and mothers, epic tails, and American patriotism, and as a Marine who has been to Iwo Jima (not in combat), I have throughout my life, held many a great literary work, in the highest of esteem. Yet I have just read in Mr. Bradley's new work, one of the most profound and powerful books of my life. James Bradley, his team of consultants and Bantam books, has done the world an immeasurable favor. A job, well done to all. Flag of Our Fathers tells the tale of those Pacific Defenders of our Way of Life, so eloquently that my eyes were filled with tears throughout. It also tells of how men and women like John Bradley continued to be heroes long after their service to their country was over (yet the pain and dreams persisted). It gives a picture of the hundreds of thousands of unsung veterans and other heroes both military and civilian (even without saying it) that pass through our lives on a daily basis.  And many of them, we do not even know or recognize. Firemen, policemen, doctors, paramedics, teachers, good Samaritans, etc, etc. Yet these menin this episode in American History (in the Pacific) endured things that only few of us (if any) could imagine or comprehend. But the true underlying tale, is that hero's are just ordinary people, who do extraordinary things and endure terrible tragedy for a cause bigger than themselves. Some out of patriotism, some out of duty, some out of fear, some for anger, their buddies, pride and a hundred other reasons. John Bradley showed the way to true grace, humility and deserved hero status, even after giving full measure of himself on Iwo Jima, a gift and a humble peace few ever obtain. I will undoubtedly now send off in the next few days for The Greatest Generation by Tom Brokaw, in an attempt to complete or further my yearning for knowing all these WWII heroes better. It is true that I have many treasured books (read and yet to read) on the shelves of my den that I cherish with deep, deep affection, respect and awe. Books of historical philosophical brilliance, patriotic themes, political intuitiveness, and societal relevance. But James Bradley's Flag of Our Fathers will for the rest of my life, be positioned in a place of honor and esteem along with my Bible and the Constitution of the United States of America. Throughout my 26-year career as a United States Marine, my superiors, piers and subordinates alike could always depend upon my desk exhibiting the personal theme I held (not my own to be sure) of God, Country and Corp.  My Bible was always there, next to the Constitution and I would place a Military manual next to that to represent the Corp. No longer will that be necessary...for now this book (Flag of Our Fathers) will proudly represent Corp and Community for me. I only wish I had had it all those long years ago while teaching young men and women what it meant to be a true Marine and American. Thank you James and Bantam Books, but most of all thank you John, you are and will always be a true American Hero.	2000-12-03
US	52596864	R37NU330HBE9AZ	1880563053	638688241	America's God and Country: Encyclopedia of Quotations	Books	5	60	72	N	Y	THE prerequisite to reading all founding documents	In all my studies throughout my childhood, schooling, military service,  college, community activities, and charitable organization work. During  which I tried to comprehend and  understand, our great country and it's  beginnings. I have found nothing more equal to this book. In my attempt to  decern the true meanings of our founding documents and our founders most  basic intentions, I began at the end with the Constitution and worked  backwords. How much easier it would have been to have Mr. Federer's book at  the beginning.<br /> Throughout my search and in all the documents and books I  have read, I have attempted to understand the inner souls of our founders,  their families, their philosophies, their beliefs and their hopes. It  saddens me greatly, that I did not have this book to read prior to starting  that great and rewarding adventure.<br />  For it confirms what it has taken  me a youthful lifetime to find out for myself and to develope an in depth  understanding which I believe I have finally arrived at.<br /> This book is  the quentisential prerequisite to understanding the true American Dream,  it's purpose and our founders original intentions in all their thoughts,  words and deeds. American youth, parents, administrators, scholars, and  politicians need this book to bring them back to the true founders path.  That path based upon the realities of their understanding and not the  falsehoods of our hypocritical scholars of today.<br />  America's God and  Country should be required reading in every single school room, every  office building, every legal office and should sit on the bench beside  every single Judge in this land. Especially the United States Supreme Court  whom seem to have completely lost their way, their duty and their limits of  interference. For it cast a disgusting shadow over the degeneracy of our  Judical, legal and political system which have terribly gone far astray  today.<br />  I would recommend that this book, &quot;America's God and  Country&quot; be the first book some one read prior to embarking upon an  exploration of the Declaration of Independence, the Articles of  Confederation, the Constitution of the United States, the Northwest  Ordinance and the Federalist Papers, all essential documents to our  heritage. This book will without question, give the reader the preliminary  and basic understanding from which all other issues flow.<br />  After which  a reading of some of those current books by William Bennett and other such  authors will make much more sence. Without it's indespensible wisdom the  reader has no foundation or superstructure form which to begin. It is the  wisdom of the ages inculcated in a single book. A must read for anyone who  seeks the truth.'s God and  Country&quot; be the first book some one read prior to embarking upon an  exploration of the Declaration of Independence, the Articles of  Confederation, the Constitution of the United States, the Northwest  Ordinance and the Federalist Papers, all essential documents to our  heritage. This book will without question, give the reader the preliminary  and basic understanding from which all other issues flow. <br />  After which  a reading of some of those current books by William Bennett and other such  authors will make much more sence. Without it's indespensible wisdom the  reader has no foundation or superstructure form which to begin. It is the  wisdom of the ages inculcated in a single book. A must read for anyone who  seeks the truth.	2000-09-16
US	52596864	RXCR4X17LE19U	0345308239	162225088	The March of Folly: From Troy to Vietnam	Books	3	10	28	N	N	Interesting book, that pits one against a powerful sandman	As a student of history, western civilization and our founders for over 30 years and one who loves to read just about anything I can get my hands on  that evaluates and states an opinion about our past. I found the  information contained within Tuchman's book interesting. A few of the more  significant political and philosophical opinions shared by her and quite a  few of her insights will undoubtedly remain in the back reaches of my mind,  to be called upon again at the appropriate time for some article I write,  opinion I give or paper I submit. In addition her book which talks about  the March of Folly, that so many in government make, could never be more  representative of our current mess with this administration. It is a  terrible loss that Tuchman could not have written this book after the  Clinton-Gore erra which would have been the icing upon the cake of her  entire theory.   Of course the old saying, &quot;believe half of what you  read and only a third of what you hear&quot; would be well remembered when  reading anyones book. I found that somewhere in the text,while she was  writting about the Popes, I lost interest in her tales because they just  seemed to go on and on and on and the information was dull that I would  wake up, mark the page, and go do something else just to get my focus back.  It seemed to drag on and on, sort of like the way I felt when reading  &quot;It takes a Village.&quot; There was so much irrelevent verbage, that  could have been removed, which would have made the book half it's original  size. That would have been a Godsent and still kept the most  important  information still in tact.   Even though I would certainly recommend it to  the student of U.S. Hisotry or of Western Civilization, I could not wait to  get to finale in the last three pages and get the punchline. That was there  in spades and summed it all up very nicely. But after a while I just wanted  to be done with it.    A good healthy opinionated read of the problems with  corruption, bad government, ego, power and political stupidity.	2000-09-03
US	52596864	R2YZT5T3Z0DPLY	0375503323	797779175	I Ain't Got Time to Bleed: Reworking the Body Politic from the Bottom Up	Books	5	2	5	N	Y	The tale of every American who loves their Country	Jesse &quot;the body, the mouth, the mind, the Gov.&quot; Ventura. When Jesse Ventura came upon the political scene, I have to admit that his candor, honesty and his underdog victory awed me. In a way I truly believe that Jesse does represent all of us. Not just within the Democrat and  Republican ranks, but every single American who is disenfranchised by the  truth that is self-evident in the corruption in our Congress, our White  House and our Supreme Court/Judiciary System. &quot;I Ain't Got Time to  Bleed&quot; is the story of every average American youth to a certain  degree, for I could take this complete book and with a few changes in story  lines, places and overall path in life, fill in the blanks to tell my  life's history also. As could many of us our here in America. That is the  special quality Jesse Ventura has, he is a normal human being and American.  <br />I lost a little of the mystic when he (I believe) unfairly attacked Pat  Buchanan who was doing nothing more than Jesse himself did, which was speak  his mind. Then there was the truly ignorance attack on Religion.<br />I was  afraid Jesse had already been corrupted. And I believe he has been, to a  certain extent, for backing someone like Donald Trump. That definitely  makes me question Jesse's ability to stay true to his convictions. But  after reading the book, pondering the man, and the many between the lines  aspects of Mr. Ventura, I have come to realize Jesse just makes some dumb  choices and says some dumb things, just like the rest of us. Which just  makes him all that more real and vital to reforming the system. And a few  old Marine Corps saying, explain the mistakes...&quot;open mouth insert  foot&quot; or &quot;he engaged his mouth before his brain housing  group&quot;.  <br />And his book clearly points out the subtle destructive  manipulation of our system of government. It has resulted after decades of  moving. Away from what was an America of  &quot;We the People&quot;...giving  power to the government. Who then made laws, on our behalf, which were then  to be carried out and supported by the Supreme Courts and lesser bodies  without manipulation, changes or biased socialist views. It was changed  into something totally different, deviant and illegitimate.<br /> Instead we  have the courts usurping the peoples vote, the governments laws, common  sense and then directing actions, misinterpreting the Constitution or  declaring the peoples will unconstitutional so that they become the supreme  leaders of America. In effect putting nine people who have never been  elected into a position of absolute power.  Which gives rise to the  mentality that all people look to the courts instead of the representatives  they elect for redress of their grievances. Totally un-American and in  direct contradiction to our Constitution. These nine people rather than  enforce the peoples will are dictating what their will should and will  be.<br />On top of that add a corrupted system of lifelong politicians and the  American people do need to wake up as Jesse says and get involved once  again to save our Republic and their influence.<br />Jesse Ventura in his down  home subtle ways, voices these deep seated concerns of all Americans, and  very eloquently makes his book an easy and quick read for anyone,  interested in finding out what real Americans are thinking.<br />The  establishment, which includes politicians, the courts, the education  system, and the media, as Jesse so readily points out are completely out of  touch with reality and mainstream America.<br />They have fallen victim like  many others into believing that grassroots America is actually what the  producers in Hollywood depict it as being. Such simple mindedness in those  who think they are so wise is scary to say the least. And what Jesse  clearly tells us is &quot;Professing themselves to be...wise they became  fools.&quot; That is not just a Bible quote, it is a fact.<br />I hope Jesse  can endure and fight the temptation to become just another politician. He  says he will not likely run for President. I think it would be a great  mistake for him to do so. Oh, not because he couldn't win, I have no doubt  he could. But it would turn him into the very thing he has taught us not to  be, or not to try to be, a career politician.<br />No, the best thing Jesse  could do for the Reform Party, is to get reelected and do a fabulous job as  Governor, go home and do all kinds of interviews and speaking engagements,  about keeping his legacy alive in other cities and other states around the  country. The freedom of this would make him a true force to be reckoned  with. This is a book for all Americans to read, consider and respect.	2000-01-28
US	52596864	R2CI2C9WW6OOED	1568491611	330417962	The Peter Principle	Books	4	11	21	N	N	Understanding why we as a nation fail so much	I read the Peter Principle years ago and have read through it frequently ever since. My first time was while still in the military and it explained to me, a great deal of the things I saw go wrong. It left an impression  upon me that lasted throughout my career and which still helps me today. It  explained clearly why I was so frustrated with the way things had begun to  deteriorate so badly once I was into the second half of my career. And it  helped me to make certain career choices that I still believe to day were  the most beneficial decision I could have made at the time, and I was glad  I had that knowledge to consider.<br />Dr. Laurence and his associates hit the  nail right on the head in describing the failing principles, due to the  Peter Principle of our Political system, our Judicial System, and much  more. On the whole we do promote to incompetence and it is our number one  failing.<br />From the military point of view there are quite a few additional  contributing factors, all Peter Principle related, which resulted in a  decline in the American Military. Which include the radical feminist  movement, promoting for gender rather than merit, the radical quota  promotions, promoting by race, rather than merit, and our leader's failure  to stand firm for core values.<br />The up or out policy is the epitome of the  Peter Principle, as is the guaranteed promotion policy, and the  reenlistment bonus program which has been a great failure. Of course this  book applies to all walks of life and even applies to our Present White  House occupant and many of our congressional members. And will apply to  many of those running for political office today.<br />The Peter Principle is  a must read for the student of our American social, political and judicial  decline and what horror is in store for us in the twenty first century if  we do not recognize the beast and kill it before it becomes unstoppable,  which it may already be. A great read.	2000-01-23
US	52596864	R3UAIAG069ZOT1	037540760X	797779175	I Ain't Got Time to Bleed	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	The tale of every American who loves their Country	Jesse &quot;the body, the mouth, the mind, the Gov.&quot; Ventura. When Jesse Ventura came upon the political scene, I have to admit that his candor, honesty and his underdog victory awed me. In a way I truly believe  that Jesse does represent all of us. Not just within the Democrat and  Republican ranks, but every single American who is disenfranchised by the  truth that is self-evident in the corruption in our Congress, our White  House and our Supreme Court/Judiciary System. &quot;I Ain't Got Time to  Bleed&quot; is the story of every average American youth to a certain  degree, for I could take this complete book and with a few changes in story  lines, places and overall path in life, fill in the blanks to tell my  life's history also. As could many of us out here in America. That is the  special quality Jesse Ventura has, he is a normal human being and American.<br />I lost a little of the mystic when he (I believe) unfairly attacked Pat  Buchanan who was doing nothing more than Jesse himself did, which was speak  his mind. Then there was the truly ignorance attack on Religion.<br />I was  afraid Jesse had already been corrupted. And I believe he has been, to a  certain extent, for backing someone like Donald Trump and ignoring the  popularity of Buchanan cannot be called an intelligent move. He could work  with Pat to make the Reform Party a true, unstopable force for good. That  definitely makes me question Jesse's ability to stay true to his  convictions.<br />But after reading the book, pondering the man, and the many  between the lines aspects of Mr. Ventura, I have come to realize Jesse just  makes some dumb choices and says some dumb things, just like the rest of  us. Which just makes him all that more real and vital to reforming the  system. And a few old Marine Corps saying, explain the mistakes...&quot;open  mouth insert foot&quot; or &quot;he engaged his mouth before his brain  housing group&quot;.<br />And his book clearly points out the subtle  destructive manipulation of our system of government. Which has resulted  after decades of moving away from what was an America of  &quot;We the  People&quot;...giving power to the government. Who then made laws, on our  behalf, which were then to be carried out and supported by the Supreme  Courts and lesser bodies without manipulation, changes or biased socialist  views. It was changed into something totally different, deviant and  illegitimate.<br /> Instead we have the courts usurping the peoples vote, the  governments laws, common sense and then directing actions, misinterpreting  the Constitution or declaring the peoples will unconstitutional so that  they become the supreme leaders of America. In effect putting nine people  who have never been elected into a position of absolute power.<br /> Which  gives rise to the mentality that all people look to the courts, though  idiotic law suits and appealing everything the voters desire, instead of  the representatives they elect for redress of their grievances. Totally  un-American and in direct contradiction to our Constitution. These nine  people rather than enforce the peoples will are dictating what their will  should and will be. That is worse than socialism, it is communisim by the  Judiciary.<br />On top of that add a corrupted system of lifelong politicians  and the American people do need to wake up as Jesse says and get involved  once again to save our Republic and their personl vote and  influence.<br />Jesse Ventura in his down home subtle ways, voices these deep  seated concerns of all Americans, and very eloquently makes his book an  easy and quick read for anyone, interested in finding out what real  Americans are thinking. After reading the &quot;Politics of Bad Faith&quot;  by David Horowitz which was very good. Jesses style in his book was a  breath of fresh air for easy reading.<br />The establishment, which includes  politicians, the courts, the education system, and the media, as Jesse so  readilypoints out are completely out of touch with reality and mainstream  America.<br />They have fallen victim like many others into believing that  grassroots America is actually what the producers in Hollywood depict it as  being. Such simple mindedness in those who think they are so wise is scary  to say the least. And what Jesse clearly tells us is &quot;Professing  themselves to be...wise they became fools.&quot; That is not just a Bible  quote, it is a fact.<br />I hope Jesse can endure and fight the temptation to  become just another politician. He says he will not likely run for  President. I think it would be a great mistake for him to do so. Oh, not  because he couldn't win, I have no doubt he could. But it would turn him  into the very thing he has taught us not to be, or not to try to be, a  career politician.<br />No, the best thing Jesse could do for the Reform  Party, is to get reelected and do a fabulous job as Governor, go home and  do all kinds of interviews and speaking engagements, about keeping his  legacy alive in other cities and other states around the country. The  freedom of this would make him a true force to be reckoned with.<br />This is  a book for all Americans to read, re-read, consider and respect.dily points out are completely out of touch with reality and mainstream  America.<br />They have fallen victim like many others into believing that  grassroots America is actually what the producers in Hollywood depict it as  being. Such simple mindedness in those who think they are so wise is scary  to say the least. And what Jesse clearly tells us is &quot;Professing  themselves to be...wise they became fools.&quot; That is not just a Bible  quote, it is a fact.<br />I hope Jesse can endure and fight the temptation to  become just another politician. He says he will not likely run for  President. I think it would be a great mistake for him to do so. Oh, not  because he couldn't win, I have no doubt he could. But it would turn him  into the very thing he has taught us not to be, or not to try to be, a  career politician.<br />No, the best thing Jesse could do for the Reform  Party, is to get reelected and do a fabulous job as Governor, go home and  do all kinds of interviews and speaking engagements, about keeping his  legacy alive in other cities and other states around the country. The  freedom of this would make him a true force to be reckoned with.<br />This is  a book for all Americans to read, re-read, consider and respect.	2000-01-22
US	52596864	R326YBDBVHUZB2	0684852624	378132672	Shadow: Five Presidents and the Legacy of Watergate	Books	4	3	14	N	Y	Interesting, disturbing, and frustrating.	I have to commend Bob Woodward for his research and informative work (story) on how &quot;We the People&quot; have suffered and been humiliated, used, betrayed and lied to by so many of our Leaders. Although he treated  them all with kid gloves, I suppose that was his intention. It is true that  as a result of the Watergate incident the fallout has yet to settle. And  that every President immediately upon entering into office and power has  been a target for a corrupted law (the Independent Counsel Law). Which has  been misused and misapplied by incompetent administrators in the Justice  Department and Congress. And excessive Independent counsels as well. Not to  mention that it was entirely too sweeping in its authority and scope.<br />It  is a shame that the Senate failed in their duty to remove Bill Clinton for  the good of the country and once again insist on honesty and virtue in the  Oval Office. It is a wound that will never heal. They could not see past  their own self-interest.<br />It is also my opinion that in the far underlying  currents of this book Bob is trying to make the Presidents after Nixon,  particularly Clinton, victims (and Hillary as well) of the political  system, and by that I mean all of them not just one party but all of them.  But let's face reality here, they brought it upon themselves, due to  incompetence, guilt, dishonesty and/or stupidity.<br />There is in my eyes  both a vast left wing and a vast right wing conspiracy at work here in  America and the philosophy from both sides is &quot;Too Hell with the  American People&quot;, &quot;either they get on our train or they are  worthless&quot;.  They believe that average Americans are just too naive to  understand their extreme views and fanatic causes and so they hold on to  their simple-minded party, gender, racial, single issue madness and  extremely volatile views.<br />But what this book really shows, is the utter  incompetence of the Presidents, First Ladies (or should we now sayfirst  persons) and their Administrations. They regard the American people as  ignorant, simple-minded sheep that need to be led and who cannot add one  and one and get two. Unfortunately too many people actually believe they  get the truth from the major news networks papers and polls. Perhaps they  are sheep.<br />So politicians will not come clean with the American People  when an error or problem is discovered or occurs. Instead they build up  elaborate teams of yes men and women who will go out and deceive the public  and bastardize the political branches of government and corrupt the justice  system.  These men and women refuse to put the country and &quot;We the  People&quot; first above their Party, partisan politics and personal pride  or self-interest. Bob Woodward has told us about the failures of the five  Presidents he depicts in this book and says it is all about Watergate. And  that may well be. <br />Every President since Kennedy has allowed himself to  be corrupted in some personal way either due to action or inaction on their  part, or on the part of their staff. And they were certainly not loyal to  America and it's people, I. E. Betty Curry, Mike McCurry, Madeline  Albright, Cohen and so many others.  These are people who gave Nazi like  loyalty to their party and certain individuals, but never to the country,  the Constitution, or the people. And if by chance there were some that came  in with genuine patriotic philosophies, they were quickly manipulated or  forced into corrupting themselves. They were too foolish to get out and  &quot;just say so&quot; and then tell the American People the truth.<br />Bob  Woodward conclusively proves that politics is corrupt. And corrupt all the  way down to the bone and that the first lady, is just as bad as all the  rest. Which is why the founders were so adamant about virtuous people being  put in power. We have lost the will or intelligence to do that. If we had  it Alan Keyes and/or Gary Bauer would be the front runners right now in the  GOP. We have been brainwashed to fear religious and principled men and  women. <br />Clinton's staff was a comedy. A Company of  &quot;loyal to the  death&quot; people forgetting what loyalty really is, but most importantly  whom that allegiance is really owed to. The American People!<br />We see in  this book that politics is not longer about forming a more Perfect Union,  establishing justice, insuring domestic Tranquillity, providing for the  common defense, promoting the general welfare and securing the blessing of  liberty to ourselves and our Posterity.<br />No, it is about whom can maintain  power regardless of what is best for the future of America. It is about  false and fake and manipulated polls. And it is about lying and cheating  and forcing Americans to accept a Federal Government that has become  exactly what our founders did not want it to be. It is about a Supreme  Court that has become just as insane and unconstitutional in its  deliberations and decisions. They are also just as guilty of Ignoring the  founders blue prints. <br />Thank God and God Bless Allen Keyes, Gary Bauer,  Pat Buchanan, and. Finally someone who will speak the truth and look  America in the eye and say there is a better way. Wake up, America!<br />The  Presidency has become nothing more than who can recruit the most and best  lying lawyers to get away with their failures. One ups-man-ship is all they  care about. It matters little to them about good, evil, right, wrong, duty,  honor, integrity or virtue, just winning at any and all cost.<br />Thanks Bob  for the review of history, now write a book that give the people a  guideline on how to fix this tragic and pathetic mess.	2000-01-17
US	52596864	R2JGDSTTW8LVXZ	0684850230	293461229	The Politics of Bad Faith: The Radical Assault on America's Future	Books	4	57	69	N	Y	An essential tool to identify the falsehoods of the left	Among the many dozens of books I have read concerning our founders, their philosophies, their dreams and the various other aspects of our Republic and our Republican Form of Government promised in the Constitution. I find  this book by David Horowitz to be perhaps one of the most impressive and  educational justifications to abandon the liberal philosophy and move more  in line with our founders.     It is however, also among the three most  difficult I have found to read, comprehend and reach the end of in  one-piece. For there is on almost every page some interesting, informative  and deep seated principle, piece of knowledge and insight that must be  underlined or highlighted, slowing down the process considerably. And one  must read with care not to miss the wealth of information in all these  words of wisdom. Mr. Horowitz has done a superb job of bringing the reader  into a better understanding of the failures of the Marx, Lenin, Stalin,  Hitler and other philosophies of the extreme left and many of our left wing  representives today. And how anyone who follows these failed policies and  ideals must find excuses for the devastation and terrible toll they placed  and still inflict upon the community of man.  There are three main ideas  that I perceived from David.     First that the core principles of any  political philosophies (in our case the right and left, Republicans and  Democrats, conservatives and liberals) of the world, when taken to  extremes, all converge at a point resulting in, Tyranny, Despotism,  Communism and Slavery.  And all these things should be shunned and avoided  by Americans.    Second that our childhood beliefs, which were to some  extent in the past simple brainwashing by listening to our parents could be  thrown off, once emancipated, if we chose to. Which David did not, until  late in his lifetime after finding out some simple truths the hard way.   Yet we also find that that condition has been changed now. And in our  current society has become a form of government manipulation and  brainwashing that continues on for an entire lifetime. Thereby making us  slaves to the politically correct, the socialistic social workers and the  puppeteers of an aristocratic political establishment that used handouts to  enslave the people, and let us not forget the Media Moguls. Television or  the visual screen in every home and movie theatre has become mans greatest  enemy and will be the instrument of his downfall because our leaders did  not regulate it's use and protect our values, character and virtues from  it's assassinating effects. Our lack of vigilance has allowed us to become  the underdogs in a struggle for true liberty and freedom, and we are  loosing badly.    And third that all these leftist philosophies lead to  Slavery, and those so-called progressives are the architects of that  condition.    There are four kinds of people that will approach this book.  The first will put it down after a few pages and say...boring! The second  will put it down after falling asleep several times somewhere in its  interior, due to the intensity and level of intellect of Mr. Horowitz  insights. The third will read it and fail to get the point, refuse to get  the point or rant and rave at him for being a traitor to their liberal  causes. And the fourth will find this book invaluable for identifying the  beginning and continuing causes for the liberal virus that infest the  American Dream and the world. In any case a classic work by David Horowitz  that should be on all reading list.	2000-01-17
US	52596864	R1UXZOXBNZMWYL	0915463830	499457179	WHO'S AFRAID OF THE RELIGIOUS RIGH	Books	5	16	26	N	N	Feder is insightful and right on the mark	Feder has given us a true look at the situation that exist within the borders of our country and clearly spells out the things that are going wrong and who is responsible for them. He is one of those rare individuals  who can stand up and make you take notice of his use of the pen. An  excellent book for anyone who believes that the truth is still our there.	2000-01-17
US	52596864	R24IX0A63XSHVX	0451628012	857677473	Democracy in America: Abridged Edition (Penguin Books for History: U.S.)	Books	5	38	39	N	Y	Amazingly accurate picture of past, present and future USA	One of the most stricking and accurate evaluations of the American physical, mental and emotional existence then, now and in the future. De tocquevile, before our time, predicted most if not all of our successes and  failures. And both congratulated and warned us of the paths we would wind  up on if we chose to go left or right along the way. A compliment to the  wisdom of men of his time and an insult to the pettyness of those of ours.  Reading this book along with others like the Federalist Papers makes one  wonder if we are progressing or regressing in our mental abilities and  reasoning powers. I tend to think, the more I study the philosophies of his  time and the ones presented today that we are moving backwards in  knowledge, wisdom and common sense. The more technologically advanced we  seem to become the more spoiled arrogant and naieve we seem to be in our  social, economic and judicial practices. De Tocqueville and the men and  women of his time were the true pioneers in mankinds attempt to be more  than the sum of his parts. We have lost our way in regards to logic heading  into the 21st century and the new millinium. And it will take men like our  founders and De Tocqueville to lead the way back.	1999-12-24
US	52596864	RYR660NHI7II5	1576733661	890778006	America's Real War	Books	5	13	19	N	Y	Essential Reading for the Serious American Patriot	The left will hate him, the right will love him. And it will be interesting to watch the left attack him for his convictions of consience (one of our most treasured liberties) which they call freedom of speech. Of  course they only apply that liberty to themselves and what they have to say  and not to conservatives or the right. Conservatives have no rights or  liberties in their world. That is reserved only for themselves and their  loyal followers. But in spite of their unequal treatment of American  citizens, every American who truly searches for the root causes of our  social problems should read and heed the wisdom of this book. Today in  America as a direct result of the lefts distruction of our Founding  Father's true vision, we live in a country where children are murdering  children, mothers are murdering their unborn children, where hate and  labels are readily applied by those preaching tolerance to those who do not  conform to their ideals of the perfect sheepish citizen. Where anger and  prejudice fill the eyes of every special interest group who point their  fingers against honest, law abiding, patriotic, religiously oriented  citizens. Be tolerant of deviance, give up your constitutional liberties or  be outcast and condemned by the mainstream media and elitist movements. We  have reached a place in history where those who disagree are no longer  political opponents but enemies (Clintonspeak), and where special interest  finatics are dividing our country into smaller and smaller groups of hate  filled extremist. Where those embroiled in and most assuredly a part of the  most rediculous scandals have become our heroes and candidates for our most  (used to be) respected law making branch of government (Hillary and the  Senate).  America should pause and  give Rabbi Daniel Lapin a fair and open  minded reading. He has given us an above ground view of the problem  infesting our nation and has put in in crayon for those so wrapped up in  themselves that they add new meaning to the saying &quot;professing  themselves to be wise, they became fools.&quot; Too often people are so  egotistically entrenched in their own liberal, tolerant, tunnel visioned,  self righteousness that they tend to move right past the simple truth that  religion can help solve many of our problems. These truths are right before  there noses, but they fear the idea of allowing a devine rule book to guide  them because it would take away their preferred self-gratifying individual  devaint behavior. They allow themselves to be manipulated into buying a  false philosophy simply because of who is selling it. It is always party  loyalty, gender loyalty, race loyalty, generational loyalty or some other  insane secular reason for turning away from the Spiritual, the Divine or  God. They would rather believe that all left wing policies are right, good  and honorable.   Rabbi Lapin has opened the can and the foul odors of the  failed social experimentation practices of the left are easily dectectable.  The contents are spoiled and are no longer fit for human consumption. His  call to finding our way back is a valid one and those who truly love this  country should consider his thoughts and recommendations. Evil is the  easiest road in the world to walk down. Look as us we have proven it.  Walking back up the path and taking the right path will be difficult, but  not impossible. Unless of course we ignor the warnings of wise men like  Rabbi Lapin. This is a book for the age, for the new decade, century,  millennium. Highy recommended.	1999-07-06
US	52596864	R1SEV6SB8661RE	0847685160	514232301	Vindicating the Founders: Race, Sex, Class, and Justice in the Origins of America	Books	5	6	18	N	Y	A must read for serious students of the American Experiment	West paints a much more clear, uncorrupted and distinct picture of the Founders, their true philosophies and overall beliefs, than the radical and extremist of the left would have us believe. His argument is sound and  justified to anyone who really studies the writtings of the founding erra  with an open mind. He effectively dispells the current phobia that most  scholars today have of giving them the respect and admiration they are due.  Of course without such slander from present day acedemia, the far left  would not be able to justifiy their restructuring and dismantling of the  true vision of our heritage. Those who care nothing for the true meaning of  liberty, justice, sacrifice and patriotism. And those who also crave simply  power, single minded victory and justification for their special interest  at any cost.  The serious student of the founding erra who  begins with  the Bible, and moves through The Declaration of Independence, The Magna  Carta, the Articles of Confederation, The Constitution of the United  States, The Federalist Papers, We Hold These Truths (by Mortimer J Adler),  Our Sacred Honor and others like The Death of Outrage and High Crimes and  Misdemeanors can only become more firmly convinced of the truth about those  great men and women who lived the founding of this, our great Republic. A  nation that is the single most important light of the world. Yet a light  which fades even as we prosper.  The enlightened mind and serious student  must also feel saddened by what so many in the Judicial, Legislative and  Administrative Branches have done to this fragile treasure, in the long  history of humanity lately. Especially those in the Senate and White House  who have proven they hold no regard for the founding principles,  philosophies and guidelines so distinctly laid out for us by the founders.  Guidlines about the characters of our leaders and the immeasurable duty  laid upon each and all of them. A duty which so many have failed to  fullfill towards the American People over the last year. The Democrats have  let the dream slip away. When there was a chance to reinvigorate into  politics a new wave or virtue. They allowed the chance to slip through  their fingers like sand.  I applaud West and his work, his courage in a  world that seems to have turned from the truth. Where honor and respect for  the past no longer resignate in the minds of the educated. And I pitty  those who do not, can not, or will not see the greatness of these founders.  How sad to see so many turn away from the truth. Instead they support a new  age of vengence against the founding fathers and mothers. Individuals whom  we could learn so much from in todays chaotic downslide towards a less than  virtuous society. This is a book for all ages; past, present and future and  should be required reading from high school on.ullfill towards the American People over the last year. The Democrats have  let the dream slip away. When there was a chance to reinvigorate into  politics a new wave or virtue. They allowed the chance to slip through  their fingers like sand.     I applaud West and his work, his courage in a  world that seems to have turned from the truth. Where honor and respect for  the past no longer resignate in the minds of the educated. And I pitty  those who do not, can not, or will not see the greatness of these founders.  How sad to see so many turn away from the truth. Instead they support a new  age of vengence against the founding fathers and mothers. Individuals whom  we could learn so much from in todays chaotic downslide towards a less than  virtuous society. This is a book for all ages; past, present and future and  should be required reading from high school on.	1999-03-17
US	52596864	R1UHX4116TSX91	068484138X	343933070	Our Sacred Honor:  Words of Advice from the Founders in Stories, Letters, Poems, and Speeches	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A Touching and Informative Look into our True History	William Bennett has outdone himself in this remarkable book, and once again given us a look into our past and our historical beginnings. Never have I been so moved as by the understanding I have been able to acquire  from this book. After an in depth life long review of the Declaration of  Independence, the Constitution of the United States and the Federalist  Papers. Along with Bennetts other books this is one of the grand finales in  getting a clear cut foundation by which to understand this great experiment  called America. And unfrotunately to really see just how far we have fallen  of track compared to where we could be, if we had statesmen like these  remarkable men today. I am awe inspired by them at every turn for their  intelligence, humanity, moral certainty and political will in regards to  founding a young nation. And in their desire to base it upon the highest  moral, ethical, political and civil standards. I feel only saddness about  the shame that now confronts my country and what we have allowed to happen  to our most respected offices. I now more than ever call for impeachment as  the only solution. Keep up the great work Mr. Bennett.	1998-12-12
US	52596864	RKMM6I6D6Z7SJ	0684813726	82788515	Death of Outrage: Bill Clinton and the Assault on American Ideals	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Turn on the light and the roaches scramble.	Bennett once again flips on the light of truth  in the dark, sleezy, corrupt room of the vast left wing conspiracy. Whose headquarters are now unfortunately in the Oval Office of this great country. An Office now  corrupted and bringing down the Democrates into the dirt with them. You  see, to the Clintons there is no such thing as political opponents or  mutual respect for idealogically different opinions or beliefs anymore. To  them everyone who is not of their belief is the enemy. Even to the point of  feeling the same about the American people they are suppose to represent.  If you do not whole heartedly support the Clintonites you are the enemy.  With a capitol E. That means one half of the American people are Bill and  Hillary's Enemies. Not merely a political opponent. Bennett knows this very  well. And the monstous saber toothed, poison spewing termites of the Bill  and Hilllary Clinton Machine (similar to the war depicted in the movie  ANTS) go into motion to uterly destroy that light. I.E. the Peewee Hermans  of Politics (James Carville, Susan Estrich and Mario Como).  Throughout  this entire saga we have watched as the liberal left (Democrates and  Special Interest Extremist) have opened the floodgates of their true  nature. Which is to defend anyone who supports their simple minded agendas  and enslaving political and/or social goals. Regardless of the kind of  person they are. Forget the founders, the federalist papers and the reasons  America came into being. Power is all important to them not America. Their  programs are the making of 21st Century Slavery and the masses are holding  their arms wide open to this enslavement. Dependency on Liberal handouts is  and will be slavery for minorities and women. It is just to bad that greed  and power have blinded the leaders of these movements to the plight they  reap upon their followers. There are no moral values that bind them, there  is no honor to great to betray, there is no criminal act that they willnot  defend. There is no respect for the founders or the Constitution, nor the  past where we received our core values. There is only winning at any price  and any sacrifice. The Comos, Boxers, Conyers, Gores, Gepharts, Brauns,  Daschels, and other left wing finatics of the left simply believe that  there is nothing but power, greed, secular humanism and individual personal  and physical gratification that matters. Their manipulation of blacks,  women, churches and others is a testament to their total disregard for mere  citizens for their personal survival, gain and success. Bill Clinton is a  hypocrite, a lyer, and worse who will stop at nothing to maintain power,  even betraying the Constitution, the American People and his Oaths of  Office. These things mean nothing to him, but are tools to be used for his  tyrannical regime. Do his misdeads raise to the level of Impeachment? In  his own words and those of his wife yes, yes, yes. Who else in the history  of this country has devided the entire population into such factions as  this unprincipled man. Who can say one thing in the AM and another in the  PM and the gullible left eats it up like he is a prophet. And march out  like little storm toopers to defend their leader. The Hitler loyalist would  be proud of these Democratic Stratagist. Bennett has in all his books  attempted to do nothing more than show us that we once had,  prior to the  Clinton scourge, a higher expectation for ourselves and our future. That,  as flawed as we were, we tried to be better than the mere sum of our parts.  Unfortunately today the Democrates have given up and accepted that they  would be more comfortable in the gutter, than up on the road. And they are  wollowing in their self indugent decent into a chotic social slime. I hope  Bennett never stops standing up for those of us who do not give up on the  better side of humainity. We will never agree with those who defend this  type of nonleader. It is astonishing that the Democratescan so easily  support what these hypocites did and said during Nixon's failure, but  forgive the same or worse conduct with Clinton. It proves unquestionably  however, that they never have and never will have any firm foundation in  honor, integrity, responsibility or patriotism. They are the party of  corruption and deviance. I recommend reading all Bennett's books. If you  dare.	1998-11-11
US	52596864	R28PCVNXP65WLP	0553213407	78796814	The Federalist Papers	Books	5	4	8	N	Y	The most informative work on the American dream ever written	The American Republic. What an unequalled and brilliant diamond in a world  covered in coal. It is so sad after reading this book (The Federalist  Papers) that I finally find the reality I have been seeking. The pieces  have fallen into place after a lifetime of reading other works and  wondering why I and others were so frustrated at the course America was  taking. The fourty year rain of the Liberal left in Congress seemed a  departure from the American Dream but it would not solidify in a true  understanding of the problem. That is no longer the case. I now see that  many of our leaders are shredding this magnificent creation into fodder for  their own ambitions, corruption, political, personal and deviant pleasures.  We have betrayed Washington, Jefferson, Hamilton, Madison and Jay by  letting party loyalty blind us to the truth. Unfortuantely the battle has  become one of good and evil, right and wrong and bipartisanship is nothing  more than a covert effort to gain compromise in only one direction, to the  extreme, fanatical left. The left has so corrupted the original intent of  our Constitution that it is by their pathetic interpretation nearly  unrecognizable today. After reading numerous books, I.E. the Bible, the  Book of Virtues, Slouching Towards Gomorrah, Out of Order, We Hold These  Truths and numerous others. In addition to being a life long student of the  Magna Carta, Declaration of Independence, Articles of Confederation and the  Constitution itself. I found it unavoidable in todays atmosphere to go any  further with the vast number of books addressing the current crises facing  our country and this president without first reading the Federalist Papers.  A task I had to date, failed to do. But I knew that if High Crimes and  Misdemeanors or the Death or Outrage were to mean anything to me, I needed  this valuable knowledge of our founders intent. I now see that it is the  only real definitive authority on what was intended by the Founders. This  book is a must for any American from either side of the isle who really and  truely looks for the truth and who desires to honestly make an informed and  patriotic decision about the terrible disgrace brought upon our nation by  the crew on the bridge of this ship of state called America. We need a new  crew and we need one immediately. America is adrift on a sea of deviance,  corruption, lies and betayal. &quot;We the People&quot;  have been gut shot  by an administration that cares for nothing but power. The Federalist  Papers to the true student of our history will allow no other conclusion  and if one hopes to think him or herself worthy of standing in the shadow  of those great minds of our nations birth they must accept the truth. How  little and insignificant we have made ourselves in their wake.ook is a must for any American from either side of the isle who really and  truely looks for the truth and who desires to honestly make an informed and  patriotic decision about the terrible disgrace brought upon our nation by  the crew on the bridge of this ship of state called America. We need a new  crew and we need one immediately. America is adrift on a sea of deviance,  corruption, lies and betayal. &quot;We the People&quot;  have been gut shot  by an administration that cares for nothing but power. The Federalist  Papers to the true student of our history will allow no other conclusion  and if one hopes to think him or herself worthy of standing in the shadow  of those great minds of our nations birth they must accept the truth. How  little and insignificant we have made ourselves in their wake.	1998-10-16
US	52596864	R2HLUEZZTZJ0M5	0394700600	25815157	Declaration of Independence: A Study in the History of Political Ideas	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Indispensable reading for the serious student of Declaration	In all my studies of the Founders, the Constitution and the Declaration of  Independence over the last quarter century. I have found no other single  book that allowed me to so clearly understand (from Mr Beckers perspective)  the feelings, enviornment, philosophies that enriched and motivated the  leves and character of our founders like this book does. Becker is a  genious in the way he presents step by step the methodical and ever changin  adjustments of their reasoning during  that critical time in our history.  One should not feel their studies complete or even rational until they have  obsorbed this unique work. Then and only then can they put all they have  learned, studied and pondered into that mixer we call our brains and come  up with a true appreciation of the founders and their great work of that  era. A must reading. I would only add that even though Becker is perhaps  correct in his assertion that Natural Law allowed the colonist to justify  their stance against Britan. There is a truth about their religion that I  believe should have been emphasised in more detail. Individually many of  them were very Godly, the natural law argument allowed them to justify  Independence but was not as ingrained into their souls as their religious  beliefs were. Otherwise this book is one of a kind.	1998-09-07
US	52596864	R13FDLQSB5NZL0	0060987197	303485416	Slouching Towards Gomorrah	Books	3	1	4	N	N	A must read for the Knowledgeable conservative partriot	Judge Bork has made it perfectly clear when and where many of our current  social problems  originated. His insight into the legalistic maze of how  America began it's slide into deviance will without doubt help many bring  into focus where we went wrong as a nation, a people and as individuals. I  enjoyed this book in full measure up to about the middle. And in that  portion I believe there is invaluable background knowledge that every  reader can take away and make good use of. After that it becomes a little  dry and repetitious. Although some might find that is not the case. The  fact remains that until the Administrative and Legislative Branches of our  Government find the wisdom to place individuals like Robert Bork upon the  Supreme Court. We will continue to be lacking in moral, ethical and  constitutional philosophies and principles in our judicial decisions. The  people harvest the failures identified in this most excellent book.	1998-09-02
US	52596864	R1YL5FRUJ1Z300	0679454926	690058783	American Scripture: Making the Declaration of Independence	Books	3	27	32	N	Y	Valuable source of knowledge for student of American History	Pauline Maier gives an insightful view                of several of our  most prominent founding fathers. And the parts played by each in the  drafting of the Declaration of Independence. In addition to the part played  by the &quot;committee of five&quot; and the Congress as a reviewing and  adapting committee itself. She enlightens us on the friendships, political  philosophies and philosphical differences of the two most important figures  (Jefferson and Adams) . Not to mention giving us a glimpse at their self  controlled egos and jealousies as well. Of considerable interest is the  overall public or social climate during the drafting of one of our most  precious Documents. An understanding I had not had before. I very much  enjoyed this book as a reference for further and/or continuing studies of  the beginnings of this great Republic of ours and the men who made it  possible. In any study of the same the more broad picture one can paint of  these men the better one will be able to understand them and their motives.  Never relying soley on any one point of view or perspective. But taking in  as many as possible. It does not provide the in depth philosophies that  Carl Becker provides in his book &quot;The Declaration of  Independence&quot;. But together they are a formitable start on  understanding certain aspects of our Heritage and our founders intentions.  When combined with an understanding of the Religious, moral and ethical  standards of the time period (those manuals and books which shaped their  thought processes) . The desperate straights that a break away philosophy  created is brought vividly to life. One can begin to get a clear picture of  the magnificent and wonderful event this document represents. Pauline Maier  has created a work that should without a doubt be included in any dedicated  study of the Birth of our Nation.	1998-09-02
US	52596864	R2LRZMMXTTZI9X	0895263769	369149784	Women in the Military: Flirting With Disaster	Books	4	29	40	N	N	Finally someone with the guts to tell the truth!	A book for the ages, telling us what we have all known from the start  and/or experienced first hand in combat and garrison. And something that  all those special interest groups and womens rights finatics have hidden,  ignored or covered up for decades. The reason this book is so important is  that many of us (myself included) who have served our country in the  military already know what Mr. Brian Michell is writing about. The truth  that he is trying to get out from under the stone that the feninist have  successfully hidden it under. If the report says no...hide it, if the  report says it degrades our readiness...obsure it. If the report says we  can't or shouldn't try to make this work, throw out the report and start  over. Find an ear that will ignore the truth. Even at the cost of our  readiness, the lives of our sons and daughters, and a reduction in our  preparedness. It is shamefully clear by Mitchell that our Presidents of the  past have gone along with this farse for votes. Clearly unsatisfactory. It  is a masterful job of telling the world what really happens when you mix  men and women in trainning and in combat. Disaster. I have seen this in a  27 year United States Marine Corps Career. Enlisted, Warrant Officer and  Commissioned Officer. Thank God that Brian Mitchelle has come along to  vindicate our own cries for relieve from this disaster. And thank goodness  that a company would even publish it. Lives are going to be lost, and the  feminist are willing to sacrifice the many for just a few. Better yet to  simply push their agenda, that is not wanted by real women in America.  Perhaps Saving Private Ryan will give all women cause to rethink and  understand why men are opposed to this idea. A must read for any man or  women who is really serious about finding out the true effect an  unprecedented increase in female participation in the military will cause.	1998-09-02
