US	52593540	R11TC6YP1JQRQL	0930769112	489041283	The Night the New Jesus Fell to Earth and Other Stories from Cliffside, North Carolina	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Fun, light reading.	I learned of Ron Rash recently when a friend mailed me a copy of his excellent short story, \\"Speckled Trout\\".  After reading that I quickly picked up this collection.<br /><br />These ten short stories, narrated by three citizens of Cliffside, NC evolve into a novella.  Mr. Rash has an ear for earthy dialogue and his characters are real enough for anyone who has spent time among the haves and have-nots of Appalachia.  His sight, sound and smell of a small mountain community rings true. There is humor in these pages touched with irony and unspoken sadness.<br /><br />\\"There are people in this world who can be happy only if they are unhappy, \\" he writes, \\"Unfortunately, these people never want to be happy in their unhappiness alone.  So they marry people like Homer.\\"<br /><br />All too rare in this work are the superbly crafted lines like the above but there is enough here to conclude that this and his other works should be read.  In truth I can not say that these stories had the weight and subtly of \\"Speckled Trout\\" but I did enjoy them and fully plan to continue to read his work.<br /><br />Those interested in the genre are also referred to the fine work being done by Bob Sloan, a very talented good old boy from Kentucky.	2005-04-10
US	52593540	R331BPWMHNBJ03	0679735259	135528120	Dispatches	Books	5	25	28	N	N	One of the best written Vietnam era books.	Herr was a war correspondent for Esquire magazine in Vietnam during the months of the Hill Fights of `67 through the winter to the Tet Offensive and on past the spring months of '68.  In his memoir, \\"Dispatches\\", he focuses primarily upon the Battle for Hue and the Siege of Khe Shan but there are glimpses of other battles. He covers Vietnam reflecting upon everything from the bar scenes of the large cities to the terror of incoming while in trenches of firebases in an outpouring of confused and conflicted memories.  Like a rock skimming across a pond he touches upon the drugs, the blaring of rock and roll, the freaks and the street-talking young toughs. In a few well-written sentences he eviscerates the information officers and the official line but spends several introspective pages exploring the parasitic nature of war correspondents. He rarely offers an opinion; he just tells in a stream of consciousness what he saw and heard. But this is not a book of great battles and heroic deeds.  It is a book about average troops and a handful of war correspondents, for whom he held deep affection, and what they had to cope with and how some of them died.<br /><br />\\"I saw that face at least a thousand times at a hundred bases and camps, all the youth sucked out of the eyes, the color drawn from the skin, cold white lips, you knew he wouldn't wait for any of it to come back.  Life had made him old, he'd live it out old.\\"<br /><br />Reading this book you feel and are touched by Vietnam and several excellent passage leave you feeling empty. Hard for a book to evoke that kind of response but this one does. Excellent writing, a damn good book.	2004-11-30
US	52593540	R2EKUU7LX08UY8	1586482491	236101738	Masters of Chaos: The Secret History of the Special Forces	Books	5	57	60	N	Y	A good book, the unfortunate title notwithstanding.	After reading a number of rush to print books on the Iraqi War, mostly written by embedded reporters, I have been waiting for this book.  None of the earlier works included the war we knew was going on in the west, north and northeast while our conventional forces drove north to Baghdad. Indeed, during the buildup and the first few months after the invasion started, I only came across one or two news accounts that even mentioned SOFs being in the area. Having read Robin Moore's, \\"The Hunt for Bin Laden\\", I knew that SOFs had to be active behind the lines in those areas.<br /><br />The author, Linda Robinson, having covered numerous guerrilla conflicts and Special Forces operations before, was one of the few journalists allowed to cover the Special Forces as an embedded reporter during Operation Iraqi Freedom. She accompanied the SFs from Umm Qasr to Basra, from Nassiriya to Kut and on to the Iranian border. This fact is revealed only in the introduction as she wisely and selflessly avoids the first person in the telling of the soldiers' unique story.<br /><br />As other reviewers have pointed out, the book begins with a brief but informative history of Special Forces including their formation, their training, Nam, the Balkans and ends with Afghanistan and Iraq.  The larger portion of the book deals with Afghanistan and Iraq.  As for the Afghanistan War, a truly remarkable story, greater depth is required and this reviewer recommends the Robin Moore book above.<br /><br />Before the official Iraq invasion date, 1st Battalion of 5th Group launched the first operations of Iraqi Freedom.  They were in country the day before the early \\"decapitation strike\\" of March 20th.  It was their job to search an area the size of New Jersey and locate potential Scud missile sites that could reach Israel, Jordan and Saudi Arabia.  In so doing, they engaged in the war's first big fight: the taking of the airfield designated H3 and the nearby city of Ar Rutba. Unlike SOFs elsewhere in Iraq, these teams did not have limited air support.<br /><br />In the south other members of 5th Group moved north on Pave Low helicopters and MC-130s Combat Talon planes to conduct reconnaissance on the vital Karbala Gap. This dangerous mission, hundreds of miles behind enemy lines, was briefed on CNN two hours before it began by a retired U. S. general.  Iraqi TV, apparently picking up the CNN story, broadcast the possibility of their presence to our enemy.  Well done gentlemen.<br /><br />In the north 10th group, with 50 teams and limited air and a force of lightly armed Kurdish militias, performed the impossible.  Under Lt. Col. Waltemeyer they took on Ansar al-Islam of Zarqawi fame and racked up unprecedented victories.  A Special Forces Battalion along with 26,00 pesh merga captured Mosul, Iraq's third largest city, defeated six enemy divisions, captured 600 and killed 859 enemy soldiers and seized 6,000 square kilometer's of territory.  Two hundred Kurds died and only four of Waltemeyer's men were wounded.<br /><br />The SOF teams performed outstanding accomplishments and deserve an entire book detailing their efforts.  But this fine book will more than do until that other book comes along.here in Iraq, these teams did not have limited air support. <br /> <br />In the south other members of 5th Group moved north on Pave Low helicopters and MC-130s Combat Talon planes to conduct reconnaissance on the vital Karbala Gap. This dangerous mission, hundreds of miles behind enemy lines, was briefed on CNN two hours before it began by a retired U. S. general.  Iraqi TV, apparently picking up the CNN story, broadcast the possibility of their presence to our enemy.  Well done gentlemen. <br /> <br />In the north 10th group, with 50 teams and limited air and a force of lightly armed Kurdish militias, performed the impossible.  Under Lt. Col. Waltemeyer they took on Ansar al-Islam of Zarqawi fame and racked up unprecedented victories.  A Special Forces Battalion along with 26,00 pesh merga captured Mosul, Iraq's third largest city, defeated six enemy divisions, captured 600 and killed 859 enemy soldiers and seized 6,000 square kilometer's of territory.  Two hundred Kurds died and only four of Waltemeyer's men were wounded.  <br /> <br />The SOF teams performed outstanding accomplishments and deserve an entire book detailing their efforts.  But this fine book will more than do until that other book comes along. <br />	2004-11-12
US	52593540	R2EYRIZPHXVU5F	1574888498	892390637	Imperial Hubris: Why the West is Losing the War on Terror	Books	4	17	19	N	Y	Makes several good points.	The book's author \\"Anonymous\\", a senior intelligence official with two decades of national security experience related to Afghanistan and South Asia, makes several excellent points that clearly need review by the intelligence community and our policy makes.<br /><br />First and foremost he, along with several others in the field, makes it clear that al Qaeda and bin Laden do not wish to destroy us for what we are, our freedom and our democracy, but rather for what we do to them with our actions and sometimes ill conceived foreign policy.  Certainly in the past we have propped up corrupt and repressive regimes for the sake of security in the area and for the continued flow of cheap oil.  It is his position that we should reexamine our support of several counties in the Gulf region and elsewhere, including our seemingly endless support for Israel.  One suspects that this last contention is a large reason why the author remains anonymous.<br /><br />His seeing our actions (foreign policy) as the cause and driving force for Muslim hatred appears in part correct but undoubtedly many also dislike us for how we live.  Our life style conveniently fits with bin Laden's demonizing of the west.  The author carefully builds a convincing case that Osama is driven by the Muslims' loving relationship with his God, that he and every Muslim is commanded by the words of The Profit to fight those attacking his faith, brethren and territory.  We are seen as occupiers stealing the wealth of their lands and corrupting their faith and they have a responsibility as Muslims to destroy us.  Not looking at the role of religion in considering the actions of bin Laden and al Qaeda is a major flaw in Anonymous' opinion.  He also argues correctly the ending of our dependency on foreign oil must be a national priority.<br /><br />He also firmly believes that the American people should be made aware in the strongest possible terms that we are at war; not a war in some remote area but here, in America, and that the Islamist mean to kill us, everyone of us. If we fail to understand that, our enemy certainly will drive that point home for us.  They have repeatedly warned that the next attack will be larger, much larger, than 911. In fact, under Muslim law, Osama has now met all the proscribed requirements (warning, offered conversion to Islam, and obtain religious approval) for his using WMDs on our country. This quote from bin Laden's late mentor, Shaykh Abdullah Azzam is instructive in this regard:<br /><br />\\"History does not write its lines except in blood. Glory does not build its lofty edifices except with skulls. Honour and respect cannot be established except on a foundation of cripples and corpses.... Indeed those who think they can change reality, or change societies, without blood sacrifices and wounds, without pure innocent souls, do not understand the essence of our religion.\\"<br /><br />The time for the west to take them at their word is long overdue.<br /><br />I could take issue with some of the remarks about the start of the war with Afghanistan (we did in fact have significant Pashtun allies, Karzi and Sharzai come to mind) but his noting that we had no plan to take out al Qaeda after years of warnings is absolutely correct.  This is unforgivable given the previous al Qaeda attacks here and abroad.  Were it not for Lt. Col. Dave Miller of the U.S. Special Operations Command, we would have absolutely been at square one. (See, \\"The Hunt For Bin Laden\\", Robin Moore, at 17.)<br /><br />This is a fine well-researched work but its main shortcoming is a rather cockeyed belief that if we leave Saudi Arabia and the rest of the Muslim world, all will be well. Bin Laden, he claims, is only waging a \\"defensive jihad\\" of the Islamic lands. (What about Spain, let's say?) Yet he goes on later in the book to undermine his assumption by quoting their warnings to us to convert to Islam and that if we don't, the Koran approves of the used of WMDs. He builds the case that they will, in time, be used against us.<br /><br />In short, he gives a good analysis of the problem but overlooks an essential element of this war: it is not ours to end by leaving.<br /><br />But in spite of that, it's a damn fine book, albeit, scary as hell.lds the case that they will, in time, be used against us. <br />In short, he gives a good analysis of the problem but overlooks an essential element of this war: it is not ours to end by leaving. <br />But in spite of that, it's a damn fine book, albeit, scary as hell. <br /> <br />	2004-09-12
US	52593540	R2SRKITW73IT96	0820325775	326063112	Sabbath Creek: A Novel	Books	1	2	8	N	Y	We know these people	The dialogue is very well done but these earthy people are already known to us.  The no-nonsense, old southern black man, the battered wife on the run from her husband and the young boy trying to find and separate himself from the debris which surrounds him.<br />We've seen them before and Sabbath Creek does little to flesh them out.	2004-05-17
US	52593540	R3JTXZ8O3EVBN8	0934841063	430148068	Tarawa the Story of a Battle	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Excellent Text for War Correspondents	Robert Sherrod was a war correspondent for Time when he waded ashore Tarawa on the afternoon of D-Day, 11/20/43. Aboard his transport ship Sherrod heard fascinating tales of the Gilbert Islands before the war, tales told to him by his shipmates, Karl Tschaun and James Forbes. Both of these men had lived and worked among these island paradises and now returned to share their knowledge of the waters with the allies.  He wrote much of his account on the flight back to the states and the book came out almost as a current event.<br />One does not get the big picture from such first hand accounts. Indeed, for the first three days Sherrod's movements were confined to an area 400 yards along the beach and no further inland than 100 yards. Instead, the reader hears the authentic voice of one who has been there, one who heard first hand the anticipation that the island would be a cake walk and then saw men horribly chopped to pieces as they went ashore. But for Sherrod to get to Tarawa he too had to wade 700 yards across the reef which surrounded and protected the island. During this march no fewer than five machine guns were firing upon him and the few Marines with him.<br />Reaching the beachhead, he sat for hours with his back to the coconut log seawall. A Marine walks by, a sniper hits his helmet and amazingly he is unharmed. The next one a moment later takes a bullet through the heart just inches from where Sherrod sat. Looking out over those coral flats the next morning &quot;...a half dozen Marines lie exposed... They are hunched over, rifles in hand, just as they fell. Further out on the flats I can see at least fifty other bodies...The smell of death, that sweetly sick odor of decaying human flesh, is already oppressive. Now that it is light, the wounded go walking by... Some have bloodless faces, some have bloody faces, others only pieces of faces.&quot;<br />The second day was worse for the waves of men and machines coming ashore. Japanese reinforcements had moved across the island and waited for the assault craft and the men who trudged through the water. Through the trained eye of a seasoned reporter, Sherrod tells of the horror, the cacophony of large cannon fire, machine weapons, the crack of rifles and the unending shaking of the earth from multiple explosions. Across this half-mile square of hell and mangled bodies the Marines, the men of the 2nd Division, inched forward, dying by the hundreds but always moving towards the enemy.<br />Sherrod didn't sugar coat anything but when he told of their horrible deaths he also spoke of their valor, heroism and courage. What he did not do was wring his hands and moan about a quagmire, a foolish plan, and the needless deaths or ask what we had done to make the Japanese despise us so.d across the island and waited for the assault craft and the men who trudged through the water. Through the trained eye of a seasoned reporter, Sherrod tells of the horror, the cacophony of large cannon fire, machine weapons, the crack of rifles and the unending shaking of the earth from multiple explosions. Across this half-mile square of hell and mangled bodies the Marines, the men of the 2nd Division, inched forward, dying by the hundreds but always moving towards the enemy. <br />Sherrod didn't sugar coat anything but when he told of their horrible deaths he also spoke of their valor, heroism and courage. What he did not do was wring his hands and moan about a quagmire, a foolish plan, and the needless deaths or ask what we had done to make the Japanese despise us so.	2004-04-26
US	52593540	R2CJFPCGWC7A3I	0226500608	200661390	A River Runs Through It	Books	5	201	209	N	Y	A book you will read more than once.	Norman Maclean began writing late in life, passing away not long after penning this extraordinary piece, depriving us of his gift just as he arrived. The book is actually three short stories but the focus is clearly on the novella &quot;A River Runs Through It&quot;. On the surface, the title story is his recollections of his father, a Presbyterian minister, and his troubled but talented brother, with whom he fished. Set in the Montana of Maclean's youth, he paints exquisitely vivid and beautiful word pictures of a land and water and family now gone. At the core is the frustration of the often-futile attempt of trying to help another or trying to save a loved one from their self-destruction. There are passages here which are as wonderfully written as anything in English. Not a page passes without discovering a superbly crafted gem. &quot;So it is...that we can seldom help anybody. Either we don't know what part to give or maybe we don't like to give any part of ourselves. Then, more often than not, the part that is needed is not wanted. And even more often, we do not have the part that is needed.&quot; &quot;It is those we live with and love and should know who elude us.&quot; Throughout the tale, his life, his religion, his family, his fly-fishing are metaphors, each for the other. And the words of each are heard in the waters and stone of the rivers. He is haunted, he tells us, by waters. I am haunted by his words which approach poetry.	2004-04-26
US	52593540	R1933JFZ0HNJ0W	1400030927	548424525	Jennifer Government	Books	1	7	21	N	Y	Nope.	Anyone comparing this to &quot;Catch 22&quot; should have read both books.  Inventive as it is, it remains a one-gag comedy.  That George Clooney has optioned it is telling.  Will Jennifer stop him before he thrills again?	2004-02-26
US	52593540	R3DRIIS5UBPMR6	1568250479	492506169	In Search of Lost Civilizations: Adventures in Archeology (The Bonehunter Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Highly enjoyable.	This was a fun book to read and informative on a great many subjects.  Mr. Tansey becomes our personal guide as we walk with him on his exploration of archeological sites in the New World.  The author carefully adds interesting facts which augment the central theme.  Mr. Tansey obviously comes from a time when people enjoyed knowledge just for the sake of knowledge.  They enjoyed understanding as much of the world around them as possible.  From his diverse educational background he shares with us along our tour features from the world of archeology, early man in the New World, biology, geology, anthropology and paleontology.<br />Reading Tansey's book is like walking the wood with a naturalist.  He sees and he shows you what he sees and how he came to see it.  And in the bargain, he shows you how to make your own discoveries.	2003-11-13
US	52593540	R30M74Y7XL4AQ4	0345459148	64188945	13 Cent Killers: The 5th Marine Snipers in Vietnam	Books	1	0	0	N	N	I believe were the best of our generation	Sergeant Culbertson, thank you for your service to your country. With all respect for you and all who served in Vietnam, my review speaks for itself. Those who served, including Hathcock and you, I believe were the best of our generation. Good luck with your book. Because of your service, I have removed my negative review.  It's contents and conclusions remain unchanged for me even if no longer published.	2003-07-29
US	52593540	R14Z7GHBWGHD01	0375508619	513748034	The Hunt for Bin Laden: Task Force Dagger	Books	5	20	32	N	Y	The New Face of Warfare	Before the day of September 11, 2001 ended, a meeting was taking place in Tampa at the headquarters of Special Operations Command and Central Command.  Owing to the depletion of our military arsenals in Bosnia and our military capabilities having been reduced by 40% during the Clinton years, Gen. Franks was faced with a serious problem.  He knew the U.S. didn't have enough cruise missiles, smart bombs and ammunition to back a conventional war in Afghanistan.  He also knew it would be political suicide to tell the White House and Rumsfeld we weren't ready for war.<br />Lt. Col. Dave Miller of the U.S. Special Operations Command understood the situation and conceived a plan that would map the future of the Special Forces.  First a dialogue and connection had to be established with the Northern Alliance (NA) and other Afghanistan resistance groups.  Next, personal relationships between those leaders and Special Forces had to be developed and, third, supplies and money had to be delivered in bulk to conduct the fighting against Al Qaeda and the Taliban. Fourth, U.S. air power.  The plan also called for teams of usually 12 men each, each man a specialist, to coordinate activities and call in air support.<br />This type unconventional warfare was precisely the reason for creating Special Forces.  But unlike their predecessors, these A-Teams would be high tech, deep targeteers for twenty-first century smart weapons.  At the end of Col. Miller's presentation, Gen. Franks was convinced that Special Forces would have to carry the war to the enemy in Afghanistan.<br />Their story is told in chronological order, following each A-Team as it established contact with local commanders.  The pattern was somewhat similar with each team.  Night insertion in country, dangerous and difficult travel to the safe place of each general, followed by preparation of a \\"needs\\" list.  Supplies would be air dropped, local fighters re-supplied and trust would be established slowly.  Once the first battle was engaged and the teams called in precision laser guide ordinance on target, time and time again, their value was immediately apparent to all the NA mujahadeen.  The results were nothing short of staggering.<br />Less than 200 men on the ground targeting for air support and lending small arm support to the NA turned the tide of war in Afghanistan.  Their skill, daring and courage, even after long years of political neglect, should make us realize that there has always been such men and, hopefully, there always will.<br />This is a remarkable story of the silent professionals of the Special forces.  If Mr. Moore at times becomes somewhat of a cheerleader, it is due in large part to the fact that there is much to cheer about.t battle was engaged and the teams called in precision laser guide ordinance on target, time and time again, their value was immediately apparent to all the NA mujahadeen.  The results were nothing short of staggering. <br />Less than 200 men on the ground targeting for air support and lending small arm support to the NA turned the tide of war in Afghanistan.  Their skill, daring and courage, even after long years of political neglect, should make us realize that there has always been such men and, hopefully, there always will.  <br />This is a remarkable story of the silent professionals of the Special forces.  If Mr. Moore at times becomes somewhat of a cheerleader, it is due in large part to the fact that there is much to cheer about.	2003-03-28
US	52593540	R3FCZB9X76QGA5	0743235355	730119057	Jarhead: A Marine's Chronicle of the Gulf War and Other Battles	Books	1	30	63	N	Y	One Brave Guy!	In \\"Jarhead\\" Anthony Swofford paints a vivid, albeit surreal, landscape of a Marine snipe/scout in the desert of the first Gulf War. Without regard for demeaning himself in the eyes of Marines who actually saw combat, he shows us the horror and psychological damage one can sustain from the natural consequences of war: the needless destruction of civilian infrastructure, death of men, comrades and, apparently worse, several camels.<br />He tosses a veritable incoherent word salad as he attempts to describe the confusion, angst and even light-hearted moments of the modern combat soldier. \\"... I throw the pear, and when it lands, sand attaches to the moist fruit, like memory to the soft parts of the brain.\\"  Obviously, his attempt falls well wide of the mark.<br />Swofford lets it all hang out, sparing us, his readers, nothing. Twice, we are told, that his fear was such that he urinated on himself. The fact that in his four-day war, he saw no actual combat is of no moment. This is a man brave enough to say that some of us, particularly in these trying times, are a little prone to urinating on ourselves for causes both internal and remote.<br />Swofford speaks in a voice, neither altogether strange nor familiar, that whispers of timelessness, of being beyond the transcendent effervescence of purpose. Reading his words we feel his knowing eye peering into his deepest, most personal self, violating his defenses, tearing them away with his reason and leaving him face to face with his intimate deceptions. Can any war be justified? He forces us to confront with him things at the very nature of, and composed within the all encompassing All, struggling to free himself and become known. He tells us that \\"The warrior always fights for a sorry cause.\\" In other words, Swofford's view of the Gulf War will be embraced and applauded primarily by new age, counter culture flakes.  Others will see the book for what it is.<br />Thank you Mr. Swofford for this book and your war, the likes of which no real Marine and no civilian with a sense of honor or self pride has seen before.es of which no real Marine and no civilian with a sense of honor or self pride has seen before.	2003-03-16
US	52593540	R37FW8N62VEDX4	0891416978	228726947	Beyond the Rhine: A Screaming Eagle in Germany	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	The Final Days	In what may become his last book, Donald Burgett closes his account of A co., 506th, 101st with the long walk from Bastogne to war's end. Given an all too brief respite after their magnificent stand at Bastogne during the Bulge, the 101st was called upon again and convoyed for 36 hours into the Alsace region near the town of Wickersheim. There they remained at the ready in the path of one of Germany's last gasps, \\"Operation Nordwind\\".<br />From Bastonge on, the outfit saw only limited battle. The anxiety of a night patrol by boat across the Moder River and a few minor skirmishes, while well written, are a far cry from the bloody pace of the earlier books. During this period, men still died, but the war was all but over. Burgett tells of doing morning exercise on March 24th, 1945 and looking skyward to see over 5,000 Allied aircraft heading into Germany. At Remagen the patrol that crossed the Rhine some few weeks before became the vanguard of what was to be the largest river crossing in history. Three armies under Montgomery had crossed the Rhine that morning at daybreak.<br />As Normandy, Market Garden and the Bulge formed the nucleus of the three prior books, the horrors the 101st witnessed at the concentration camp at Landsberg form the core of this latest volume. Told in Burgett's straightforward, clean style, the insanity and demonic results of Nazi Germany leaves the reader with an unreal nausea. Not even animals are capable of this degree of cruelty.<br />It seems to this reviewer that from this point forward, the writing becomes more introspective. From Burgett's reflecting upon the hundreds of thousands of Germans surrendering along the highways, to his watching at night the sight of a full division singing by candle light as they walked home defeated but glad to be going home, to his walking through Flanders Field blanketed with red poppies, his style becomes far more lyrical than his earlier writing.<br />Upon hearing that Japan had surrendered he came to understand that he had lived; that he and the others were going home. \\"We were to go home instead. Go home to America. America- it seemed to be a dream now, a misty wonderland that had existed only in our minds.\\" God bless all of them, they sure as hell earned that and more.o understand that he had lived; that he and the others were going home. \\"We were to go home instead. Go home to America. America- it seemed to be a dream now, a misty wonderland that had existed only in our minds.\\" God bless all of them, they sure as hell earned that and more.	2001-10-17
US	52593540	R10EFR3ZLYSKMP	0425176606	211782980	Silent Warrior: The Marine Sniper's Story Continues	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Outstanding.	Utilizing materials omitted from his original book on Carlos Hathcock, &quot;Marine Sniper&quot;, Charles Henderson fills in some very interesting gaps in this earlier book.  Additional information was also obtained from interviews conducted in Vietnam in 1994, particularly with general Gen. Tran Van Tra, Commander in Chief of the Viet Cong.  \\"Silent Warrior\\" may start a bit slow, perhaps owing to the maudlin and unnecessary fiction of Hathcock reviewing his life upon his death bed, but the action and the suspense picks up fast.  Particularly chilling was the account of the sadistic torture methods employed by the notorious Frenchman, Philip Metz, and the Apache.  The elimination of both by Hathcock were clear examples of the necessity of taking life to prevent further killing.  The telling of his taking out of the Frenchman shortly before he could utilize his particular skills again was very well written.<br />Hathcock's sniping was so effective and had so demoralized the enemy that they placed a bounty oh his head equal to three years pay.  Additionally, under Colonel Ba, a ten-man team of snipers was brought into the area with the exclusive purpose of killing Hathcock and his Captain, Jim Land.  The elimination of the leader and best sniper of this team in a tense cat and mouse game of stalking and tracking was extremely well done, both in the act and in the retelling.  The shot that brings his counter part to his demise would be unbelievable were it not so well documented.<br />\\"Marine Sniper\\" and \\"Silent Warrior\\" are well written books about the life of Carlos Hathcock, the finest sniper to take to the field.  His life and exploits are the stuff of heroes, of men larger than mortals.  Among Marines he is one of the best known and most beloved of their members.  Fitting of Hathcock although written for another are the words, \\"The elements so mixed in him that all of nature would stand and say, this was a man\\".	2001-10-10
US	52593540	R3GCZ6Z5MHCPCH	0813108756	755408365	Once They Were Eagles: The Men of the Black Sheep Squadron	Books	2	27	36	N	N	A more honest look than TV, but then, what isn't?	As the intelligence office for the Black Sheep Squadron, author Frank Walton had access to their daily combat reports. He himself had written them. From these records and his later interviews with the surviving members of the group, he penned this history. Written primarily to dispel the myth created by the TV production, he most certainly shows the men in a more realistic light. The false presentation of these men by the writers of that series as &quot;brawling bums&quot; and &quot;fugitives from courts-martial&quot; does not stand in the light he casts upon them, their character and their record. In the second half of the book, Walton introduces each man as he was when the book was written in 1986. By and large, most became very successful.<br /><br />But the drama of their fighting over the Solomons falls flat in the telling. Their aerial exploits read with all the excitement and anticipation of the menu at the corner hamburger joint. The men of the Black Sheep fought together for only 12 weeks and amassed the best kill record in the South Pacific: 94 kills in only 84 days. Pappy Boyington accounted for 26 (or 28, if he is to be believed). Unfortunately, these moments of high achievement are told in the driest of voices.<br />Perhaps the biggest fault in the book is Walton's almost non-telling of Boyington's troubled life. He originally left the Marine Aviators days before they would have put him out for unbecoming conduct and he left the Flying Tigers for much the same reason. This highly skilled combat pilot and gifted leader of men was deeply troubled and it manifested itself in his drinking and unpredictable fighting. Playing it down adds nothing to Walton's attempt to &quot;set the record straight&quot; for the rest of the squadron.<br />Given the resources at his command, his personal friendship with all 51 original members of the group and his intimate friendship with Boyington, one would have expected a better result. Walton's stated purpose was to clear the record for the men, to present them as the men of ability, honor and skill that they were. In this regard, he does succeed.he record for the men, to present them as the men of ability, honor and skill that they were. In this regard, he does succeed.	2001-09-27
US	52593540	R2K3Z2FW0HRDNV	0679760237	279143118	In Pharaoh's Army: Memories of the Lost War	Books	5	21	26	N	Y	This book, I will read again.	In the large, this is not strictly a novel about the war in Vietnam.  Vietnam was merely the backdrop, the structure upon which Wolff placed his search for understanding. In fact, each chapter is a short story so well written they can stand by themselves.<br />Wolff has a unique writing style; clean, nothing wasted. Adjectives and adverbs are used sparsely and throughout the work countless gems are smoothly woven into the story line.  With an all too rare honesty, he confronts, often with dark humor, his loves, his fears, his competency and the pointless nature of the many wars in which he is lost.<br />His reconciliation with his grifter father upon his return to the states is remarkably moving.  The subtly of that reunion, of a son and father who desperately need each other inspite of a lifetime of bitterness, keeps drawing your thoughts back to it.<br />Well done.	2001-09-26
US	52593540	R3VCNOYYHCHH7J	0891417168	515945535	Black Sheep One: The Life of Gregory "Pappy" Boyington	Books	4	28	30	N	N	Before, during and after the fall.	Gamble's biography of Boyington begins with his dysfunctional upbringing in the Pacific Northwest.  Raised by a troubled mother and a ...stepfather, the deck was stacked early against this man of great potential. This good time Charlie, devil-may-care college boy became one of the leading Aces of WWII, with twenty-nine kills, if he is to be believed.  And Gamble apparently does not believe all that Boyington has to say on this subject. Never drinking until his twenties, Boyington became the cliched drunk.  Often he flew loaded or badly hung over.<br />In this frank look at the life of the Black Sheep Squadrons leader, Gamble strips away much of the lies, myths and Hollywood trappings to present the man as he was; the tragic hero.<br />From his brief time spent with Claire Chennaults Flying Tigers to his rejoining the Maine Aviators to his being awarded the Medal of Honor, the bottle was never far from arms reach. After spending almost two years as a POW and upon his triumphant return to the states at wars end, he is told by his intelligence officer, Frank Walton, he could be anything he chose but he had to leave booze alone or it would kill him.  Needless to say, his life spiraled out of control until it was much too late.  From a series of failed relationships and marriages, to repeated job changes and financial ruin he became a mere curiosity hustling his former valor for a few dollars.  In Waltons own book, \\"Once They Were Eagles\\", he compares him unkindly to a dancing circus bear pushing his autographs at air shows and conventions.<br />Throughout the book there are more than a few glimmers of the man beneath the booze and the greatness that awaited Boyington were it not for his illness.  A college wrestling champion, a fine college student, a natural leader and above all, a bold and fearless fighter pilot.  If Gamble destroys some myths, he also lets Boyingtons greatness stand without the tinsel.  And in 1943 he was a giant.	2001-09-10
US	52593540	R3C5H8LENVWIPS	0750921676	264509191	The Battle for Iwo Jima,1945	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Why take Iwo?	Once the Marianas fell, the U.S. wasted no time in building five airbases there in order to send the Superfortresses, the B-29s, over the Japanese home islands to bomb factories and large cities. On Iwo Jima, the Japanese maintained an airbase and a radar system. Situated half way between the Marianas and Japan, Japanese fighters were sent aloft to harass the B-29s both coming and going on their runs. The radar afforded the enemy a two-hour advance warning of the bombing raids. Iwo was taken to put an end to this and to provide a refuge for our damaged bombers on the return run. From now on, our own fighters from Iwo would accompany the big planes on the last leg of their flight.<br />In this relatively small book, Derrick Wright does not waste a word. In less than 200 pages he tells in great detail of the struggles of the three Marine Divisions which took this island. He also does justice to the strategy and leadership of General Kuribayashi, the commander of the Japanese forces. Taking a lesson from the earlier amphibious assaults, he adopted a defense in depth rather than attempt to defeat the enemy at the beach. Forbidden as well were the useless banzai attacks. Instead he would concentrate on attrition, forcing the Marines to pay heavily for every bit of ground gained. He oversaw the construction of dozens of subsurface blockhouses, bunkers and a labyrinth of underground fortifications, many connected by tunnels. Once again, Howlin Mad Smith comes under criticism, this time for refusing to send in the 3rd Regiment of the 3rd Division when casualties ashore had soared. If the book has a fault, it is the too kind treatment of H. M. Smith. The Marines suffered 5,885 dead and 17,272 wounded. The Navy lost 881 men and another 1,917 wounded. Japanese death toll has been calculated at 21,060. 27 Medals of Honor were awarded at Iwo and Wright tells each story briefly in an appendix.	2001-08-30
US	52593540	R1B30N416LDZQ3	3920677064	730917019	When all our brothers are silent (Wenn alle Bruder schweigen)	Books	3	26	37	N	Y	A bit more than photos. 3 stars because of the price.	Gathered from photos belonging to members of the Waffen-SS themselves, this is an outstanding collection of Second World War photos. We are told in the brief pages preceding the photos that this collection was put in book form by the Association of Soldiers of the Former Waffen-SS. Originally published in 1973, a one page forward is written by Paul Hausser, the former Colonel-General and highest ranking office of the Waffen-SS.<br />It was hoped by the member of the association, that these photos showing the men of the Waffen-SS in their daily activities would allow the reader/viewer to walk \\"among the people\\", that is, to see them as something other than the beasts they have come to be known. Whether such an undertaken can be achieved by this or any collection is doubtful. What is accomplished is a fine compilation of photos of the men of the Waffen-SS and the raising of significant questions in the introduction. By 1944, the Waffen-SS had between 900,000 and 1,000,000 men in uniform. Were they all war criminals by virtue of merely belonging to any of these 38 divisions? Of particular interest was the questions raised regarding the quilt of the high ranking officers due to the murder of 71 American soldiers at Malmedy and the treatment of partisans belonging to the \\"Stella Rossa\\" in Italy.<br />The photos and the questions raised are substantial. Whether one is willing to pay the high cost of this book is another.	2001-08-30
US	52593540	R2XRQOTDB60VO5	089141651X	899622772	The Liberation of Guam: 21 July-10 August 1944	Books	4	15	15	N	N	The fight for our bastion in the Central Pacific	The US acquired Guam in 1899 by peace treaty with Spain at the end of the Spanish-American War.  The desirability of having a large, secure naval base west of Hawaii was recommended to Congress in 1938 but, by the fall of 1941, the decision was made to write off Guam.  It was too late to defend it.  At the time of Pearl Harbor, less than 200 Marines were there available for it's defense and only 271 members of the naval complement for the few ships in the harbor.  The island fell to the Japanese on 12/10/42 after brief fighting.<br />The III Amphibious Corp, under Marine Maj. Gen. Roy Geiger, landed on Guam on 7/21/45.  After twenty days of fighting and 7,714 casualties, the island was retaken.  The Corp was comprised of the 3rd Marine Division, the 1st Provisional Brigade (Marine) and the 77th Infantry Division (Army) in reserve.  Two separate landings, utilizing a total of 358 LVTs, were made on the west coast of the island, north and south of the important Orote Peninsula.  Once these beachheads were secured, elements of the 3rd Marines in the north would turn south while the 22nd Marines of the brigade in the south made a similar swing to the north.  This turning was necessary to seal off the peninsula, reduce the Japanese forces now isolated and defending the serviceable airfield located there.  After this linkup, there would be a combined drive eastward cutting through the remaining defenders, dividing their forces.<br />Losses on W-Day (so designated due to the multiple invasions taking place in the Marianas) were much higher than anticipated and the Marine position was far from secure on the shallow beachheads.  Unpredictably, General Takashina did not even contemplate any massive counterattacks against the beaches during the day.  Rather than formulate a rational plan, he acquiesced in a futile night attack by three battalions which were annihilated. Originally defended by a force of 18,000 men, Gailey makes a strong case that Takashina could still inflict a heavy cost for the island.  In stead, his men and resources were pointlessly destroyed in a large-scale banzai attack.  In a few hours of fighting on the night of July 25-26 the enemy lost over 3,500 men, 95% of their officers and 90% of their weapons.  The fighting would continue for months, but from a strategic point of view, the outcome was fixed.<br />While the US lost 1,700 men and over 6,000 wounded, the strategic importance of the Marianas has never been questioned.  From the five airfields constructed on Guam, Saipan and Tinian, B-29s were continuously launched against the Japanese home islands and major cities.  By early 1945 Guam had become the center of the complex command network in the Pacific. Gailey tells us most of the destruction wrought on Japan during the last months of the war had its origin on Guam.  Not included in this observation was the fact that the Enola Gay took off from Tinianct a heavy cost for the island.  In stead, his men and resources were pointlessly destroyed in a large-scale banzai attack.  In a few hours of fighting on the night of July 25-26 the enemy lost over 3,500 men, 95% of their officers and 90% of their weapons.  The fighting would continue for months, but from a strategic point of view, the outcome was fixed.  <br />While the US lost 1,700 men and over 6,000 wounded, the strategic importance of the Marianas has never been questioned.  From the five airfields constructed on Guam, Saipan and Tinian, B-29s were continuously launched against the Japanese home islands and major cities.  By early 1945 Guam had become the center of the complex command network in the Pacific. Gailey tells us most of the destruction wrought on Japan during the last months of the war had its origin on Guam.  Not included in this observation was the fact that the Enola Gay took off from Tinian	2001-08-21
US	52593540	R29E97Y0TU86B3	0195067142	78132355	With the Old Breed: At Peleliu and Okinawa	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Topnotch first hand account.	Author E. B. Sledge enlisted in the Marines on 12/3/42. Ultimately a member of K Co, 3rd Battalion, 5th Regiment of the 1st Marine Division, he went ashore with the Old Breed on Peleliu and Okinawa. This memoir of his time in training and combat was originally written to help his family understand his war. The result of his efforts is among the most vivid descriptions of the horrors of war that this reviewer has encountered. The necessity for taking Peleliu was questioned during the war as it is now. MacArthur was of the opinion that Peleliu was necessary to protect his right flank during his invasion of the Philippines. Given the then weakened state of the Imperial Navy and the destruction of much of the Japanese air power after the taking of the Marianas, the necessity of taking Peleliu is widely questioned. The island quite possibly should have been bypassed. On Peleliu the Japanese employed a change in tactics. No more would the enemy attempt to defend the beach. From this point forward, and at Iwo and Okinawa, they would employ a defense in depth based upon mutually supporting, fortified positions. Utilizing the natural terrain, Japanese engineers constructed pillboxes, gun emplacements and strong points in caves, depressions and reverse slopes, often connected by tunnels. There was no one main line of defense and they fought until the last position was taken by force. Because of the invasion of Normandy three months earlier, little press was given to this little understood and under-reported island battle. Incredible as it seems, the Old Breed, the 1st Marine Division, suffered twice as many casualties on Peleliu as the 2nd Marine Division did at bloody Tarawa. Sledge lets us see through his eyes the horror of moving through an open field in a vain attempt to take Bloody Nose Ridge and the ultimate reduction of the Umurbrogol Pocket. &quot;Each day&quot;, he tells us, &quot;brought some new dimension of dread...I witnessed some new, ghastly, macabre facet in the kaleidoscope of the unreal.&quot; From one hell to another, the 1st Marine Division again encountered the defense in depth at Okinawa, the last amphibious invasion. This action utilized the largest invasion fleet ever assembled in the Pacific. On Peleliu the digging of foxholes and burial sites was impossible due to the coral surface of the island with little or no soil. The enemy dead were everywhere, bloated and covered with maggots. The stench of decaying flesh and excrement was unrelenting. On Okinawa, the situation was worse. The precise and constant shelling by the enemy often prevented the moving of American dead as well. &quot;When enemy artillery exploded in the area, the eruption of soil and mud uncovered previously buried Japanese dead and scattered chunks of corpses...the ridge was a stinking compost pile. If a Marine slipped and slid down the back slope of the muddy ridge, he was apt to reach the bottom vomiting...horror stricken in disbelief while fat maggots tumbled out of his muddy dungaree pockets, cartridge belt, legging lacings, and the like. It is too preposterous to think that men could actually live and fight for days and nights on end under such terrible conditions and not be driven insane.&quot; The reduction of Okinawa took 82 days and Sledge suffered the same ghastly nightmare for many, many years. The dream was always the same: going back into the line on Okinawa. Peleliu and Okinawa were taken but at a high cost. Total American casualties for both islands were 7,613 killed and missing and 31,807 wounded. The 1st marine Division alone suffered 14,191 men killed, wounded or missing. &quot;What a pitiful waste,&quot; Sledge wrote, reflecting on the death of an unknown Marine teenager. Reading his book, one is compelled to ask the larger question but is grateful that the invasion of the Japanese home islands became unnecessary.he kaleidoscope of the unreal.&quot; From one hell to another, the 1st Marine Division again encountered the defense in depth at Okinawa, the last amphibious invasion. This action utilized the largest invasion fleet ever assembled in the Pacific. On Peleliu the digging of foxholes and burial sites was impossible due to the coral surface of the island with little or no soil. The enemy dead were everywhere, bloated and covered with maggots. The stench of decaying flesh and excrement was unrelenting. On Okinawa, the situation was worse. The precise and constant shelling by the enemy often prevented the moving of American dead as well. &quot;When enemy artillery exploded in the area, the eruption of soil and mud uncovered previously buried Japanese dead and scattered chunks of corpses...the ridge was a stinking compost pile. If a Marine slipped and slid down the back slope of the muddy ridge, he was apt to reach the bottom vomiting...horror stricken in disbelief while fat maggots tumbled out of his muddy dungaree pockets, cartridge belt, legging lacings, and the like. It is too preposterous to think that men could actually live and fight for days and nights on end under such terrible conditions and not be driven insane.&quot; The reduction of Okinawa took 82 days and Sledge suffered the same ghastly nightmare for many, many years. The dream was always the same: going back into the line on Okinawa. Peleliu and Okinawa were taken but at a high cost. Total American casualties for both islands were 7,613 killed and missing and 31,807 wounded. The 1st marine Division alone suffered 14,191 men killed, wounded or missing. &quot;What a pitiful waste,&quot; Sledge wrote, reflecting on the death of an unknown Marine teenager. Reading his book, one is compelled to ask the larger question but is grateful that the invasion of the Japanese home islands became unnecessary.	2001-08-17
US	52593540	R18RP70FLHN1ZG	0891412425	238391810	Howlin Mad vs The Army: Conflict in Command Saipan 1944	Books	5	19	21	N	N	The Dismissal at Saipan Revisited.	Marine Corps Lt. Gen. H.M. \\"Howlin' Mad\\" Smith, Commander of V Amphibious Corps on June 15, 1944 lead the assault against Saipan in the Marianas.  Ashore was the 2nd and 4th Marine Divisions, who suffered sufficiently heavy initial casualties to commit the Army 27th Division.  The three divisions advanced eastward across the waist of the island.  Leaving only two battalions of the 27th (one said to be under strength) to destroy the enemy in the southeastern part of the island, H.M. Smith pivoted the two Marine Divisions and the bulk of the 27th in a line advancing north.  The 27th was now assigned the center of the line facing the central highlands.  By the eighth day of the battle for Saipan, the 2nd and 4th Marine Divisions had advanced rapidly on each side of the island.  The 27th lagged far behind, creating a \\"U\\" shaped front and the threat of open flanks for both Marine Divisions.  The elements of the 27th left in the southeast were likewise making little progress.  Whether these developments were due to the Army facing the enemy on far more difficult terrain and defended by greater numbers, is the subject matter of Gailey's book.  On June 24, H.M. Smith, without any reconnaissance by members of Corps staff, relieved his subordinate, Maj. Gen. Ralph Smith.  The resulting furor in the media caused a firestorm and increased the inter-services resentment.<br />Tracing H.M. Smith's bitterness to his earlier experience with the 27th on Makin, Gailey skillfully builds a case against Howlin Mad.  In fairness, this book should be read together with H.M. Smith's \\"Coral and Brass\\".  That autobiographical work was written largely as an explanation of the dismissal.  It is beyond the scope of this review to compare the two divergent views but, by and large, one is left with the conviction that the accepted historical view is based more upon the preconceptions of the Hearst Newspapers and Time Magazine and not fact.  Like MacArthur, it would appear that Howlin' enjoyed the favor of the press.<br />H.M. Smith was a genius at training, tactics and logistics.  His service to his country and the Corps can not be overstated.  His ability as a field commander is not as clear.  Gailey has done much to restore the name of Ralph Smith and the men of the 27th Division who subsequently had to carry the stigma of cowards when they later fought on Okinawa.favor of the press.<br />H.M. Smith was a genius at training, tactics and logistics.  His service to his country and the Corps can not be overstated.  His ability as a field commander is not as clear.  Gailey has done much to restore the name of Ralph Smith and the men of the 27th Division who subsequently had to carry the stigma of cowards when they later fought on Okinawa.	2001-08-11
US	52593540	R3PZNCV7WY5BGY	0892010517	528977011	Coral and Brass	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A piece of history in its own right.	Penned by Smith with the help of Percy Finch in 1948, Coral and Brass is the autobiography of one of the most colorful and controversial commanders of WW II.  Prior to the Japanese in the Pacific, Marine \\"Howlin' Mad\\" Smith waged war with the Navy and the Army.  Never one to back down from a fight, he often railed against real and imagined slights. His resentment against the Navy seemed to stem from the horrible treatment he and his men received aboard ship in 1909.  Headed to Nicaragua, the Marines were denied access to the canteen and were forced to pay 10 to 20 times the going rate for cigarettes and candy.  At the Naval War College in 1920 he again ran headlong into the Navy's mindset that Marines \\"...were the lowest form of naval life\\" and \\"Marine officers are not qualified...to command large forces in war.\\"  It was largely through his efforts and others that the Marines were finally placed on equal footing with the other branches of the service.<br />In 1933, the Fleet Marine Force (FMF) was created and a permanent organization for the study and practice of amphibious warfare was brought into existence. The following year they produced a new doctrine of landing operations - the \\"Tentative Landing Operations Manual\\", which was subsequently adopted by the Navy in 1938 and by the Army in 1941.  In 1937, then Col. Smith was made Director of Operations and Training and began building a modern amphibious force along the lines of the new doctrine.  He later became Commander, V Amphibious Corps and then Commanding General, Fleet Marine Force.<br />Smith and several other men of vision understood the nature of the coming war in the Pacific and set out to train and supply the Corps properly.  It was these men who fought so hard for the production of the Higgins boat, Roebling's \\"Alligator\\", the LVT and other amphibious craft.  In this regard and in tactics, Smith was a foresighted genius.  For better or worse, he also saw himself as a combat commander.  Surrounded by controversy for most of his career, this book was written largely to justify his dismissal of Army Maj. Gen. Ralph Smith at Saipan.  He tells us in the introduction that he does so relying \\"largely\\" on his memory.  Perhaps that explains why many of his recollections are at odds with other written materials and testimony of the day.<br />Smith is one of those men who became larger, much larger than life.  The media of the day sided with H.M. Smith and the history of the event is largely taken from a magazine article written by Robert Sherrod and subsequent newspaper articles.  Questions, nevertheless, persist as to his fitness to command.  (See, \\"Howlin' Mad\\" vs The Army by Harry Gailey)  This is unfortunate for, in his proper element, the man was, without doubt, deserving of the praise heaped upon him.  His co-author should have told him that making \\"I\\" his favorite word would not serve him well.by controversy for most of his career, this book was written largely to justify his dismissal of Army Maj. Gen. Ralph Smith at Saipan.  He tells us in the introduction that he does so relying \\"largely\\" on his memory.  Perhaps that explains why many of his recollections are at odds with other written materials and testimony of the day. <br />Smith is one of those men who became larger, much larger than life.  The media of the day sided with H.M. Smith and the history of the event is largely taken from a magazine article written by Robert Sherrod and subsequent newspaper articles.  Questions, nevertheless, persist as to his fitness to command.  (See, \\"Howlin' Mad\\" vs The Army by Harry Gailey)   This is unfortunate for, in his proper element, the man was, without doubt, deserving of the praise heaped upon him.   His co-author should have told him that making \\"I\\" his favorite word would not serve him well.	2001-08-11
US	52593540	R3CUBEF4MZER80	0807123390	42373197	Andrew Jackson Higgins and the Boats that Won World War II (Eisenhower Center Studies on War and Peace)	Books	5	27	27	N	Y	Shades of Howard Roark	It is easy to see why Marine Corps Lt. Gen. \\"Howlin' Mad&quot; Smith and Andrew Higgins were great friends.  Both were dynamic men of genius who suffered the bungling of lesser men, often times, the same group of bunglers.  But neither man would suffer in silence.  Smith, along with other farsighted Marines, understood quite early the nature of the coming war in the Pacific.  It would be a bloody contest of island hopping across the Pacific to the very shores of the Japanese home islands.  The taking of those islands would necessarily require the landing of assault troops on defended beaches and the United States lacked proper amphibious craft for the task.  There was a critical lack of troop transports, cargo transports and a satisfactory landing craft to bring both ashore had yet to be designed.<br />From the bayous and backwater swamps of Louisiana, boat builder and designer Andrew Higgins produced a boat far superior to other designs, the now famous Higgins Boat.  Incredibly, the Navy's Bureau of Construction and Repair (BCR), as early as 1934, preferred to ignore this boat.  Even more incredible, in sixty-one hours he designed and built a tank lighter which far exceeded the design produced by the Bureau of Ships.  Both craft were largely ignored in spite of their superior performance in multiple government tests.  But the men who would use these craft first, the service men who formulated the \\"Tentative Landing Operations Manual\\" in 1934 became Higgins strongest allies and chief among them was H. M. Smith.  The Marines saw the worth of the boats he designed and fought for them.  They fought for the best landing craft which would carry their Marines ashore under enemy fire. But the battle against the Bureau of Ships would not be won until after widespread pettiness and favoritism was exposed by Higgins before the Truman Committee to Investigate the National Defense Program in 1942.  One man, Andrew Higgins, took on the Washington and military bureaucrats, the leaders of the eastern shipping industry and won.  In short order, he took on a vicious labor racket, profiteering from the war by so-called \\"labor suppliers\\".  He beat them too.<br />Remarkably, in September of 1943 the American navy totaled 14,072 vessels.  Of these, 12,964 or 92% were designed by Higgins industry.  Higgins designed and built high-speed PT boats, antisubmarine boats, dispatch boats, freight supply boats and specialized patrol craft.  He produced several types of landing craft, including the famous Higgins boat (LCVPs) and the tank lighter (LCMs).<br />Of Higgins, General Eisenhower stated in 1964, \\"He is the man who won the war for us.\\"<br />Strahan has penned a fine tribute to a truly remarkable man.  Strahan's strength, like his mentor, Steve Ambrose, is his prodigious research skills. One wonders what he would have produced had he stayed in history in stead of venturing off to run Lucky Dogs in New Orleans.leaders of the eastern shipping industry and won.  In short order, he took on a vicious labor racket, profiteering from the war by so-called \\"labor suppliers\\".  He beat them too.<br />Remarkably, in September of 1943 the American navy totaled 14,072 vessels.  Of these, 12,964 or 92% were designed by Higgins industry.  Higgins designed and built high-speed PT boats, antisubmarine boats, dispatch boats, freight supply boats and specialized patrol craft.  He produced several types of landing craft, including the famous Higgins boat (LCVPs) and the tank lighter (LCMs).  <br />Of Higgins, General Eisenhower stated in 1964, \\"He is the man who won the war for us.\\"<br />Strahan has penned a fine tribute to a truly remarkable man.  Strahan's strength, like his mentor, Steve Ambrose, is his prodigious research skills. One wonders what he would have produced had he stayed in history in stead of venturing off to run Lucky Dogs in New Orleans.	2001-08-10
US	52593540	RMJSJUGPVDWAQ	0940328127	78110453	Across the Reef The Amphibious Tracked Vehicle at War	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Where has this book been?	Victor Croizat, a retired Marine Colonel, has written an excellent history of the LVT (Landing Vehicle Tracked).  From its original purpose as a rescue vehicle known as the \\"alligator\\" and designed by Donald Roebling of Florida, it was modified and pressed into service as a tracked cargo carrier in WW II.  From this modest logistic beginning at Guadalcanal and Bougainville, a handful of visionaries began to see the craft's full potential.  The reefs at Tarawa prove to be the watershed event for the LVT.  When tide and coral prevented the Higgins Boats (LCVP) from bring men ashore, the LVT merely lumbered forward, carrying men and material where the Higgins Boat could not go.   From this point forward, in the Pacific Theater at least, the LVT and its many variations became a key element in every amphibious assault.  From the Gilberts to Kwajalein in the Marshalls to Saipan, Tinian and Guam in the Marianas and on to Peleliu, Iwo Jima and Okinawa, the landing craft of choice was clearly the LVT.  By war's end, over 18,000 had been produced.<br />Tactics evolved and each island invasion incorporated lessons learned from the ones that proceeded.  The familiar pattern developed quickly.  After increased naval and air craft bombardment, the rocket firing gunboats, LCI(G)s, would cross the line of departure.  Following closely behind were the armored versions of the LVTs, firing as they lead the troop carrying LVTs ashore.  Once the assault troops were ashore, the LVTs reverted to their cargo carrying role, bring ammunition, water and supplies to land and carrying the wounded to hospital ships.  Several continued carrying men inland hundreds of yard engaging the enemy with the their four MGs as the situation demanded.  The armored LVTs would then protect the flanks, firing their 37mm and 75mm canons.  Having been found too light to serve as tanks, they would be ashore deployed as self-propelled guns, assisting the artillery batteries or on the reefs serving guard duty.<br />The book traces the evolution of the vehicle and the tactics utilized in a logical fashion by following the chronology of the War in the Pacific.  Two concluding chapters deal briefly with the LVT in Korea and Viet Nam and the state of amphibious operations as they existed in 1989, when the book was printed.  In this final chapter, the ancestry of the modern amphibious vehicle is clearly traceable to the Roebling \\"Alligator\\", the modest LVT.<br />Of the 34 major landings during WW II where the LVTs were used, all but 4 took place in the Pacific.  Of these few others, three involved river crossings and North Africa.  Given their extreme versatility, the added \\" steel protection, the armored versions providing close support at the moment men are most vulnerable, and the ability of the vehicle to carry troops across the 400 yards of open beach and barbed wire, one has to question why they were not used at Normandy.  Croizat does not address this beyond saying that in the ETO \\"...the amtrac was not needed to land assault troops from the sea.\\" <br />One suspects that the men of Co. A, 116th, might feel otherwise.	2001-07-10
US	52593540	R3857I6GPJ26B6	0940328127	78110453	Across the Reef The Amphibious Tracked Vehicle at War	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Where has this book been?	Victor Croizat, a retired Marine Colonel, has written an excellent history of the LVT (Landing Vehicle Tracked).  From its original purpose as a rescue vehicle known as the &#8220;alligator&#8221; and designed by Donald Roebling of Florida, it was modified and pressed into service as a tracked cargo carrier in WW II.  From this modest logistic beginning at Guadalcanal and Bougainville, a handful of visionaries began to see the craft&#8217;s full potential.  The reefs at Tarawa prove to be the watershed event for the LVT.  When tide and coral prevented the Higgins Boats (LCVP) from bring men ashore, the LVT merely lumbered forward, carrying men and material where the Higgins Boat could not go.  From this point forward, in the Pacific Theater at least, the LVT and its many variations became a key element in every amphibious assault.  From the Gilberts to Kwajalein in the Marshalls to Saipan, Tinian and Guam in the Marianas and on to Peleliu, Iwo Jima and Okinawa, the landing craft of choice was clearly the LVT.  By war&#8217;s end, over 18,000 had been produced.<br />Tactics evolved and each island invasion incorporated lessons learned from the ones that proceeded.  The familiar pattern developed quickly.  After increased naval and air craft bombardment, the rocket firing gunboats, LCI(G)s, would cross the line of departure.  Following closely behind were the armored versions of the LVTs, firing as they lead the troop carrying LVTs ashore.  Once the assault troops were ashore, the LVTs reverted to their cargo carrying role, bring ammunition, water and supplies to land and carrying the wounded to hospital ships.  Several continued carrying men inland hundreds of yard engaging the enemy with their four MGs as the situation demanded.  The armored LVTs would then protect the flanks, firing their 37mm and 75mm canons.  Having been found too light to serve as tanks, they would be ashore deployed as self-propelled guns, assisting the artillery batteries or on the reefs serving guard duty.<br />The book traces the evolution of the vehicle and the tactics utilized in a logical fashion by following the chronology of the War in the Pacific.  Two concluding chapters deal briefly with the LVT in Korea and Viet Nam and the state of amphibious operations as they existed in 1989, when the book was printed.  In this final chapter, the ancestry of the modern amphibious vehicle is clearly traceable to the Roebling &#8220;Alligator&#8221;, the modest LVT....ing guard duty.<br />The book traces the evolution of the vehicle and the tactics utilized in a logical fashion by following the chronology of the War in the Pacific.  Two concluding chapters deal briefly with the LVT in Korea and Viet Nam and the state of amphibious operations as they existed in 1989, when the book was printed.  In this final chapter, the ancestry of the modern amphibious vehicle is clearly traceable to the Roebling &#8220;Alligator&#8221;, the modest LVT....	2001-07-10
US	52593540	R3BS5BDQJV6UIS	0891417141	741539973	On Time, On Target: The World War II Memoir of a Paratrooper in the 82nd Airborne	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	I wanted to like this book... 3 1/2 stars.	Having met a few men of the exceptional 82nd Airborne Division, I looked forward to reading this book.  Unfortunately, I was somewhat disappointed.  Author John McKenzie was a forward observer for the 456th Parachute Field Artillery Battalion, part of the 505th PRCT.  His ability as an historian is not the failing of this work; it lies in his emotionless presentation. As an observer, his frequent visits to the front enabled him to see first hand the horror and aftermath of fierce and often hand to hand combat.  He carries us with him from Normandy to Market Garden to the Bulge and finally to war's end and his return to civilian life.  But reading his presentation, one does not encounter the visceral emotion present in most first hand accounts. McKenzie tells us he counted the losses of his friends until he could, due to the pain, count no more.  We learn of their being wounded and their deaths without knowing who they were and why or what they meant to the author.  Unlike most first hand accounts, we have no one with whom to identify, as if the book was written in the third person. This is not to say I didn't enjoy the book, indeed, several chapters were very well done, particularly the Huertgen Forest entry.<br />For a brief period during the Bulge, McKenzie and a few others were taken prisoner by fleeing members of Peiper's 1st SS Panzer.  A friend was purposely shot for information and the others, including the author, conducted a daring escape.  But the story is told without comment on the internal workings.  It is just too dry for one who was there and the feel is that of an observer rather than a participant.<br /> McKenzie implies several times that the horror of war and the losses he suffered forced him to shut down, to seal himself off and these old memories brought back to awareness were painful to deal with.  It took courage to relive his war years for us.  This defense mechanism, while more than understandable, has perhaps caused McKenzie to write a good book instead of a superior book.od book instead of a superior book.	2001-07-04
US	52593540	R2EMSQH4HCKPN0	0805008209	998020560	Beyond the Wall: Essays from the Outside	Books	4	28	29	N	N	Why walk in a desert? Why get off the sofa at all?	This is a fine collect of 10 early hikes and float trips Abbey made mostly in the high deserts of the American Southwest.  The last takes place in Alaska.  In &quot;A Walk in the Desert Hills&quot; Abbey tells of a solo hike across more than 100 miles with only his backpack and the hope that water will be found in natural tanks.  What, the reader may ask, compels a man to undertake such a trek with only a belief that salvation lies ahead in a bowl shaped stone (tanks) filled with rain water, and then further on, perhaps another, and hopefully another still?  Throughout the book he answers this question by showing us the hidden beauty of slot canyons, how the Colorado looked beneath the flooded Glen Canyon before the dam and shares with us his discovery of petroglyphs and pictographs whose meanings still remains unknown.  This is Abbey when his desert world was still new, before the roads and bridges and dams he hated changed it all.  This is the world beyond the wall, his world.  &quot;Beyond the wall of the unreal city, beyond the security fences topped with barbed wire and razor wire, beyond the asphalt belting of superhighways, beyond the cemented banksides of our temporarily stopped and mutilated rivers, beyond the rage of lies that poison the air, there is another world waiting for you.  It is the old true world of the deserts, the mountains, the forests, the islands, the shores, the open plains, Go there ...into the ancient blood-thrilling primeval freedom of those vast and democratic vistas.  You will never understand the secret essence of the word freedom until you do.&quot;<br />Abbey was as about as free as a man can get.	2001-06-27
US	52593540	RC56IJ17PRZSZ	0312064888	800885571	A Voice Crying in the Wilderness (Vox Clamantis in Deserto): Notes from a Secret Journal	Books	4	11	14	N	N	4.5 is closer to it.	This is not Abbey's grand work nor was it intended to be.  This is a small collection of one-liners and pithy observations of a highly talented, self-admitted misanthrope.  \\"Growth for the sake of growth is the ideology of the cancer cell\\" is a prime example.<br />Abbey was a truck riding good ole boy and was about as politically correct as a punch to the head.  His backpack was not designed by Gucci and his boots were mostly army surplus but he spent a life time outdoors, not behind a desk finding fault.  His writings, his actions and his public appearances brought more awareness of nature and its plight to the public than did the combined number of his critics by a factor of 1000.<br />Borne just before the depression, he did not see all wild game as Bambi or Thumper but, as a child, watched as his father hunted for the table. Abbey may not be for everyone, but, by the same token, neither is Mr. Rogers.	2001-06-25
US	52593540	R28Z9MFK6SCDWG	0380714590	585828228	The Brave Cowboy	Books	4	3	3	N	N	One of Abbey's Earliest	I liked Edward Abbey long before I read his work as I saw the movie adaptation of this book \\"Lonely Are The Brave\\" back in the Sixties.  Abbey&#8217;s protagonist, Jack Burns, the uncompromising rebel from another America, is as free spirited as his creator.  Constantly at odds with modern life, he eventally violates enough of its ways to become sought by the law.  Hunted relentlessly he chooses to stay with his horse and chance his escape across rugged mountains rather than abandoning him and fleeing on foot....  Burns is not your typical cowboy hero; he is a reminder that the individual is sometimes far grander than the shackles he creates by the imposed rules of society.	2001-06-24
US	52593540	RT59PUHYJM69O	0345326490	316822403	Desert Solitaire: A Season in the Wilderness	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Ya gotta love this guy.	Written by Abbey when he was a park ranger at Arches Monument before it became a National Park, &quot;Dessert Solitaire&quot; is extraordinary.  Only a handful of wilderness writers can create multiple visions of natural beauty without becoming maudlin or repetitive. Muir and Leopold come to mine as two who succeed but Abbey speaks in a more familiar voice.  His task of bringing life and wonder to a dessert is even more challenging but the book strikes a chord not easily ignored.  &quot;A weird, lovely, fantastic object out of nature like Delicate Arch has the curious ability to remind us - like rock and sunlight and wind and wilderness - that out there is a different world, older and greater and deeper by far than ours... For a little while we are again able to see, as the children see, a world of marvels.  For a few moments we discover that nothing can be taken for granted, for if this ring of stone is marvelous then all which shaped it is marvelous, and our journey here on earth, able to see and touch and hear in the midst of tangible and mysterious things-in-themselves, is the most strange and daring of all adventures.&quot;  Reading that, I had to see it for myself.  The stone and sand of Arches is as wondrous, as ancient and as powerful as Abbey promised.	2001-06-23
US	52593540	R2K6OZ1S5ZFHMD	081120104X	619571111	Zen and the Birds of Appetite	Books	5	11	14	N	N	A glimpse at the place where all religions meet.	An extraordinary little book with much to convey. The essay on emptiness and the fall of Adam, &quot;Knowledge and Innocence&quot; is compelling.<br />The container contains nothing nor it is a container.	2001-06-20
US	52593540	R16TQT20HRLCY0	0688168825	803628343	Day of Destiny: The Photographs of D-Day	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Great photos, misleading captions.	These extraordinary photos were selected, we are told, from 60 plain gray boxes each containing approximately 100 photos located in the National Archives II.  As noted by another reviewer here, the captions leave much to be desired.  We are told a DUKW is an amphibious tracked vehicle, which is a landing craft designated as an LVT.  In fact, no LVTs were at Normandy, much to the chagrin of Major General Charles Corlett. The three companies of the 2nd Rangers who took Pointe du Hoc (D, E and F) are identified as &quot;two divisions&quot;.  Equally bizarre is the photo of British soldiers going ashore on &quot;Utah Beach&quot;.  As excellent as the photos are, greater care should have been exercised in their labeling.  But do not let that stop you from obtaining a copy.  The book contains 128 pages of great photographs, a number of which are familiar, including those taken by Robert Capa.  But many, most in fact, were new to this reviewer.  Perhaps if Keeney and Butler had presented more photos and few words, this book would still be in print.	2001-06-11
US	52593540	ROKU2BO09SZOW	0877731934	70651831	Power of Limits: Proportional Harmonies in Nature, Art, and Architecture	Books	5	28	37	N	N	Mathematical Harmony in Nature	Any serious observer of nature can tell you there are rhythms in nature, patterns that repeat themselves.  Far from chaos, there is harmony.  The Golden Section, A : B = B : A + B, is part of that harmony.  From Fibonacci numbers to the Golden Rectangle, this book will awaken the reader to a sense of perfection, an incredible order, found virtually everywhere in nature. Beyond the interesting phenomena, there lies a larger message.  This, all of this, did not happen by some cosmic accident.	2001-06-07
US	52593540	R3MKY1K9BGT3F9	0226500608	200661390	A River Runs Through It	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Superb	Norman Maclean began writing late in life, passing away not long after penning this extraordinary piece, depriving us of his gift just as he arrived.  The book is actually three short stories but the focus is clearly on the novella \\"A River Runs Through It\\".  On the surface, the title story is his recollections of his father, a Presbyterian minister, and his troubled but talented brother, with whom he fished.  Set in the Montana of Maclean's youth, he paints exquisitely vivid and beautiful word pictures of a land and water and family now gone.  At the core is the frustration of the often-futile attempt of trying to help another or trying to save a loved one from their self-destruction. There are passages here which are as wonderfully written as anything in English.  Not a page passes without discovering a superbly crafted gem. \\"So it is...that we can seldom help anybody.  Either we don't know what part to give or maybe we don't like to give any part of ourselves.  Then, more often than not, the part that is needed is not wanted.  And even more often, we do not have the part that is needed.\\"  \\"It is those we live with and love and should know who elude us.\\" Throughout the tale, his life, his religion, his family, his fly-fishing are metaphors, each for the other.  And the words of each are heard in the waters and stone of the rivers.  He is haunted, he tells us, by waters.  I am haunted by his words which approach poetry.	2001-06-06
US	52593540	RGRIS7XO2QRXO	1557500320	117580293	Storm Landings: Epic Amphibious Battles in the Central Pacific	Books	5	26	26	N	Y	Col. Alexander surprises to the up side...again	Once again Retired Col. Joseph Alexander has penned a superb text.  In &quot;Storm Landings&quot; he captures the essence of seven violent island assaults and the planning of a eighth; Kyushu in the Japanese home islands.  These epic battles spearheaded by Marines were the core of the Central Pacific drive.  Tarawa, Saipan, Guam, Tinian, Peleliu, Iwo Jima and Okinawa, amphibious landings all, were distinguished as storm landings by the Japanese commanders.  They were so called as they contained six additional elements: extreme danger, long-ranged, large scaled, self-sustaining, against defended positions under the protection of fast carrier forces.  Col. Alexander's strength is his prodigious research skills and an ability to preceive the over all connection between diverse elements.  Drawing on these skills the author reflects on the five separate landings on D-Day, Guadalcanal.  In an interesting introduction to the main battles, Alexander notes that on Gavutu and Tanambogo the 1st Parachute Battalion, subsequently reinforced by B Co. 1st Battalion, 2nd Marines, engaged in the first opposed landings. To Alexander's perceptive eye, the Gavutu-Tanambogo landings represented a microcosm of opposed landings to come.  All were violent, relatively short, thoroughly decisive and always bloody. One can not read this work without coming away with a profound awareness of the increasingly fierce determination of the Japanese defenders the closer the din of combat came to the Japanese home land. 100,000 Japanese died defending Okinawa along with 150,000 native Okinawans.  On Kyushu alone, 600,000 defenders awaited the invasion force that was to come but for the bomb.  Obviously, for both combatants, hundreds of thousands, if not millions, were saved.<br />The epilogue, quoting war correspondent Robert Sherrod adds, \\"...no man who saw Tarawa, Saipan, Iwo Jima, or Okinawa would agree that all the American steel was in the guns and bombs.  There was a lot, also, in the hearts of the men who stormed the beaches.\\" Lt.Col. Robertson after watching the Marines landing at Iwo Jima during the worst of the shelling asked himself, \\"What impels a young guy landing on a beach from the very first craft in the face of fire?\\" Reading this book, Marine or not, one has a deeper understanding of the answer to that question.  It lies in the Hallmark of Marine pride: \\"Semper Fidelis\\".the men who stormed the beaches.\\" Lt.Col. Robertson after watching the Marines landing at Iwo Jima during the worst of the shelling asked himself, \\"What impels a young guy landing on a beach from the very first craft in the face of fire?\\" Reading this book, Marine or not, one has a deeper understanding of the answer to that question.  It lies in the Hallmark of Marine pride: \\"Semper Fidelis\\".	2001-05-30
US	52593540	R2AY47QR0DAXM3	0934841144	430148068	Tarawa: The Story of a Battle	Books	4	30	30	N	N	A Military Classic by a war correspondent who was there.	Robert Sherrod was a war correspondent for Time when he waded ashore Tarawa on the afternoon of D-Day, 11/20/43. Aboard his transport ship Sherrod heard fascinating tales of the Gilbert Islands before the war, tales told to him by his shipmates, Karl Tschaun and James Forbes.  Both of these men had lived and worked among these island paradises and now returned to share their knowledge of the waters with the allies.<br />One does not get the big picture from such first hand accounts. Indeed, for the first three days Sherrod's movements were confined to an area 400 yards along the beach and no further inland than 100 yards.  Instead, the reader hears the authentic voice of one who has been there, one who heard first hand the anticipation that the island would be a cake walk and then saw men horribly chopped to pieces as they went ashore. But for Sherrod to get to Tarawa he too had to wade 700 yards across the reef which surrounded and protected the island.  During this march no fewer than five machine guns were firing upon him and the few Marines with him.<br />Reaching the beachhead, he sat for hours with his back to the coconut log seawall. A Marine walks by, a sniper hits his helmet and amazingly he is unharmed.  The next one a moment later takes a bullet through the heart just inches from where Sherrod sat.  Looking out over those coral flats the next morning \\"...a half dozen Marines lie exposed... They are hunched over, rifles in hand, just as they fell.  Further out on the flats I can see at least fifty other bodies...The smell of death, that sweetly sick odor of decaying human flesh, is already oppressive.  Now that it is light, the wounded go walking by... Some have bloodless faces, some have bloody faces, others only pieces of faces.\\"<br />The second day was worse for the waves of men and machines coming ashore.  Japanese reinforcements had moved across the island and waited for the assault craft and the men who trudged through the water.  Through the trained eye of a seasoned reporter, Sherrod tells of the horror, the cacophony of large cannon fire, machine weapons, the crack of rifles and the unending shaking of the earth from multiple explosions.  Across this half-mile square of hell and mangled bodies the Marines, the men of the 2nd Division, inched forward, dying by the hundreds but always moving towards the enemy.<br />Sherrod tells of their ultimate victory in a manner befitting their valor.d eye of a seasoned reporter, Sherrod tells of the horror, the cacophony of large cannon fire, machine weapons, the crack of rifles and the unending shaking of the earth from multiple explosions.  Across this half-mile square of hell and mangled bodies the Marines, the men of the 2nd Division, inched forward, dying by the hundreds but always moving towards the enemy. <br />Sherrod tells of their ultimate victory in a manner befitting their valor.	2001-05-10
US	52593540	R1XNOPMLOURNYB	0807119024	881270447	Voices of D-Day: The Story of the Allied Invasion Told by Those Who Were There (Eisenhower Center  Studies on War and Peace)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wonderful	This is not a book that details planning, strategy or tactics.  Instead, this is a series of interviews collected in connection with a decade-long project by personnel of the Eisenhower Center of the University of New Orleans.  In addition to selecting and editing, Ronald Drez actually collected many of these interviews himself. The result is a skillfully pieced together vision of D-Day utilizing the authentic voices of the men who were there, who witnessed first hand the carnage and success of the largest amphibious invasion in history.  These are the words of men who lived through the night jumps, the hellish push from the sea to the coast, the inch-by-inch clawing up the sand flats and cliffs of the Overlord beaches to hookup with the airborne troops already inland.  The voices are French, German, British, Canadian and American.  From 1st Sergeant Len Lomell on Pointe du Hoc with the 2nd Rangers, to Frank Simeone of C co. of the 116th on Omaha making his way up the Vierville draw, to my friend and neighbor, Ken Russell, of the 82nd Airborne hanging from his chute on the church at Ste. Mere Eglise before taking out a German AA truck, these are words chosen by the fighting men themselves.  Contained in their words are the voices of the dead, voices felt and heard only with the heart and who perhaps speak loudest of all.  And they speak to us of the price of freedom they and their comrades were willing to pay for us.<br />Published on the fifty-year anniversary of D-Day it is a fitting tribute to the gallant men of that generation who lived and died that day and is a fine companion piece for Ambrose's excellent \\"D-Day\\".	2001-05-10
US	52593540	RGH78AFWL5MRC	1557500312	535895095	Utmost Savagery: The Three Days of Tarawa	Books	5	64	65	N	Y	THE book to read about Tarawa.	Utilizing his prodigious research skills, Retired Colonel Joseph Alexander has written what has to be the best all around account of Tarawa.  Incorporating new material gleaned from sources as diverse as Col. Shoup's personal papers, translation of the Japanese war history (Senshi Sosho) and recently declassified ULTRA radio intercepts, he presents a superbly crafted telling of the horror and victory at Tarawa.<br />On the morning of 11/20/43 men of the 2nd Marine Division stormed ashore to face the Imperial Japanese Marines who defended Betio Island in the Tarawa atoll.  These rikusentai were considered the best light infantry the Japanese had.  In addition to the almost impregnable defensive positions prepared by the Japanese, the island was surrounded by a reef, which, due to tide and fortune, prevented the Higgins boats from crossing to the beaches.  The decision to utilize LVTs (tracked amphibious vehicles, or more correctly, landing vehicle tracked) for the first time as troop carriers forever changed the history of amphibious assaults against strongly held enemy positions.  Lumbering over the forbidding reef, LVTs carried their cargo of men and supplies where the Higgins boats could not go.  This gamble represented a landmark in ship-to-shore movements and to this day amphibious assault vehicles are an essential element of any surface assault.<br />Mistakes were made and men died because of them.  The initial three-hour naval bombardment and bombing and strafing runs by carrier aircraft were far too little.  Gaps between the naval and air force shelling allowed the enemy to move reinforcements to the beaches from the southern and eastern areas of the island.  Following the bombardments many defensive positions and large guns remained fully functional and they blasted into the oncoming LVTs and the Higgins boats at the reef's edge.  Men of later waves were forced to wade ashore as LVTs became destroyed or were unavailable.  Hundreds of men died in that surf, wading ashore. One thousand Marines died on each of three days of battle before the island fell.<br />It's the attention to detail that separates Alexander's work from other, well written histories of Tarawa.  From the planning stages, to his telling of the build up of Japanese troops, to the inclusion of brief personal histories of the key personnel, to the epilogue summarizing the lessons learned and the errors made, this is an exceptional book well worth reading.  To the serious student, it is the book on Tarawa that must be read.wading ashore. One thousand Marines died on each of three days of battle before the island fell.  <br />It's the attention to detail that separates Alexander's work from other, well written histories of Tarawa.  From the planning stages, to his telling of the build up of Japanese troops, to the inclusion of brief personal histories of the key personnel, to the epilogue summarizing the lessons learned and the errors made, this is an exceptional book well worth reading.  To the serious student, it is the book on Tarawa that must be read.	2001-05-08
US	52593540	R2YYZJOMTP5FYZ	0935553339	111419296	Bloody Tarawa	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	This book surprises.	Thumbing through Hammel and Lane's book one initially suspects that the pictures are the story.  Contrary to this first impression, the book is an excellent telling of the battle for Betio Island in the Tarawa Atoll.  Augmented by literally hundreds of top quality combat photos the tale flows in a most easily understood fashion.  The narrative recreates the action as it occurred on each beachhead and follows it along until a logical point occurs before switching to another beachhead.  Progressing along the three initial beachheads the reader follows the action of individual men, squads, and remnants of platoons and companies fighting for a toehold.  The confusion that occurred on all the landing zones is told in a most understandable manner.  The slaughter caused by the low tide and the reef surrounding the island is well presented.<br />The maps, placed in front of the book preceding the text, are excellent.  The book's weakness lays in its lack of a significant discussion of planning, strategy and the then existing conditions in the Pacific. Tarawa played a key roll in the future invasions of the Marshalls, the Marianas and beyond.  This was the first time an amphibious assault was made against a well-defended and contested beachhead.  It also marked the turning point for amphibious assaults in that the LVTs (Landing Vehicle Tracked) were used for the first time as troop carriers instead of merely supply vehicles.  As Admiral Hill stated, \\"...this operation was going to be a textbook for future operations.\\"  Although mentioned frequently in the text, the index contains no listing for the LVTs.  Considering their all-important role, this is puzzling to this reviewer.	2001-05-08
US	52593540	R2MOJB84JTNN51	0813117488	1766450	Bougainville, 1943-1945: The Forgotten Campaign	Books	4	25	25	N	Y	Mixed feelings.	I have mixed feelings concerning this book.  Gailey did an excellent job in explaining the overall situation in the South Pacific and the Solomons prior to the landing on Bougainville and its place in the strategy for the eventual reduction of Rabaul.  The detailed accounting of Merrill's covering of the landing by engaging the naval force under the command of Omori was first class.  This severe beating of the Japanese naval forces was the last major surface engagement in the Solomon area.  Halsey's gutsy decision to commit Sherman's Task Force 38 and its carrier air groups against Rabaul to protect the landing force made for enjoyable reading.  From this day forward Rabaul was pounded into insignificance.<br />The 3rd marines landed on the island on 11/1/43 and in spite of hellish swamps, impenetrable rain forests and Japanese assaults, Seabees managed to construct the first air strip which was able to accept a damaged aircraft for landing a mere 23 days after the amphibious landing.  A remarkable feat given the logistics problems at hand.<br />The major Japanese counter attack began on the night of March 8-9 and failed for a number of reasons given by Gailey.  Chief among these reasons, to this reviewer, and not given the attention it deserved, was the piecemeal strategy employed.  Commander of the defending Japanese, General Hyakutake, had at his disposal over 60,000 troops.  For this major engagement he sent approximately 15,000 men under General Kanda to face a force which outnumbered them at least 2 to 1. Gailey laid off this tactical lapse, in part, to defective Japanese intelligence reports and assumed that Hyakutake thought he was facing at most a division. Even so, to attack a fortified position, one needs a superior force not an equal force.  With so many troops under his command, there is simply no defending Hyakutake's flawed strategy.  With similar defective reasoning, Kanda himself committed his meager troops in uncoordinated attacks resulting in the near destruction of his men.  This tendency of Japanese commanders to husband their resources and commit them in piecemeal fashion was observed through out the Pacific, both with naval and land forces.<br />The book, after this battle, stumbles somewhat.  Maps of the landings and early engagements were adequate but from this point forward, their quality and quantity declined noticeably.  The last two maps dealing with the final Australian operations omitted rivers, villages and crossings referred to in the text.  One later chapter deals with the unfortunate exploits of the 93rd Division.  This unwieldy aside succeeds in raising more questions than it answers.<br />For it's excellent early chapters, Gailey rates the four star rating. Somewhere after the March Japanese counterattack, the book trails off and like the Japanese defenders, dies a slow death.e near destruction of his men.  This tendency of Japanese commanders to husband their resources and commit them in piecemeal fashion was observed through out the Pacific, both with naval and land forces.<br />The book, after this battle, stumbles somewhat.  Maps of the landings and early engagements were adequate but from this point forward, their quality and quantity declined noticeably.  The last two maps dealing with the final Australian operations omitted rivers, villages and crossings referred to in the text.  One later chapter deals with the unfortunate exploits of the 93rd Division.  This unwieldy aside succeeds in raising more questions than it answers.  <br />For it's excellent early chapters, Gailey rates the four star rating. Somewhere after the March Japanese counterattack, the book trails off and like the Japanese defenders, dies a slow death.	2001-04-11
US	52593540	R18KC2XJQZ8TED	0425165108	559930774	Americans at War	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Ambrose is not only a great historian...	Ambrose is not only a great historian, he's a great storyteller.  This is a fine book for anyone wishing to sample Ambrose's ability before exploring his larger studies.  To the initiated, his long-term followers, this collection of historical essays provides a quick but insightful review of topics ranging from Custer, to Mac Arthur to The Bomb.  His remarks on My Lai are possibly the most levelheaded view of that sad event this reader has encountered.<br />Ambrose has a unique ability to weave traditional research, oral histories and the big picture into a compelling story.  His written accounts are as riveting as his classes or his personal presentations.  His craftsmanship as a master storyteller is as evident in these short pieces as it is in his larger works.	2001-04-10
US	52593540	R2L59K0ZWCYXRY	1888967064	463285320	Liberation of Pointe Du Hoc	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	A must read for the ETO buff.	Most histories of D-Day include the exploits of the 2nd Rangers lead by their thrice-wounded CO, Lt. Col. James Rudder and their taking of Pointe Du Hoc.  The daring heroics involving their scrambling up 100' cliffs on ropes and ladders while under small arms fire is the stuff of legends.  On those cliffs the Germans had placed six 155mm guns which could rain fire down upon both Omaha and Utah beach.  Gen. Omar Bradley labeled the elimination of these guns by the 2nd Ranger \\"the most dangerous mission of D-Day\\".  A book giving them a more detailed account and the recognition they deserve is most appropriate.<br />This account include the birth of the 2nd Rangers, their training, the plans for D-Day and most importantly, their story after their primary mission was accomplished.  For the next two days and nights, scattered members of D, E and F companies were subjected to three determined German counterattacks.  When the in-land hook-up finally did occur only 90 of the original 225 men were left to command.<br />The book moves so quickly, it can be read easily in less than a day.  Maps are numerous and allow the reader to following the action without effort.  Photos of the personnel and the terrain added a much-appreciated dynamic element.  This is another book I wish I had read before visiting the Normandy beaches.<br />For their action on Pointe Du Hoc, the 2nd Ranger Infantry Battalion won a unit citation for \\"grim determination and extraordinary heroism\\".	2001-04-08
US	52593540	R1NO9FMLVZ6S8D	1888967064	463285320	Liberation of Pointe Du Hoc	Books	4	13	17	N	Y	A must read for the ETO buff.	Most histories of D-Day include the exploits of the 2nd Rangers lead by their thrice-wounded CO, Lt. Col. James Rudder and their taking of Pointe Du Hoc.  The daring heroics involving their scrambling up 100' cliffs on ropes and ladders while under small arms fire is the stuff of legends.  On those cliffs the Germans had placed six 155mm guns which could rain fire down upon both Omaha and Utah beach.  Gen. Omar Bradley labeled the elimination of these guns by the 2nd Ranger \\"the most dangerous mission of D-Day\\".  A book giving them a more detailed account and the recognition they deserve is most appropriate. <br />This account include the birth of the 2nd Rangers, their training, the plans for D-Day and most importantly, their story after their primary mission was accomplished.  For the next two days and nights, scattered members of D, E and F companies were subjected to three determined German counterattacks.  When the in-land hook-up finally did occur, only 90 of the original 225 men were left to command.<br />The book moves so quickly, it can be read easily in less than a day.  Maps are numerous and allow the reader to following the action without effort.  Photos of the personnel and the terrain added a much-appreciated dynamic element.  This is another book I wish I had read before visiting the Normandy beaches.<br />For their action on Pointe Du Hoc, the 2nd Ranger Infantry Battalion won a unit citation for \\"grim determination and extraordinary heroism\\".	2001-04-08
US	52593540	R2QGM9SRLWQKM2	1557500207	823270594	Edson's Raiders: The 1st Marine Raider Battalion in World War II	Books	4	18	18	N	N	A fine story of remarkable men and their remarkable leader.	Edson's Raiders, the 1st Marine Raider Battalion, engaged the Japanese in seven battles, five of them on Guadalcanal.  This well researched and footnoted work by retired Marine Colonel Joseph Alexander tells the story of this remarkable group of men.  Trained and conditioned by the founding commander, Merritt Edson, their baptism of fire was on Tulagi against the Japanese Special Naval Landing Forces, the rikusentai.  This landing occurred simultaneous with the invasion of Guadalcanal twenty miles to the south.  Completing the removal of enemy forces at Tulagi, Edson and his men were quickly moved to Guadalcanal.  Glorious pages of their history were written there along Edson's Ridge, a three day-two night struggle, often hand-to-hand, against an enemy force under General Kawaguchi, which out numbered them by a factor of at least five on the second night.  The enemy attacked remnants of the Raiders and the 1st Paratroops, a total of less than eight hundred men, without let up.  Forced to fall back to a second line of defense, &quot;...grossly outnumbered, back-to-back, nearly out of ammo...Edson could count less than three hundred men defending Hill 120.&quot;  Their action in that engagement and subsequent battles along the Matanikau secured their place in the proud history of the Marines.  The US Navy named twenty-four ships after raiders in recognition of their valor. The need for highly trained volunteers in special, lightly armed commando units were soon deemed unnecessary with the advent of the fast fleet carriers of the Essex-class along with new fast battleships. But not before the successes of the 1st Raider Battalion carved for themselves a monument in Military history.  This is an excellent telling of their too brief story.	2001-04-02
US	52593540	R2X862NVE1C5Z	0140165614	116378185	Guadalcanal: The Definitive Account of the Landmark Battle	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Great telling of America's first offensive in WW II	Thoroughly researched, and utilizing both American and Japanese field reports, Frank has written the definitive account of America's first offensive struggle of WW II.  The seven naval engagements are given the same detail attention as are the multiple land clashes.  Most vivid among the latter were the days and nights along Edson's ridge and the Battle for Henderson's Field.  Of particular interest were the accounts of the taking of Gavutu, Tanambogo and Tulagi, adjacent islands that several works overlook altogether. This invasion should never have succeeded; we lacked both air and naval superiority, two prerequisites for any amphibious assault. In those first few months, when the enemy could have swatted us like an annoying bug, he hesitated and committed resources piecemeal, a mistake the Japanese would make over and over. The monumental strategic importance of the Solomons seems to gradually dawn on each side as the campaign progressed. Unusual for a book of such detail, from the Tenaru to Edson's Ridge to the final escape of the decimated remnants of the Japanese defenders sixth months later, the action never slows.  A liberal sprinkling of front line troops' reflections would have made this a truly remarkable read.  Admittedly, I've been spoiled by Ambrose.	2001-04-01
US	52593540	R1895HX9X0JC0P	0316583529	631088045	The Two-Ocean War: A Short History of the United States Navy in the Second World War	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	A great one volume look at US naval operations of WW II	Gleaned for his 15 volume history of US naval operations in WW II, Admiral Samuel Morison has penned an easily read and enjoyable work.  Given the scope of the task at hand, the details of engagements necessarily were truncated.  However, within these six hundred pages he gives more than a quick overview that would appeal to all but the most serious students.  The entries for Guadalcanal and Leyte were particularly well done, as was the discussion of the contingent planing before the war and their modification as the war progressed.<br />If there is a fault here it lies in his too kind treatment of Mac Arthur and Admiral Fletcher.	2001-03-25
US	52593540	RRKLE2ZNQHLTL	0816032866	309350578	The Pacific War Atlas 1941-1945	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Great Overview of the Pacific Theater	In 141 pages Smurthwaite has condensed the major engagements, both land and sea, of the Pacific Theater.  The strength of this work is its brevity and the huge number of useful maps.  While reading other more detailed accounts of various engagements, I would frequently reach for this book and the pertinent map.  Brief it may be but not a word is wasted in providing a brilliant summary.<br />A great companion for &quot;The Two-Ocean War&quot; by Samuel Eliot Morrison	2001-03-25
US	52593540	R1BL58GSA9T9L9	0679640231	963620584	Guadalcanal Diary (Modern Library War)	Books	5	71	74	N	Y	A part of our heritage	Richard Tregaskis, a 24-year-old reporter, went ashore with the 1st Marine Division on Guadalcanal.  He lived with the men, sleeping on the ground and eating the same chow. He remained on that nightmarish piece of coral for 50 days, usually under combat conditions.  His retelling of the engagement along the Tenaru is as good or better than other first hand reports.  His description of the several days of combat on Edson's Ridge was excellent, as he had moved his tent to that elevated location the morning of the first day.  With an eye toward the readers' morale, losses of flights at Henderson Field were not reported as accurately as they could have been.  As many as seven aircraft had crashed on take off while he was still on the island.  Tregaskis left the island before the major battles on the Matanikau or the desperate fight for Henderson Field, but he had his story.  He had seen the boys of democracy turn back the seemingly invincible Japanese Army; he had seen some of our flyers defeat the unstoppable Zeros; he had seen our navy hold their own against the designers of the attack on Pearl Harbor and he hurried home to tell the American public. This book was started aboard a B-24 before he returned home and was an instant best seller.  This was a first hand reporting of our first offensive engagement of WW II.  A nation hungry for news of the front greeted it eagerly.  Not even the casual reader of WW II can bypass this major work, if for no other reason than the place it holds in the history of the war in it's own right.	2001-03-25
US	52593540	R16FNOH26VL9EB	0929408179	78166543	Civil War Two: The Coming Breakup of America	Books	1	53	98	N	N	Perhaps, perhaps not.	Chittum is obviously correct when he notes the shifting demographics of America.  With the rapid spread of the supposed desirability of multiculturalism and the abandonment of the &quot;melting pot&quot; ideal, we do run the dangerous risk of becoming Balkanized.  That being said, Chittum writing in 1995 employed a repeated tactic to drive his various points home.  He constructs a scenario and then makes several &quot;predictions&quot;.  To lend credibility to his predictive powers, included within his predictions are events which had already occurred by 1995.  In short, several times he states that events 1 through 6 will take place. And then he adds, &quot;As a matter of fact, events 1 and 2 have already occurred&quot;, thus imparting believability to predictions 3, 4 and 5.  A rather neat hook. Elsewhere he makes blatant misstatements.  Examples; he stated in 1995 the US economy was weak; that the US was no longer &quot;the world power&quot;; that it is impossible to have a peaceful transfer of power in Mexico, which we witnesses last year. Omitted from his vision of a coming US Civil War is the role of other world powers.  Does he really think our friends and foes alike will calmly sit on the sidelines while this battle rages?  Hardly.<br />The book has value in that it raises valid concerns about our shortsighted immigration policy.  No nation in history lasted very long when the dominant culture was no longer shared by the majority of the population.  The shift in population of Arizona, New Mexico, Texas and California has serious overtones.<br />And who does Chittum claim is behind this purposeful break up of the US?  At various times he referred to them as &quot;the establishment&quot;, &quot;global elitists&quot;, &quot;establishment media&quot;, &quot;global, imperialist establishment&quot; and yes, even the &quot;Trilaterialist&quot;.  Could something besides shortsighted democrats merely wanting to swell their ranks be behind all this?  Something far darker? Perhaps. But it would appear Chittum doesn't have a clue as to who or what they are.ker? Perhaps. But it would appear Chittum doesn't have a clue as to who or what they are.	2001-03-24
US	52593540	R3FXCJYWPMZPDN	0806132221	502547208	Infantry Soldier: Holding the Line at the Battle of the Bulge	Books	4	18	18	N	N	A fine first hand a of the northern line of the Bulge	A college junior, author George W. Neill received his notice to report for active duty in March of 1943.  Selected for the little known and short-lived Army Specialized Training Program he was eventually assigned to L Co., 3rd Battalion, 395 Reg. of the 99th Div.<br />Historical views of combat, while giving a better overall perspective, too often lack the authentic voice of the combat soldier himself.  Here, in chilling word pictures, Neill paints his vision through the eyes of the 18-year-old he was but filtered by the understanding of the journalist that he has become.  Convoyed across the Atlantic and quickly passing through England and France, his outfit was positioned in the Hofen-Monschau area in mid November 1944, just weeks before the Bulge.  Along the so-called &quot;quite front&quot; preceding the break through, he tells of death's daily visit.  His retelling of the frostbite, trench foot and never ending bone-chilling cold and dampness conveyed the life of a front line rifle company in a way no non-combatant could.  His vivid description of the Siegfried Line and its construction was an interesting aside. The heart of his tale is a unique look at the first four days of horrific, face-to-face fighting along the northern shoulder of the Bulge near Hofen.  The orders on the German side were to &quot;take Hofen at all costs.&quot;  His outfit was hit with everything but held.  At one time, his men being over run but well dug in, the Battalion CO called down 5 artillery strikes within his own lines.  Indeed, the 3rd battalion along with A Co. 612 Tank Destroyer Battalion and the 38th Calvary Squadron were the only American units to hold the Germans to a zero advance from the first to last day of the six-week battle.  The Germans did break through the southern end of the 99th's front but the 3rd Battalion held firm.  By holding Hofen they held the eastern flank of the Elsenborn Ridge confining the Bulge to the south of that line.<br />With a poignant line in his preface, Neill brings home the fact that these line troops &quot;...remained boys in many ways. What else explains why so many soldiers, on both sides, cried out for their mothers as they lay dying?&quot;  By passing his memories of those trying days to us so vividly, one gets the impression that Neill still hears those cries.his preface, Neill brings home the fact that these line troops &quot;...remained boys in many ways. What else explains why so many soldiers, on both sides, cried out for their mothers as they lay dying?&quot;  By passing his memories of those trying days to us so vividly, one gets the impression that Neill still hears those cries.	2001-03-24
US	52593540	R3T9KRYWZZX9F0	0671671561	875315522	Pegasus Bridge: June 6, 1944	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	A lot to ask 181 men.	Securing the eastern flank of Overlord (D-Day) was the British Airborne.  Between them and the British 3rd Infantry Division coming ashore on Sword Beach were two bridges fifty years apart across the Orne Waterways.  These bridges had to be held or the airborne troops would have been cut off from relief coming inland.  Pegasus Bridge has been at times called the Caen Canal Bridge, the Orne Canal Bridge and the Benouville Bridge.  Now it bears the proud name Pegasus Bridge in honor of the valiant men who took it, held it, died on it and who wore that emblem on their shoulder: The 2nd Ox and Bucks.  Lead by Major John Howard after months of detailed rehearsals, D Company landed in Horsa gliders minutes after midnight on D-day.  Landing within yards of the enemy held bridge they seized it in a short, well-rehearsed and bloody firefight.  This extremely brave action was just the beginning of a daylong, tense struggle to hold out against seasoned troops and tanks with only small arms.  They held and later joined the other Ox and Bucks near Escoville.  When finally relieved on Sept.5th, D Company had fallen from its D-day strength of 181 men to 40.  Colonel Von Luck, 21st Panzer, contends that had those bridges been available to him, his regiment would have been able to join the 192nd Regiment of the 21st Panzer and their combined strength would have surely allowed them to drive to the beaches.  And the result of that could have spelled disaster for the beachhead troops if not the entire invasion.<br />As expected, Ambrose weaves his talent for detailed research, oral histories and gifted writing into a great account of this major link in D-Day's chain.<br />Richard Todd, the actor, was a Captain in the 1th Airborne and is mentioned several times retelling some of the activities of that unit on the other side of the Orne River.  In the movie \\"The Longest Day\\", he portrayed Major John Howard.	2001-03-24
US	52593540	R33QFDFXMUAB1Z	080712222X	568347669	Parachute Infantry: An American Paratrooper's Memoir of D-Day and the Fall of the Third Reich	Books	4	64	68	N	Y	If you like first-hand accounts	then this is an excellent book.  David Webster is at times introspective, bitter, proud, angry and, like all combat troops, depressed and frightened. On more than one occasion the reader wonders why he volunteered in the first place.  But his story is so convincingly told, so personal, that the reader experiences the same conflicting emotions.  This narrative of a paratroop over Normandy and beyond, fills a gap left in most other accounts of the airdrop on the western flank of Overlord.  Webster masterfully moves the reader with him, dressing out for the big jump.  Assignments are reviewed, equipment is explained in detail, the movement of men on to the tarmac by truck, the numbness over the Channel, the searchlights probing the night skies and, finally before the jump, the hellish flack.  Realism is maintained throughout the work as much of it was based on letters written during the war and recollections reduced to writing shortly after the war.<br />This book and bits of it are mentioned in Stephen Ambrose's excellent &quot;Band of Brothers&quot;.	2001-02-23
US	52593540	R164PM6YYRT2D2	0156970953	625143257	Winemaking: Recipes, Equipment, and Techniques for Making Wine at Home	Books	5	52	54	N	Y	New to Winemaking?  So am I.	A friend over seas, living in a country where one must make their own, recommended this gem to me last year.  Since then, although possessed of no previous knowledge or experience, I succeeded rather easily in making good wines.  I also compared the wine from the recipes in Anderson book with highly recommended kits from Vino Del Vida.  Although much easier and quicker, the kit product, while very satisfactory according to those who have tasted it, did not measure up to the superior wine made from Anderson's recipes.<br />Practical suggestions for equipment, where to purchase it and techniques are explained in a straightforward fashion.  With a relative small cash outlay and this book, you can be well on your way to an interesting hobby.	2001-02-19
US	52593540	RIMVQ3GG6OHDE	068480137X	705619047	D Day: June 6, 1944: The Climactic Battle of World War II	Books	5	7	11	N	Y	The last thing needed is another review of this book but...	Largely because of  &quot;D-Day&quot; and &quot;Citizen Soldier&quot; and now the opening of the D-Day museum in New Orleans, Stephen Ambrose has revived the monumental debt this country owes the men and women of WW II.  His ability to write history like a gifted novelist and his weaving throughout of the soldiers' tale in their own words, makes these two works the best of the written history of the ETO.  Hard to imaging one being able to read either without feeling overwhelming pride, humility and a clearer understanding of how much we have lost in half a century.<br />Both are extraordinary books written by an extraordinary historian.	2001-02-16
US	52593540	RS5O5KSWFVSDI	0684848015	340472252	Citizen Soldiers: The U. S. Army from the Normandy Beaches to the Bulge to the Surrender of Germany	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	Everyone should read this book.	Largely because of  &quot;D-Day&quot; and &quot;Citizen Soldier&quot; and now the opening of the D-Day museum in New Orleans, Stephen Ambrose has revived the monumental debt this country owes the men and women of WW II.  His ability to write history like a gifted novelist and his weaving throughout of the soldiers' tale in their own words, makes these two works the best of the written history of the ETO.  Hard to imaging one being able to read either without feeling overwhelming pride, humility and a clearer understanding of how much we have lost in half a century.<br />Both are extraordinary books written by an extraordinary historian.	2001-02-16
US	52593540	R1C40FFEESKIVV	0671867369	867939499	Band of Brothers : E Company, 506th Regiment, 101st Airborne from Normandy to Hitler's Eagle's Nest	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Ambrose a Cheerleader?	A handful of reviewers have criticized this book claiming that Ambrose allows his personal closeness with the men of E Company, 506 Regiment, 101st  to cloud his judgement.  This account, B of B, follows E Company from training through the end at Berchtesgaden.  Does Ambrose make his subjects and their exploits larger than life?  Not to this reviewer.  These men and Ambrose's telling of their story is staggering simply because these were fighting men of extraordinary ability.  Nor do I have to take Ambrose's word for their skills as the Germans themselves have written of their concern when facing US paratroopers, particularly men of the 101st.  (Witness the significance of the 82nd and 101st during the Bulge as reported by the opposing Generals in &quot;The German Generals Talk&quot;, B.H. Hart.) Indeed some of these very men have told the story themselves.  Donald Burgett of A Company, 506th, has written 3 volumes and David Webster, also of E Company, has written his own &quot;Parachute Infantry&quot;.  Ambrose a cheerleader?  These men need none.  They were that good.<br />As for Ambrose's telling of their tale?  None better except perhaps Burgett's work on the 101st at Bastogne, \\"Seven Roads To Hell\\".	2001-02-16
US	52593540	R2KA2I6SSA9T9F	0804100039	815959810	If You Survive: From Normandy to the Battle of the Bulge to the End of World War II, One American Officer's Riveting True Story	Books	5	99	103	N	Y	First class account of an infantryman in the ETO.	Author George Wilson was a replacement assigned to F Company of the 22nd Infantry Regiment of the 4th Infantry Division on 7/12/44.  Joining the only 5 men left of the original 40 of the 2nd platoon, he was soon caught up in the breakout at St. Lo.  The action quickly moves beyond Paris to the heartbreak of the Hurtgen Forest.  This is the finest telling of that engagement this reviewer has read.  No winter wear, nearly constant and merciless artillery and mortar fire, murderous tree bursts and epidemic trench foot were only part of their suffering.  On the morning of 11/30, his company started out with 140 riflemen, two medics, 3 noncoms, and 5 officers.  At day's end, they had lost the medics, all noncoms, 4 officers and 90 riflemen. By the next day, there were only a total of 12 men left to the company after reaching their objective, the Cologne Plains.  Thoroughly decimated and only partially reinforced, and in a near final irony, they were relieved and given R and R in the Ardennes only days before the start of the Bulge. Unbelievably, the battle weary men of the 4th Div. stopped the Germans cold in their section and managed to set the southern boundary to the 75-mile breakthrough.<br />George Wilson was never given the decorations or the field promotion he had been promised.	2001-02-11
US	52593540	R34Q1UAX8K62P2	0811726827	276190662	Beyond the Beachhead: The 29th Infantry Division in Normandy	Books	5	12	14	N	Y	From Maryland and Virginia to Normandy and St.Lo	Activated National Guard Units, the 29 Div., landed on Omaha Beach along with the 1st Div. on D-Day.  There they faced 120-foot high cliffs directly beyond the murderous beach.  The quickest way off the beach was through the Verville and Les Moulins draws. Those familiar with &quot;The Longest Day&quot; or &quot;Private Ryan&quot; know what happened on that beachhead and on those draws.  To read about it is particularly chilling. The 29th was not stopped that day.  They clawed their way up those bluffs into Verville-sur-Mer and St. Laurent, on inland to the Aure River and, after 43 days of continuous combat, they took St. Lo.  Balkoski provides a vivid account of the fighting beyond the beachhead, in the hedgerow country. I read this book after visiting the beaches at Normandy.  I should have read it before that visit.  The maps of Omaha Beach are excellent and the action is told in an interesting and fast moving style.	2001-02-10
US	52593540	RLGLVWVRGJA30	0553282654	792911557	Helmet for my Pillow (Bantam War Book Series)	Books	4	24	27	N	N	The Man Can Write	Robert Leckie, machine gunner and then scout in the 1st Marine Division, retells his battle experiences on Guadalcanal, New Britain and the horrific losses suffered on Peleliu.  In addition to the battle descriptions, this rebel and admitted brig-rat, writes of time spent in the brigs and bars from the states to the South Pacific.  The loss of friends and the meaning of war itself are woven into the narrative with skill absent any maudlin sentiment. He paints a vivid picture of the fear brought on by night in the jungle during war.  &quot;I could not see, but I dared not close my eyes lest the darkness crawl beneath my eyelids and suffocate me.  I could only hear.  My ears became my being and I could hear the specks of life that crawled beneath my clothing... I could hear the darkness gathering against me and the silences that lay between the moving things.&quot; If this is &quot;brig-rat&quot; writing, then bring on more of it.	2001-02-10
US	52593540	R3GQVNG54BL9LO	089141682X	947099579	The Road to Arnhem: A Screaming Eagle in Holland	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Market Garden.  Not Monty's best.	Attempting to end run the Siegfried Line, Montgomery conceived an airborne drop in Holland to seize a 50 miles strip of Holland highway, including military positions, towns and bridges from Eindhoven to Arnhem.  Within three days, the British XXX Corps was to roll to Arnhem and into Germany. The total length of the supply line was 100 miles long. The author, a member of the 506 of the 101st, describes the resulting engagements and failure through bitter eyes.  In Burgett's opinion, under Montgomery's command, multiple blunders and poor planing, the 101st and the 82nd Divisions were all but decimated.  In the British 1st Airborne Div. and the Polish 1st Brigade, of a total of 10, 005 men, less than 2,500 remained. They were destroyed as fighting units. In spite of the failure, men of the First Allied Airborne Army fought with extreme heroism and Burgett describes many of their individual acts with compelling realism.  We owe Mr. Burgett much more than our thanks.	2001-02-10
US	52593540	R1MEDRXXUH9YT1	0891416811	35995058	Currahee!	Books	5	1	1	N	N	&quot;The 101st...a rendezous with destiny.&quot;	By war's end, the 506th of the 101st Div. suffered over 350 % casualties.  The author, Donald Burgett was and 18 year old youth in A Company of that outfit.  The 101st became the only division to be awarded three Presidential Unit Citations and became Eisenhower's personal honor guard.  In this, the first of his books, Burgett tells of his training and night jump on the western flank of the Normandy invasion near Ravenville on the eve of D-Day.  This is not cold history; this is the retelling of monumental events through the eye of a combatant who lived through it.  His superb first hand account of the battle of Normandy ends with his being wounded and his evacuation.	2001-02-10
US	52593540	R3RQNNVNPFK5HC	1853107115	487553116	Hitler's Last Gamble: Battle of the Bulge, December 1944 to January 1945	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Interested in the Bulge?  Read this book later..but read it.	Research is the strength of this work, not the telling of a major battle.  It is difficult for the reader to grasp the overall view of this clash as it is layered over with detail upon detail.  From mass movements to small skirmishes, it is told in the driest of writing style.  The usual complaint levied against military books, inadequate maps, can not be claimed here.  The maps are numerous and like the work itself, detailed. As a reference tool the book is invaluable and for this it merits the rating given.  An interesting read it is not but it does belongs on the shelf of those with a serious interest in the Bulge.	2001-02-10
US	52593540	R377MS0KEMID7K	0895267314	556131464	The Heterodoxy Handbook: How to Survive the PC Campus	Books	5	8	13	N	N	U.S.UniversitiesIslands of Oppression in a Sea of Freedom	American Universities, Islands of Oppression in a Sea of Freedom.<br />And daily the size of that sea is shrinking.  We scratch our heads and wonder what is eating away at the America we once knew.  This is a good place to start answering that question.	2000-12-11
US	52593540	RD5SK9PXEVMPQ	0805002391	204040400	The Old Man and the Boy	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Not Just For Hunters	A craftsman, once he truly masters his craft, becomes an artist.  Rauk's grandfather, his outdoor guide and teacher, was such an artist.  His understanding of game, conservation, wilderness and young boys on the brink of manhood transcends a mere outdoorsman.<br />Great for young men and boys who love the outdoors or old men who did once.	2000-12-02
US	52593540	R2DYJRLFKHNWV1	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	A must read for your children if you've already read it.	More chilling now than when I first read it over 25 years ago.  Not necessarily because of increased understanding but because of increased intrusion by the state.  I am nagged by the realization that had Orwell lived longer, his work would have been closer to current events than fiction.	2000-12-02
US	52593540	R1228EI3N0NQ6K	0887407161	624676793	Invasion! Theyre Coming!: The German Account of the D-Day Landings and the 80 Days Battle for France (Schiffer Military History) (English and German Edition)	Books	5	18	21	N	Y	And now, for something completely different...	A look at D-Day and the battle for Normandy from the German perspective.  How did those manning the Atlantic Wall feel looking out upon a fleet the size the world has never seen before or since?  Wave upon wave of bombers pounded them and then the unnerving of the naval shelling.  Their remembrances, conversations and fear put you there amongst the din and dust with them.  Enough lived through it to make the outcome doubtful.<br /> When was Marcks convinced that this was no diversion but the real invasion?  And why did his words fall on deaf ears.  Where was Rommel and von Rundstedt and why?  There were three German tank divisions within striking distance of the coast and yet they remained in place.  One Reg. sat with engines running, within 30 kilometers of the coast.  Why did they not receive the orders to advance until it was too late?  There was more than Hitler's madness at play, much more. As one reviewer previously noted, some of the maps were less than excellent but Carell's work belongs on the shelf of anyone with more than a passing interest in Normandy and the breakout.	2000-11-18
US	52593540	R17OIZBVZKNWRB	0767902521	157497316	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail (Official Guides to the Appalachian Trail)	Books	1	32	71	N	Y	If you love the Trail skip this book...	Back packers are an interesting lot.  Through hikers on the AT come from diverse backgrounds and range from college students to retired postal workers to returning vets.  They are, however, connected by a common bond: a love of hiking and the hope of self-discovery.  Bryson undertook his hike with the stated purpose of writing this book.  He chose an over weight, out of shape, obnoxious ex-college chum as his trail mate.  His purpose was not to discover the trail or himself or the simple joy of wilderness but simply to write a book.  His book may well be a financial success but his vision of the trail is one the reader might expect from a commodities broker and not one who hikes because of some higher purpose.  There are easier ways to gather material and better books on the trail than this. The real surprise is that the AT Conference puts this book in their catalogue.	2000-11-18
US	52593540	R1WGG1HROEE794	0891416803	484214539	Seven Roads to Hell: A Screaming Eagle at Bastogne	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	One of the best on the Bulge	I read my first book on the Bastogne over 25 years ago and perhaps four more in the intervening years including Ambrose's superior \\"Band Of Brothers\\".  Burgett's work here stands alone.  The hand-to-hand combat he describes on 12/22/44 in the Bois Jacques was riveting.  In this single operation, Burgett and the other 57 remaining members of his company (A of the 506) and a collection of the remaining few men of C company, after days of no sleep, little food and bitter combat, again engaged the enemy in sub-zero weather, and destroyed an entire enemy battalion.  He was 19 at the time. This is an extraordinary book, written by an extraordinary man from an extraordinary generation.  This well crafted work by one who was there gives us a clear view of just how extraordinary they were and how much is owed.	2000-09-27
