US	52601032	R2YSSPFCNBOIGP	0441011675	477958501	Dead to the World (Southern Vampire Mysteries, Book 4)	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Sookie meets a gentler, kinder Eric, among other things....	This fourth entry in the Sookie Stackhouse and vampire Bill series maintains its quality and adds to the lore of this new world where magic and magical beings meet the `real' world.<br />Similar to other books of its genre (mystery meets horror meets romance), our heroine Sookie, a self-declared \\"uneducated but not unintelligent\\" bar maid in a small town in the south, has her hands full as usual.<br />First, her ex-boyfriend vampire Bill takes off for Peru for some research. Then she finds his boss, Eric Northman, running naked and amnesiac down the road to her home. Turns out he's been cursed by a coven that's moved into his territory, planning to take over. Then her brother disappears, possibly kidnapped by those same nasty witches.<br />After accepting guardianship of Eric (he's not safe at home without his memory), and leaving the coven business to the vampire community, she decides takes matters into her own hands when the local cops don't take her brother's disappearance very serious.<br />All this leads to the werewolf pack in Eric's territory, another strange pack in another even more remote patch in her own home territory, and eventually a major confrontation of the principals. Along the way, Sookie indulges in a little pillow action with Eric, receives strange and unexpected proposals, and manages to keep her New Year's Resolution, \\"not to get beat up.\\"<br />A fun, fast-paced romp. If you like the others, you should like this one. Harris is definitely a better entry in this evolving genre. Some day I'll check out her most conventional mysteries.	2004-06-05
US	52601032	RUUG7ALNZJRQH	0575074477	398029348	The Visitor (GollanczF.)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	An odd duck of a tale	Tepper is an odd writer, each book different (at least, after her early fantasy trilogies), each book often exploring a different moral or idea. Some more successful than others. Always well written.<br />The Visitor starts some generations into the future, on an Earth considerably changed after a catastrophic occurrence. We find, as does the key protagonist Disme Latimer as she reads the diary of her ancestress Nell Latimer, that something like an asteroid hit the Earth hard enough to shift tectonic plates, and kill most of the humans then living.<br />The survivors split into many smaller communities. Disme is essentially an orphan, watched over for some ultimately nefarious purpose by her stepfamily. She sees and hears things and beings that others don't, but she keeps that information to herself.<br />Nell joined a group of scientists who built a shelter deep underground hoping to survive the catastrophe. They took shifts in cryogenic sleep and kept an eye on the survivors. Eventually, Nell comes out of sleep to the time of Disme. Which is when things get strange.            <br />Without giving anymore away, there's a `god' with a small `g,' a being of the Fell,and people who get called to take on the aspects of avatars (for want of a better word), all brought into the mix. They go on a quest, find their various counterparts, and let the avators use them when needed, all of which leads to a confrontation between the avatars and the creatures of the Fell.<br />Sounds like a fantasy in some ways, but it's more religious than anything else. The god is there to give humans yet another potential turning point. The questions at the end relate to whether or not we'll take a correct fork.<br />Is it successful? I'm not sure. The characters are well crafted, and stay individuals even when their avatars take possession. The world is interesting. The Latimer family is interesting. But somehow the interactions are unconvincing, forced. I won't forget it, but I'm not sure I'll want to read it again.	2004-04-22
US	52601032	R6VWLPVA950U2	0441005837	937207660	Rose Daughter	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Oddly disappointing...	Having recently read Sunshine and Spindle's End, I picked up Rose Daughter expecting the same delightful twist to a common tale, this time Beauty and the Beast. So I was disappointed to discover it did not particularly engage me. I finished it -- something has to be truly awful for me not to finish -- but I was not smiling with satisfaction at the end. I was not involved in the characters, the plotting seemed entirely too pat, there seemed no doubt in each step of the tale. Granted, everyone should know the story of Beauty and the Beast. But McKinley usually gives us something different, a parallel tale perhaps, in which the characters do not necessarily do the same as their fairytale counterparts. The primary failing for me was with the characters. They were interesting on the surface, but I didn't seem to get beyond that surface. They seemed sketched, rather than fleshed out. We were told what they were feeling, rather than allowed to share their experiences. My first disappointment with McKinley: if you want to try her, go for one of the others, or her first Beauty and the Beast tale, aptly named Beauty.	2004-04-18
US	52601032	R3A8PL97RRCME7	0345381017	365874406	Bride of the Rat God	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Very Clever: No -- Really, I Mean It	If the name Barbara Hambly isn't enough to make you expect something well above what the title might imply, let me try to convince you.  The title sounds like something out of a bad scifi movie, and it's got lots of the elements of just that genre of film:  an ancient cursed necklace, a demon (the Rat God itself), explosions, cryptic omens, people who refuse to die even when their skulls are cracked open, and mysterious Chinese gentlemen.<br />But it's also got a wealth of finely-drawn characters: the `bad' actress who's having an affair with the studio owner, the widowed sister-in-law she rescued from companion status in England, the brave photographer, the above-mentioned Chinese gentleman, a trio of charming and essential Pekingese, and a bevy of side characters equally memorable. <br />And also finely-detailed is the setting: Los Angeles at the height of the silent film era, when everyone worked long hours, and used a lot of illegal drugs (including alcohol). A Los Angeles just beginning to grow, still full of woods, orchards, oil derricks, Hollywood, Chinatown, bootleggers, and dockside piers with carnivals. So while our intrepid heroes are waiting for the right time to confront the Rat God and contain it so they can live on in peace, you get to meet some new friends and see an intriguing view of Hollywood during prohibition. <br />I've read this book at least four times. Each time I've thought: do I really want to keep this in my library? And then set it aside to decide that question later. Well, this time I've decided -- it's being kept for the next time I want something light, clever and textured. It's out of print, but worth looking for.	2004-02-27
US	52601032	R2F21XG642GMA8	0451459539	950963119	Thief of Lives (Noble Dead)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	And a good lunch...	If Dhampir could be considered a good breakfast, this sequel is definitely a hearty lunch. Herein we return to the world of Magiere (half vampire), Leesil (half-elf) and their \\"dog\\" Chap. Hoping to settle down in their new home after ridding the town of its vampire nest, fate, their reputation, and meddlers intervene. To save their small community, they travel to Belas to find and destroy its vampire, who is now killing among the nobles. As they succeed, they find out more about their own hidden or unknown pasts, meet new companions, and identify their quest and at least one of their enemies. There's fast action and character development, even among the vampires.<br />This time I didn't hesitate when I saw there was a new book. I bought it and read it immediately. Mind you, not too many books or authors get this treatment. Some, like Cherryh, get bought immediately and set aside until I have time to savor her dense storylines. But for light entertainment, especially when recovering from a cold, this is as good as it gets, if you like vampires, well-written fantasy, and a promise of more to come. Although this can be read without doing so, I recommend you read Dhampir first.<br />It still feels like someone's fantasy role-playing campaign, but it's a campaign in which I would have liked to play. I await for dinner with appetite...	2004-01-25
US	52601032	R34W76GAZA9C9M	0441009239	302398899	Living Dead in Dallas (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 2)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Sookie goes on an adventure....	Book two of the adventures of Sookie Stackhouse and her vampire boyfriend Bill takes her to Dallas, paying back a favor for the regional vampire \\"boss\\" Eric. Dallas is missing a vampire and needs Sookie's telepathic abilities to check the humans who might know something. Meanwhile, back at home, there's murder afoot, rumors of orgies, and a mythological beastie loose in the nearby woods, expecting tribute from the local vampires. Dallas gives Sookie a look at big city vampiric life, quite different from her much smaller home town area. Harris balances both locations quite ably, giving the reader a fast fun read. As Sookie's involvement in the vampire world increases, she begins to have misgivings about the whole situation, while her affair with Bill continues to deepen. The threads of the local murder, the beastie, and the orgies combine together nicely, with vampires combining forces with humans unexpectedly. And most importantly, these southern people are still the most interesting parts of this new series. I'd say more, but I don't want to give everything away. Go read Dead Until Dark and then pick this one up.	2003-09-04
US	52601032	R37EHA2MHFBUYG	0451459407	962252105	Death Masks (Dresden Files)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Harry's in trouble again	Life has its up and downs for our hero, Harry, the down-on-his-luck wizard from modern-day Chicago. Susan, his almost-vampire lost love returns, but only to say goodbye. He's challenged to a duel by a vampire champion of the Red Court, but on the good side, if he loses, the wizard-vampire war will be over. The Shroud of Turin has been stolen and shows up in Chicago, and everyone wants it: the scary gangster lord of the city, the Fallen Angels and their demon agents, the White Knights, and the Vatican, which hires Harry to find it. Along the way there are shoot-outs aplenty, strange and twisted beasties to defeat (or run away from), and Harry gets asked some questions he has a hard time answering. All told in Butcher's typical fast-paced hard-to-put-down style, from Harry's charming and sardonic point of view. If you've read the other books, don't wait, just buy this and devour it. If you've picked it up as the first book of Butcher's, go ahead, read it first. Butcher will give you what you need to get up to speed. Then go out and get the other four.	2003-09-02
US	52601032	R1KKZXYHXZ7LE6	0441008534	486021067	Dead Until Dark  (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 1)	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Sookie meets her ideal man, sort of....	What's a southern woman with telepathic abilities to do? It's hard to have some romance when your date is thinking random thoughts about everything but romance. But things begin to change for Sookie Stackhouse when a real live (more or less) vampire walks into her bar, and wonder of wonders, she can't read a single thought from him. He's a local boy, and returning to his roots now that vampires have legal status. Knowing her customers, she gets suspicious when a particularly unsavory couple walk out with Bill the vampire. She follows and ends up rescuing him. He's not exactly thankful for being rescued, but Sookie figures it's as good a way to meet him as any. As Sookie and Bill get closer together, plots thicken as several co-workers of Sookie are murdered. Sookie has to get involved in solving the murders for her own peace of mind, because the clues are pointing to the possibility that Bill, now the vampire boyfriend, is the killer. This is the first book of a new series. But with some new twists. It's set in the South, with all those prejudices and attitudes. There's Bill and the vampire culture to be explored. There are mysteries that need to be solved. They have the feeling of a cozy mystery, but with more violence and action, more of a bite, one might say. The best thing about the book (and its successors) are the characters. They all feel real, with real feelings and weaknesses, and act true to their characteristics. And there's some nice sidebar touches, like when the Descendents of the Glorious Dead ask Bill to talk to them about his experiences in the Civil War. I'll look forward to more adventures of Sookie and Bill.	2003-09-02
US	52601032	R2GVX7VJN4VMB0	0345423429	192644371	A Caress of Twilight (Meredith Gentry, Book 2)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Merry's saga continues...	A Caress of Twilight picks up the story of Meredith, Princess of Flesh, several months after she had been elevated to co-heir of the Unseelie Court. She will be Queen of the court if she has a child before her cousin does, and she has a six month's lead on him, as he's being \\"punished\\" for six months. She is back in California, with her own court of various men, ranging from Sidhe bodyguards from the Queen's court to a representative of the Goblin Court.<br />Hamilton fans may be a bit disappointed: the sex is not as frequent as in the first book or as raunchy as has become the standard in the Anita Blake series. Which is a bit surprising, as Meredith's bloodlines are rich in fertility goddesses and sexual healing.<br />It feels like a transitional book. Storylines continue from the first book, and are still incomplete in this one. But there is progression. Meredith continues to consolidate her power base among the demi-fey courts, forging short-term (and uneasy) alliances. She also learns a fair amount about being a leader, a needed lesson surrounded by strong men who tend to dominate any situation. As whoever fathers her future child will become her King, she juggles her feelings for some who would make disastrous kings, and those who would be strong kings, if perhaps uneasy longterm companions. And her second Gift, the Hand of Blood, manifests itself in a battle against a lethal magical foe, resulting in Wild Magic being released and many of the Sidhe regaining powers they had once sacrificed to emigrate to America.<br />Not the strongest of Hamilton's books, but a good fix for the addict (to which I confess to being a charter member, starting with the first, Guilty Pleasures). I look forward to the next one.	2003-08-17
US	52601032	R3H78KLPACLC64	0061020087	127154958	Fortress of Owls	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Political intrigues abound...	Book three of this series picks up the threads of the lives of Tristan and Cefwyn. Tristan, magical Shaping of Wizard Mauryl, has been appointed Lord of Amefel and sent away from his friend and liege, King Cefwyn, for his own good and for the good of the kingdom.<br />He has taken up the reins of ruling Amefel, and having banished and otherwise dealt with traitors and unreliable people, he faces new problems. Not the least of which are the civil war in the lands to the West, and people insisting he is the fulfillment of the prophecy of the return of a Sidhe King. He rebuilds the fortifications of Amefel, gathers together the alliance of the southern provinces in expectation of war with the west come spring, and learns more of his magical abilities and their dangers.<br />Cefwyn, meanwhile, has his own problems. The `state' religion resists his bride Ninevrise, the regent of the lands in rebellion to the west, on the grounds of her religious beliefs. Provincial barons used to controlling the previous king plot and scheme against him, his goal to free his bride's lands, and wouldn't mind if they managed to remove him too. New to statesmanship, he struggles to maintain balance, and device ways to nullify some of their influence without resorting to violence.<br />This is a book of parallels, as we switch back and forth between Tristen seeking to do right by Amefel and learn about himself, and Cefwyn and his court. As Tristen brings the `southern' barons together to secure the kingdom's western borders, Cefwyn attempt to control the unwilling `northern' barons. Both hope to prevent civil war in their own kingdom while preparing for war in the west.<br />This is the third season of Tristen's life, coming full grown into the world last spring, and the third season of the kingship for Cefwyn. Events force decisions and actions, pushing toward Midwinter, a turning of the year, but also a Turning of Wizardly Years, and indeed a Great Turning of Years. <br />Cefwyn's court prepares for a wedding, planned to be the first step in Cefwyn's campaign to control the northern barons; Tristen prepares for the arrival of the southern barons for festival and war plans. <br />The tale ends at Midwinter morning, after disturbing challanges to both courts Midwinter Eve. A murder preventing the wedding in Cefwyn's; a magical assault on Tristen. Both are resisted and controlled, but we await the fourth book to see the outcomes.<br />The books continue to unfold slowly. If you're looking for fast-paced space opera, these are not for you. But Cherryh excels at studying people and cultures in times of change and crisis, and is doing so again. The people are real and we are given time to see them in action and understand their motives and relationships. There are secrets still to unravel, and issues to settle. And these questions most of all: why was Tristen Summoned and Shaped? Is he still following the summoning or becoming his own man? What is his destiny? Will he live past his year? Much hinges on just these unknowns.	2003-05-24
US	52601032	R2S4EPDQ2FLLG1	0061056898	77642704	Fortress in the Eye of Time (Fortress Series)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Solid foundation to new series	Once again, Cherryh has set the stage for an interesting series, this time one of her rare fantasies. Our awareness of the world comes through the eyes of Tristen, a Shaping by an dying wizard who knows he's about to lose his battle against the Shadows, the evils of this world. But Tristen is not quite what Mauryl conjured, and is severed too soon from his creator, when he is less than a season \\"old.\\" Tristen flees the evil that defeated Mauryl, into the arms (as it were) of the heir to the kingdom, fighting his own battles against recalcitrant and treacherous people in a troublesome province on the western edge of the kingdom. Prince Cefwyn at first keeps Tristen with him because of the advice of a priest-wizard, but at time goes by, discovers a trustworthy friend in Tristen, a rare opportunity for a prince.<br />Tristen is an odd duck, an almost-child in an adult body. He \\"knows\\" things, but doesn't know how or why, and fled Mauryl's residence with only the Book he cannot read but is compelled to keep trying. As events unfold, his Shaping urges him to do things that scare Cefwyn and all around him, but always seem to be the right thing to do. As Tristen assimilates more of the world around him, and the magical abilities inate to him, we too see more of the world and its enemies.<br />It's a surprisingly slow-feeling book, considering all that takes place: Cefwyn becomes King, ancient enemies attack, alliances are forged, including the engagement of Cefwyn to the Regent of the lands to the West, and Tristen finally reads his Book. All the threads weave into a battle in the last pages, where the King's forces triumph over the Western traitors after Tristen steps into the Shadows and defeats the enemy there. But not for all time.<br />There's lots of room for developments: Cefwyn and Ninevrise still need to get married and her lands liberated from rebels; but she and Tristen share a magical ability that Cefwyn does not, and is jealous of. Tristen, apparently freed from the Shaping goals of Mauryl, still needs to find his own destiny. The embodiment of the magical predecessors to the current rulers, he is by his mere existence a possible challenge to Cefwyn, whom he loves like a brother.<br />While not as compelling as the Foreigner series (perhaps an unfair comparison to Cherryh's probable masterpiece), I certainly didn't wait to pick up book two to see what happens next. Highly recommended.	2003-05-16
US	52601032	RR1VAGM62XH61	0451459067	966522728	Dhampir (Noble Dead)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A good breakfast...	Unable to resist a new tale about vampires, I took a chance on Dhampire, even though I had not heard of the authors. It's a bit different, with the protagonists a pair of con artists traveling the countryside, defeating the undead for a price. Of course, the &quot;undead&quot; is Leesil, one of the pair, whom Magiere &quot;defeats&quot; in the dead of night, away from the eyes of terrified villagers. They then take off for the next village. They're a lone pair, whose only friend is a dog named Chap.<br />But one hunt turns different, and after they settle into their camp away from the village, they are attacked by a true vampire, and their lives change. Chap exhibits abilities to see and attack the vampire never seen before. And Magiere, truly in a fight for her life, becomes something more than she was before. It scares them, and Magiere decides its time to retire, take their savings, and settle down in a peaceful shoreline town and run a local bar.<br />And all goes well until they discover there are vampires there too. And the vampires find out she's a true vampire hunter, a dhampire, whose genetics include a vampire parent. As hard as Magiere tries to ignore the town's troubles, it's a foregone conclusion she, Leesil and Chap will become the point people in the battle against the undead.<br />We see the history of the vampires also, and an associated ghost. So these are not just ravening monsters (well, some are): they too just wanted a quiet place to settle down and feed judiciously just enough to live. Throughout the book the characters are fleshed out, having motivations, dreams and desires.<br />Although a complete story unto itself, it's obviously the introduction of characters at the beginning of a series. There's a mysterious figure maneuvering Magiere to discover her true nature. Chap, given as a pup to Leesil by his mother, has &quot;guardian&quot; qualities that make him more than he seems. Half-elf Leesil has a past he keeps hidden. And Magiere has aheritage, and perhaps a parent, to discover. There is a sense of destiny in the future for them.<br />And, as a longtime gamer myself, the story and characters feel like they might have started out as some gaming campaign. If so, the storytelling transcends its genesis inspiration. A good beginning. I'll look forward to lunch and dinner with these characters.	2003-03-13
US	52601032	R3HGPR8EVNIA8T	0698119509	777040121	Spindle's End	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Potent fairy-tale adapation	I forget between her books, just how much I enjoy Robin McKinley's fairy tale adaptations. It's been a few years since I read the last one (and I confess there are a few more on my bookshelves waiting their turn). I guess I'll have to move them closer to the top of the pile.<br />This is a fresh look at Sleeping Beauty, but still a fairy tale, rather than a gritty new-age urban fantasy adaptation. There's still a fairy princess receiving gifts from the fairies, including the curse to prick her finger on a spinning wheel spindle. But thereafter the tale starts to change and goes in directions unexpected. Rosie (the princess) is 'kidnapped' by Katriona with the blessing of the royal family fairy, Sigil. Katriona takes Rosie home to the far reaches of the kingdom, staying well off the beaten trails, and aided along the way by animals of all sizes and natures.<br />Rosie grows up knowing nothing about her origins, and never suspecting she's the princess because Katriona gave Rosie her gift to speak with animals, and everyone knows the royal family has no magical talents in his lineage. She studies the art of animal healing with the local smith, has a best friend (Peony) who is far more princess-like, hones her small magical talents and avoids discovery by the evil fairy who is still searching for her to insure the curse is fulfilled in a kingdom now without any pointed spindles.<br />So she is less than pleased when, several months before her birthday, she's informed she's the royal heir. With the help of some fairies and Peony, they set a trap for the evil fairy. And being a fairytale, evil is defeated and everyone lives happily ever after. But, being a McKinley tale, there are twists and turns, and unexpected endings.<br />By the time I finished Spindle's End, I felt like these characters were friends. They are fully drawn people, rather than the usual fairytale fare. Details make the world and its inhabitants clear and easily remembered. And although the broad tale is well known, the middle parts are new territory and pleasing to explore.<br />Did I mention love yet? It's a palpable force: love of parents to children, friends to friends, animals to people and back, and lovers to lovers. All are strong and help shape the characters and each lend their strength to the defeat of evil. Potent tale-telling. Give it a try.	2002-11-21
US	52601032	R3C6B13WF6JO6F	0451457811	823834280	Storm Front (Dresden Files)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A good beginning to a promising series	This is the first of a new urban fantasy series. Harry Dresden lives in Chicago and is a wizard: Paranormal Investigation. No Love Potions, Endless Purses or Other Entertainment. Business isn't particularly lively (most people don't believe in wizards), so he does occasional consulting with the police department when something \\"a little strange\\" comes along.<br />This time he's on the trail of a mage involved in a double murder. It gets 'interesting' when the mage starts noticing him. And as if things couldn't get worse, the Council of Wizards sends a Warden to monitor Harry's activities to make sure he hasn't broken any of their rules.<br />Harry's world is full of irony and sly humor, odd beings (fairies who can be trapped with honey and paid with pizza), and supernatural storms. It's a quick read, the specific mystery is wrapped up, and I wanted more. Lucky for me and other readers who also like authors Susan Sizemore and Laurell Hamilton, there's more of Harry on the horizon.	2002-10-18
US	52601032	R30CV34WTJH809	0451458125	54721316	Fool Moon (Dresden Files)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Werewolves: More than Harry wants to know	Strange grisly murders. Pawprints on the scene. If you're the police, who do you call? Harry Dresden, wizard, of course. Time for our intrepid hero to earn his living and find out a bit more about magical wolves, first hand: hexenwolves, werewolves, lycanthropes, loup-garou? All are different, all are suspect. Once again Harry is helping his favorite cop, Lt. Murphy, and trying to keep her out of harm's way. Which is tough when she keeps close to him, and the facts begin to point to Harry as the chief suspect. Can Harry tell the good guys, or wolves, from the bad guys, and can he discover the identity of the ringleader before the police decide he really is the killer?<br />Another dandy tale, with more about Harry's world of strange events and stranger characters. Did I mention before it's told in Harry's first-person voice? And filled with irony and humor? Try it, you'll like it.	2002-10-18
US	52601032	RVA9QW6DZWS0I	0451458923	511698178	Summer Knight (Dresden Files)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Faerie Wars: Bad News for Harry	When we last saw our intrepid hero, wizard Harry Dresden, he had just lost his girlfriend to the vampires, and been threatened by the renewed involvement in his life by his fairy godmother. Since then, things have gotten worse. He's depressed, he isn't working, his friends are avoiding him, and he's about to be evicted from his office. Enter the solution: the Winter Queen of Faerie. If Harry will find out who killed the Summer Queen's right-hand knight, he can rid himself of the magical hold of his fairy godmother and maybe save his girlfriend from becoming a full-fledged vampire.<br />But this means putting himself in harm's way between the two Queens of Faerie and their various minions. Not to mention the fact that the fate of the world rests on the results of his discovery. Once again, we are treated to a madcap tale with oddball characters and strange creatures, twists and turns in plots and motivations, unexpected allies, and even a damel in distress to be rescued at the height of a battle between the two Queens. I call this good cotton candy, and I like cotton candy. When is the next one going to be ready?	2002-10-18
US	52601032	R26JY74USE5RJ2	0441007945	217135592	Frontier Earth	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Western science fiction - an interesting blend	I picked this one up because it's no secret that Bruce Boxleitner is a fan and reader of science fiction and a history buff. I thought it would be interesting to see how he managed to combine the two in this tale purporting to be first contact with aliens in 1881 in the Old West<br />The protagonist is Monitor Macklin, a human being from stock that came originally from Earth, and sent to Earth to keep us safe from the predator aliens. There's a couple problems, though: the predator Kra'augh are already here, getting ready to move in, strip-mine the planet and enjoy hunting the Food -- us. And Macklin's ship crash-landed and he's lost a chunk of his memory. His AI implant is working hard to feed him data, but his head injury is making it hard to get through. To make it more interesting, Macklin arrives in Tombstone shortly before the OK Corral shootout (and if you don't know what this is, go watch Tombstone).<br />The story focuses on Macklin trying to figure out why he's here and who he is and why he knows what horses and saddles are, but has obviously never ridden. Meanwwhile, Monitor Doreen, Macklin's partner and lover, who did land safely (they were both dodging the predator ships when they landed), is busy looking for him. Concurrent with that, two predator scouts are on the move, killing some Food (and pleased with the sport can give) and trying to find the Monitors so they can't send for help.<br />It's competently written, if a little clumsy sometimes. Nothing fancy in the structure, just the linear storyline ad a few memory flashes of the past from Macklin. I'd guess that Boxleitner is a man with a story to tell, and has chosen to tell it more like a western than sf. I think the humorous side of the Monitors and aliens (who can take on the appearance of Food they have absorbed, but still smell and act strange) trying to fit into the \\"wild west,\\" is not a well-developed as it could be. It's the beginning of a series. Not all the questions get answered, not all the problems solved. I am, however, interested enough to read the next one.	2002-09-18
US	52601032	R1WSI6XN49DCSI	0812516478	837097106	Camelot 30K	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Go back to the masters!	If this is an example of a book by Robert L. Forward, I'll be pleased to avoid them in the future. Now, don't get me wrong: just because I prefer fantasy to hard sf, doesn't mean I don't appreciate good hard sf. I grew up on Heinlein, Clarke, Asimov, Niven and Clement. I read Brin, Card and Cherryh, and sample a lot of newcomers like Watts' _Starfish_. But if I hadn't been forced to finish this for a book discussion group, I doubt I would have continued past page 50, my benchmark to quit if I don't care about anything in the book: ideas, world, characters, etc. Not only does this book have no interesting storyline, it has constant intrusions of scientific explanations.<br />Okay, okay, so you want to know something about it. Life is found on a cometary body beyond the orbit of Pluto, living only 30 degrees above absolute zero (30K, get it?). We go to explore it, of course, which is the basis of the entire story, as we humans examine their culture and figure out what makes it work physically. It's an interesting puzzle (hence the two stars), worthy of Clement's _Mission of Gravity_, to which it is compared (although I found Mission much easier to read not too long ago). But if you're not a chemist or a physicist, you'll probably find your eyes glazing over as you skim paragraph after paragraph of scientific explanation, hunting for the next step in the simple storyline. The aliens were marginally interesting, but not enough to keep me reading under normal circumstances.<br />It felt like a [very long] story from the 1940s when sf was new, and it was still a genre heavy on ideas and light on characters and the more sophisticated elements of storytelling we expect from our sf writers now. If you want hard sf in the old style, go back to the masters mentioned above, and skip this one. You'll thank me for the suggestion.	2002-08-23
US	52601032	R1Y41C4J8VEHCH	0553573861	755271511	Zodiac	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Quirky Eco-Thriller	Stephenson turns his attention to the near future in this fast-paced eco-thriller (although applying fast-pased to Stephenson is virtually redundent).<br />Sagamon Taylor, a self-styled professional pain in the ass, works for GEE, a small somewhat-radical environmental group based in Boston. He rides the waves like futuristic Lone Ranger looking for bad guys to bring to justice. His steed is a souped-up Zodiac and the bad guys are polluting corporations.<br />Sagamon goes through his usual routine of finding spills and helping GEE focus publicity on them (and often plugging the offensive drainage), and finds himself confronting a mystery that threatens the ecosystem of not only the Boston harbor, but possibly also the world's oceans. As he digs into the changing data and odd symptoms, he becomes a target: eventually his house is blown up, he flees under cover of a fierce storm, and is reported dead. Of course, he's not. He rises from the ashes and with the help of friends and unexpected allies, he makes sure the bad guys get their just desserts and the world is saved, this time.<br />I admit I didn't always follow the actual biochemistry of the potential disaster, but that isn't necessary to enjoy the book and the explanations don't slow the pace. There is a supporting cast of quirky characters that are entertaining to meet. And seeing GEE and its allies from the inside is often hilarious. Overall, a good read. I'll keep looking for more from this author.	2002-08-23
US	52601032	R2TX799NOR1FQA	0451458443	922158521	Grave Peril (The Dresden Files, Book 3)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	The Dresden Files are keepers.	This third tale in a new occult mystery series has Harry Dresden, our intrepid wizard, running hard in place. He's so busy putting down some very angry and disturbed ghosts, he hasn't got time to figure out why they're appearing in so many numbers and so annoyed. Eventually he figures it out and puts (some of) them to rest, but not before confronting a local vampire and her minions. Along the way he battles giant scorpions (well, mostly he tries to avoid getting impaled and convincing them to kill each other and the bad guy who conjured them), teams up with another vampire on a rescue mission, and (sort of) loses his girlfriend, which is disheartening as he'd just discovered how much he loves her.<br />Harry is a typical wizard in that he's eccentric, lives a highly erratic lifestyle, and has strange cronies (a very big black cat and a spirit inhabiting a skull). Technological things don't work well around him: guns misfire, computers crash and lightbulbs explode, forcing him to live with candles and wood stoves in a big city. <br />Like many mystery series these days, the series has an ongoing storyline about Harry and his friends, and I'm hoping to see more of his history and his vindictive fairy godmother in future volumes. All the stories are fast-paced and well written. In a growing field of 'urban fantasy,' The Dresden Files are a welcome addition. I look forward to the next one.	2002-08-23
US	52601032	R1IUIG1SSOA8WL	1888125586	190381625	Through the Eye of the Glacier	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Alaskan Science Fiction	As a resident of Fairbanks, Alaska myself, I would love to give this tale five stars. But there are serious problems with it. It's obvious the author knows and loves Alaska, from the glaciers and the northern lights, to the people who live here and have been shaped by the land. But in his desire to share these feelings, he often becomes mawkishly sentimental. <BR>The story spans millenia, and starts with a Native couple, a glacier, and an orb, and leads to first contact with a galactic civilization. Ambitious indeed, and unique in its use of Native culture, especially the music and storytelling. <BR>It has a strong underpinning of science, real and projected: unfortunately it becomes virtually unreadable to a non-scientist. It reminds me of the very early days of science fiction when scientists wrote a lot of idea stories for Analog, Amazing and Fantastic. Many suffered the same fate as the tale-telling became too technical for the average reader.<BR>The natural sciences suffer less: galloping glaciers and mastadons dot the landscape, as do meticulous descriptions of fire-building and white-water river running in a Zodiac. The book is weighted down with long descriptions, giving the feeling the author just didn't know how to edit himself -- what to put in, what to shorten.<BR>And the writing itself is amateurish, clumsy, awkward, and sometimes downright hard to read. Here's an example: &quot;He had only a spec [sic] of a clue what his amazingly enthusiastic red-haired, green-eyed young friend was going on about, but the display of energy and grace between Shanna and Laura was, well, sort of stimulating.&quot; Shanna is the redhead, and the reader knew that 200 pages ago. <BR>If you're truly curious about science fiction set in Alaska, by all means read this. But check out the other ones, too, as they're usually better written. Email me if you want a list.	2001-10-22
US	52601032	R2DZPWK24OXVTI	0553575260	98461616	A Free Man of Color (Benjamin January, Book 1)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Historical mystery	Wow! I've had this book on my shelves for awhile now (the 4th was recently acquired), but hadn't gotten around to it. I've been a fan of Hambley's fine fantasy for some time, and was much disconcerted when the last Black Dragon book left us in a very bad place for our intrepid protagonists. I checked out her web page, and much to my horror discovered she'd taken a break and written yet another Benjamin January tale. Annoyed and intrigued, I decided to see just what was delaying the conclusion of the fantasy series. And having read the first one, I intend to read the next ones right away.<BR>This tale works in all directions: the writing is smooth with a fine attention to detail without being obtrusive. As it is a murder mystery, those details are important, not just window dressing.<BR>As a period piece, it's terrific, giving us a view of New Orleans before the Civil War, when the 'white' people were mostly Creole French, and the Americans were just beginning to make their mark (and mostly negative). Benjamin is the free man of color of the title: 3/4 black and could be described &quot;black and beautiful&quot; now. He is in his 40s, widowed, a surgeon who makes his living playing and teaching piano. He has spent the last 20 or so years in France, has just returned to his home and is suffering culture shock.<BR>We learn about this culture as he remembers how to live within the severe caste system among the blacks, free and slave, and the Creole society with its wives and mistresses on display during Mardi Gras. The book is littered (in a good way) with interesting people, none of whom are entirely what they first seem to be, and none of whom are cliches.<BR>And when one particularly manipulative woman is murdered at one of the balls, Benjamin is unwillingly drawn into the puzzle, at first to help an old friend, but later in a desperate attempt to clear his own name. <BR>The mystery works, too. There are twisty paths everywhere, each one of which must be explored, before the final solution becomes clear. We can forgive Benjamin if we're just slightly ahead of him at the end: I'm sure we've read more mysteries than he has tried to solve.<BR>All in all, a highly satisfying mystery, proving again just how good an author Barbara Hambley is.	2001-10-22
US	52601032	R3UJNB6X5U4QYK	0515131091	173732316	Out of this World	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Intriguing Tastes	This book of romance tales loosely categorized as &quot;spellbinding&quot; is an interesting introduction to some interesting authors. I don't read much straight romance, preferring it mixed with sf, fantasy or history. As a Laurell Hamilton fan from the beginning, there was no doubt I'd have to get this book. And I was pleased to be introduced to two new authors I'll have to check out.<BR>&quot;Interlude in Death,&quot; J.D. Robb's tale featuring her futuristic cop Eve Dallas and her husband Roarke (of the apparently-shady past) is the strongest of the lot. It has a complete story, starting with murder at the Martian resort where the cops are gathering for a conference. And while they're busy solving the murders, we get a nice taste of their relationship and their chemistry. No supernatural elements, but decent sf. Good enough that I'll want to go back to the beginning and read them. I wanted to know more about the characters, which is pretty much the best you can get from a sort story.<BR>In &quot;Kinsman,&quot; Sue Krinard apparently took a departure from her more supernatural world of werewolves, and shared what might be the beginning of an sf romance series. The sf situation (featuring telepaths as liaisons to the aliens) is well set up, and intriguing; the relationship of the two characters predictable but adequately written. I remember Krinard's name from Star Wars and Mad Max fanzines 25 years ago, and was sufficiently intrigued to plan on looking for her current set of books. Not as strong as the Robb, but worth reading.<BR>Maggie Shayne's &quot;Immortality&quot; was the weakest of the four tales. Although complete unto itself, I assume that it is set in a world where other such Witches exist. This is a tale of redemption for a bitter, Black Witch, who finds love along the way. The interaction between the characters was predictable, and without chemistry. The background didn't interest me, and the style of writing, where we were told how people felt, was obtrusive. This is a pass from me, not a world I'll look to revisit.<BR>Laurell Hamilton fans will love and curse the last tale. It's obviously an excerpt from her next Anita Blake novel, Narcissus in Chains, and is not complete. The excerpt does have a start and end, but there's obviously a lot more that's going to happen that night to our daring characters (a master vampire, an alpha werewolf, and the necromancer who holds them and their magic together). It is, however, a good representation of the kind of story Hamilton tells: fast-paced, tense, deadly, sexy. This is some of the best cotton-candy around: a fast read, leaving you both satisfied and wanting more; I reread them often just for the fun of it. The world of legalized monsters -- from vampires to lamias -- is fascinating and fun. I ripped through this story and then cursed it, because I'll have to wait until early November to get the rest!<BR>If you're looking for a little romance in a different place, this is one to check out.	2001-10-22
US	52601032	R344M1Y77UL9IP	0812509242	667775993	Heartfire (Tales of Alvin Maker, Book 5)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	The canvas increases	Once again, we visit the alternate America of 150 years ago that Card created, where history has taken some odd turns, partly because of talents called &quot;knacks.&quot; This tale has two storylines: Alvin and friends in the Puritan country of New England, and Margaret in the southern land of Camelot and King Arthur to combat slavery. Alvin is accused of witchcraft, put on trial by an evil witcher, and defended by Verily Cooper. Margaret has little luck convincing others to cease using slaves, but does have dealings with Calvin, Alvin's younger brother and possible assassin. As usual, the appreciation of this book is double: the people and the land they wander in. Here John Adams was never president but is the jurist who must preside at Alvin's trial, John Audubon runs afowl of John Stuart (Alvin's ward) who won't let him kill the birds he needs to paint, Honore de Balzac is charmed by Margaret and will help put France on the side of those opposing slavery, and King Arthur in Camelot yearns to be King of England rather than the Crown colonies in the Americas. At the end Alvin is reunited with his wife Margaret, the companions are planning their next steps to build the Crystal City, Calvin has gone off to contemplate the lessons he has learned, and war looms to decide the issue of slavery. Card is rumored to be working on the next volume in this series: I hope he moves it off the back burner -- soon. I haven't been this charmed by a series in a long time.	2001-02-14
US	52601032	R2HIYU7SMHAZ00	0425121046	533918267	Demon Night	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Taut thriller	Although formulaic (as is most horror), this one has the advantage of being written by Babylon 5's creator and primary writer. The result is a tightly-plotted thriller, with people given enough character to make them real. Set in a sleepy town in the Northeast, the main character turns out to be a guardian, with hints at the end of a much larger playing field. Like many quest novels, this guardian doesn't understand his heritage and must find it before he can turn the tide of the ancient evil. But he is no callow youth, but rather a mature man, confused and tormented by a talent he doesn't understand and can't control. The focus is on the people and how they react to the situation, rather than the evil itself. A better-than-average horror tale.	2000-12-28
US	52601032	R2CRX2SJX17QJ8	0446606332	106696252	The Book of Night with Moon	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Good cats; slow science	The premise is simple: cats (and some dogs) are more intelligent than most humans think they are. Some are even wizards (as are some humans). Wizards quietly live among us and keep the world running smoothly. The cat protagonists are a team that monitor and fix the interdimensional gates that allow the wizards to travel about the world in space and time. When the gates start misbehaving, travel becomes chancy, and the team gets busy. Eventually they end up on a primal world, full of dinosaurs resentful of everyone, confronting a malignant entity to save the gate system and the world which would otherwise be run over by the dinosaurs. Along the way they rescue a kitten destined to be a wizard and encounter the first dinosaur wizard.  The cats, ranging from a pampered pet to an alley cat, are engaging and superior enough in attitude for the majority of cat lovers. The story is relatively fast-paced. What slows it down are periodic forays into gate physics and philosophy, most of which comes off more like Star Trek science-speak. It isn't needed to justify the way the gates work, and doesn't make much sense anyway. But it wasn't annoying enough to stop me from searching for the sequel.	2000-12-13
US	52601032	RTJIT9XJCZ7NK	0812509234	641963884	Alvin Journeyman (Tales of Alvin Maker, Book 4)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Leaves you hungry for more.	This is a satisfying continuation of the tale of Alvin Journeyman on his way to becoming Alvin Maker and the creation of his Crystal City dream. Alvin is now an adult, free of his onerous apprenticeship, and returns home for the first time in years. There he becomes re-acquainted with his family, and attempts to teach Making, with mixed results. One result is a false accusation of sexual misconduct by a young lady infatuated with him. He flees to Hatrack, where he was born and apprenticed. There his bitter ending with the smith who trained him develops into a trial, not only for a specific charge of theft, but also of his character.  Alvin's estranged brother and fellow maker, Calvin, has gone to Europe and studies how to control people from Napoleon, and inadvertently is the catalyst that sends the right attorney from England to Hatrack, where he can defend Alvin. Once again, the alternate history is fascinating. This time we not only see America (but not much more than we've seen before), but we see how England and France have fared in this world of small and large magicks. My only complaint: it felt like a middle book in a series, which it is. It seems less a complete story than a continuation. It introduces new characters that obviously have more to do (having a torch around helps the author give glimpses of the possible futures). I wouldn't start anyone with this book. And I want to get more than just a hint as to how the Crystal City will be created. I want more in general. So I guess I'll go read Heartfire and then wait like everyone else for the culmination of the series. I suspect Card won't let us down: he hasn't so far.	2000-12-12
US	52601032	RMUJFBB4YYHKJ	0812533054	856857613	Seventh Son (Tales of Alvin Maker, Book 1)	Books	4	39	42	N	N	Surprisingly Clever	I tend to read in spurts. I 'discovered' Card at the very beginning of his career, when I read Ender's Game in Analog. And I was taken by the story and wanted more. I kept up with Card through Songbird, continued buying his books and adding them to my unread piles, and occasionally dipping into them. I knew he was writing a saga entitled The Tales of Alvin Maker, but I didn't delve into them, waiting until the series was finished. But someone insisted I read Seventh Son recently, and I found myself entranced, again, with Card's vision. I forget, from spurt to spurt, just how well he writes. Here are fully-fleshed out people, with vision and pettiness mixed. Here, also, is an excellent ear for the spoken language. And most of all, here is a surprisingly clever alternate history of America, in which small magicks and hexes really work, and American Indian visions come true. It also isn't often that an alternate history takes place in the past, and makes you wish it were true. <br />But regardless of how clever the setting is, the people are are the most important: the family members full of love and fears; Talespinner, a man seeking his own visions and the teacher of young Alvin; devout Armor-of-God (what a wonderful name!), married into a family of magickers and unsure how to handle it; Reverend Thrower, a preacher tormented by his own temptations; and young Alvin Jr., a special boy full of magick he only begins to understand by the time this part of the story ends; and his father, filled with visions of Alvin's death by his own hands. The book is full of moral choices, without the preaching a lesser writer might force upon the reader: how one views the world, challenges to those views, what is right and wrong, and how does faith fit in, are all woven into the story seamlessly. Some of the decisions made by these interesting people will surprise you. And if you continue on, there are still more surprises coming. <br />The only weakness in this book is that it is obviously just the beginning of a longer epic, which is still unfinished (two more books to come). There are huge questions left unanswered, including just what is the Unmaker that Alvin almost sees, and why does water hate Alvin. But that won't stop you from wanting to go to the next book immediately.	2000-10-12
US	52601032	R5ZEKDIZG7DNX	0671721755	310094431	If I Pay Thee Not In Gold	Books	2	13	17	N	N	Disappointing fare	This 1994 collaboration came to me used, via a friend, which I read primarily because it was available when I needed a book in hand quickly (can't be caught without reading material, now can we?). Much as I like  Mercedes Lackey, this is not a book I would have bought, due to the Piers  Anthony influence. I found the characters superficial, with a cumbersome  and contrived sexual situation, more typical of Anthony than Lackey. I have  ceased reading Anthony over the years, feeling that he has been almost a  caricature of himself and extremely formulaic. I was not too surprised to  discover that Lackey developed an idea/outline of Anthony's, which he then  edited and added 10,000 words. I suspect I know the pages he added: there's  a lot of telling, not showing, of characters' thoughts and emotions. The  world is not uninteresting, and might make an intriguing role-playing game,  but that's not enough to carry the book. There's lots more good fantasy out  there; pass this one by.	2000-07-25
US	52601032	R9F9H9M2PJDNX	0312851065	469226825	The Elvenbane: An Epic High Fantasy of the Halfblood Chronicles	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Predictable But Fun	The story is a typical coming-of-age epic fantasy. Shana is half-elf, in a world where halfbreeds are feared by the elves because of their magical powers, and usually killed at birth. But Shana is rescued and raised by the  hidden dragons. There she is taught how to use her powers and then exiled  to die or fulfill the prophecy of Elvenbane. And naturally, she does  succeed, or there wouldn't be a story to begin with. Such is the stuff of  genre fantasy. There are differences that set this tale apart from others:  both the elves and dragons are not indigenous, unicorns are not in the  least bit friendly, dragons shapeshift often to meddle in the affairs of  the elves, and the elves have had humans enslaved for generations. But the  characters are almost stereotypes, the pacing is uneven, and the plot seems  rushed toward the end. However, it is  an easy read, and overall pleasing  to this fantasy fan's tastes. Certainly not the best effort by either  author's standards, but I liked the characters and world enough that I will  seek out the sequel.	2000-06-11
US	52601032	R2J6CEGFW2XDVV	0441787541	844645270	Storm Bringer (Elric Saga, Book 6)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A fantasy classic	When Stealer of Souls and Stormbringer were first published in the 1960s, there wasn't much fantasy around. William Morris, Lord Dunsany and others of that generation were long out of print; Robert E. Howard's Conan stories  were tied up in probate. The Lord of the Rings had just come out, and had  turned our heads. Previously the world of science fiction was dominated by  hard science fiction -- tales of space exploration, and aliens. Those of us  who discovered we liked the fantasy also craved more. If we were lucky, we  discovered Joy Chant's Red Moon and Black Mountain, a clever British tale  of English schoolchildren whisked into a epic adventure in an alternate  world.   And then Stealer of Souls arrived (now called Sailer on the  Seas of Fate I believe), a series of short stories about Elric, the  tortured albino, wielder of the first great runesword, Stormbringer, and  Moonglum, his faithful companion. It was so different from Tolkien and  Chant, so energetic, it was an instant favorite. It was followed quickly by  Stormbringer. I still remember my reaction when I finished it -- an  anguished cry of &quot;You can't do that!&quot; But Moorcock could, and  did, giving us one the first great unexpected endings.  Thirty-plus  years later, I reread Stormbringer for a book discussion group. It creaks a  bit, but it still holds its place in history. Strongly influenced by the  raw style of Robert E. Howard (I learned later once I read the Conan books  which were  -- finally -- reprinted in the 70s for a whole new generation),  Elric remains a unique hero, not a mighty-thewed physical barbarian like  Conan, but a mighty sorceror from an ancient race, with a past he's trying  to run away from and/or forget.  And, because the fans demanded more,  Moorcock went back later and filled in the back story. But Stormbringer  remains a strong story, with elements that weave through many fantasy tales  now (C.S. Friedman's Coldfire trilogy comes instantly to mind), whether ornot the authors themselves recognize it.  Moorcock's Elric of  Melnibone, like Lieber's Grey Mouser and Fafhred, Howard's Conan, and  Tolkien's Strider, is a character that made an influence on the fantasy  that followed it, and should be read by all lovers of the genre.	2000-05-13
US	52601032	R2H3I97GDK9D62	0812571169	639693420	Greenwar	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Fast-paced thriller	This is a dandy adventure story. In the center of all the action is Gulf Stream, an offshore structure dedicated to research and &quot;green&quot; industry. Add a group of ecoterrorists determined to destroy it, a  dedicated group of employees striving to save it from all enemies including  economic difficulties, undercover agents, a hurricane, a bit of romance and  a wayward octopus named Louis, and you have the setting for some  interesting action. It has a nice mix of male and female characters, with  Emma Took (who designed Gulf Stream) taking the lead. I had some difficulty  sorting out all the characters at first. And despite the drawings of the  Gulf Stream, I didn't always know where the action was taking place -- but  that may just be me -- I never could read a blueprint. Overall a satisfying  read which kept me from opening other books, and which would probably  translate nicely into a film I would like to see.	2000-05-07
US	52601032	R36GLQOH8UMIHQ	0140022651	798845768	Journey to the Centre of the Earth	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Enthusiastic Classic	Everyone should read some Jules Vernes. A late 19th century French writer, he influenced many people with his enthusiasm for things scientific. In Voyage, the protagonists are a scientist (who discovers a message  indicating a journey to the center of the earth is possible), his reluctant  nephew, and the quiet-man native guide. An expedition is organized  immediately, and the adventure begins.  Once you get past the writing style  which may be strange to the modern reader, and you suspend your disbelief  on certain things (like just how many supplies they were capable of  carrying), the tale can captivate. Here is a writer who relishes the  scientific advances and discoveries of his age, and is writing about them.  The reader can absorb the geologic understandings of the period, as well as  the way in which the scientific community operated. It is the age of the  gentleman scientist, the ancestor to Indiana Jones. And Verne's delight is  infectious. By modern standards it's less exciting than, say, a Jurassic  Park. But there's underground seas, strange animals and plants, delirious  visions, and hardships of thirst and being lost in the dark to entertain  you. Be aware of different translations: our book group had much hilarity  discovering the differences in our editions: some seemed edited and  condensed compared to the others (and as it's not copyright protected, some  of our tattered paperbacks didn't even give the original date or the  translator's name), some had wonderful illustrations, some had  illustrations that apparently were for a different book, and some had none.  Some editions had footnotes, which were interesting in their own way,  apparently dating from the original French. There are even different names  for the uncle and nephew. Judging from my translation (one of the  uncredited ones), it's no great literary effort. But it's entertaining  enough to keep one reading, and to amazed at this seminal storyteller and  his influences on many who followed him.	2000-02-29
US	52601032	R12BOSWI5UWO5T	0152008691	388981441	The Forgotten Beasts of Eld	Books	5	38	40	N	N	A Crystalline Fantasy	Twenty years ago I was recuperating from the flu, still too sick to read anything challenging, but too bored to reread something. My eyes lit upon The Forgotten Beasts of Eld. I had recently devoured the Riddle-Master of  Hed trilogy and had been saving Forgotten Beasts for just the right moment.  It was perfect. It whisked me away to a world of magical beasts and  interesting people, and I have been recommending it to people ever since.  However, I had not reread it until today (recuperating once again from the  flu). I was delighted to find that it was still charming, and lyrical, and  interesting, and complex. While reading a bit like a tale told by a bard,  its people are real: they struggle with love and hate, and loyalties to  friends, family and country. The magic is rare and awesome; the magical  animals have both personality and power. Although classified as a Young  Adult novel, I doubt there is an adult who cannot enjoy it. The writing is  clear and jewel-like. As the tale weaves toward its climax, you will be  surprised with the result. I had tears in my eyes when I finished. This is  a beauty that has withstood the test of time and should be read by all  lovers of fantasy.	2000-01-23
US	52601032	R2630I81GOKRR9	0441504361	951131100	Luck of the Wheels (Windsinger, Bk 4)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Luck is what you make of it	Book four of this series finds Ki and Vandien far to the South, trying to make a living as teamsters in unknown territory. Breaking their own rules, they take on passengers and find out more about this region than they  wanted. If you liked the first tales of this egalitarian couple that  started in the outstanding Harpy's Flight, you should enjoy this adventure.  Characters are complex, alien races abound, conspiracies and oddities are  everywhere, and Ki and Vaiden's relationship continues to change and grow.  I only hope that the author, now writing as Robin Hobb, will one day return  to the world of Ki and Vandien.	2000-01-21
US	52601032	R2I56RGFUDPB78	0812552733	842899897	A Mind for Trade: A Great New Solar Queen Adventure (A Solar Queen adventure)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	The Solar Queen is Back	I grew up reading Andre Norton. And the adventures of the Solar Queen were always a favorite. Once again the intrepid crew must overcome the obstacles in their pursuit of profitable trade, from pirates and aliens to a strange  telepathic link developing between the main characters. Olds fans will  enjoy it -- still some of the best young adult sf. This is not  &quot;great&quot; sf, but it is a fine rainy afternoon read, and what more  can anyone want.	1999-10-22
US	52601032	R299S9CRFWI138	0886778271	890228408	Sword-Born: A Novel of Tiger and Del (The Sword-Dancer Saga)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Tiger and Del are Back!	It was great to find a new tale of Tiger and Del. This one finds Tiger on the hunt to find his roots, and Del goes along. As Tiger finds his magic, they continue to explore and define their relationship -- never a simple  process. A good place to introduce new readers to these interesting  characters.	1999-10-22
US	52601032	R3GIXF1TC3JYSD	0553278223	726968599	The Martian Chronicles (The Grand Master Editions)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A little creaky, but still worth reading	It's been many years since I last read this collection, and I was surprised on several levels. I'd forgotten the lyrical language, laying the visual scenes and emotions down so clear you can see and feel them. Some of  the ideas and concepts he was dealing with (exploitation of a new world;  how a race might react to being invaded, how will religions adjust to  meeting other races) are current topics still. Indeed, Stanley Kim Robinson  focused on some of them in his Mars trilogy. But I was reminded that this  book is a product of its time, especially when dealing with the roles of  women and nuclear family, which stayed firmly in the 1950s. But some of the  stories, notably Night Meeting, The Fire Balloons and The Martian are still  gems. And it's always good read the old classics -- it helps one to  appreciate where the new ones came from.	1999-09-27
US	52601032	R2O2PG9AG0S2Z4	0553567675	402912729	Glory Season	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A fascinating world	Once again, I finished a David Brin novel hungry: hungry for more of the world and for more of the characters. This is one of the more interesting feminist worlds, that has surprising variety, despite the proponderance of  clones as the primary reproductive method. It is also a world approaching a  period of fast changes, brought on by a courier from the worlds they left  behind, with a message they cannot ignore. The reader doesn't see the end,  only the beginning of these changes, which is why I was hungry to see more  of how this culture will adapt to the news and the changes it will  bring.<br />It's a novel of coming-of-age. Maia, the protagonist is a young  adult, cast out to discover her own talents and worth. At the end, we see  the emerging adult in Maia, as well as others of her generation. Only the  complexity of the themes prevent Glory Season from being a 'young adult'  novel. (I like a good young adult novel, I should add.)<br />Does Brin create  a believable world? Given its basic premises, I'd say yes. The details are  many: this is no cardboard structure in which the characters and plot  ramble. It is a richly textured and well thought out world. Although women  are dominate, men have not only procreative function, but also their own  niches and culture.<br />I was smiling when I finished this book: I can still  say I haven't read a Brin I didn't like.	1999-04-12
