US	52601108	R2VCMKH35GN3XS	0765300125	665763998	Ithanalin's Restoration (Legends of Ethshar)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	a perfect diversion	I hadn't read an entire novel in one sitting for a long, long time.  Yesterday afternoon I picked up Ithanalin's Restoration, intending to read just a chapter or two until a headache cleared, but I didn't put it back down until I had finished it.  Watt-Evans spins an utterly delightful tale about Kilisha, a young wizard's apprentice who must reverse a spell gone awry, which scattered her master's soul into his runaway parlor furniture.  To recapture the missing pieces from throughout the city and to restore Ithanalin, she must manage her own impetuous nature and apply all the spellcraft she has learned.  Along the way she must also placate Ithanalin's distraught wife and children, enlist the aid of the young soldier who unwittingly sparked the accident, and cope with the unhelpful customers and colleagues.  If you need a break from interminable epic fantasy doorstops, this simple story of a young woman out to prove herself is a perfect diversion.	2004-12-23
US	52601108	R1XAFTPQW01X5I	0312872402	31293441	Kushiel's Avatar	Books	4	4	4	N	N	good thoughts, good words, good deeds	When I first discovered the Kushiel's Legacy trilogy, I did not expect anything more than a mix of fantasy and romance, spiced with kinky sex.  I made the same mistake as all those characters who underestimated Jacqueline Carey's heroine, Phedre, missing the keen mind working behind the guise of a beautiful courtesan.  What's more, both author and protagonist have aged gracefully.  Ten years after the events of the last novel, Phedre seems less a weapon of her country and more her own woman.  She thus has much more to lose when she sets out on a personal quest to rescue a childhood friend.  Her journey takes her to distant lands in Carey's reimagination of our world: from a deathly harem beyond the Tigris and Euphrates, south past the realm of a menacing pharaoh and across the desert, to a land where a lost tribe of Yisra-El hides the Name of God.  The pilgrimage seems certain to cost Phedre her friendships, her lover, and her life.  In a sense, these losses are what make this character and this trilogy so remarkable.  She owes all her accomplishments not to skill with a sword or supernatural power but to her capacity for love and self-sacrifice (and a fair amount of wit, to be sure).  To the author's credit, this theme never came across as hokey.  On the contrary, I had a harder time putting this novel down than its predecessors.  Suffice to say that I'm looking forward to Carey's next work, though by now she has earned high expectations!	2004-06-29
US	52601108	R31D150XORX5FW	0441478123	101055477	The Left Hand of Darkness	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Considering the possibilities	In her introduction, the author makes some compelling statements about the nature of science fiction as descriptive and not predictive.  Her work addresses the real world using the metaphor of the future, of science, of alternative biologies and cultures.  What are the elements of her story metaphors for?  \\"If I could have said it non-metaphorically, I would not have written all these words, this novel.\\"<br />Right now I am trying to decide which of the two viewpoint characters serves as the best metaphor for the novel as a whole.  On the one hand, we have Genly Ai, the envoy from an interstellar community of worlds that has just decided to invite the desolate planet Winter to join, after years of secret observation.  Genly arrives alone and unarmed, bearing only words and ideas: the possibility of flight, travel between the stars, other shards of humanity living on distant worlds.  Likewise, this book comes in peace, bringing you not action and adventure but an invitation to participate in a thought experiment, possibly expand your horizons.<br />On the other hand is Estraven, a member of this alien race of humans considering Genly's message.  As Genly's main point of interaction with the inhabitants of Winter, he brings to life the alienness of all his kind.  In the same way, a novel brings to life ideas that perhaps can only be expressed in story.  Estraven is still recognizably human, but his people's sexual androgyny renders him somehow fundamentally estranged from the familiar.  Echoing Estraven's interactions with Genly, this novel does not offer any straight answers, but time spent getting to know it yields a measure of understanding and even affection.<br />I'm afraid I can draw no conclusion from my perhaps pointless exercise, except that you'll have to read this deservingly classic science fiction novel and judge for yourself.	2004-05-19
US	52601108	R2AF6MC3S280PO	0060512806	555229230	Cryptonomicon	Books	4	4	5	N	N	You'd think 1100 pages would be enough	One of my pet peeves is some authors' inability to make those hard choices about what ought to stay in a finished work and what needs to go.  By all rights, I should hate Stephenson's mammoth Cryptonomicon, in which tangents and diversions abound.  To my surprise, I didn't mind the digressions.  Much of the novel's charm comes from the author's fascination with unabashedly geeky details and neat historical tidbits.  Stephenson plays the role of that guy you know who always has a cool story to tell.  He goes further than telling a mere string of anecdotes: out of these threads he weaves a tale of intrigue that brings together World War II adventure and cutthroat tech industry dealings in the modern age.  What he doesn't do is tie off all the loose ends.  The story ends rather abruptly, and I can only imagine that Stephenson suddenly realized he had ran out of money, time, or ink.	2004-04-04
US	52601108	R1SQGG9D5N47SI	0743400453	253668819	Tales of the Slayer, Volume 1 (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Not done justice	The premise is a brilliant one: an anthology that samples from the long line of Slayers extending back from Buffy to ancient times.  However, the execution of this idea seems scarcely to tap its potential.  Too many of the authors don't really bring their characters to life in the small span of pages allotted to them.  Too much of the novelty in each tale comes from its setting, not the Slayer herself.  Not coincidentally, the two best stories strive to give their characters a more unique voice.  Nancy Holder's &quot;Unholy Madness&quot; features a Slayer-countess in revolutionary France, who has been raised to believe that her duty only extends to protecting the nobility.  Mel Odom wrote &quot;Silent Screams&quot; from the perspective of an all-too-fallible Watcher in 1923 Germany.<br />The remaining writers seem to treat the concept as a template.  Their tales are simply accounts of how a girl gives up all she's known to become the Slayer or how she gives her life in the pursuit of her cause.  The protagonists here could almost be the same character transplanted through time over and over.  Their struggles against the forces of darkness are interesting enough, but if you're looking for some deeper insights into how different young women bore the mantle of Slayer throughout the ages, this anthology won't leave you entirely satisfied.  If all you're really looking for is a glimpse into the lives of prior Slayers, I would recommend instead the comic book version of this idea, Dark Horse's Tales of the Slayers, which includes stories from Joss Whedon and other writers on the show.	2003-12-08
US	52601108	R3R4HVANYVRYVH	0805063897	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Looking backwards	Ehrenreich presents this book as an investigation into the question of whether someone really can get get by in America on the wages of the working poor.  However, the account of her months spent as cheap labor (first as a waitress then as a housecleaner and later a Wal-Mart drone) works best as a simple eye-opener.  To her readers, those who can afford the money and time to buy and read her book, she offers an all too rare glimpse into how millions of our fellow citizens live their lives.<br />Some reviewers have criticized the educated voice in which Ehrenreich tells her story and the reminders that her poverty is only temporary.  I found her eloquence and wit engaging, giving her message a voice it might otherwise have lacked.  Her story becomes most tangible when she drops the mantle of journalistic objectivity and relates her inner thoughts.  When she notices the lady of the house watching her scrub the floor on her hands and knees, she wonders if she'll be recognized from some university lecture she once gave.  Left alone on a late shift in Wal-Mart, she fancies herself the ruler of the ladies' wear section, making the rounds to keep her subjects in line.<br />Similarly, I prefer to commend Ehrenreich's honesty in distinguishing between her experiences and those of the real poor, rather than to accuse her of hypocritical class pride.  Any good researcher is careful to disclose the extent to which their study generalizes to the real world.  However, Ehrenreich experiences don't answer her research question quite as conclusively as she seems to suggest.  True, she had advantages in terms of prior health care and access to a working car, in contrast to many of her peers, and she only barely scraped by.  On the other hand, it's no coincidence that very few of her new coworkers live alone; they rely on a support network of friends and family that Ehrenreich scrupulously tries to avoid.  Of course, this observation hardly invalidates Ehrenreich's other points.<br />The bottom line?  If you don't believe that the disparity between rich and poor is so large, take a look at the lifestyle portrayed in any primetime sitcom, and then read this book.	2003-10-31
US	52601108	R26FLZ0HTDQ0RV	0312872399	719563321	Kushiel's Chosen (Kushiel's Legacy)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Still waiting for the author to let loose	This novel is a capable sequel: Jacqueline Carey gives her readers more of what they've come to expect after Kushiel's Dart.  Therefore, if you enjoyed the first book, you will probably enjoy this one, too.  However, if you're like me, Carey will continue to leave you a little disappointed, given the story's potential.  She has developed an intriguing alternate reality Europe, in which the child of Jesus and Mary Magdalene fostered a kingdom in France, built around the credo: &quot;Love as thou wilt.&quot;  She has a compelling character concept in Phedre, a masochistic courtesan and adept spy.  She immerses her heroine in a web of political intrigue, as well as giving her an unlikely lover in the form of Joscelin, a warrior monk sworn to protect her despite his distaste for her way of life.<br />These elements are all familiar from Carey's previous work, but I still feel that she has yet to exploit them fully.  The tension between Phedre and Joscelin feels too artificial; we don't see enough of Joscelin's struggle among his love for Phedre, his vows of chastity, and his seeming destiny among the Jews.  The resolution here is far too facile.  I similarly wish that Carey would give us more direct confrontation between Phedre and her nemesis, Melisande, whose power over Phedre is the only force that makes our heroine seem truly vulnerable.  The relationship between these two women also bridges the gap between the plot Phedre's masochism, which otherwise plays far too small a part in the story, outside of some rather enticing scenes with some of her patrons.  If you're into that sort of thing.<br />Honestly, Kushiel's Chosen works well enough as a tale of adventure, but I feel that Carey has laid too much groundwork to ignore her heroine's more internal conflicts.  I still intend to read the last novel in the trilogy.  Perhaps then Carey will not be afraid to bring these conflicts to a head.	2003-10-19
US	52601108	R3HZX2M3MGQLBM	1930900228	396010737	The Big Kerplop!: The Original Adventure of the Mad Scientists' Club (Mad Scientist Club)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A dream come true	The magic of Brinley's Mad Scientists' Club is its combination of adolescent fantasy with the real world.  Where else can a bunch of brainy small town kids become heroes not by stepping through a portal to some fantasy world but by knowing more about our world's natural laws than the adults who surround them?  This novel works best as a prequel to the collections of tales found in Brinley's first two books, which are childhood favorites of mine.  However, the story stands on its own, and its scope eclipses those earlier short stories.  The Air Force has lost an atomic bomb in the town's Strawberry Lake, and only the Mad Scientists' ingenuity can save the day!  At first this gang of adolescents can't get the grownups to listen, but they soon prove their worth.  Likewise, I recommend that you give them a chance.  They won't let you down.	2003-09-15
US	52601108	R2T4S27U8SBGE7	068483068X	716836572	Gone With the Wind	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Not overrated	Margaret Mitchell impressed me by writing an 800 page novel about a character I sometimes wanted to strangle but about whom I couldn't read enough.  Scarlett O'Hara might be self-absorbed, provincial, and manipulative, but she also displays courage, resourcefulness, and determination.  Gone with the Wind is more than just a love story; it chronicles Scarlett's growth from a spoiled planter's daughter to the head of a household struggling to survive the ravages of the Civil War and Reconstruction.  Mitchell provides a fascinating depiction of the psychology of the South, which plays a critical role in Scarlett's story.  To thrive, she finds she must alienate the remnants of her former life and accept the presence of the Northern invaders.  Throughout Scarlett wrestles with her feelings for Ashley Wilkes, a noble refugee from the genteel past, and Rhett Butler, a scalawag building his fortune from the ashes of the confederacy.  Many more wonderfully drawn characters fill out this novel, which already feels somewhat compressed despite its length.  It's no wonder the movie version is four hours long; the novel has too much too good to leave out!	2003-09-08
US	52601108	RVTRHHUPMO8AR	0156027593	548806220	The Cyberiad	Books	4	5	5	N	N	&quot;Fables for the cybernetic age&quot;	The Cyberiad is more than just &quot;a brilliantly funny collection of stories for the next age,&quot; as the back cover claims.  The tales within blend philosophy, mathematics, and computer science with cruel kings, pugnacious pirates, and improbable dragons.  They chronicle the exploits of the robots Trurl and Klapaucius, renowned constructors who offer their services to the robot kings that rule the robot kingdoms comprising their universe.  So great is their knowledge of the universe that they build a royal advisor that never errs, a perfect mechanical poet, a machine that can model anything in existence, and a machine that can fabricate anything beginning with the letter 'n'.  Of course, their creations don't always work out quite the way they hope, but in edifying and entertaining ways.  This combination of fanciful adventure and academia, often laced with delightfully clever wordplay, makes the Cyberiad well worth reading.	2003-07-21
US	52601108	RDTOB9LAFDGYK	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Growing pains	This fifth entry in the Harry Potter series can make for a frustrating read.  Harry has become a somewhat sullen and resentful fifteen year old.  Although this phase of adolescence is perhaps inevitable, Rowling springs it rather suddenly on the reader following the last book.  To make the story even darker, Harry's bitterness is somewhat justified.  By and large people believe he's a fake, and the latest Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher makes Harry's (and everyone else's) life more miserable than ever before.<br />Despite having written the longest Harry Potter novel yet, Rowling has thankfully not lost her knack for creating an engaging story that keeps you turning the pages, eager to see how Harry manages to cope with a terribly brutal year at Hogwarts.  However, while I can forgive Rowling for inflicting so many growing pains on Harry, I don't see how she can have left so many loose ends in a novel so long.  At least one plot point goes completely undeveloped, and some others leave you wondering if they must all play a role in the next book.  Worse, the story here is more predictable than in previous books, which featured more cleverly intertwined plots.<br />In short, Harry manages to come through as always, but he's not in top form in this novel.  Here's hoping he outgrows this stage before too long.	2003-07-18
US	52601108	R3QGJ24K17AJY8	0380973650	337033298	American Gods	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Another winner	My first exposure to Neil Gaiman was his critically acclaimed Sandman comics, and I never expected him ever to match that achievement.  With American Gods, I think Gaiman has proven me wrong.  We see a colorful and engaging story unfold through the eyes of Shadow, a man who emerges from prison expecting to return to his loving wife and some semblance of normalcy.  Instead, he finds himself embroiled in a struggle among gods.  Along the way he meets ancient gods surviving on meager whispers of belief and getting by as laborers, grifters, or prostitutes.  He also encounters the new gods, representing the internet and mass media, who expect to supplant the old gods entirely.<br />Yet what makes American Gods so successful is its blend of the supernatural with &quot;mundane&quot; Americana.  Most of the story takes place on the road in the heartland of the United States, in small towns, in motels, or at tourist attractions.  The most touchingly drawn characters are the mere mortals who play a role in the tale.  In fact, the only character who seems underdeveloped for much of the novel is Shadow, the protagonist.  However, Gaiman explicitly addresses this issue, and it does not detract from the sense that Shadow is a real person, albeit a quiescent one.<br />With its imaginative premise, intelligent plot, believable characters, attention to both the epic and the intimate, and an adroit writing style that is neither too esoteric nor too blunt, American Gods is worthy addition to the pantheon of Hugo Award winners.  You should read it.	2003-06-22
US	52601108	R335KUVVIX4Z0	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A plausible story waiting to be corroborated	In this treatise Jared Diamond tackles no lesser a question than how Eurasian civilizations outstripped the rest of the world in technological development, allowing them to achieve preeminence on the world stage.  Everyone knows that the West employed guns, germs, and steel to annex the Americas, Africa, and the Far East, but this book tries to explain why these advantages arose in Eurasia first.  Diamond traces each of these advantages to one common source: the origins of agriculture first in Mesopotamia and China, not in Mexico or the Sahara or Australia.  He attributes Eurasia's head start to more easily domesticated flora and fauna, a lengthy east-west access allowing the rapid diffusion of civilization, and the absence of significant geological barriers to stop this spread.<br />Needless to say, this two sentence summary doesn't do justice to Diamond's argument.  His conclusions have the ring of truth, such as his assertion that the success of Western civilization has nothing to do with race and everything to do with an environment conducive to the growth of civilization.  However, Diamond's authoritative tone throughout the book belies the ultimately circumstantial nature of his evidence.  In addition, he made his essay less formidable at the cost of omitting entirely citations and footnotes documenting the evidence he does present.  The only references he offers are in his appendix of suggested readings for each chapter.<br />Better late than never, in the epilogue Diamond instills confidence in his rigor as a scientist by discussing the difficulties with his methodology.  At the same time, he credibly argues for the applicability of science to history.  The epilogue also briefly treats an important topic for Diamond's theory: why China failed to maintain the technological superiority it held over Europe until at least the sixteenth century.<br />This review has been mostly critical, but only because this book is essential reading for anyone attempting to understand human history at this scale.  Diamond's characterization of history cannot be proved correct by science, but we can ill afford to ignore it.  This seminal work provides a coherent explanation for perhaps the broadest and most important trend in human history, and for that Diamond deserves credit and merits your attention.	2002-10-08
US	52601108	R3F06A1688MAL7	0345443020	981903971	Perdido Street Station (Bas-Lag)	Books	4	24	29	N	N	A fine phantasmagoric fantasy	What makes Perdido Street Station a refreshingly novel work of fantasy is its setting.  The entire story takes place within one city, New Crobuzon, a brilliantly rendered industrial landscape smeared with pollution and overgrown with desperate citizens struggling to scrape out a living.  Insect-headed khepri and the amphibious vodyanoi live alongside the Remade, whose bodies have been grafted with spare parts.  Not very much magic exists here: the sense of fantasy arises mostly from the more exotic denizens and the thaumaturgic power supplies in this city suffused with dingy railroads, mechanical calculating engines, and brutal factories.  Although the narrative follows a handful of well drawn characters, the city is clearly the star here.<br />Thankfully, this novel is more than just a fascinating setting.  Mieville also tells a gripping story about an insidious menace unleashed upon the city, a desperate scientist on the fringe and his illicit khepri lover, and a shattered bird man's quest to regain flight.  This tale begins slowly, but quickly gains steam.  Be warned, though, that this story is not very pretty, and I don't mean just the garish violence and vulgarity (which seem entirely at home in this squalid metropolis).  It doesn't end very neatly, but with a jagged tear that left me more disturbed than with a sense of resolution.  Various threads of the plot arise suddenly and then disappear, uncertain to return.  Even this casual disregard for tidy narrative structure seems deliberate, a structural reflection of the city's chaotic, brutal nature.  Nevertheless, quite beautiful as a whole.	2002-09-03
US	52601108	R3C6GNE9VUQW72	0312872380	615549012	Kushiel's Dart (Kushiel's Legacy)	Books	3	9	13	N	N	All the elements are there, but nothing happens	The most controversial aspect of this novel, and what will most likely determine whether somebody enjoys it, is the main character's sexuality.  The red mote in her eye, Kushiel's Dart, marks her in her people's mythos as a born masochist.  Sold into indentured servitude at a young age, she grows up to become a beautiful spy-courtesan whose kinkiness gives her access to the top political figures of the country.<br />The concept may sound somewhat tawdry, but Carey takes the story very seriously and the heroine, Phedre, turns out to be a very believable character.  For that matter, all the other characters are credible as well, from the warrior-monk Joscelin who provides a foil for Phedre to her mentor Delaunay and her friend Hyacinthe.<br />Where the novel falls short is its plot and the depth of the writing.  The character conflicts that develop between Phedre and the others are a little predictable and mechanical.  The epic part of the epic fantasy is fine stuff, but Phedre often seems too removed from it.  Carey obviously wrestled with the problem of how to involve Phedre more directly in the plot, given that she is eternally a noncombatant.  (To her credit, the author does not make Phedre a credible warrioress in addition to her other talents.)  An expected confrontation between the heroine and her nemesis never occurs, too transparently postponed until a sequel.  Put simply, Phedre's life doesn't seem in very much danger most of the time.<br />This seems a bit odd, given Phedre's nature.  Even the sex / s&m scenes seem a bit uninvolved; though Carey seems always conscious of Phedre's masochism, she doesn't delve very much into it.  Honestly, she could have told exactly the same story but just making Phedre really good in bed.  In this sense, the s&m elements seem a bit artificial.<br />The bottom line is that Jacqueline Carey has some strong characters and an effective setting (a reimagined Europe with just a hint of the fantastic), as well as the willingness to tell a serious story with a controversial edge to it.  However, it seems that I will have to wait at least until the second novel to see what she can do with these elements.	2002-06-12
US	52601108	R1IS827UC1XEUJ	0553106635	549456361	A Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Pure gold	What more is there to say?  If you've read the first two novels of a Song of Ice and Fire, you know just how good George R.R. Martin's writing is, and nothing I say will likely influence whether you read A Storm of Swords.  If you haven't read A Game of Thrones yet, do yourself a favor and add it to your reading list.<br />Rest assured that this novel is every bit as good as the first two.  The struggle for control of the Seven Kingdoms remains as engrossing as before.  Martin continues to shine when it comes to character: with each chapter he jumps to another member of the cast, each one strong enough to support a novel in his or her own right.<br />Jaime Lannister is a particularly welcome addition to the set of viewpoint characters.  For the first time we see the world through the eyes of the Kingslayer instead of from the vantage point of those who regard him as a monster.  Admittedly, the other new point of view character, Samwell Tarly, fails to be as interesting as any of the other characters.  He doesn't get very much to do in this novel, and I can only assume that George Martin is leading up to a bigger role for him later.<br />The only other criticism I can find about this novel is the sheer brutality of the last chapters.  It doesn't bother me that fate (the author) doesn't have a happy ending in store for everybody, but I can't help but get the feeling that George Martin saved a flurry of staggering blows for the end so as to leave the reader reeling.  It feels a little artificial.<br />But overall, A Storm of Swords solidifies A Song of Ice and Fire's claim to the title of best fantasy saga on the market.  I eagerly await the next entry and the fates of, well, to avoid too many spoilers, all the characters that survived this one.  This is the good stuff.	2001-09-04
US	52601108	RIT9GZSHTINMX	091079135X	904918324	Two-Over-One Game Force	Books	4	22	22	N	N	A sophisticated book for relatively advanced players	Being unsatisfied with my level of understanding of the two over one bidding system (after a friend taught the basics to me), I read this book, which everyone told me was the authority on the subject.  I found in this book a fairly complete description of a system a level or two more sophisticated than what I had previously played.  Max Hardy tries to convey a great deal of information to the reader, so the text is somewhat dense and must be read slowly and carefully.  Furtheremore, despite its length, the book doesn't always cover certain situations in as much depth as I would like.  On a possibly related note, Max Hardy assumes that the reader has a good knowledge of standard bidding.  Hence, my earlier disappointment at the lack of depth in some cases may reflect more my own lack of knowledge than any deficiency on Max Hardy's part (this is the first book I have read describing an entire bidding system).<br />In short, if you're interested in learning two over one, you really should read this book.  Eventually.  If you're a fairly inexperienced player, first finish learning standard bidding and then be prepared for a slow but informative read.	2001-08-31
US	52601108	R2RIAQ9G9GWHVW	0312867417	8432795	Wizardborn (The Runelords, Book 3)	Books	2	11	19	N	N	Farland falls flat	Perhaps part of the problem is that I've just read the first three books of George R.R. Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire, forever raising the bar for fantasy epics in my eyes. But no, I think this novel really is missing much of what I liked so much in the first two entries of the Runelords saga. For some reason, Farland seems to have abandoned the fundamental premise of Runelords. The first two novels delved into the moral consequences of dedicates giving endowments to their lords; they also showcased the tremendous power that these endowments gave to lords who used them imaginatively. None of this exists in Wizardborn. The Runelords in this novel are generic supermen: faster, stronger, and tougher. They may as well be the stalwart heroes of any other fantasy epic. Farland also allows himself to forget the interesting ethical questions involved by simply having his good guys use dogs instead of human subjects as dedicates, without any apparent side effects. The originality and novelty in this series gives way instead to a much more conventional system of magic based on the four elements. Worse than being unoriginal, it is boring and simplistic. (Earth and water are good; fire and wind are evil.) Even aside from these considerations, the overall quality of writing seems to have decreased. The pacing of the previous novels lent them a sense of immediacy, but here the plot proceeds as a loosely tied-together sequence of events leading to book four. The extremely short chapters jump back and forth rapidly among the characters, leaving little time to grow more attached to them. After I read the first book, I thought I had at last found the epic that would rekindle my love for fantasy. Right now, I'm putting my money on George R.R. Martin; I'm not even sure I will read the next Runelords book.	2001-08-27
US	52601108	R1A5P33B1TEC5V	0312876513	882430933	Shadow of the Hegemon (The Shadow Series)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A disappointing continuation of the Ender saga	I wanted to like this novel more, but in the end it simply failed to make me care enough.  Any attachment I felt towards the characters here (Bean, Petra, Peter) originated from previous books.  Their actions here often seem geared merely towards advancing the plot; the plot, meanwhile, seems to exist only so that Card can play with the rise and fall of nations.  His enthusiasm for global politics and strategy is evident throughout, but I wish he had put as much effort into bringing his characters to life.<br />Card's heavy focus on politics and philosophy is all the more frustrating because of the potential in his characters.  This is particularly true with Peter, a character that demands more attention than Card seems willing to give him.  Why bother making him a point of view character and only use him in a handful of chapters, particularly given his importance?  Petra is another character of whom I wanted to see more.  What little I did see was uninspired.<br />This untapped potential makes me wish Card had followed his original plan and allowed other authors to tell the story of Peter, Petra, et. al.  So why did I give this novel as many as three stars?  Despite the desire for more, I was glad just to see Bean, Peter, and Petra again.  Also, Card's efforts with regard to history and politics is not without reward.  It's just too bad that the nations in this novel are almost more well developed characters than the people.	2001-08-17
US	52601108	RFOZLIB7CNWNO	0963471503	830275628	To Bid or Not to Bid: The Law of Total Tricks	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An essential read for serious bridge players	Good partnerships will have sophisticated mechanisms for finding the right contract when given free rein of the bidding, but in reality the majority of bridge hands lead to competitive auctions.  With each side interfering with the other, the situation suddenly becomes much less clear.  After reading this book, you will no longer have to rely completely on mere guesswork and intuition to decide whether to bid or not to bid.<br />Larry Cohen introduces and expounds upon the Law of Total Tricks, a single principle which will allow you to estimate the possible scores resulting from almost any competitive auction.  He describes some of the corollaries of the Law, as well as some good conventions that make use of the Law.  These will improve the game of anybody not already familiar with such maxims as &quot;bid to the number of trump your side has&quot; and &quot;when in doubt bid four spades over four hearts.&quot;<br />Even so, this book feels somehow incomplete.  It does a good job of conveying the basic idea of the Law, giving examples of its application in relatively straightforward situations.  But only in the last two chapters does Cohen begin to describe the adjustments that must be made in situations where the Law is not completely accurate.  Furthermore, he doesn't really cover what to do in situations where the Law predicts ambiguous results: when bidding on might produce a better or worse result than passing, depending on the play of the hand.  In these cases Cohen leaves us once again to guesswork and intuition.<br />Despite these faults, this book is essential because it does at least reduce the amount of guesswork to which the bridge player must resort in contested auctions.	2001-07-29
US	52601108	R33NNXJIQLZ2SW	0553108034	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	True magic: a sequel as good as the original	Please do read the first book, A Game of Thrones, if you haven't already; it's wonderful.  For those who have read it or for those still not sure whether to invest their time with this series, good news: the second book is every bit as good as the first.<br />Given that A Game of Thrones left many plot lines completely unresolved, A Clash of Kings reads less like the second novel in a series and more like the next chapters in a much greater work.  It continues the stories of all our favorite (surviving) characters, as well as adding two more.  George Martin thus continues to work his magic, telling his story from the perspective of characters from no fewer than five factions vying for control of the Seven Kingdoms.  Part of his gift is the ability to craft so many wonderful characters: many members of his supporting cast seem strong enough to be viewpoint characters in their own right (Sandor Clegane, Brienne, Osha, Jorah Mormont, Cersei).<br />If this novel has any blemish, it's the pacing, which seems definitely slower than in A Game of Thrones.  Some plot lines do not seem to develop as much as they should in this volume.  In particular, the story of Daenerys, which takes place half a world away from the rest of the action, seems somewhat tacked on.<br />Also noteworthy is the growing influence of magic in the saga.  Part of the great appeal of A Game of Thrones was its deft mixing of an epic fantasy style with a realistic world where magic seemed on the wane.  With the rebirth of dragons, magic now seems about to return with a vengeance.  However, George Martin so far has handled this reawakening skillfully, and given the quality with which he has imbued every other aspect of these books, I am not worried.<br />Simply put, A Clash of Kings proves that George Martin is for real.  I can now say with confidence that A Song of Ice and Fire is the best fantasy currently being written, period.	2001-07-28
US	52601108	R3VVY1P8VKMEXJ	0596000278	291037037	Programming Perl (3rd Edition)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	The Perl bible, plain and simple	I regard this book as the Perl equivalent of Stroustrup's The C++ Programming Language.  Simply put, it is the bible for the language: long, thorough, authoratative, and indulging in a fair amount of proselytizing.  (The preaching becomes almost amusing when it tries to portray Perl's implementation of OOP as anything but ugly.)  If nothing else, the authors' enthusiasm for the language shines through.  Along with a somewhat witty writing style, it makes for good reading.<br />I have to disagree with those warning Perl newbies away from this book.  I must admit that I did read Learning Perl first, as a result of all these cautionary tales.  However, I felt that I learning nothing useful from the Llama, and I didn't even write my first Perl program until I began the Camel.  Reading Programming Perl was very satisfying in that it portrayed the language in a no-nonsense manner that allowed me at last to see all that Learning Perl tried so hard to hide.  Certainly, I don't recommend Programming Perl to those who are programming for the first time.  However, experienced C programmers and computer scientists will probably pick up Perl pretty readily from this book.  If nothing else, at least try Programming Perl first.  You'll certainly need it eventually, since Learning Perl is not sufficient for anything but the most surface understanding of how to use the language.  (The authors at least address the reader as somebody who knows nothing about Perl.)<br />The bottom line: if you're a programmer, you should have this book.  Perl is just too useful a language not to know.	2001-07-17
US	52601108	R3SM5NG1IMHVGZ	0385417101	855602298	Eight Skilled Gentlemen	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Still fails to recapture the magic of Bridge of Birds	I wanted to give this novel more than three stars, but I couldn't work up the enthusiasm.  Maybe the problem lies in my expectations.  After reading and loving Bridge of Birds, I looked forward to the Story of the Stone and Eight Skilled Gentlemen as the second and third books of a trilogy.  I expected the second two books to grow from the delightful beginnings of the original.  Instead, they are the second and third books in an aborted series, trying to repeat the performance of the incomparable first.<br />Eight Skilled Gentlemen contains many of the same ingredients that made Bridge of Birds so successful: the wonderful setting in mystical ancient China, the mixture of mystery with fantasy, and the two wonderful heroes.  But Barry Hughart offers the same dish to us rewarmed, without adding anything new.  For better or for worse, this is Yet Another episode in the Chronicles of Master Li and Number Ten Ox.  For what it's worth, it's better than the Story of the Stone.	2001-07-11
US	52601108	R3OMG0SJTXENOZ	0553103547	268067011	A Game of Thrones (Song of Ice and Fire)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A fantasy epic to be proud of	A Game of Thrones is quite simply the best fantasy I've read in a long, long time.  I can scarcely think of a single serious criticism to levy at it, so let me mention some of what I love about this novel.<br />Characterization, characterization, characterization.  Martin does a good job of imbuing each of his viewpoint characters with life and depth.  No one character is the designated hero; instead we have a cast of believable, not necessarily perfect characters through whose eyes we watch events unfold.  Despite some initial reservations, I grew to like Martin's style of switching viewpoint characters after each and every chapter.  Instead of making the story disjointed and hard to follow, it comes together into a multi-faceted gem.<br />I also appreciate the absence (for now) of earth-shattering sorcery and city-devouring behemoths.  The world of a Game of Thrones has its own identity.  It contains magic and monsters, but these are sufficiently rare that when they do appear it means something.  Instead the world is rich in legend and history, from the old gods to which many of the protagonists still keep to the the millennia-old Wall of ice that stands between the known world and the uncharted, lurking north.  This novel is so gripping not because of impossible flights of fancy but because of its convincing authenticity and depth.<br />With these characters and this world Martin constructs a compelling plot with both political intrigue on a grand scale and rivalries and love on a character level.  Note that this novel makes no pretense of arriving at any sort of conclusion at its end: the plot thickens significantly in the last chapter, making it less a novel and more simply the first volume in a saga that is not to be missed.	2001-06-19
US	52601108	RR4Q2GB9PSVJS	1565922840	658971757	Learning Perl, Second Edition (Nutshell Handbooks)	Books	2	16	21	N	N	Not for experienced computer scientists or programmers	I highly recommend learning Perl to anyone working in computer science, but I can't in good faith recommend Learning Perl to anyone who considers him or herself an experienced programmer.  The book proceeds very slowly and is pretty short, meaning that in the end you'll know only the very basics of Perl.  In fact, many of the footnotes refer the reader to Programming Perl or to the perl manpages to get the \\"real story\\" on some issue that Learning Perl glosses over.<br />If you intend to learn Perl (and more than the very basics), you will probably end up reading through Programming Perl or many of the Perl manpages.  I would consider Learning Perl only as an optional primer for those not already fluent in one or more languages like C.  Otherwise you will spend some time reviewing the semantics of while loops, what a file handle is, etc.  You will have learned the basics of pattern matching and Perl's syntax and idioms, but you may as well cut to the chase and learn from Programming Perl.<br />On the other hand, I am coming from a theoretical computer science background (the CS program at Carnegie Mellon University); Learning Perl may very well be appropriate for have never used anything more sophisticated than a scripting language.  However, even beginning programmers should be aware that Learning Perl assumes familiarity with a Unix environment.  (But see also: Learning Perl on Win32 Systems).<br />If you have doubts, at least take a look at the perl manpages.  They come free with every distribution of perl.	2001-06-13
US	52601108	R2POJ1WQ9LX5O4	0812515285	646002347	A Fire Upon The Deep (Zones of Thought)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A novel of deep ideas and epic scope	This is science fiction as it was meant to be: a compelling vision of the future, teeming with alienness, intriguing ideas, and a sense of wonder.  The narrative alternates between two settings, and Vinge infuses each with creativity.<br />On the one hand, Ravna Bergsndot and Pham Nuwen live in a galaxy teeming with innumerable civilizations connected by the Net of a Million Lies, a galaxy-spanning version of the internet.  Among his most pervasive ideas is the Zones of Thought: the farther from the galactic core you are, the more sophisticated is the technology allowed by the laws of physics.  The descendants of the human race are only one of countless species existing in the buffer between the Slow Zone, where FTL travel no longer functions, and the rim, past which transcendant species and awesome machine intelligences dwell.<br />However, Vinge sets the other half of his story on a single planet, Tines' World, which is no less compelling.  The dominant (medieval) species of this planet is race of packs of dog-like creatures: each individual consciousness comprises multiple bodies.  The author's background in computer science, prevalent in the other half of the novel, can be seen here as well with the discussion of different network topologies for these &quot;distributed&quot; minds.  Vinge does a better job of conveying the alienness of these &quot;Tines&quot; than he does with the Spiders in A Deepness in the Sky, while still making their motivations and personalities comprehensible.<br />My only real complaint with this novel is the ending.  While grand in scope and thought-provoking, it still comes off a little flat; the first 550 or so pages do not really build up to it.  Somehow, the resolution of the plot specific to Tines' World was much more satisfying than the end of Ravna and Pham's quest of galactic importance.  Also, although I liked the characters, the plotting and characterization in A Deepness in the Sky (which I read first) are better.<br />Despite its imperfections, A Fire Upon the Deep is a great read, if for nothing else than the richness of Vinge's imagination.  He infuses his writing with rich ideas and details that I can hardly begin to convey here.	2001-06-07
US	52601108	RD7CO6B7FCPI2	0312870442	621367969	The Cassini Division (Fall Revolution)	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Interesting concepts, but needs some more work	The Cassini Division reads like an abridgment of a longer, better, more gripping novel.  MacLeod almost seems in a rush to communicate his ideas, not realizing that he is instead shortchanging them.  For example, he dedicates much of this short novel to the interactions among the socialist, anarchic Solar Union, the capitalist New Mars, and the posthuman Jupiter.  He confronts his protagonist with valid ethical questions regarding her own motivations and her mission to destroy the Jovians.  However, then MacLeod decides suddenly to resolve the tangible conflict, forgetting completely all concerns of moral ambiguity.<br />Overall, the plotting suffers from unsupported developments and twists, such as the physicist Malley's sudden decision to cast his lot in with the elite military of the Utopian society he abhors and from which he has exiled himself for decades.  The best reason to read the Cassini Division is the political theory, which begs further development.  In MacLeod's universe, is it really possible for the Jovians' radio and video transmissions to infect passive observers so easily with mental viruses, or is it a cover story to explain censorship on the part of the Solar Union, as Malley seems to hint once in the beginning?  MacLeod leaves such possibilities completely unexplored.<br />For a much more developed treatment of the collision between a successful socialist anarchy and a capitalist state, do yourself a favor and read LeGuin's The Dispossessed.	2001-03-27
US	52601108	R2MTEHFLD7ID1I	0385246366	895611272	The Story of the Stone	Books	3	7	10	N	N	A little too much like the first book	If you haven't yet read the first Master Li and Number Ten Ox book, Bridge of Birds, go read it now; it's quite good.  If you've already read it and want more of the same, then the Story of the Stone may slake your thirst.  Be warned, however, that this iteration borrows more than just the two protagonists and the style of the first novel.  Without giving too much away, too many of the plot twists from Bridge of Birds made it into the Story of the Stone.  At the same time, this second novel lacks some of the grandeur and scope of the first.  It's still not a bad read, though.	2001-03-21
US	52601108	RN9IIHCIL5WVA	0345321383	932766552	Bridge of Birds: A Novel of an Ancient China That Never Was	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A delightful fantasy, refreshing and fun	Bridge of Birds begins as a simple tale of a young man known as Number Ten Ox who solicits the help of the aged Master Li to save the children of his village from a deadly poison.  Together they journey across China in search of a legendary ginseng root, meanwhile becoming entangled in a grander quest involving the gods themselves.<br />This fabled China of Barry Hughart's imagination is a wonderful setting for a story filled with adventure and wonder.  Throughout, Number Ten Ox plays the Watson to Master Li's Sherlock Holmes, but the mystery they tackle involves a murderous tyrant, forlorn ghosts, a ruined city, a deadly labyrinth, and an ancient legend.<br />At times a lighthearted fairy tale (with a humorously drawn cast of supporting characters) and at other times a bit bloody, Bridge of Birds is in all ways a beautiful story and well worth reading.	2001-03-03
US	52601108	RQEXGL9QCC9OF	0312856830	288499140	A Deepness in the Sky	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An engaging epic, well worth the read	A Deepness in the Sky tells a compelling story that spans decades.  At the same time it is both epic in scope and a well-focused tale; the story centers around one alien world and the remnant of two fleets that have traveled light years to reach it.  Vernor Vinge is very careful with his science, reinforcing the incredible distance between the stars and thus creating real tension when the survivors must rely on themselves and the inhabitants of the planet they've come to exploit.<br />Vinge draws his characters well.  The good guys are not without flaw and the bad guys are not without merit, and all the main characters have a certain poignancy about them.  Each chapter tends to switch the viewpoint character, to good effect.  Given the sheer number of characters, I would have liked to see more of some of them, despite the already hefty size of the novel.<br />The ending of the story did not completely satisfy me.  One half of the resolution the reader learns fairly early; the other seems to come out of nowhere.  Despite Vinge's careful explanation of this latter half after the fact, I feel that he could have done more to build up to it.  (Going into the ending, there didn't seem to be very many loose ends, but then a twists comes along that's almost completely unexpected.)  This is likely to be a matter of personal preference, though.<br />On the whole, A Deepness in the Sky is full of ideas and powerfully told.  Definitely recommended.	2001-02-26
US	52601108	R36XICI0V4NFP3	0449912302	439982425	Dave Barry in Cyberspace	Books	4	2	2	N	N	For when you just don't want to take computers seriously	This is good stuff.  You can tell that Dave Barry really does know computers and the internet, but he doesn't let that stop him from writing a hilarious introduction to cyberspace for the layperson.  Of course, it has been five years since he wrote the book, and anybody who has gotten to the point where he can read this review on Amazon probably knows most of what Dave Barry facetiously imparts here.  Still, the book ages pretty well, and I doubt it was intended to help people learn to use computers anyway.  (I hope not, at least!)  Instead, the reader can laugh along as Dave Barry pokes fun at every aspect of the computer industry.<br />At first I was somewhat surprised to see that so many reviews didn't like the short story at the end, &quot;MsPtato and RayAdverb.&quot;  I enjoyed it and thought it was very well written.  The problem is that it's not very funny (nor do I think it was intended to be as humorous as the rest of the novel), so it seems out of place.  On the other hand, the story is certainly on topic, since it's about a woman and mother of three who finds love on line after learning how to use her computer.	2001-01-28
US	52601108	R1VLJP9LMBXTD9	0441094996	271001733	The Cat Who Walks through Walls	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Falls apart halfway through	The first half of this novel has all the trappings of a fun Heinlein adventure.  The story opens with a mysterious murder in a crowded restaurant, at the dinner table of Richard Ames and his lover, Gwen.  Their investigation leads Richard and Gwen from the space station where they live to the lunar colonies.  The interaction between Richard and Gwen during their pursuit of the killer is the high point of the story.<br />Yet halfway through, Heinlein seems to change his mind about what kind of story he wants to tell.  With one twist of the plot, he completely abandons the murder mystery tale and adopts an entirely new one.  As revealed by the blurb on the back cover, Richard finds himself entangled in an intrigue that spans alternate realities, allowing Heinlein to bring in characters from some of his previous works, such as Lazarus Long, Jubal Harshaw, and Mike.<br />The sudden shift might not be so bad, but this new plot has almost no connection with all the events that filled the first half of the story.  Heinlein writes off as unimportant all the question raised at the beginning.  Also, as another reviewer noted, the playful interaction between Richard and Gwen that made the first half so enjoyable is greatly diminished in the second half.<br />Despite its flaws, The Cat Who Walks Through Walls should appeal to most devoted Heinlein fans.  Those new to Heinlein are probably better off starting with one of his more celebrated works, such as The Moon is a Harsh Mistress.  For a more lighthearted Heinlein adventure similar to the first half of this novel, try Friday.	2001-01-27
US	52601108	R29IS3R6Q8OC87	0345347951	589013680	Childhood's End	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Sad and cerebral but satisfying	Childhood's End demonstrates to what extent a science fiction novel can be a story of ideas. Clarke presents us here with no less than a chronicle of the ending of an era of human history. Indeed, I had difficulty connecting  with a number of Clarke's main characters until I took a step back and  viewed all of humanity as one actor in the drama.<br />Given Clarke's rather  empirical writing style, dissociating myself from the people I was reading  about was perhaps too easy. In a way, the reader is closer to the  Overlords, the other principal character, watching from above.  Nevertheless, the individuals in the story are very human, and suspense  about their fate -- all of them -- made it difficult to put this book  down.<br />If you can help it, learn as little as possible about the plot  before you read the book. Good writing and a healthy sense of wonder will  keep you reading. The story is deep enough to remain with you long after.	2000-07-01
US	52601108	R3KDN7WSIA3XVI	031286860X	106877023	Ender's Shadow (The Shadow Series)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Surprisingly not bad	I loved both Ender's Game and Speaker for the Dead (though in different ways), but Xenocide and Children of the Mind greatly disappointed me. When I heard that Orson Scott Card was returning to Ender's saga to retell the  first book from another point of view, I was skeptical. However, upon  reading Ender's Shadow I found that I enjoyed Card's new treatment of the  original story.<br />To my pleasure, I didn't find any obvious continuity  errors vis a vis Ender's Game (no, I didn't give Card that much credit). In  fact, rereading Ender's Game immediately after reading Ender's Shadow left  me with the impression that the author wrote some of the events of the  original to coincide with the new book. The only discord between the two  books comes in Bean's interactions with Ender. Making Bean such a brilliant  kid in Ender's Shadow led to Bean saying certain lines of dialogue (to  match what was said in the original) only to think immediately thereafter  &quot;what a dumb thing to say.&quot;<br />Despite Bean's different heritage,  he does resemble Ender in many respects. Making the character so similar is  unfortunate (to perhaps a larger degree than Card realizes he is telling  the same story again). It does however have the advantage of allowing us to  watch how a child just as brilliant as Ender reacts to coming to the Battle  School only to find himself preceded by the handpicked savior of  humanity.<br />Despite a few awkward moments, Ender's Shadow succeeds in  giving us a fresh look at an old favorite. It is even spared the kludgy  ending of the original, meant to segue Ender's Game into Speaker for the  Dead. I would, however, like to see Card return to his original idea of  allowing other authors access to the characters of Ender's Game and Ender's  shadow. I'd like to see what another author could do with Bean after the  events of this novel, or with Petra or Peter. Ender's saga seems to have  room for growth after all.	2000-06-11
US	52601108	R1GKMINZ025J4T	034530988X	997219030	Friday	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Friday is another Heinlein winner	If you've read Heinlein before and liked what you saw, Friday is a fun tale following the path of a genetically engineered courier / secret agent. It's an entertaining read, just the thing for taking a step away from the  here and now for a while.<br />If you're unfamiliar with Heinlein, a warning  might be in order. Heinlein has been called a misogynist or a lech by some,  and this novel is an example of his work that might prompt such an  assessment. At several points the story voices the author's attitudes about  sex and gender relations. (A blurb on the back from the New York Times Book  Review reads: &quot;... she can think better, fight better and make love  better than any of the normal people around her.&quot;) A quote from one of  the principal characters sums up what seems to be Heinlein's view:  &quot;Geniuses and supergeniuses always make their own rules on sex as on  everything else; they do not accept the monkey customs of their  lessers.&quot; To be sure, this element does not dominate the story, but  some might find it to be a turn off. I prefer to believe that Heinlein  simply refused to constrain his imagination to technological visions of the  future.	2000-04-29
US	52601108	RKA5WM8O096FH	0192833553	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A classic love story	I must confess up front that I am a sucker of love stories. As such, Pride and Prejudice had me hook, line, and sinker from the beginning, turning page after page to find out if Elizabeth, the heroine, would find happiness  in the end.<br />A female friend of mine recommended the book to me (as did my  girlfriend) with the caveat that most guys she knew complained that  &quot;nothing happened&quot; in it. Needless to say, if you're looking for  action and intrigue, look elsewhere. There is some little intrigue in Pride  and Prejudice, but the heroine(s) play a strictly passive role. All the  excitement in the novel stems from the suspense of the Bennet sisters'  romances.<br />Another minor caveat: I was initially slightly distracted by  Austen's style of writing, which sometimes seems a bit distant from the  action of the narrative (at least to someone more accustomed to more modern  works).<br />However, I feel that this hardly detracts from what recommends  Pride and Prejudice the most (and what all love stories require):  interesting characters to whom the reader can become emotionally attached  and believable obstacles to their deserved happiness.	2000-01-07
US	52601108	R2FCQEWFUBH3Y2	0312867425	709703711	Brotherhood of the Wolf (The Runelords)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A fine second entry in the Runelords sequence	Unlike some of the other reviewers, I did not find that Farland dwells too much in his second Runelords novel on his fascinating idea of endowments given from vassals to lords. If anything, the focus has begun to shift  towards the other form of magic in Farland's world: the elemental. If the  notion of endowments continues to pervade Farland's writing, it is only  because it is so central to the lives of the main characters.<br />That said,  Brotherhood of the Wolf is not quite as strong a novel as the Runelords,  though it is still entertaining. Some of the novelty has worn off, and the  increasing role of elemental magic means that the story treads closer to  more well-trodden ground. Even so, Farland certainly hasn't spent all his  creative energies yet, as this novel succeeds in capturing the  imagination.<br />In fact, my strongest criticism wouldn't concern the fantasy  aspect of the story so much as the human. Though Farland adds some new and  interesting characters to the mix, all of his characters come off a little  flat. One occasionally suspects that they are merely vehicles for the  author's fantastical ideas. But they are intriguing ideas. I appreciate  most the moral uncertainty surrounding both the practice of taking  endowments from one's subjects and of Gaborn's task as the Earth King. I  hope Farland continues to address both issues in the future, and I look  forward to reading what he has to offer.	1999-12-23
US	52601108	R2R4PR4UBJTN3X	0385333498	794708589	The Sirens of Titan: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An entertaining look at the purpose of humanity	The blurb on the back cover of the Sirens of Titans advertises &quot;a prophetic vision about the purpose of human life that only Vonnegut has the courage to tell.&quot; Perhaps I missed the boat, but I didn't find  Vonnegut's message so unique. That said, Vonnegut spins an entertaining,  humorous tale that seems to ridicule anyone who takes humanity too  seriously.	1999-12-22
US	52601108	R2IA58Y8IUZNK3	0312860382	212689501	Darwinia	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Unfulfilled potential	Reading the dust jacket for Darwinia you'd think that it's a story of an exploration of a miraculous new continent that has replaced Europe. You'd only be partly right. I can't go into detail about how the story  disappointed me without revealing key plot details, but suffice it to say  that Darwinia abandons a promising start that includes a believable  description of how the Miracle affects the rest of the world. Wilson  explains away the Miracle halfway through, and the  story mutates into a  wholly different one. This transmutation might be more acceptable if the  new story were a more interesting one. Another source of disappointment is  the use of the other point of view characters besides Guilford, particular  Elias Vale. Vale's significance to the story seems too minor given the  number of pages devoted to him.<br />But don't let my fault finding dissuade  you too completely from giving this book a try. One reason that I am so  critical is because it has such an interesting premise and some interesting  characters.	1999-07-22
US	52601108	RA5DOCBKQ3L3N	0312866534	894162627	The Runelords: The Sum Of All Men (The Runelords, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Now this is how you begin a fantasy epic	Runelords is good. Very good. David Farland has crafted an interesting, unique system of magic, but he doesn't stop there. His novel touches upon some of the deeper ramifications and consequences of this idea of giving  endowments, making Runelords more than just another fantasy adventure. His  protagonists are not purely good; his antagonists not pure evil. Yet  Farland also succeeds in making this a true fantasy epic. He captures the  grandeur of sweeping events, the awe of a truly formidable villain, the  power of ancient magic, and the promise of more to come. Highly  recommended.	1999-07-14
US	52601108	R3OCUSF4TPKI55	0553296124	81931578	Heir to the Empire (Star Wars: The Thrawn Trilogy, Vol. 1)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A fine continuation of the Star Wars saga	What enticed me to read Heir to the Empire were Usenet posters' comments that its antagonist, Grand Admiral Thrawn, is an example of a competent Evil Overlord. In this respect, Zahn delivers. Thrawn is at least as  menacing as Vader, replacing Jedi powers with sheer cunning. As such, the  largest problem I had with this novel is the amount of good fortune the  good guys needed to escape Thrawn's clutches again and again.<br />Mara Jade,  another original character, also has much promise. I only hope Zahn  develops Mara and Thrawn more in the second two books.	1999-07-06
US	52601108	R2FBRO6C0FV2FC	0345330137	387028775	Double Star	Books	4	2	4	N	N	An entertaining yarn	This short novel is typical Heinlein fare, which is IMHO quite good. In short, Double Star is the story of Lorenzo Smythe, a young actor full of himself who gets drawn into events larger than even his own ego. It's an  enjoyable tale overall, though I don't quite see why it won a Hugo.	1999-07-01
US	52601108	RK1A4G72I10S8	006016848X	587492563	Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus: A Practical Guide for Improving Communication and Getting What You Want in Your Relationships	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Gray is a decent relationship counselor but a poor writer	Gray simplifies and overgeneralizes the subject matter in many ways. However, I believe that the core ideas are extremely valuable. Unfortunately, the book presents them in a laborious and drawn out manner.  The chapters often seem to cover the same idea over and over, merely with a  different focus. Gray's metaphor of separate Martian and Venetian heritages  perhaps make his viewpoint easier to understand, though the universality of  this distinction is suspect. Some of the differences between male and  female (besides being stereotypes, even if they might have an element of  truth) seem actually to be similarities at heart that individuals express  in different ways.<br />The short version of this book: you and your partner  may get into arguments primarily because you do not communicate your  differences to one another and assume your partner expresses him or herself  in the same way that you do. The book is useful in suggesting ways to  overcome this difficulty (try to ignore some of the gender  generalizations).<br />Gray also seems to have a stubbornly optimistic view of  relationships, partly because he seems to believe that *every* problem in a  relationship stems from simple misunderstandings in how individuals express  love for one another.	1999-06-29
US	52601108	R3S6R5S0AEDQ93	0553379267	284019128	A Canticle for Leibowitz (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Thought provoking visions of a bleak future	This novel is the story of an order of monks dedicated to preserving the knowledge of human civilization from before nuclear holocaust. Miller tells it in three parts, each separated by several centuries and showing the  monks' role at each stage of civilization's rebirth. Miller succeeds in  stimulating thought about what qualities of man drive him to destroy  himself and then how he rebuilds. I also appreciated the fair portrayal of  each side of the conflicts between religion and science in the novel.<br />I  only wish I knew more Latin; untranslated phrases pepper the story.	1999-06-23
