US	52601223	R26ZL1HZ2AQUGZ	1573226807	693800809	The Names of Things: Life, Language, and Beginnings in the Egyptian Desert	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Unique	Susan Brind Morrow has led a very interesting life. She's a graduate of Barnard College with a master's degree in classics from Columbia and for a short time was a fellow of the Creane-Rogers Foundation in Egypt and Sudan. Most of this book recounts her travels as a traveling archaeologist leading upto and around that period. Her prose is so lyrical that the book is more like reading poetry than anything else. So much so, that it's often difficult to keep a sense of where she is, who she's with, and what she's doing. The later is my only complaint, though to be honest it's not that anyone can capture in the lyrical sense what Susan Brind Morrow has in this very unique memoir.	2005-10-06
US	52601223	R120WSV1N19Q2Q	1573220272	181035394	The Names of Things	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Unique	Susan Brind Morrow has led a very interesting life. She's a graduate of Barnard College with a master's degree in classics from Columbia and for a short time was a fellow of the Creane-Rogers Foundation in Egypt and Sudan. Most of this book recounts her travels as a traveling archaeologist leading upto and around that period. Her prose is so lyrical that the book is more like reading poetry than anything else. So much so, that it's often difficult to keep a sense of where she is, who she's with, and what she's doing.  The later is my only complaint, though to be honest it's not that anyone can capture in the lyrical sense what Susan Brind Morrow has in this very unique memoir.	2005-10-06
US	52601223	R24N29AKCV3FUM	0061041785	574609129	Templeton Plan: 21 Steps to Personal Success and Real Happiness	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A Guidebook for Life	The Templeton Plan is a guidebook for living life. Templeton lays down 21 laws on how to be successful in your personal life and in your occupation. Interwoven with the Templeton Plan is an autobiographical story of how Templeton started from modest means growing up in Tennesse into a multi-billion dollar investor and money manager. It's an incredible and inpiring story. Not every day or in just any book can you get great, proven advice from a billionaire, but this text is a classic treatise on being successful from someone who not only knows as much about the subject as anyone but also has taken the time to formulate it into a teachable package. It is wisdom in the truest form. This book is cheap and more than worth every cent. It's also one that I will read again in the future which is the highest mark that I can give any book.	2005-10-05
US	52601223	R22H41VHHIW06B	0767919467	107701880	Start Late, Finish Rich: A No-Fail Plan for Achieving Financial Freedom at Any Age	Books	5	22	25	N	N	It Delivers	I've read a ton of financial self-help books over the years, and this one goes far beyond the majority of them in delivering solid content and sound advice without wasting the reader's time. David Bach does an excellent job in showing how cutting tiny expenses can really add up and increase your savings rate. America has one of the worst savings rates in the world, and there are plenty who should be reading the author's advice. He also covers consolidating debt, real estate, investing, and different ways to make additional income without quitting your day job. If you have read any of the books in of Robert Kiyosaki's \\"Rich Dad, Poor Dad\\" series, then you probably noticed they are sometimes inspirational but thoroughly content-free. You won't find that with \\"Start Late, Finish Rich\\". David Bach provides really useful information, and you may even find that you read the book twice to take it all in. It's money well spent.	2005-07-24
US	52601223	R34SVBVSWJ4S49	158297215X	785203817	Shooting & Selling Your Photos: The Complete Guide to Making Money with Your Photography	Books	4	39	39	N	N	Great Introduction	This is a great introduction to selling photography by one of the very best in the business. Jim Zuckerman is very diverse in his stock photography subject matter and that diversity shows through in the wide range of knowledge he shares in this book. The best coverage is on selling photography at art shows and advice on submitting article and calendar proposals to publishers. If you're specifically interested in stock agencies, I highly recommend Lee Frost's Photos That Sell (see my review on that book). Mr. Zuckerman's advice on stock libraries is a good introduction but Lee Frost devotes most of his book to the topic. The photography in the book is of course wonderful, but I would have liked to have seen the author share more information about which images were his best sellers, how many times each image has sold and where, and other details which Lee Frost shares in this book in many cases. However, this is very solid introduction to selling photography and I recommend it.	2005-07-05
US	52601223	RWBNWKB5SM5KG	0240804139	221554848	The Photographer's Assistant Handbook	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Must-Read For Prospective Assistants	This book is an absolute must-read for anyone looking at becoming a photographer's assistant. Matt has worked for many different photographers in the New York area. His advice is right-on and his long list of humiliating accidents covers the full gamut of what NOT to do. I didn't come to this book as a prospective assistant but rather as a professional photographer hoping to pick up a few tips and tricks from the author's experience with other photographers, a good spy novel in other words. Therefore, I was most looking forward to Chapter 9, Tips and Tricks. I found a few neat ideas, but nothing that Earth-shattering. Of course, mileage may vary and I readily admit the target audience is for assistants-to-be. If you are coming from that perspective, you unquestionably want to read this book and break out a box of highlighters. It would also be a great read and general overview for high school students thinking about entering the field. The only downside is that the book doesn't cover the digital era, so there is a lot of information about digital workflow and different photographer's preferences in that area which is missing.	2005-06-23
US	52601223	R1XH3PRDSUYWEG	0782141919	148334207	Photoshop Secrets of the Pros: 20 Top Artists and Designers Face Off	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Illustration Inspiration	Photoshop tennis anyone? In Photoshop Secrets twenty designers face off in ten different matches, two designers to a match. One designer starts an image through a combination of photo clips and Photoshop actions then passes it to another designer for the next \\"volley\\". Each match has ten volleys and produces ten completely unique images. These are images that fit the digital illustration genre. If you're looking for photorealistic techniques, check out one of Bert Monroy's books. How much you'll learn about Photoshop techniques certainly depends on your current knowledge level, but based on what I found this book will give you a few interesting things to try and, even more, a good bit of inspiration if you're interested in doing some professional illustration.	2005-06-23
US	52601223	RJV9KGWH42Z83	1565856708	103471197	The United States and the Middle East: 1914 to 9/11	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Average	This is a 12 CD lecture series by Professor Salim Yaqub of the University of Chicago. Professor Yaqub is an expert on Middle East history. The content of this series is quite good, but I found the delivery of the lectures to be lacking. Quite simply, the lectures are not palatable to listen to. Maybe Professor Yaqub is more entertaining with a live audience than in a recording studio. In any case, I found the series to be nothing but a recitation of dates and names and events. The facts are all there, but it is not presented such that you will have a decent chance of remembering them later. It would be much better if a good writer polished the script a bit and if a professional audio book narrator read it.	2005-06-16
US	52601223	R1BJUZOU24G8HY	0817455124	525036041	Photos that Sell: The Art of Successful Freelance Photography	Books	5	30	30	N	N	The BEST book on Stock Photography	I've read a lot of books on the stock photography industry and this book is by far the best. When I first got it a year ago I paid too much attention to the extraordinary photography and not enough to Lee's text. Recently, I went back and very carefully, slowly (one or two pages a day) studied Lee's advice. I've sold images myself to clients around the world and can tell you this book is what you need if you're interested in selling images. It's accurate, complete, and packed with tips that few others would be willing to share. I have and will continue to look back to this book for ideas in producing my own work. The author provides great advice across the range of stock subject matter as well as the various markets.<br /><br />The are two things that really make this book shine though. The first is the numerous photographs accompanied by sales info: number of sales, where it sold, and the total sales to date in U.S. dollars. Not all the images in the book have this information (most have the standard equipment and exposure stats), but some do. Next, there are several two-page interviews with other stock photographers. They share their backgrounds, markets, and tips.<br /><br />Buy this book. It's worth it!	2005-05-28
US	52601223	R19CYVP4JJ6Q2C	1400063558	886453938	Trump: Think Like a Billionaire: Everything You Need to Know About Success, Real Estate, and Life	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Content-Free Rubbish	This is one of the worst uses of dead trees I've ever seen. It's complete dribble. Trump's first two books, The Art of the Deal and Survivng at the Top, were biographical pieces and were at least slightly interesting from that perspective. If a good editor were to tackle Think Like a Billionaire not a single word would remain afterward. It is complete and total crap. The majority of this book is devoted to a underwhelming discussion of the Mar-a-Lago diet, the Miss Universe and other pageants, and the first two seasons of The Apprentice. COUNTLESS times Trump congratulates himself on being the personal savior to NBC. At the beginning of the book he tells everyone not to take vacations and what lazy bums they are if they do. Later in the book he tells you how to pick a luxury hotel or resort. What? Oh, and when you leave the airport you should have your assistant call ahead to the hotel to let the manager know you're about to arrive. Yeah, I'll do that.	2005-05-17
US	52601223	R34IA7S2380YWT	0618134247	245124319	Dark Star Safari: Overland from Cairo to Cape Town	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Most educational travel book I've seen to date	Dark Star Safari is a journey through the REAL Africa. From Cairo to Cape Town Paul travels along the worst roads and through the toughest villages that you won't see on a tourist safari, talking with and learning from everyone he meets along the way. From that perspective this was the most educational travel book to date that I've seen.<br /><br />One of the consistent observations throughout the book is that wherever Paul traveled the detriment brought to Africa by aid workers is quite clear. Aid is not helping, and it never did. It only contributes to the under-development in Africa and only serves to keep the local despots and corrupt, stagnated governments in power. In Malawi, as in the much of the rest of Africa, the NGOs (Non-governmental Organizations) and virtue activists hire away the local teachers (who only make $27 to $67 dollars a month) offering them better pay and conditions to become food distributors. Few of the villages even have teachers any more.<br /><br />The author speaks with a knowledge and history of Africa that few others possess since he had lived and worked as a teacher in Africa during the 1960s. As Paul states, foreign aid workers \\"…didn't realize that for forty years people had been saying the same things, and the result, after four decades, was a lower standard of living, a higher rate of illiteracy, over population, and much more disease. Foreigners working for development agencies didn't stand long. So they never discovered the full extent of their failure. Africans saw them come and go.\\"<br /><br />Labor-intensive projects are extremely rare in Africa because of self-serving foreign \\"aid\\" that require \\"purchases of machinery have to be made in the donor country, or that bids be restricted to firms in the donor country, or that a time limit be placed on the scheme which encourages the tendency towards large contracts and heavy spending on equipment.\\" Paul also verifies what I had first read about in Jim Roger's Adventure Capitalist. All of the used clothing donated to churches to be distributed to \\"poor Africa\\" becomes merchandise the second the cargo ship leaves the port. When it reaches its destination it's purchased in large blocks by merchants who resell them. The author picks up some \\"new\\" clothes himself in order to avoid looking like a tourist. His T-shirt read \\"Top-Notch Plumbing\\". Of course, all this \\"good-well aid\\" does nothing but to hurt Africa's economy. There was a time, not too long ago, when some of the best tailors in the world were in Africa. But how can you be a tailor when the West sends clothes over for practically free? Why be a farmer when the West wants to feed you for free? What's the best industry in Kenya? Coffins. Coffin-making is a booming industry. In one area of Malawi the people are growing their own Maize crops but are using hybrid seeds resulting in big plants but sterile seeds. The farmers can't set aside plants as seed corn because they are all sterile! As Theroux says, \\"Without free seeds each year these people would starve.\\"<br /><br />What angers me the most though is what I have seen verified in other reports, namely aid workers \\"were no more than a maintenance crew on a power trip\\". Other than a Nun or two who had moved to Africa on their own accord, none of the aid workers, in other words the NGO aid workers, were happy to be there or in the slightest bit helpful to the author. They're all too busy driving around in their air-conditioned Land Rovers to get out and actually help people.<br /><br />The happiest and most self-sufficient villages that Theroux encountered were, in a very consistent pattern, all out-of-the-way such that the government and aid workers ignored then and didn't mess with them.<br /><br />There is much more to the book though than state of Africa's corruption. The author's adventures are incredible. It's incredible that he actually lived to tell the tale actually. If you want a romantic story of big-game hunters in Africa, ready Hemingway. If you want reality, read Theroux.n Africa, ready Hemingway. If you want reality, read Theroux.	2005-05-06
US	52601223	RKF70YI87VWG2	0976051672	762125029	Barns of Arkansas	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Worst Picture Book Ever	I don't enjoy doing bad reviews, really, but this is the WORST picture book I have ever seen!<br /><br />Many of the pictures are blurred, some HORRIBLY so! I would list page numbers but there are none. Mr. Patel has no understanding of depth-of-field. In one shot the foreground grass is in focus but the barn, i.e. SUBJECT of the picture, is completely out of focus! Quite a few barn pictures have power lines running through the image that could have been composed out of the frame by an observant photographer or, at the very least, edited out in post. The vast majority of images are set against the ugliest white skies I've ever seen published in such a book. I won't even mention the typography!<br /><br />It is the perfect example of how bad an ego trip can get. This is a self-published book. The author is an engineer who photographed barns during weekends of his three-year stay in Arkansas while working on a chemical weapons arsenal that is being destroyed. I'm glad he got around and saw more of the state than our chemical weapons stockpile, but as a life-long resident of the state, I find this book insulting. The only positive thing I can mention is that I'm glad I only borrowed the book from the library and didn't pay money for it.	2005-05-06
US	52601223	R1GNU02KMIJI15	1883403693	279311460	Portraits and Figures: Developing Style in Creative Photography	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Interesting B+W Picture Book	This is an interesting picture book for B+W photographers, particularly those interested in alternative development techniques and materials. Each picture has a paragraph or two from the photographer with, by my count, 19 photographers represented across roughly 51 photographs. Accompanying tiny print from the book's author provides technique tips and pointers. The stunning photographs run the gamut between grainy and non-grainy and different forms of toning. The book doesn't include any images created from digital capture. It's interesting and sometimes inspiring but you need to be specifically looking for examples based on different B+W papers and chemicals for development in order to get much out of it as far as technical know-how is concerned.	2005-04-16
US	52601223	R3TRKRJKYSHKB3	140006337X	276765210	Hot Commodities : How Anyone Can Invest Profitably in the World's Best Market	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Worth its weight in pork bellies...	Jim Rogers is one of few individuals on the planet whose investment advice is worth listening to. And that's an understatement. Jim co-founded the Quantum Fund with George Soros, later retired at age 37, and has traveled around the world twice, each time collecting even more investment wisdom from each of the hundreds of countries that he's visited.<br /><br />In Hot Commodities Jim Rogers parlays his travel and investment experience into investment advice for now and the coming next ten years. As he says on page 10, \\"Most investors could use some mental deprogramming. At certain points in history, stocks (and bonds) are not the best investments to make.\\" Of course, he's talking about investing in commodities. Jim goes on to soundly counter all the false beliefs most of us have about commodities investing. He provides a short history of commodities trading and then gives an excellent tutorial on commodities trading and termonology. Why not just buy stock in commodity-related companies? A recent and thorough Yale study found that returns from commodities were triple those of companies producing those commodities.<br /><br />Besides sugar and corn, you'll also find the book filled with Jim's thoughts on gold, oil, and markets like Brazil and China. Here's one of my favorite Roger's quotes: \\"Spain was the greatest economic power in the world in the sixteenth century; the rich and the powerful of the eighteenth-century world spoke French; the nineteenth century belonged to Britain; and the twentieth was the American century. The twenty-first will belong to China. History has not been kind to empires.\\"<br /><br />If you're interested in turning current world events into money, you'll love this book.	2005-03-25
US	52601223	R1NKK71HTUP683	0312423373	687261224	The River at the Center of the World: A Journey Up the Yangtze, and Back in Chinese Time	Books	2	30	36	N	N	Disappointing...	Simon Winchester's journey up the Yangtze river is often poetic and overruns with historical detail every eddie of the way up the river. If anything, this is an incredible historical text of China. The author's research is impeccable and undeniable. However, every word of the way through this book I couldn't help but feel a profound disappointment in what could have been, but clearly is not, one of the the most epic journeys of our time. Mr. Winchester's timing was perfect, a trip up the Yangtze before the Three Gorges dam would change it forever and as the country is experiencing a rebirth that will soon make it the largest economic superpower in the world where it is destined to stay for the next century.<br /><br />Yet with all his research, all the planning, and all the help he received along the way, we're left with only a few hundred pages of text. Where are the thousands of pictures? Where are the video clips of his journey? Where is the interactive website? He mentions in the opening pages that he packed a Leica M6 camera but, at least in the paperback edition, there is not a single picture in the book. From a man who successfully sued the Defense Department over the Freedom of Information Action in order to get the Pentagon's most detailed maps of the river, I expected more. Instead, we are left with a very long-winded account of the author's journey, but not a deserving account of China's journey.	2005-03-19
US	52601223	R3D8XBA4JEPTGH	0789496372	408095452	The New Manual of Photography	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Excellent for beginners. Insipiring for everyone.	John Hedgecoe is a great and thoroughly proven photography teacher.  I have been shooting for many years now and relied on his books when I first got started. I still love going back to them to be inspired by the amazing breadth of his work. I can recommend this book to anyone looking to learn the basics of photography, and I also recommend it to anyone looking to take their photography in different directions.	2005-03-01
US	52601223	R67UOW79PGZAE	0553296345	169330482	Zen in the Art of Writing: Releasing the Creative Genius Within You	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Writer's Writer	What can you say about a writer who wrote over a thousand words a day every day of his career? Ray Bradbury was certainly a writer's writer. This book is a collection of essays written over a thirty-year period. It gives insight into his personal history and trials and successes as a writer. As he says himself, \\"If anything is taught here, it is simply the charting of the life of someone who started out to somewhere-and went.\\"<br /><br />These essays provide insight into his writing process and use of word association as he started to write each and every morning. His best advice to an aspiring writer is to write, write, and write \\"one-thousand or two-thousand words every day for the next twenty years. At the start, you might shoot for one short story a week, fifty-two stories a year, for five years. You will have to write and put away or burn a lot of material before you are comfortable in this medium. You might as well start now and get the necessary work done.\\"<br /><br />Overall, I found this book more inspirational than tip-wise informative. If you're looking for more of the later I recommend Steven King's On Writing. Speaking of which, I found it interesting that King and Bradbury share the same viewpoint regarding plot. In Bradbury's words, \\"Plot is no more than footprints left in the snow after your characters have run my on their way to incredible destinations. Plot is observed after the fact rather than before.\\"<br /><br />This is a great read for anyone interested in writing, but most especially for an aspiring science-fiction writer.	2005-02-23
US	52601223	R1NAPH7YPARA5V	073571388X	559765491	Commercial Photoshop with Bert Monroy	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Great for Illustrators	Bert Monroy is a commerical illustrator with 30+ years of experience in the business and co-authored the very first book on Photoshop. Needless to say, the technical content of this book is unquestionable and quite educational. While many of the techniques in the book can be applied in other areas, a prospective buyer should be aware that the book is completely targeted toward illustration work. One of the techniques that Bert is famous for is creating photo-realistic images by painting them entirely in Photoshop with very few stock photography elements. Whether this is good or bad depends on what you're looking for, but don't buy the book thinking it's going to teach you how to retouch your family photos. One of Bert's many other books would be better suited for the later.	2005-01-06
US	52601223	R3I3P00DYQIG0P	0897323416	951143825	Traveler's Tool Kit: How to Travel Absolutely Anywhere!	Books	5	60	60	N	N	Packed with wisdom and an extremely great value	The Traveler's Tool Kit by Rob Sangster is an all-encompassing volume of how-to travel knowledge from a reliable source. The author has traveled extensively all over the world for many years and also for very extended periods per trip. The first half of the book is split between two sections, Part One: Planning Your Trip and Part Two: Getting Ready. The remaining half of the book focuses on actual \\"On the road\\" wisdom.<br /><br />While the early chapters cover topics like \\"choosing a guidebook\\" and \\"choosing luggage\\" are very long-winded, especially for those with even the most basic travel experience, they are perfect for scared-stiff first-time travelers. Those not scared stiff and sweating with travel fever certainly will after reading Chapter 8, Keeping Healthy, as the author covers all the various fungal infections and parasites that you may join you during your adventure. Even though the author is very verbose, all of the text is filled with travel gems of knowledge like this one from the scary Keeping Healthy chapter:<br /><br />\\"If your feet will be constantly wet, as they might be during an extended trek in Amazonia, coat them with Vaseline to ward off jungle rot. Sounds messy but it works.\\"<br /><br />There are more \\"uplifting\\" gems as well, like this one from \\"Traveling By Bus\\":<br /><br />\\"Some trips combine spectacular scenery with luxury. The air-conditioned Scania superbus that cruises 1,200 miles from Santiago to Arica, Chile, has a bar, a bathroom, three movie screens, and a smiling hostess. As the sleek bus hums across the moonscape of the Atacama Desert, you spy huge boulders balanced on barren mountainsides... As heat waves shimmer outside the window, cool air breezes across your face and the hostess set an ice-cold beer at your elbow. At night, your seat reclines to nearly horizontal, a leg rest pops out, and you're in bed. All that for about $40.\\"<br /><br />Other travel gems provide advice for avoiding travel rip-offs and scams. The Traveler's Took Kit is an EXTREMLEY great value packed with sage travel advice.acked with sage travel advice.	2004-12-21
US	52601223	RGXT0XWP1KR2F	1566916798	262606629	DEL-Rick Steves' Italy 2005	Books	5	13	17	N	N	HIGHLY Recommended	Rick Steves' Europe travel guides are the best since they're updated every year. I took the 2004 edition of this book with me on a two-week backpacking trip through Italy, and it was indispensable. I carried it with me at almost all times. Rick always offers great advice on what to see and what to skip, and you can count on great hotel and restaurant information. The physical size of the book is also perfect for putting in your cargo pants pocket, jacket pocket, or backpack. While the Rick Steves' guides don't include pictures to help you in your planning, the information is simply the best real world, \\"how do I do this\\" advice you're going to find in a guidebook.<br /><br />The front of the book includes a color map of Italy with major rail lines as well as double-page city maps of Venice, Rome, and Florence. I never bought or needed separate maps of Venice or Florence and purchased a detailed map of Rome only in order to look up some very specific addresses. The maps in the book are great! You'll also find maps throughout the text with locations of the major sites, hotels, and restaurants listed in the book pointed out on the map. I purchased the Rick Steve's Italy fold-out map before my trip but never needed it.<br /><br />If you're going to Italy, don't try to do it without this book!	2004-12-01
US	52601223	R17WWGEHCJMX43	1566919150	460602147	Map-Rick Steves Planning Map-M	Books	3	107	107	N	N	Use Rick's Italy guidebook instead	I took this map as well as Rick Steves' Italy guidebook with me on a two-week backpacking trip through Italy. All of Rick's merchandise is excellent, but I simply never needed the map. His guidebook includes a color map of Italy with major rail lines as well as double-page city maps of Venice, Rome, and Florence. I never bought or needed separate maps of Venice or Florence and purchased a detailed map of Rome only in order to look up some very specific addresses. The maps in the book are all you'll need if traveling by train. You'll also find maps throughout the text with locations of the major sites, hotels, and restaurants listed in the book pointed out on the map. For those traveling by car, I definitely recommend a more detailed road map since this planning map only highlights, with little supporting information, the most major roads. The rail lines are also shown in bolder print than the roads making it even more difficult to use as a road map.	2004-12-01
US	52601223	R7BRO3E559SVO	1860118992	4097985	Rome Venice Florence, 4th (Country & Regional Guides - Cadogan)	Books	2	3	7	N	N	Decent pre-trip read but not worth taking with you	This book has solid information and is well-written but that doesn't keep it from being BORING! The only pictures provided are in a few pages at the front of the book. The maps are not good enough to travel with. It makes a decent pre-trip read (or to at least browse through when planning your trip). However, don't plan on traveling with this book. The National Geographic or Eyewitness Travel Guides are far better. The best of the best are the Rick Steves travel books which do not have pictures either but are updated every single year with new hotel and restaurant information plus great maps.	2004-10-25
US	52601223	R3AA9E58MPMDFP	050001664X	266485821	The Most Beautiful Villages of Tuscany (The Most Beautiful Villages)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Good picture-book for trip planning	If you're planning a trip through Tuscany this is a great picture book to use in determining which of the smaller towns you want to visit. The book covers 36 smaller places and skips over large towns like Sienna and Orvieto. Each town also gets 3-5 paragraphs of very introductory text. The pictures are not postcard quality, but very modern with an \\"editorial travel\\" style giving you a good idea of what it will actually look like with you get there.	2004-10-24
US	52601223	RF15Z57TRUHIA	8809012526	344796793	Michelangelo: Biography of a Genius	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Introductory biography	This book is sold in the museum giftshops all over Italy. It's a quick read and a decent introductory biography of Michelangelo. The author covers the political climate during Michelangelo's life as much as he does Michelangelo's personal life. Then again, he served several Popes who had a major influence on his life and never really had a personal life. If you're looking for a broad overview, this is a decent book; however, you're not going to find any detailed descriptions of his artistic sculpting or painting processes or any artwork reproductions.	2004-10-24
US	52601223	R2U7VR0FPMFZ3U	1860111181	577553029	Rome, 2nd (City Guides - Cadogan)	Books	2	4	9	N	N	Decent pre-trip read but not worth taking with you	This book has solid information and is well-written but that doesn't keep it from being BORING! The only pictures provided are in a few pages at the front of the book. The maps are not good enough to travel with. It makes a decent pre-trip read (or to at least browse through when planning your trip). However, don't plan on traveling with this book. The National Geographic or Eyewitness Travel Guides are far better. The best of the best are the Rick Steves travel books which do not have pictures either but are updated every single year with new hotel and restaurant information plus great maps.	2004-10-24
US	52601223	R34AS4FOOKZC7Y	1566915341	308060020	Rick Steves' French, Italian, and German Phrase Book and Dictionary	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Make Three Books Out It	I took the Italian section of this book with me on a two-week backpacking trip through Italy. It was highly-useful, especially in the restaurants. It's well-organized with all the phrases you'll need. The \\"Menu Decoder\\" section is great for looking up words in a dictionary format. Since I was traveling light and only needed the Italian section, I cut the book into three parts and bound each with duct tape. Now I have three phrase books!	2004-10-24
US	52601223	RICC1L9P0KG	158347045X	335872045	How to Become a Highly Paid Corporate Programmer	Books	2	23	34	N	N	Neophytes Keep Away! This book is dangerous, seriously.	Although the author of this book has over forty years of experience at all levels of corporate programming (from programmer to developer to consultant to company owner), I can not recommend this book to anyone. While the author provides excellent advice on many topics, the items on which he is blatantly wrong are VERY dangerous for anyone follow, especially those new to the field.<br /><br />Seemingly all of the author's experience is with mainframe-based applications and coding techniques. It is sad and very scary to see the author promoting years worth of bad mainframe coding-style habits and bad techniques to his audience. His advice starts with copying and pasting as much code as you can to solve a problem, one the top causes of software bugs. Next, Mr. Harkins' advice is, \\"Reviewing your source code as you wrote it, without compiling it, is almost always a very big waste of time, because only the program compile is the final judge of whether your code is correct enough to create an object program.\\" All of the top programmers I know strive to write code that works without depending on the compiler to find mistakes for them.<br /><br />His advice to not bring in headphones because \\"that will not only make you less efficient\\" is quite simply dumb. The developers I know who listen to music while coding, including myself, do so in order to concentrate on their work. This often involves canceling out the noise from inconsiderate co-workers and mangers who insist on using their speakerphones all day.<br /><br />The author's advice for those looking to found their own consulting firm is not any better. He quotes a friend who says, \\"If a customer is really unreasonable and difficult, I tell him, `Why don't you people go away?' Then they get scared that they won't have any support.\\" The author then says, \\"That's what you can do when you own your own firm.\\" Wow, and I thought you had to pay executive mentors for advice like that.<br /><br />These are only a few random exmaples yet for all the scattered yet exceptionally poor advice in the book, the author does have some good, though non-surprising, points as well. In summary, his best point that spans the entire book is that to be highly successful as a corporate programmer you need an in-depth understanding of your company's business functions. Understanding the code should come secondary. Here's a quote that I actually agree with:<br /><br />\\"Many corporate programmers never get beyond looking at the source code as their basis of understanding business functions and how programs work. These programmers are, I believe, doomed never to understand vast amounts of important business functions or program code, because it is difficult to learn that way. They can't see the business function because when they are looking at the details in the code, they are looking at details that are rarely, if ever, executed. These programmers typically spend their programming careers bored and unhappy because they are focused on support of a tiny part of the corporate business function.\\"random exmaples yet for all the scattered yet exceptionally poor advice in the book, the author does have some good, though non-surprising, points as well. In summary, his best point that spans the entire book is that to be highly successful as a corporate programmer you need an in-depth understanding of your company's business functions. Understanding the code should come secondary. Here's a quote that I actually agree with: <br /> <br />\\"Many corporate programmers never get beyond looking at the source code as their basis of understanding business functions and how programs work. These programmers are, I believe, doomed never to understand vast amounts of important business functions or program code, because it is difficult to learn that way. They can't see the business function because when they are looking at the details in the code, they are looking at details that are rarely, if ever, executed. These programmers typically spend their programming careers bored and unhappy because they are focused on support of a tiny part of the corporate business function.\\" <br />	2004-09-21
US	52601223	R317IPMVM072WS	0471310670	981154182	Time Off From Work: Using Sabbaticals To Enhance Your Life While Keeping Your Career On Track	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Tired of being a slave? Quit! (For awhile at least...)	Curious about taking time off from work? This book provides great advice and inspiration on doing it. It's very similar to the book Six Months Off (see my review of that one), and you'll need to make the decision between them or decide to read both. I found that Six Months Off provides more ideas on what to do during your time off, especially terrific programs that would enhance both your life and professional resumes. Time Off From Work provides better coverage of the before and after concerns. Both do a great job of providing real-life case studies of people who've done it. In fact, the author of this book even covers one of the co-authors of Six Months Off as an example. In short, if you're stuck on the how's and why's then read this book; if you're convinced you want and can manage to take a sabbatical but don't have a clear idea of how to make the most of it, then read Six Months Off instead.	2004-09-21
US	52601223	RB8Q6U5I2HC21	0805037454	584825208	SIX MONTHS OFF: How To Plan, Negotiate, & Take The Break You Need Without Burning Bridges Or Going Broke	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Prepare For Travel Fever!	Six Months Off is an extremely inspiring and informative book. Once you start reading this book, plan on having travel fever! The authors do a great job explaining why you should take a break from your boring, dull, repetitive job and expand your mind and grow as a person by taking time to traveling the world, write a novel, go to cooking school, or attend some other educational program. Not only do the authors convince you to do these things, and list great programs to look into, but they also describe HOW to do it, in realistic terms. The book is full of case study examples of people from various backgrounds and income levels (including very low income levels) who found the ways and means to accomplish a sabbatical and return back to their former lives afterwards (for those who wanted to return anyway). Don't doubt that you can this. The authors show you how step-by-step. The sample programs and opportunities listed in the book can't be overlooked either. Not only am I looking into some of them now, but I also plan to use this book in the future for other great adventure ideas. Live is very short, and this book will help you make the most it.	2004-08-10
US	52601223	R2TCUSUOVWEQEA	0393058611	557397230	Photo Nomad	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Epic and Awe-inspiring	David Douglas Duncan LIVED the twentieth century. The wars, the celebrations and celebrities, the places and times--HE WAS THERE, and he captured it on film. As page twenty-four introduces, \\"My 20th Century\\". Photo Nomad is a photographic autobiography of his life, a life of such far-reaching adventures, experiences, and travels that is almost impossible to fully comprehend. In a time when most photo books have the lifespan of the latest pop song, this book is an epic. Beautifully printed in Italy, it is a quality volume that will last many lifetimes and provide endless inspiration.	2004-08-07
US	52601223	R1IPAZYK4CQM5H	2880466601	634715644	Still Life and Special Effects Photography: A Guide to Professional Lighting Techniques	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Useful, Educational, Long-term Resource	I found this book to be a great resource for inspirational ideas. It's a beautiful, hard-copy volume with excellent color reproductions. Each image is accompanied by a 2-D plan view of the lighting and studio setup, a 3-D illustration of the studio setup, exposure information, and two or three short paragraphs describing the set and shooting process. This books is USEFUL, even for advanced photographers, and that alone makes it a rare find.<br /><br />All of the photography represented is done in-camera without digital manipulation. It's unfortunate that this method is almost destined to become a lost artform; however, at the same time my largest disappointment with the book is that it's void of digital capture examples. Some of Jody Dole's digital work would have been an excellent addition. Many of the book's images are obviously dated and produced in the early 80s. Even still, they serve as excellent learning examples.	2004-08-07
US	52601223	RS8P2SO1KB0Y	0375509127	122882533	Adventure Capitalist: The Ultimate Road Trip	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Jim Roger's Excellent &quot;Guide to the World&quot;	I have learned more about the world from Adventure Capitalist than from any other book I've ever read. In case you're not familiar with the author, Jim Rogers, he's an Alabama boy who moved to New York to become one of the most legendary investors in Wall Street history. He co-founded the Quantum Fund, one of the best-performing hedge funds of all time, in 1973 with partner George Soros and &quot;retired&quot; in 1980 at the age of thirty-eight. The Quantum Fund gained over 4,000% during its first ten years. In addition, Jim Rogers and George Soros are legendary for making a billion dollars for the fund during a single day of currency trading. Jim is particularly famous for investing in stocks, bonds, currencies, commodities, and everything and anything else--long and short--all over the world. If a truck of coffee beans turns over in Columbia, Jim can tell you how it will affect pork belly futures the next day.<br /><br /> Jim chronicled his first trip around the world, on a motorcycle no less, in Investment Biker. Adventure Capitalist is his report of a three-year trip around the world at the turn of the millennium (1999, 2000, and 2001) through 116 countries. No motorcycle this time though. With his beautiful fiancee Paige accompanying him (they married during the trip), they traveled in a custom-built, four-wheel-drive, convertible, Sunburst Yellow Mercedes.<br /><br /> The book is non-stop adventure supplemented with Jim's excellent political and economic commentary. Here are some quotes that I highlighted in the book:<br /><br /> &quot;Ulan Bator, the capitol of Mongolia, is perhaps the most technologically up-to-date city in the world, totally digital. With the fall of the Soviet Union, a free and independent Mongolia benefited from numerous sources of foreign aid, and with no infrastructure to upgrade, it leapfrogged about three generations of technology. The whole city is wired with fiber-optic cable, enabling you to jack into the Web from almost any phone in town... Everybody in Mongolia has a digital cell phone. The nation's nomads, crossing the country on horseback, carry them. There is a cell phone in most yurts.&quot;<br /><br /> &quot;The liberator of the Ivory Coast and its first president was Felix Houphouet-Boigny... He was going to make the country's cathedral larger than Saint Peter's until the pope intervened. In the end, at the pontiff's urging, he made it two centimeters smaller.&quot;<br /><br /> &quot;Tanzania, in my opinion, when it comes to tourism, is the single best country in Africa... it has not yet been overrun by foreign visitors... It has beautiful beaches on the Indian Ocean. It has the exotic, ancient island of Zanzibar... It has game parks that are unique in the world, teeming with animals... Tanzania is one of the safest countries in Africa. And it is cheap... There were animals everywhere. And no people.&quot;<br /><br /> &quot;In India, self-described as a great incubator of information technology, we could not even use mobile phones universally. We had to buy a different phone for almost every city. A mobile phone in China works everywhere in the country. The Indians are extraordinarily resentful and jealous of the Chinese... China has grown far more than India in the last twenty years, and China has infrastructure--highways, telephones, mobile phones. India has virtually none of these.&quot;<br /><br /> &quot;You will not find another city in the world that is as rich and as safe as Singapore.&quot;<br /><br /> &quot;My chief impression of Paraguay today is that it should not exist. The place should be dismantled and sold for parts.&quot;<br /><br /> &quot;In Buenos Aires I went to the bank, changed all my pesos into dollars, and got them out of the country. The banker handling the transaction scoffed at me, as did several politicians... in three months the collapse of the Argentine economy led the news all over the world.&quot;ny phone in town... Everybody in Mongolia has a digital cell phone. The nation's nomads, crossing the country on horseback, carry them. There is a cell phone in most yurts.&quot; <br />  <br /> &quot;The liberator of the Ivory Coast and its first president was Felix Houphouet-Boigny... He was going to make the country's cathedral larger than Saint Peter's until the pope intervened. In the end, at the pontiff's urging, he made it two centimeters smaller.&quot; <br />  <br /> &quot;Tanzania, in my opinion, when it comes to tourism, is the single best country in Africa... it has not yet been overrun by foreign visitors... It has beautiful beaches on the Indian Ocean. It has the exotic, ancient island of Zanzibar... It has game parks that are unique in the world, teeming with animals... Tanzania is one of the safest countries in Africa. And it is cheap... There were animals everywhere. And no people.&quot; <br />  <br /> &quot;In India, self-described as a great incubator of information technology, we could not even use mobile phones universally. We had to buy a different phone for almost every city. A mobile phone in China works everywhere in the country. The Indians are extraordinarily resentful and jealous of the Chinese... China has grown far more than India in the last twenty years, and China has infrastructure--highways, telephones, mobile phones. India has virtually none of these.&quot; <br />  <br /> &quot;You will not find another city in the world that is as rich and as safe as Singapore.&quot; <br />  <br /> &quot;My chief impression of Paraguay today is that it should not exist. The place should be dismantled and sold for parts.&quot; <br />  <br /> &quot;In Buenos Aires I went to the bank, changed all my pesos into dollars, and got them out of the country. The banker handling the transaction scoffed at me, as did several politicians... in three months the collapse of the Argentine economy led the news all over the world.&quot; <br />	2004-07-23
US	52601223	R34LTV2AV56M9D	0735618011	855420262	Applied XML Programming for Microsoft® .NET (Developer Reference)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	*THE* XML book for .NET	Dino Esposito has total, absolute command of the subject matter that he expertly teaches in this book. This is a template for how all technical training books should be written. I wanted in-depth coverage of the XML object library in .NET and that is exactly what this book delivers. This is THE book on XML in .NET. Don't waste your money on anything else.<br />It is also terrific supplemental material for the Developing XML Web Services and Server Components certification exam. I recommend Mike Gunderloy's book as an all-encompassing source (look up my review for that book); however, I recommend reading the first four chapters of this book before you start Gunderloy's book if you don't have much experience reading and writing XML in .NET. Chapters 12 and 13 on remoting and web services, respectively, are also great sources of exam prep material. In fact, Chapter 12 on .NET Remoting is the best chapter on the subject you will find anywhere.<br />Terry, MCAD and MCSD for Microsoft .NET	2004-06-28
US	52601223	R3IUGRMCZUR9QD	0789728206	877842712	MCAD/MCSD Training Guide (70-310): Developing XML Web Services and Server Components with Visual Basic(R) .NET and the .NET Framework	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Best Text for the Certification Exam	This book is not perfect, but it is the best one you can get in order to prepare for the XML Web Services and Server Components certification exam. That is based on my own experience in using this book and in passing the exam. Mike Gunderloy is a very good writer, and I purchased the book sight-unseen based on the quality of his ADO.NET book that I had previously read. As page one says, &quot;Every objective is covered in this book.&quot; Chapter Four covers Basic Web Services, and Chapter Five covers Advanced Web Services. The book also covers .NET Remoting, Windows Services, and Component Services just as much as it does web services which is very important. The &quot;web services&quot; exam, as it is commonly known, actually covers these other topics just as much as it covers web services.<br />It had been a few years since I last purchased a certification book from Que press, and I can say their quality has improved quite significantly. The format of this book is wonderful. There are plenty of sidebar notes, exam tips, frequent review breaks, step-by-step code examples, review notes at the end of every chapter, and sample review questions. There is also a handy Fast Facts review chapter in the back along with a practice exam.<br />My only complaint is that I found the .NET Remoting chapter to go on forever. The remoting chapter in Jeff Prosise's Programming Microsoft .NET really pulled the topic together for me. It had been awhile since I used the various XML classes in .NET. I also read Dino Esposito's Applied XML Programming for Microsoft .NET (look up my review on this book) in order to get in-depth coverage of the .NET XML object model. The remoting and web services chapters in this text also helped reinforce everything.<br />Terry, MCAD and MCSD for Microsoft .NET	2004-06-28
US	52601223	R3A2WKHE9XDQR	0060937904	726884908	Discover Your Genius: How to Think Like History's Ten Most Revolutionary Minds	Books	2	8	11	N	N	Read some REAL biographies instead...	I didn't find this book the least bit inspiring. If you've ever read individual biographies of a few of the people the author covers in the book (namely Brunelleschi, Columbus, Copernicus, Elizabeth I, Shakespeare, Jefferson, Darwin, and Ghandi), then you probably won't find anything new or particularly inspiring about the book either. If on the other hand you don't even know who the above people are, then this book is for you!<br />However, I found this to be an excellent example of how to package your high school research papers into a commercial book. Seriously, for someone who is supposed to be an engaging and uplifting speaker, the author didn't deliver.	2004-05-25
US	52601223	R33RFGNXE92LC5	1591132495	924365105	The World's Cheapest Destinations: 21 Countries Where Your Dollars Are Worth a Fortune	Books	3	23	24	N	N	Great Overview and Idea Generator for Trip Planning	The author summarizes this book succinctly himself on page 9, \\"This book is meant to be a primer, an overview, and a jumping-off point. It can't possibly take the place of a thick, general travel advice guide, or a guidebook for a specific destination or region.\\"<br />The book covers twenty-one countries across Asia, Africa &amp; the Middle East, Europe, and North and South America. Each country is given three to five pages consisting of a summary followed by accommodation, food and drink, transportation, and \\"What Else?\\" sections. If you're a penny pinching backpacker this is definitely the book for you. The author gives sample prices of everything. When it comes to rooms he tells how much the cheapest room you can get is as well as how much more you'll have to fork over to get a decent enough room to stay in for the night.<br />For anyone, however, this is only an idea generator with a few good tips throw in for good measure. You will certainly need an in-depth, up-to-date travel guide for any of these locations, and as I mentioned above the author admits that himself.	2004-04-10
US	52601223	R98O5UF8FHYI9	0743455967	44310359	On Writing	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great Advice for Writers	I was really impressed by the insight into the writing process that Stephen King shares in this book. The book is fairly evenly split into two parts. The first half of the book is mostly autobiographical but very inspiring as you learn from King's own struggle to gain success as a writer and how he paid the bills in the interim.<br />Before the remainder of the book begins, there is a thirty-page section called \\"Toolbox\\" in which King discusses the must-have tools you'll need like grammar, vocabulary, and others. It's here that King begins to relate his hatred for adverbs, something I found very interesting. \\"Adverbs, like the passive voice, seem to be created with the timid writer in mind... With adverbs, the writer usually tells us he or she is afraid he/she isn't expressing himself/herself clearly, that he or she is not getting or the picture across.\\"<br />The second half of the book is where King really gets into the \\"meat\\" of good writing skills. He talks about how important it is to read A LOT in order to be a good writer. (An appendix in the back has a listing of all the books King read while working on this one, a very long list.) He talks about the environment that you need when you sit down to write. Then he talks about core writing topics like similes and metaphors, dialogue (good and bad), theme, plot, revising your draft, and more.<br />I can easily say that I will definitely re-read parts of this book in the future in order to re-familiarize myself with King's insight. By my definition, that is the requirement of a \\"5 star\\" book ranking.<br />\\"Words create sentences; sentences create paragraphs; sometimes paragraphs quicken and begin to breathe.\\"	2004-03-21
US	52601223	R390FLZH3QB21S	029764372X	166313123	Islam: A Short History (Universal History)	Books	1	16	29	N	N	Not worth your time	If you're a casual reader looking to learn more about Islam, this is not the book for you. If you're an academic, you'll feel right at home reading the incessantly dry, academic-worded style of this book, but you probably won't like the book either. The author spends an incessant amount of time on historical details that few would ever care about, but she doesn't cover them in such a way as to satisfy historians either. The only good thing one could say about this book, if coming from this point of view, is that it doesn't have a religious bias. On the contrary, it doesn't cover the religious tenants of Islam whatsoever! Moreover, the author is not honest. Every major religion has events and time periods that it's followers would rather forget (and often do), but Karen Armstrong is continuously politically correct and often an apologist. The author is full of information. It's unfortunate that she cannot write in an honest, encompassing, and educationally entertaining manner.	2004-03-17
US	52601223	R1K1P8RI1TQLOL	1878239929	459054603	Discover Acadia National Park: A Guide to the Best Hiking, Biking, and Paddling	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Detailed book on discovering Acadia	I've used this book on a couple of trips to Acadia. It's best feature is the detailed pull-out map in the back which shows all the major hiking trails. This is a great book to study BEFORE your trip. It has very detailed descriptions of hiking and biking trails and paddling and sea kayaking trips. It's great to pick out the activities you want to do, but this detailed nature makes it less useful on the trail though. It's too wordy and too bulky. (Take the map with you though!) It would be better if it had more pictures of the different areas. It's also missing mini-maps of each hiking or biking trail. Instead, you're left to pull out the map and try to follow along based on their descriptions. It would be great if this book were split into two, one for hiking and biking and one for paddling and sea kayaking, each in color with more pictures and terrain maps. Until then, there's still a lot of great info in this edition.	2004-03-16
US	52601223	R1W9IU9YW8IZXX	0751348422	527694719	Eyewitness Travel Guides San Francisco (DK Eyewitness Travel Guide)	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Great tote-around book for exploring San Francisco	I've used this guide for several trips to San Francisco and found it highly useful. I've carried this book all over the city. The detailed street maps in the back are excellent and you can easily use them without saying to everyone, \\"Hey, look at me holding this gigantic map. I must be a stupid tourist. Come mug me.\\" The color thumbnail images are perfect if you're a photographer and want a glimpse of what each location looks like before visiting. There's also enough text to keep you entertained on your plane ride without boring you. This is a great guide to thumb through and pick out which places you want to visit. Each location is listed with its street address, map number and location, and admission times when applicable. The trolley lines are also covered, but you'll probably want to pick up an up-to-date bus map when you arrive.	2004-03-15
US	52601223	RV5RHO7XO9N2N	1581152566	920806413	Photographic Lighting Simplified	Books	3	35	38	N	N	Introductory Overview Only	I regret to have found this book very disappointing. Susan McCartney's book on travel photography, Travel Photography: A Complete Guide to How to Shoot and Sell, is the very best book on the subject. I've read it twice, some sections even more than twice. I purchased Photographic Lighting Simplified with the same level of quality content in mind. Unfortunately, the book is more \\"simplified\\" than what I had hoped for.<br />The book is very fast and easy to read, but the content is useful only to those with no experience whatsoever in photographic lighting. Susan McCartney has broad experience in lighting, and I was disappointed to find the depth of that experience is not presented in this book. For example, she talks more about traveling with strobes and using flashes for on-location travel photography shoots in her travel photography book than in this one. I would like to have seen more of that experience and knowledge related here.<br />A book on photographic lighting really needs to be in color with stunningly inspirational photographs. Many of the black and white pictures in this book are really dismal and even technically flawed in some cases. Ms. McCartney is a first-rate photographer and I'm sure the originals are perfect, but the black and white reproductions in this book fall short.<br />However, those critiques aside, if you have not studied lighting before then this book will provide a good overview for you and introduce you to some new techniques. Those with travel photography in mind should check out Susan McCartney's other book mentioned above. For some really creative lighting techniques try Gary Gladstone's book Corporate &amp; Location Photography.	2004-03-07
US	52601223	RO1AFR9AFPVBV	0515087378	671987952	How to Be Rich	Books	4	20	25	N	N	Really Surprising and Entertaining	How To Be Rich surprised me in many ways. J. Paul Getty offers a lot of advice to executives rising through the ranks and those looking to. There's plenty of very entertaining historical coverage of Getty's rise to legendary status starting with the first chapter, How I Made My First Billion, along with other first-hand accounts and stories of his colleges from the era interspersed throughout the book. The book's focus is on how \\"to be\\" rich, i.e. the responsibilities thereof, rather than how \\"to become\\" rich. Of course, in Getty's case he simply took the skills he learned from working with his father, went out on his own to drill a few holes in the ground, and started pumping oil. There are also chapters regarding investing on Wall Street, in real estate, and in fine art, the later being a particularly interesting chapter. The chapter Art of Individuality is a must-read for anyone who is utterly depressed by the total lack of creativity in today's corporate cubicle conformist culture.	2004-03-05
US	52601223	R1Q1B8XJSK5A05	0596001754	212744794	Java and SOAP	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Nothing Special	This book came out from O'Reilly in Spring of 2002 about the same time they published Java Web Services. If these had been combined and editing together, they would have had a star book on their hands instead of two average books. I can't say anything particularly bad about this book, but nothing particularly good either. If you're getting started with Web Services using Java, this and the title above are both decent sources to get you going.	2004-02-13
US	52601223	R15Y2TQ4XNQSDP	0596001967	844315741	Web Design in a Nutshell	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great reference	I've used this book more than any other technical book I've ever owned. It's always by my side when I'm doing a large amount of HTML and CSS development. It's extraordinarily organized, and I refer to it constantly. The only reason I can't give this title five stars is that by my rating system it's not absolutely essential reading for technical leaders. There are other books that have the same reference material as this one; however, none of them do as good a job conveying it.<br />I own the first edition, and it's since been updated. (I need to by the new edition myself.) You should strongly consider getting The Web Design CD Bookshelf CD-ROM which includes a paper and electronic edition of the second edition plus electronic editions of five more great O'Reilly titles. Having this as an eBook on your laptop would be an incredibly useful resource.	2004-02-13
US	52601223	R1FE9WTYNGY9OL	0596000480	910766772	JavaScript: The Definitive Guide	Books	3	0	11	N	N	Decent Definitive Guide	This a very decent reference and so-so tutorial of JavaScript. If you're doing JavaScript you definitely need this definitive guide, definitely.	2004-02-13
US	52601223	R1KXA0ZC740V4X	1861004486	685061346	Professional SQL Server 2000 Programming	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Must Have SQL Server 2000 Book	This is THE book to have on SQL Server 2000. Robert Vieira unquestionably knows his stuff and covers every aspect of SQL Server completely and thoroughly.	2004-02-13
US	52601223	R39O8CBZO7CUIV	0521777682	856208310	The Elements of Java(TM) Style (SIGS Reference Library)	Books	1	6	28	N	N	Deserves 0 Stars	Read Code Complete by Steve McConnell. You don't need this book. It contradicts itself on several occasions and is totally wrong on others. It's unfortunate and sad how many organizations want to adopt texts like this as their &quot;coding standard&quot;. A pamplet-sized book of bullet-points can't make developers competent, but a comprehensive manual of the best in software engineering practices like Code Complete can.	2004-02-13
US	52601223	R2C0O4MZ0JRAVO	0131002872	888037384	Thinking in Java: The Definitive Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming in the Language of the World-Wide Web, 3rd Edition	Books	2	5	10	N	N	Gigantically Bad	If you like the large-print version of Reader's Digest, then you might be happy with this book and it's gigantic text. Otherwise, I recommend avoiding it. I admit this more of a personal opinion that my other book reviews, because Eckel has written several books and has his own following. However, as I was learning Java this book was not useful to me whatsoever. In any case, a free, electronic version of this book is available on Eckel's website.	2004-02-13
US	52601223	RBZ1D3PBA7P0K	0596002696	533384401	Java Web Services: Using Java in Service-Oriented Architectures	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Nothing Special	I wish I could recommend a better introduction to Java Web Services. David Chappell usually does a good job at explaining new technologies in simplified form; however, he falls short with this one. It comes very close to being a step-by-step, build-up tutorial but falls short. If you already know SOAP, perhaps coming from the .NET world and you just need to make the right connections in the Java world, then this would be a good book for you. However, if you don't know SOAP and you're looking for a thorough understanding of what's going on under the covers before you move on to advanced APIs, then this is not your best bet. Actually, I'm not sure what is. I started writing such a tutorial myself but got distracted by other projects. However, this book is solidly average, nothing necessary wrong with that, and if you can find it at a good discount it's a decent buy.	2004-02-13
US	52601223	R5CP7JP8OPKSM	0201615630	71695708	Mr. Bunny's Big Cup o' Java	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Solid Gold	Beyond words. This is one of the greatest texts ever written.	2004-02-13
US	52601223	R155ECPTUIEQ5O	0596001967	844315741	Web Design in a Nutshell	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great reference	I've used this book more than any other technical book I've ever owned. It's always by my side when I'm doing a large amount of HTML and CSS development. It's extraordinarily organized, and I refer to it constantly. The only reason I can't give this title five stars is that by my rating system it's not absolutely essential reading for technical leaders. There are other books that have the same reference material as this one; however, none of them do as good a job conveying it. <br />I own the first edition, and it's since been updated. (I need to by the new edition myself.) You should strongly consider getting The Web Design CD Bookshelf CD-ROM which includes a paper and electronic edition of the second edition plus electronic editions of five more great O'Reilly titles. Having this as an eBook on your laptop would be an incredibly useful resource.	2004-02-13
US	52601223	R2ARP5N6NGF49Y	0735615330	104257456	McAd/MCSD Self-Paced Training Kit	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Typical of Certification Books	This is a very decent overview of Windows-based programming in .NET. It's dry and boring in the typical certification-book style. The real question is, &quot;Is it a great book for passing the certification exams?&quot; I'll let you know after I take the tests myself.<br />On that note, one of my major criticisms of this book is the practice exam on the included CD. It does a poor job of covering the specific skills that are measured on the Windows-based certification exams, and, worst of all, only tells you your total score. The practice test doesn't tell you which specific questions you missed, nor does it give you an explanation of the correct answer. Totally useless.	2004-02-13
US	52601223	R1L9U5YNM269NQ	0596004877	544135156	Programming ASP.NET	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Highly Recommend It	This is an excellent book. In fact, it's the best ASP.NET book I've seen yet. I did find myself skipping around in it a lot more than reading it cover to cover, but, all in all, it's a great book. I often refer back to it as a reference. Also, the code examples are in both VB.NET and C#.	2004-02-13
US	52601223	R12CL7VP91OF4O	1558605347	682025860	Philip & Alex's Guide to Web Publishing	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Beautiful Book	Philip Greenspun is the creator of photo.net and a very entertaining author as well. This a great book for beginners to get an overview of web publishing, online communities, and databases. Some of the specifics of the book are a little dated but the concepts are not. I often refer back to this book for ideas and inspiration. The online version of this book is free, but the print edition has great glossy pages and is packed with gratuitous, full-color pictures from Philip's image library.	2004-02-13
US	52601223	R3GQGX4ACHERZ6	1558605762	466691693	Joe Celko's SQL for Smarties: Advanced SQL Programming Second Edition (The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Data Management Systems)	Books	4	5	10	N	N	Be a SQL God	If you need to sling some really nasty SQL which you probably shouldn't be writing in the first place, then this book is for you. Celko is the man. As a cover-to-cover read, you will pick up on a lot of new SQL techniques, but in general, this is a &quot;I know where to look when I need to know that book.&quot; If you know the basics of SQL and want to start your SQL Master training, then start here. Just keep it close by when you need to remember how Celko was able to get &quot;that&quot; to work.	2004-02-13
US	52601223	R1UFGIW8F32HRF	1893115976	184799915	Moving to VB .NET: Strategies, Concepts, and Code	Books	2	5	10	N	N	Nothing Special	Appleman's Developing ActiveX Components with Visual Basic 5.0 was so good that I bought Developing COM/ActiveX Components with Visual Basic 6.0 when it came out. Both of these were among the very best VB books of all time. Unfortunately, Moving to VB.NET is not in the same camp. The book tries to introduce VB6ers into VB.NET, but does a very bad job of getting from A to B. Most developers can understand most of .NET after discovering that it's 80% Java with keywords changed. Instead of starting with this foundation, the book wastes a lot of space explaining prinicples that are new to only the most hardcore Microsoft zealots. In Appleman's defense, this book was first published when .NET was still in beta and was likely rushed to press. Don't get me wrong, there is some great technical content here as Appleman is still a great technician and good at explaining the &quot;internals&quot; of things. The COM Interop and Accessing the Win32 API chapter is particularly good and helped me get through a VB6/VB.NET integration project. If you're totally new to VB.NET and find this book on sale, buy it; otherwise, don't bother.	2004-02-13
US	52601223	R1FCN8CMQU3E5O	0735614229	296301280	Applied Microsoft® .NET Framework Programming (Developer Reference)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	MUST READ for .NET GURUs	Jeff really shows off his experience with consulting for and working with the .NET framework team in this book. This is one of the very best .NET books and will remain as such for the lifetime of the technology. It covers the internals of .NET, critical to a solid foundation of knowledge for a technical leader in .NET. As such, it's not a &quot;getting started guide&quot;. There are dozens of those on the market, but few &quot;must haves&quot; like this one.	2004-02-13
US	52601223	RZRV6DV05VILN	0596003161	520797446	Dynamic HTML: The Definitive Reference (2nd Edition)	Books	2	2	37	N	N	Good Reference	I own Danny Goodman's JavaScript Handbook from circa 1996. That has nothing to do with this review other than to say this guy has been doing this stuff for a long time. This is a great reference book to have handy and has good examples of each tag, element, or keyword in HTML, DOM, CSS, and JavaScript.	2004-02-13
US	52601223	R3UWQHW7BYVAPA	0201700743	392783681	Building Imaging Applications with Java(TM) Technology: Using AWT Imaging, Java 2D(TM), and Java(TM) Advanced Imaging (JAI)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Excellent Resource	This is an excellent resource for imaging development with Java and an altogther beautiful book complete with glossy, color pages. The only downside to this text is that there seems to be a new imaging API every week in the Java world. Even still, this is a great source to help you get started.	2004-02-13
US	52601223	R1CW111ZV03IYB	0130172960	459121765	Enterprise Java Performance	Books	1	0	1	N	N	Stay Away	The only thing I learned from this book was the use of the -verbose:gc Java command-line option that prints a report to syserr each time the garbage collector runs.	2004-02-13
US	52601223	R2GGSW64Y221LD	0782129943	967149757	ADO and ADO.NET Programming	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Great ADO.NET Learning Book and Reference	This is a very odd book in that eight of the chapters in this book cover ADO and nine cover .NET and ADO.NET (not including some extra chapters covering specific DB providers). You likely don't have much need for the ADO chapters, but the ADO.NET coverage is very good. The author gets to the point and has excellent step-by-step examples for both Windows Forms and ASP.NET. The later chapters give the best coverage I've seen for working with XML, reading XML from databases, synchronizing XML with datasets, etc. After reading it I still often refer back to this book as a reference.	2004-02-13
US	52601223	R3F6VV563C9T4L	0201616467	875922284	Practical Java¿ Programming Language Guide	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Must Read	This is the only Java book that I give 5 stars. Any technical leader who has not read this book likely has dangerous gaps in his/her Java knowledge, particularly in regard to threads in Java. The book is divided into 68 Praxis, following the trend started by Scott Meyers with this definitive Effective C++. From what I've heard, Joshua Bloch's Effective Java would also rate at 4-5 highlighters.	2004-02-13
US	52601223	R3GOWSDGOG3XMF	0072131586	614122854	MCDBA SQL Server 2000 All-in-One Exam Guide (Book/CD Set)	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Deserves 0 Stars	I thought this was an OK book until I took the SQL Server 2000 certification exams. Total trash! Luckily, I had also studied Rob Vieira's book, Professional SQL Server 2000 Programming. Stay away!	2004-02-13
US	52601223	R3J5JUJ8NVFB9H	0596000685	969800830	Java Message Service (O'Reilly Java Series)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Decent Book on JMS	If you're looking to learn JMS, then this is a decently good book to get you started. One of the best things about it is that it's not very thick and it gets to the point pretty quickly.	2004-02-13
US	52601223	R27A3LF24FUOQS	0072123648	80086028	Oracle8i: The Complete Reference (Book/CD-ROM Package)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Essential Reference	This is an absolutely essential reference for Oracle. Though you probably want to buy the new edition, Oracle 9i: The Complete Reference. I don't recommend these for reading straight through, just as terrific references. Both editions include the book on CD that I keep installed on my laptop and other development machines. It is very, very handy.	2004-02-13
US	52601223	R2B4KB451I6RX0	0735613761	342506046	Programming Microsoft® .NET (Developer Reference)	Books	3	15	15	N	N	Accurate, but Too Broad	Jeff Prosise has been around the Microsoft world for a long time. If you've been around awhile, you might recognize him as the author of Programming Windows with MFC or from several of his other books. This book, as expected, is very well-written and a technically accurate book. Unfortunately, it only musters a rating of three stars because it tries to cover too much. If you want a broad overview of .NET, then this is an excellent book for you. My problem with the book is that its first three chapters on .NET fundamentals don't cover the basics as deeply as I think developers should know them. The single chapter on Windows Forms that follows next is, frankly, completely useless. The next seven chapters (Part 2 of the book) do a very decent job of covering ASP.NET. If anything, this is a badly named book. It should be called Programming Microsoft ASP.NET. Part 2 is followed by a single chapter on ADO.NET. I recommend Mike Gunderloy's book for ADO.NET. Next are single chapters on XML, multithreading, and remoting. All in all, it's a good overview and a decent ASP.NET book (you'll still need another book or two on the topic).	2004-02-13
US	52601223	RTBRDK12P2ENN	0672317958	139394914	Building Java Enterprise Systems with J2EE	Books	1	0	1	N	N	Total Trash	Total trash. This is one of those books where the publisher has packed in as many pages as possible to make it seem impressive. It is completely unreadable and not even useful as a reference book.	2004-02-13
US	52601223	R212A8J66DD377	1861005695	971240319	Beginning Java 2 SDK 1.4 Edition	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Encompassing Book	I have a previous edition of this book and thought it was a very good guide to learning Java. Is it great? No, but it seems to be the best all encompassing book to learn the fundamentals of the Java libraries. It's one of the best books to teach a Java class with.	2004-02-13
US	52601223	R2JPPJ693F4W0H	0130893404	603332074	Core Servlets and JavaServer Pages (JSP)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Best book on the market for learning Servlets and JSPs.	Core Servlets and JSPs is currently the best book available for learning these two technologies. I have several other books on Servlets and, while each has pockets of information, none of them does as thourogh a job as this one. You will also find that the other Servlets books usually fail to cover Java Server Pages. The book is very easy to read, clear, accurate, and overall extremely well written. Of all the books I have evaluated, I selected this one for a one-week section on Servlets and JSPs which I teach as part of my company's training program. I highly recommend it to you as well.	2000-11-16
