US	52601746	R2D4Z8IBDG5FWM	0804114986	745329531	The Bonesetter's Daughter	Books	4	1	1	N	N	No disapointment from this Tan Fan	Tan's ability to bring the reader in to the character portrayal of Mother Vs. Daughter is amazing. Surely this is a theme that she enjoys writing about and it's obviously a non-wasted talent for her to do so. By the end of the novel, I found myself caring deeply for Lu Ling and mourning her loss of memory through Alzheimer's, concerned for Ruth in her quest to find \\"Precious Auntie's\\" real name, as well as despair for Precious Auntie and her eventual tragic fate in the family history.  This, my second Amy Tan novel, did not leave me disappointed.	2002-02-07
US	52601746	R36D0AI7OS7WN3	0140291822	356542717	The Trouble with Harriet (Ellie Haskell Mysteries)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Ellie's Hijacked Holiday	Cannell's fans will no doubt agree that Ellie needs a good vacation away from the twins and the most interesting residents of Chittendon Falls. . Understandable then is the reader's frustration, surely shared by our heroine, that yet again that her plans are hijacked by her dramatic and high maintenance family. Instead of jaunting off to a well earned rest and recreate exploring the epicuriously rich France we are delighted to have another Ellie Haskell adventure even if the poor woman must stay at home at Merlon Court.<br />Readers are again held hostage to Cannell's British wit as seen through her characters old and new. Delightful was the creation of new characters, annoying as they may be, and comforting was the venerable Mrs. Malloy to dazzle us with her adventures, sage advice, and forked but witty tongue.<br />A slow start but a dazzling finish brings the reader to a delightful and smiling close that seems to never fail to disappoint this devoted fan of the author, leaving me, and I'm sure other readers, hungry for more adventures.  In agreement with some of the other reviews, I'd certainly like to see Ellie and Ben on holiday without the Kids. Someplace far from the family and relatives that often bring Ellie to her wits end, Perhaps a cruise to Australia or an African Safari, or even an adventure in the Scottish Highlands. Would it still be the same however, without the family antics that keep our heroine busy and readers in stitches?<br />Don't miss this witty adventure, excellently written, very amusing continuation of the misadventures Ellie Haskell, her accidental partner and husband, Ben and the usual witty characters of Chittendon Falls.	2002-02-06
US	52601746	R381OXEP9A6IOX	0440212561	983256815	Outlander	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An amazing first Novel of historical reality!	During a second-honeymoon in the British Scottish Highlands meant to reunite Claire and Frank Randall in Post WWII England after their equal service to the British armed forces, Claire finds herself in the midst of a Stonehenge-like circle \\"Craigh Na Dun\\" and subsequently slips through a crack in time transporting her to 1743 Scottish Highlands. Her adventure leads her to become enmeshed in late 18th century Scottish politics and a conveniently arranged marriage that not only saves her life but unexpectedly becomes the love of her life. The reader is taken through a long but fast-paced gripping 640 pages where \\"Romance\\" is merely a side step of this adventurous and finely woven tale.<br />Far Fetched? Well, maybe to the straight historical reader. Otherwise, this reviewer begs to differ. One must certainly have a good appreciation for a little science fiction, a little history and a little romance (though not really a high focus despite mass-marketing as a romance) with a seemingly accurate theme of the violence and reality's of life in the Scottish Highlands during the eighteenth century.  Diana Gabaldon knows her history and it shows in this, her first, novel. What makes this story is not the small romantic story line, but the knowledge and meticulous research used as a backdrop to this excellent novel.<br />If you expect Romance and tawdry sex, move on to other historical romance's you won't find that here. You will find however, a relationship based on the reality of life in the 1740's where not all was silk and lace even in the best of relationships. Again, the romance is one backdrop of many and the strict romance fan will be disappointed. If you have an appreciation for History, knowledge of paganism and the workings of Catholic monasticism and a desire to open your imagination, you will love this book and like this reader, you'll be unable to put it down until it is finished, hurriedly running out after to purchase the sequel.<br />An excellent work of historical fiction that deserves more than five stars.torical fiction that deserves more than five stars.	2002-02-06
US	52601746	R2D1FGIG2Y8TJD	0395977894	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	5	6	12	N	N	Mom most certainly does NOT cook there!	What do you mean they don't make the Biscuits Fresh Daily?  I was horrified. I had always thought<br />Mom worked at Micky-Dee's Rolling out the biscuits in the early morning and frying up the bacon. Who<br />knew it all comes frozen?  Who knew the French Fry taste is a chemical produced in New Jersey!!<br />While I'm not surprised that Fast Food is not good for you, I was a bit shocked to find out the<br />process of making it is not conducive to the health of the manufacturing employee's.  I haven't<br />eaten a burger since finishing this book. Not sure if that's a good thing, but I know in the end<br />I may live just a bit longer.  Very good research, author presented credible research combined<br />with appropriate human interest topics. Careful, you might become a vegetarian after this one!	2001-12-20
US	52601746	RTYLF1JKVGE5L	0452279402	175017664	Healing the Hungry Self: The Diet-Free Solution to Lifelong Weight Management	Books	3	0	1	N	N	It might work and then again it might not...	I have to say that this book did not help me.  I'm not sure why exactly it failed, but perhaps I have only to look no further than my own incurable compulsion with food.  Fortunately I was able to have life saving surgery to reduce the size of my stomach. It did, however, still leave me with the same compulstion to eat which I struggle with.<br />However, the idea of this book is a very good one and it just may help you. You have to be willing to work on yourself and you should make that comittment before you read any further or decide to purchase this book. The author seems rather vague in areas in explaining her theories and how they might be applied o anyone else. Tragically, a recent NIH study reveals that only 5% of people who Diet to loose weight are able to keep it off permanently. Therefore, a Diet-free solution is not only convenient, but I believe, neccessary.  Perhaps for me a re-read of this book is in order now that I've lost 65 lbs.	2001-12-20
US	52601746	RPUNST84JUT0D	0670899771	612392363	Our Lady of the Lost and Found: A Novel of Mary, Faith, and Friendship	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Holy Family On a Raft!! This was good!	I'm a lapsed Catholic but have always had a curiosity about the history of Mary, alleged Virgin<br />mother of Jesus of Nazareth. Erroneously I thought the book was a fictional account of a made<br />up visit between a non-catholic unsuspecting woman and the mother of the Devine savior. I found<br />quickly that it was that and more!  Schoemperlen weaved an intriguing tale that left my imagination<br />to wander. Several times she had me convinced, because of excellent historical research and clever<br />writing that indeed Mary did come to visit and refresh herself at the authors home!<br />Perhaps it was slow at times, but only served to let me recover between giggles of delight.<br />I've recommended this to all of my Catholic and Non-Catholic (especially recovering Catholic)<br />friends.	2001-12-20
US	52601746	R3VKK4B3069R2S	0688134475	431632930	The Good Book: Reading the Bible With Mind and Heart	Books	4	11	16	N	N	The Bible - - No Longer an Weapon for Abuse	I am respectful for the views of others who choose to hold Mythos to be Logical truth in their spiritual belief system.  Though it does not make a lot of sense to me to hold one set of books as the be all and end all of all religious and spiritual beliefs, I understand that to some people it makes sense to do so as it did once for me a long, long time ago as well.<br />Reading a document that has been used as an abusive weapon and holding it in high esteem just does not make any sense to me. Until recently I chose instead to avoid the Bible all together refusing to pay any mind to a book of fairy tales and fables.  I have been tolerant to others who feel differently and still continue to be.  However I have to say that after reading Gomess work I began to have a better appreciation for the biblical texts that I now understand to have some merit and wisdom when used in the syntax and era in which they were written.  It is a darn shame that so many have died under the false and incorrect deductions of knowledge from the Bible, which has been interpreted and reinterpreted in numerous languages.  Did no one ever stop to realize that perhaps something got lost in the translation? HELLO?!?  Peter Gnomes addresss this expertly and professionally and brings to mind those very possibilities.  Mythos, the style in which some of the Cannons were written, seems to have been taken too seriously. For instance, there much merit in Leviticus and it makes much sense. However, one must place themselves in the context to which those rules for living were written. To use a line or two from this text to beat others down beneath oneself and then completely ignore the preceding and proceeding text is nothing short of ignorance.<br />It is time to take an intellectual and truthful look at the Bible as truly what it is and this author describes it to be. It is simply a story of Gods people the many things they tried to do to isolate themselves from the unconditional love of a Creator and the many extreme things the Creator did to lead the people back to the makers arms.  The Bible is a story of unconditional Love not of laws and edicts to follow as condition to be loved. Thank you Peter Gnomes for making that possible for me.al love of a Creator and the many extreme things the Creator did to lead the people back to the makers arms.  The Bible is a story of unconditional Love not of laws and edicts to follow as condition to be loved. Thank you Peter Gnomes for making that possible for me.	2001-08-10
US	52601746	RRHE71KIC5WLT	0375408827	27895627	Isaac's Storm: A Man, a Time, and the Deadliest Hurricane in History	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Intriguing Hurricane Season Reading	The publication of this very intriguing Novel was, in publishing terms, a long time ago thus much has already been said on the best qualities and follies of this story. One can read those in the many other reviews below this one. However, I do wish to add my own Kudos' to the author in that from the perspective Erik Larson approved abridged audio version of this tale is well written fictionally enhanced history. I felt that the author did a good job at keeping me captivated to the story line, provided a lot of accurate and historical information, and brilliantly speculated on fictionalized aspects of the story while carefully painting them as a \\"possibility\\" but not touting them as the absolute truth.  Further captivating was the pleasure of listening to the reading of this story by Edward Herrmann.  One could not possibly have a better voice with which to tell this story.  Very familiar with Herrmann's past roles in movies such as FDR, Automaker Dodge commercials and more recently as a guest appearance on the HBO series \\"OZ\\", I was delighted with his pleasant baritone voice-guiding the story.  His use of inflection brought this story to life. Having listened to this in my car to go with my daily commute among the Washington, DC clogged I-95 corridor, I actually found myself looking forward to my \\"commute\\".  That alone speaks volumes about both the authorship of the story and the quality of the narration.	2001-08-10
US	52601746	R275SYQ18RXP6B	1573928313	625780973	The Angel of Ashland: Practicing Compassion and Tempting Fate	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Controversial but an enlightening and entertaining read.	There is no doubt about it; Abortion is a difficult issue for a lot of people.  On one hand you have the desire for justice of equal choice by all women, on the other hand you have a great desire to respect and preserve life.  I am no different in that it is an issue that I've struggled with at both extremes (Pro and Con) for most of my life. I've concluded that there is no definitive answer that all can agree with. All we can do is to work at respecting life from all views and perspectives. This is why I've read this biography with a very open mind and frankly I'm glad I did!<br /><br /> Having grown up near Ashland, PA I had an immediate interest to read a work by a local author about a local legend. I had heard of Dr. Spencer in hushed conversations of appalling outrage and contempt and I have also in conversations of heroic praise.  I wanted to find out more about this \\"Angel\\" who dared take a stand and help women through a very difficult time. Meticulously researched and expertly told it is a stroke of luck to come across this text and hold it in my collection. Of all the biographies I have read, this work is one of the best.  Genovese's use of descriptive prose and convincing speculation of events he could only imagine occurred is noteworthy of praise and attention.  He portrays Dr. Spencer honestly and \\"re-members\\" him for the reader in such a way you feel like you know the doctor personally.<br /> This work is for you if you have an interest in the stories and legends of the Pennsylvania \\"Coal Region\\". This work is NOT for you if you seek to increase controversy with contempt or without an open mind.  Read it as a story of a man who dared make a difference and succeeded with great compassion and non-judgmental understanding at a time where a woman's only choice was a wire hanger and certain death.	2001-05-18
US	52601746	RP5P234J8MDPH	0786866845	728258902	Ice Bound: A Doctor's Incredible Battle for Survival at the South Pole	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A story of the cold that warms your heart	Dr. Jerri Nielson was no ordinary ER Physician.  She sought adventure in her practice as a member of the trauma team in an Ohio Hospital. She struggled to get past an unhealthy marriage that resulted in the loss of her children to a husband who would sooner spite his own children from their mother than accept defeat through an ugly divorce. Dr. Nielson found healing and new adventure in her new job at the Antarctic.  Little did she realize that this assignment would not only change her life, but bring her on the brink of death as well when she found a tumor growing in her breast deep in the night and cold of Winter at the South Pole where a flight to safety and life-saving medicine was out of the question for months. Readers will be enthralled and delighted as they read this tale of one woman's bravery to heal her life and fight the cancer that threatens to take all that she hoped for away like a thief in the night.<br />I found this to be a book that I looked forward to reading nightly and difficult to stop reading until the night enveloped me and sleep was easily put off in lieu of \\"one more chapter\\".  We all know of Dr. Jerri and here is the story we don't know, her thoughts, her fears, her hopes and her dreams during the time when she doubted she would see her life return to \\"normal\\" or for that matter see any of her family again.<br />In one sentence, this is a story of triumph over not only breast cancer but over chaos of a life shattered by years of abuse and eventual divorce.	2001-03-27
US	52601746	R2KRRQ44A8UESA	0525945741	557616685	Blessings From the Other Side: Wisdom and Comfort from the Afterlife for this Life	Books	5	26	26	N	N	You'll find many answers here.	This life leaves us with so many unanswered questions and our heads filled with much fear and anxiety of the future.  Cruelly we're unable to receive a definite answer to those questions except, \\"It will all be understood when you get to the last page\\".  Well, I've got news for you, some of us need to have a better understanding of that first answer to our questions and I believe Ms. Browne to have a very good answer for us. Of the many religions of the world, most share one commonality of an afterlife.  Some have varying degrees of what the afterlife is like but none can give us a clear answer. The question will never be answered completely, not by Sylvia, not by Mohammed and not by Jesus of Nazareth.<br />Yet, it's apparent that Sylvia has a pretty good grasp on the subject.  Her words gave me great understanding and comfort in loosing cherished loved ones and in understanding this Vita Loca of mine. Who knew, that there is a great \\"Hall of Records\\" where my life is written down, and amazingly pre-planed by my Higher Power and myself.  It makes perfect sense to me and as a practicing Ecumenical Christian agrees with much of my own personal theology.<br />No matter what the flavor of beliefs you have and your spirituality, I think Sylvia has something for everyone.  Take what you need, and leave the rest...and if you need all of it know that she will generously give it to all to you and ask for nothing in return but your time and attention.	2001-02-19
US	52601746	R2AMU9783H2IU3	0312973624	566519970	Monica's Story	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Tragedy or Travesty?	Some see Monica as a Victim of circumstance.  Others see her as a Jezebel who did not get enough of what was coming to her.  Many see her as poor slob of a woman who got herself into big trouble by not saying \\"No\\".  One thing is for certain, Andrew Morton was attracted to Monica just like all the other paparazzi like moths to a flame and as sincere as he may have tried to be to bring us Monica's story I'm not sure he got it right.  I had a difficult time finishing this book. Perhaps it was because I, like so many people, just want to put it all behind us and forget about it.  Sadly Monica can't.  This will follow her tragically the rest of her life and I'm not sure how she can overcome it.  Morton does manage to show us Monica's strong character and I'm hoping this is her saving grace for the future. One thing is clear, Monica should have told us the story in her own words and by the pen of her hand.<br />It is interesting to note that like Diana, Princess of Whales Mr. Morton seems to be drawn to women who have flirted with power and have been dragged through public scrutiny by their feet. It appears the attraction for him was the same for Monica.  We can only hope that the last chapter in Monica's life is still, like this book, a very long read Away.	2001-02-19
US	52601746	R2HHHP5EBAVURH	156838338X	996269970	Playing It by Heart: Taking Care of Yourself No Matter What	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Self-Care Begins Here!	As an Adult Child of an Alcoholic, I found great solace in reading the writings of Melody Beattie many years ago as I began the struggle through the pain and confusion of attempting to understand my childhood and my father. When I read Beattie's books a long time ago and then later focused on her Meditation series for Co-dependency I was amazed how this counselor could speak directly to me as if she lived my life.  I was rather naïve not to realize that it was from her own personal struggle with addiction from whence she was writing about.  I was shocked and amazed in this work to learn so much of Ms. Beattie's life and inspirations.  Furthermore, she gave me an understanding of the addiction purely from the addict's side of the fence.  I'm one of the lucky ones, having been able to spiritually connect with my parent before he died of his alcoholism and to bury a lot of old wounds with love at the end of his life.  Thanks to Melody I can understand even further the beast of the disease that took my father and robbed me of so many things.<br />This is a book I will keep at the front of my bookshelf for a long, long time and no doubt refer to it often.  I highly recommend this if you're familiar with her books or better yet if you're just considering the possibilities of getting aquatinted with Ms. Beattie.  I assure you, you will not be disappointed.  This is one of the best books I've ever had the privilege of reading.	2001-02-19
US	52601746	R1THBOAR6XGR99	0553380672	397955976	Loose Lips	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Loose Lips - A tale held tightliped by the author until now.	Clearly this novel was a long time coming from Rita Mae and I admit some disappointment in only that  I had read this book first before undertaking the rest of the series [Six of One and Bingo]. However, as this third book in the series, which should really be called the first, wasn't published until now. I can only give the advice to new Rita fans to read this first if you have not yet read the other two. Loose Lips is still, however, an important installment in the series further exploring the Hunsenmeier Sisters Louise and \\"Juts\\" and their very funny adventures in sibling rivalry.  Still, I found the read enjoyable particularly the second half and I tolerated the first half pleasantly revisiting in depth the early stories of these two sisters as well as the interesting lives of Runnymeade, MD residents.<br />It is important to note that in reading this late edition brings enjoyment in understanding the journey Rita has taken as an author.  It makes much sense to me that she would revisit this story line and tell us more stories about a period of time in the Hunsenmeier relationship that was lacking a bit.  I applaud Rita's talent and her courage to take us back a bit further in a hindsighted tale that still brings chuckles and laughter to the reader.<br />You'll like this book, but you'll like it better if you have not read the other two installments in the series.	2001-02-03
US	52601746	R5QZDT25AV4T3	0553277944	79110751	The Widows Club (Ellie Haskell)	Books	5	7	11	N	N	A British Mystery sure to loosen that Stiff Upper!	Does Agatha Christy bore you to tears?  Do British Mysteries make you constipated?  Well, drop what you're doing and if you like clever witty mystery's mixed with British wit and humor, you'll love this book! You will hopefully never encounter a grief support group anything like the \\"Sisters in Sorrow\\" but you may find amusement in considering the possibilities! Especially if your spouse gets on your nerves a bit.<br />This, the book that started the Ellie Haskel series is highly recommended by this reader and like me you will no doubt crave to read more of Ms. Cannell.  I recommend that you buy this paperback and at least the next two in the series as you won't be able to wait for the postman to bring the next one once you've finished this one.	2001-02-03
US	52601746	RG68X93J29PCJ	0062516981	582858784	Son of a Preacher Man: My Search for Grace in the Shadows	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Ephrata - Be Thou Opened!	As the son of a famous \\"fallen\\" member of the PTL Ministry leader and eventually the object of ridicule and judgement from people who never met him, it's no wonder that Jay Bakker grew up and became a \\"troubled teen\\". While .Jay obliges the drama seekers who want to read stories of his early family life, he also tells how he entered a darkness of self-hatred, addiction and anguish eventually coming out of the darkness unscathed and gifted.<br />This is the story of the Preacher's son who shares his journey of what it was like to be on the other side of the finger pointing and judgment as a family member of the \\"Fallen\\" Pastor..  This is not a tale of \\"Look what you did to us\\" or a book of revenge. It is the story of an awakening, a journey into the light and of an astonishing ministry that has risen from ashes. Furthermore,  he calls us to return to the basic teachings of Jesus, especially when he writes: \\"But I am saying treat religion as it now stands as a killer. We've got to abandon the rhetoric that God's love is conditional and get back to Jesus.\\"<br />Now a minister himself he has much to share and to teach the youth of today that have fallen out of the favor of mainstream religion. Read carefully but learn heartily  as he will open your heart and your soul to the possibilities of maybe, just maybe God loves you as you are.  Ephrata - Be thou Opened!!	2001-02-02
US	52601746	RDEAGMZOUH562	0553573608	260460207	How to Murder the Man of Your Dreams	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Don't Miss this!	Dorothy has done it again! Even though my spouse looked at the book on nightstand and then promptly announced he'll be sleeping on the couch it was worthwhile! It permitted me to stay up late into the night reading like you will laughing out loud as Elie stumbles across a librarian mysteriously and  meeting her demise in the city library, then finds herself vis-a-vis with &quot;Karisma&quot; the hunk of hunks from her favorite romance novels coming to town. Karisma becomes endangered by possibly the same entity that caused the librarian to have a meeting with the grim reaper and Elie finds her own life endangered unless she finds the mysterious presence of Chitterton Fells Library.  Don't miss this especially if you're a Dorothy Cannell fan!	2001-01-26
US	52601746	R2ZR6611ML0XXU	0440507855	851177817	FINAL EXIT	Books	3	18	22	N	N	Not for the Faint Hearted or Depressed Reader	This book is no doubt very controversial and not for your average every day reader. As a person who has been personally affected by the act of suicide as well as a witness to long drawn-out illness with needless suffering, I took this book very seriously and I admired the bravery of the author to take on the subject of death. Two of the most avoided subjects of our society are death and sex.  Since not everyone enjoys hearing about either subject at some point or another you should be advised that his book does not talk about sex, so you're halfway there, only death and the dying.<br /> The jury is still out on Euthanasia especially if you are morally opposed to it. There are many arguments on both sides of the spiritual realm for and against, many good ones.  However, to fully be able to form an opinion you need to look at things very closely from all angles.  It pains me to learn that some wanting to end their life prematurely without terminal illness or great physical pain has used this book.  It also gives me grief to witness others go through such suffering needlessly in some very extreme cases. I found this text to be very informative at least on the subject of death itself. One needs to have a good head on their shoulder and be willing to read this book without bias.  I recommend this book if only to open ones mind on the subject. However, I also caution and plead with you that if you have ill intentions on your healthy non-terminal illness self to use this book for your own Final Exit without being terminally ill, I beg you to seek help elsewhere as this book is not for you.<br />We often avoid the subject of death in conversation and thought for our own comfort but also sometimes at the expense of others.  If you have an open and healthy mind, this book will not hurt you, merely make you more knowledgeable and perhaps comfortable with a topic we'd rather avoid like an elephant in our living room.	2001-01-24
US	52601746	R2CYQGZ60GZZOS	0226556697	846191489	Crossing: A Memoir	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Madame Butterfly!  The story of a transformation.	Admittedly I hate change.  I despise it in any form in my life and often catch myself looking at it through the negative lens rather than the positive.  Reading Deirdre's account provoked in me therefore a huge knot in my stomach, as the changes she keenly steered her life through are just downright amazing! If only I could have just a drop of her courage it would be enough to get me through a lifetime of change. Amazingly I felt changed as well when I finished with the last line and astoundingly I felt comfortable both for Deirdre and for myself.  I have a new understanding of what it is like for those who go through this process and the gender defining issues involved.<br />I did not find Donald to be selfish or narcissistic.  I saw a man with courage to live the truth as he defined it to be.  Admittedly the third person narrative was at first irritating to my reading. But as I read on I began to realize that she could not have written this a better way to bring home the understanding from her perspective.  There are enough transgender accounts and texts out there that present someone's view of another's crossing.  It is only through this fine writing style in third person that I was able to see the same traits in his transition to Deirdre, much like a butterfly spreading its wings after a long hibernation. And WHAT a beautiful butterfly she is!  I feel terribly sorry for her families who were unable to cope with her journey of change or understand it.  However, because of my dislike of changes their apprehension and grief makes sense to me.  They grieve that they have lost a father and in a gender sense they truly have.  Unfortunately they can not see what they have or could gain from Deirdre. I feel very sad for them and anyone else that does not completely understand.<br />Deirdre says it best herself when she writes:  \\"They come down to viewing the male - to - female gender crosser as a weird man rather than as another woman, or for that matter as another human being.  They are like other misunderstandings, the knowledge we confidently believe we have of the other.  If you've been scorned or misunderstood as a black or a Jew or a short person or a fat person - or as a woman - you've felt it.\\"<br />If one does not like this book, one needs to ask themselves \\"Why?\\" One must be comfortable with self first before feeling comfortable with another's differences in gender, sexual preference, or any of the other human characteristics that make us unique.  Read this book if nothing else for the account of what it is like to go through uprooting change and come out of it relatively unscathed. Deirdre will inspire you!an being.  They are like other misunderstandings, the knowledge we confidently believe we have of the other.  If you've been scorned or misunderstood as a black or a Jew or a short person or a fat person - or as a woman - you've felt it.\\" <br />If one does not like this book, one needs to ask themselves \\"Why?\\" One must be comfortable with self first before feeling comfortable with another's differences in gender, sexual preference, or any of the other human characteristics that make us unique.  Read this book if nothing else for the account of what it is like to go through uprooting change and come out of it relatively unscathed. Deirdre will inspire you!	2001-01-01
US	52601746	RBDBLOY9XKARA	0553575414	621617883	Cat on the Scent: A Mrs. Murphy Mystery	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Brilliant use of the animal voice as humanistic commentary!	Rita Mae is no doubt a brilliant writer for me as well as a genuinely warm person if you have the opportunity to meet her as I have several times.  Her ability to hold your attention in reading her books overflows into her real life presence as well.  Its with this preface that I enjoyed attending her book signing and reading of Outfoxed and I looked forward to yet another great read.<br />Ms. Brown's ability to give voice to the animals we often wonder about is genius.  Having never Fox Hunted but with a love of horses I enjoyed this well written piece immensely for I felt as If I've been hunting for all of my life as she brilliantly transfers her knowledge to the reader.  There seems to be a split personality so to speak with Ms. Brown developing in her writing.  Her literary and humorous books such as Rubyfruit Jungle, Venus, and Loose Lips are notably different from her Mrs. Murphy Series. These recent books continue to reveal her passionate interest in animals and she brilliantly uses them to comment on the actions and behaviors of humanity to reveal our rather silly and strange quirks.  I'm admittedly not a big fan of the Mrs. Murphy series, but as a fan of her writing style there is not one RMB novel I would not hesitate to praise and recommend  highly.	2000-12-27
US	52601746	R2LTJNNNP9RNGW	0553378260	261442262	Rita Will: Memoir of a Literary Rabble-Rouser	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Rabble Rousing Genius!	One of the greatest gifts a popular author can give their fans next to a \\"How To\\" on writing and style is an Autobiography.  In her Memoir Ms. Brown pulls out all stops and allows the reader a unique window into her life allowing one to see what motivates her writing.<br />It is no big surprise that some of her best books are snippets of the author's own life.  Having read these works long before this creation my attention was pleasantly held in reserve as the pages leaped by me in high-volume page turning style.  Others may have found this as a \\"re-read\\" of her past novels but I disagree and rather call it as a wonderful enhancement to the stories of her life as well as an humorous inspiration to me. No Rita Mae fan should be without this book on their shelf.	2000-12-27
US	52601746	R1RZPKCL395F5B	0345402871	684823314	Airframe	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Aviation Industry Suspense Thriller Mystery	Like most readers of this book, I picked it up in an Airport during a trip this past year.  Initially I could not get through the first few chapters and switched my concentration to the In-flight movie instead.  Upon my return home I finished reading the book more as a mountain to be conquered than to seek reading pleasure.  Perhaps it was my disappointment in the author's knowledge of the aviation industry. I was hoping more for a plot that would center around a commercial airline instead of an aviation manufacturer which no doubt contributed to my disenchantment of this novel.<br />Crichton's writing style and methods of building suspense are indeed noteworthy and if you are a die-hard Crichton fan this is not to be missed.  Additionally his knowledge of the Aviation Manufacturing industry is obviously a result of his good research, which makes it delightful and thought provoking.  However, if you have no interest in this industry and are not much for suspense I suggest you save the few dollars this paperback will cost you and buy something more suitable to your aviation interest.	2000-12-27
US	52601746	R1HWOC8O3F7Y3Q	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A great book but don�t hold your breath for the Movie	I have no knowledge in medieval history.  However, this book took my interest in sci-fi  and wrapped it nicely with a curiosity I'll have to quench by further reading about Medieval times. Though not expert enough to critique historical fact,  I'm well read enough to know a good book and good research when I see it. His attention to detail and facts make this apparent in the story. Additionally I would say that  Crichton is the master of literary foreshadowing in his plots.  It is especially apparent in this story when you sense a foreshadowing of a future event in the plot but not quite sure what it could be...driving you to read further and trade sleep for reading.  I am impressed with this writing skill of Crichtons and it is especially valuable in this book.<br />Crichton may not be considered a Literary Master in the present tense but no doubt in the future his books will still be around and well-read as possibly newly discovered genius in the 22nd Century. To his credit I bring to your attention his brilliant savvy at technological drama is his writing on the Television show E.R..<br />I would go out on a limb to recommend this for those who might enjoy a bit of sci-fi and who might be a closet History buff.  The plot is a little reminiscent of the \\"Mad Tycoon\\" of Jurassic Park fame but there are enough variations to the theme to make this a good book, particularly if you are already a Crichton fan.  It's certainly a page-turner and while reading this on a car trip I was inclined to read some passages out loud to my fellow travelers.  Nobody begged me to stop and later asked me how the book ended. Rumor has it that this will be made into a Motion Picture.  Based on my experience of turning Crichton books to Movies, I won't rush out to the theatre when it comes out. I say this out of the experience of his past Novels \\"Jurassic Park\\" and even \\"Sphere\\" which were both a great reads but lousy movie adaptations. (Saved only by Jodi Foster's good acting talent in \\"Sphere\\")  Perhaps though it is merely a testament to Hollywood Machine of bad screenplay adaptation than to this author's screen writing skills.  If it does I will be surprised but I don't think Hollywood can do this plot justice.\\"Sphere\\")  Perhaps though it is merely a testament to Hollywood Machine of bad screenplay adaptation than to this author's screen writing skills.   If it does I will be surprised but I don't think Hollywood can do this plot justice.	2000-12-21
US	52601746	R3FXQUOQCJJW18	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Not a Religious Novel, but certainly very Spiritual!	Reading the Stories, lessons and Poems of the Hebrew Bible (Also known as The Old Testament) can be rather daunting and at times, unimaginative especially to the non-scholastic reader who may not have a complete grasp of what is behind the writings and narratives.  Particularly a read of the book of Genesis one can get lost in all the begetting and begotting.  However, thanks to Anita Diamant  we can have a better understanding and idea of what life was like for these people we read about in the Bible.<br />From a mere footnote comes a rich story of a woman living the ancient traditions of a people we know little about but thought about quite often.  After reading The Red Tent, it will start to make sense and bring together a new understanding.  Unfortunately, One is unable to use this text to gain a complete scholastic understanding of the ancient and historical books but no doubt your tongue will be wetted a bit and you'll begin to thirst for more knowledge and understanding.<br />Enough has been said already about the themes of women's issues in this book that I don't need to elaborate on them.  I invite you to read this story and see for yourself.  I read this book in 3 days, which is unusual for me, but I could not put it down.  Diamant offers a solid bibliography for further reading and research if one is so inclined.  This is not a \\"religious\\" story  but certainly one of religious understanding and a plus for spiritual growth in gender appreciation.	2000-12-20
US	52601746	RWX6YUH3PJTZN	1559353007	518333646	Delta Sytle: Eve Wasn't a Size 6 and Neither Am I	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Big Hair and Sassy Style	Having gone through some of the most tragic years of my life with only the television series Designing Women to bring me to laughter, I have a heartfelt appreciation for Delta.  Much to my dismay, time constraints limit my availability to follow her career in close detail, however I was all too happy to come across this wonderful book on cassette read by the Author, Delta Burke.<br />If you have already read the book version, I still highly recommend the audio-book version.  Delta has a way with words and through her reading of the book it is just like she's sitting there next to you telling you about her life and trading beauty secrets.<br />What does a guy want with beauty secrets?  I'm not exactly sure but I swear that I got a lot of her tips for style dressing and personal skin care that will no doubt be quite beneficial to my life.  As for her fashion tips, they can be applied to anyone thin and Full-bodied, male, female or transsexual. After finishing this book I feel that I'm walking taller, stronger and most definitely a little lighter thanks to her great sense of humor.  The most memorable snippet was when she declared, &quot;I like having Big Hair because it brings me closer to God&quot;.  As I drove and listened, this quote left my windshield full of coffee as I managed to spit all over it as I broke into bales of laugher.<br />I highly recommend this book but I caution listening to the audio version while driving and sipping hot liquids.	2000-10-06
US	52601746	R21HGXJSIK7HR7	0679751602	749364311	Mama Makes Up Her Mind: And Other Dangers of Southern Living	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Witty, Fun &amp; Hysterical!!	White is the mistress of humorous essay!  Drawing from life experience and no-doubt dressing it up perhaps a little, she brings out the laughter of many familial situations as she grew up in the South even sugar coating (successfully) some of the bad stuff and making it the most funniest and entertaining reading experience I've ever had!	2000-09-29
US	52601746	R369LYNDZHH0YX	0399519785	725681493	Book Finds: How to Find, Buy, and Sell Used and Rare Books	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Essential Guide! A MUST for bibliophiles!	Ellis offers expert advice that is easy to follow and remember to all. Even if you have a tiny little collection to a library full of collected books, or even have just accumulated books you've read over the years, this books shows you how to properly take care of and appreciate the volumes you have.<br />To the beginning collector Ellis gives excellant advice on all aspects of collecting. This is definately the first &quot;How To&quot; book to purchase if you are beginning your collection.	2000-09-29
US	52601746	R3BV3D10Y820GD	0399144013	739795031	Point of Origin (Kay Scarpetta)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Amazing Detail and Fantastic Plot Planning!	This was my first Patricia Cornwell and I assure you, it will not be the  last.  This amazing and very knowledgeable author is not only a pleasure  but a priviledge to read.  Her plot is very well developed (having  accidently listened to the last tape first I was able to get a sense of how  she built her plot)  I like best her excruciating attention to detail,  right down to the physical landmarks of the settings for scenes in the  book.  She must research these details exhaustively and in addition to her  medical knowledge makes for a very enlightening read.  I felt as if I were  at every place, peering over the investigators hands as she performed  autopsy's and sifted through physical and logical evidence.  I was riveted!	2000-09-14
US	52601746	R2NG0748AB114K	0824513762	995462048	She Who Is: The Mystery of God in Feminist Theological Discourse	Books	4	11	16	N	N	Our Imago Dei	Using Feminist Theology, Johnson makes a remarkable comparison and introduction using the Old Testament story of Sophia, Wisdom. Brilliantly she explains Spirit Sophia, Jesus-Sophia, and finally Mother-Sophia adding a feminine spin on the discourse. We come away understanding a care giver God, a Jesus who is a nurturer, and God as a Mother of birth, bringing forth life and teaming with creation.	2000-09-13
US	52601746	R3DKTP7TXZWWTF	055357468X	213985247	God Save the Queen!	Books	2	10	15	N	N	Author had good intentions, but story disappointing.	I think what went wrong is that I had a lot of expectations to this novel and I thought I was about to read an &quot;Ellie Haskall-like&quot; storyline complete with that wonderful british wit and humor that this author so wonderfully puts to paper.<br />However, I could not get very involved with the storyline and  I ended up &quot;Plowing&quot; through the book just to get it done.  My only interest turned out to be the Silver Spoon that was missing for 200 years and I was looking forward to its recovery and reasons for disapearance than any of the murders.  I didn't even notice that anyone had died.  I appears that Ms. Cannell either wrote this as a first novel or she must have been in a horrible state of some kind when she did write it. I'm happy to see an addition to the Haskell series in &quot;The Spring Cleaning Murders&quot; and can't wait to read it. God Save Dorothy Cannell!!<br />This was not a pleasant read and it would have been better in the Cannel sytle of First Person writing.	1998-07-07
