US	52606467	R2UC78LRMWOD9	1400049202	366670641	My Daughter's Boyfriend: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Moral Issues Aside...Good Book!	This was a read that captured my immediate attention; however, I would be dishonest if I didn't say that I put this book down for a day.  I was overwhelmed with my own moral issues and found it hard to fight the judgment of the characters and complete the novel.  However, with a fresh day I was able to pick the book up and finish it.   <br /> <br />The story is unique and very scandalous.  The author gives us the story from the three main character's viewpoints.  This overall gave you a full picture of the events as they unfolded.  I think I know Houston, Texas now from the landscapes that were described for the city.  Although the character development wasn't as full as I would like, they were developed enough for readers to get the gist of their actions.  The writing was superb with its witty dialogue and whimsical metaphors. <br /> <br />At times I really disliked the main character, Tracey.  I found her to be whiny, self-centered and insecure.  Poor Lauren, had traits inherited from her mother but she was extremely nave.  Aaron, I found to be selfish and really still in search of himself.  Although the characters were flawed, their actions were believable as well as the story.  That is what made reading it difficult.  Setting aside my own moral issues, this is a well written story and should be read as just that, a story.  The author also leaves readers with a very good message.    <br />	2004-08-26
US	52606467	R2GMAM8U9VS3XE	1592869971	206211888	Stages of a Woman: A Collection of Short Stories	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Wonderful Collection!	Stages of A Woman:  A Collection of Short Stories <br />By J. J. Caldwell <br />Rating:  3.75 <br /> <br />This is a collection of short stories and short poems about the transitions of women from childhood to death.  The stories deal with the pain, happiness, uncertainty and joy of being a woman. <br /> <br />The stories will bring you to laughter and to tears.  Every woman can relate to the stories being told, because we all have experienced or know someone who has.  Beginning with the first story, where there is a six-year old girl speaking you are drawn into the lives as they try to make sense out of world that is confusing.  You also learn growing up as a woman is hard to do.  J. J. Caldwell will have you laughing at her final story which is the graceful death of a woman.   <br /> <br />All the stories are well-written and thoughtful portrayals of life?s trials, tribulations and exhilarations.  This is a welcome group of stories that are inspiring and empowering.  Only thing lacking was that I wish the stories were longer because several had the potential of being full length novels.  Ms. Caldwell is a new author to watch. <br /> <br />Date Submitted:  4/5/04 <br />Submitted by: Cashana <br />	2004-07-22
US	52606467	R14GQC3F7O7DT8	0595190243	224930151	The Spirit of Franklin's Shoe Box	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A Feel Good Story	This was a story that I could tell was written with the effect that there is a rainbow after a storm.  Mr. Davis is a convincing storyteller.<br />We meet Franklin who is a drug addicted, an alcoholic and suffers from mental illness.  Franklin is befriended by Bryce, who is his nurse caseworker.  Bryce has dealt with some of the same issues Franklin has experience.  Bryce is a Vietnam veteran and his return home from the war had him suffering from addictions as well.  These two men find they have more in common then first realized and Franklin's shoebox is the impetus.<br />There are several small stories within this novel.  The main story is endearing, however, the smaller ones are never quite developed.  We meet several supporting characters who either fizzle out or their ending didn't have a full middle after the reader is first introduced.<br />Although a good edit is needed, these minor flaws are correctable.  The author's vision and descriptions were well written.  The dialogue however seemed a bit stilted at times, but this again can be corrected with a good editor.<br />This story is truly a feel good story.  Even with the small problems, Franklin's Shoebox is an interesting writing effort.	2004-04-05
US	52606467	R2EYN8EDYW45AL	0971989702	507128784	Faith, Love & Life A Collections of Poems & Songs	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good Collection	Poetry can be beautiful, thoughtful, honest and the author's own interpretation of life.  Mr. Alston takes three subjects:  Faith; Love; and Life and expresses their sentiment in several poems and songs.<br />Several of the poems stood out to me because of their meaning.  The examples are:  No Such Thing As Can't, Forgiveness, A Rose From the Garden, Nine Eleven and Ghetto Child.  In each of these I was able to truly appreciate the author's quest to feel, understand and relate to what he was trying to convey.<br />Although there are several wonderful poems and songs in this book of poetry, I found sometimes the author was trying a little bit too hard to make the poetry rhyme.  Poetry doesn't necessarily have to rhyme but there must be a rhythm and cadence to the poetry that I found lacking in a few of the poems.  <BR>Again, poetry is interpreted differently depending on the reader, because we have to discern our own voice to the poem.  <br />This is an overall good collection of poetry.  I can see the author expanding and growing more with each collection.  The author's continual growth will lead to learning to let the words flow easily without trying to make everything rhyme thereby making the words dance across the page to enlighten all his readers.	2004-02-12
US	52606467	R3CE4COUZVZ0II	0595194648	702383461	The Inner Voice	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Inner Voice of  Poetry	Writing poetry is putting your heart and emotions on your sleeve.  Poetry is a personal writing that uses a person's inner being to give it a voice.  Ms. Jack does that with her eclectic collection of poetry.<br />The author breaks the book of poetry in to several distinctive sections:  In the beginning, there was a ...; Middle Ground...; And then there was...; Looking for; A sip before a drink; and The choice was made.  A couple of stand out poems are: This Should Not be, Oh, So Heavy, I am a Ladybug, Imagine a world, and Inner Voice. These poems stand out for their ability to make you think, smile, laugh and love.  They are beautifully written and thought provoking.<br />Not all the poems are easily understood but the emotions the author is trying to convey are.  If you are an avid fan of personal poetry, this collection will be just right for you.	2004-02-12
US	52606467	R119RNM5PTBTKP	0972809104	881368185	My Love Notes to a Black Man	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Loving Prose For Our Men...	Ms. Reid is one poet that has moved me to tears with such thought provoking and beautiful words in support and in honesty of our black men.<br />This collection of love notes is a wonderful compilation of signature poetry that only someone with a clear understand and grasp of the English language could write.  The author's command of our language made this a standout collection.  She is able to deepen the reader's appreciation for conveying feelings and emotions.  I am proud to have this be placed upon my coffee table, for everyone to read.<br />The author separates her love notes in to four sections:  Painful Love Notes, Meditative Love Notes, Supportive Love Notes and Sensual Love Notes.  Each section is filled with poetry that elicits the response to each of the sections.  One poem in particular moved me to tears.  Deep.<br />Every poem in this book is worth reading it and breathing it.  That is how deep they are.  That is how much they pull you in not with rhymes but a rhythm not all poets can understand or duplicate.  However, I do have several favorites.  They are:  Trash Day, We Theorems, The Kings of My People, Reflections On a Look, Before, Lesson To a Dad, And I Watch, Porches, A Different Kind of \\"I Do\\", No Comparison, When a Brotha Makes Love to You, The Difference in My Sexual Mood and May I Kiss You.<br />This book is a must read for those who relish in poetry and love the feelings invoked from reading great poetry.  It is a must read for all the brotha's out there.  Ms. Reid makes an honest portrayal of black men and recognizes their faults and strengths and relishes in knowing she could not be without a black man.  This is a wonderful and positive reflection of our black men.  Recommended.	2004-02-12
US	52606467	R3E7KJ4TRMMEW6	0345456068	80605276	Some Things I Never Thought I'd Do	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Highly Recommended	In two words this novel moved me.  I do not have the words in my vocabulary to expound on the effects this story had on me.  When I finished reading it, the tears from my heart flowed freely.  I was so engaged in the characters the ending was like a loss of life.<br />Pearl Cleage has the ability to write characters that are not perfect, but are human.  Her characters have human frailties and must deal with the ups and downs of life.  Regina Burns is one of those characters.  We meet Regina as she is literally begging a loan officer to not sale her house she borrowed against during her addiction to cocaine.  From there we see Regina taking a chance and things falling in place.  Her aunt tells Regina of her vision and what she sees in her future.  Whether Regina believes it or not Atlanta will be the starting point.<br />There are a host of characters you are drawn to and some you want to handle with a long handle stick.  Once Regina arrives in Atlanta she meets the blue-eyed stranger that is part of her aunt's vision.  Blue as he is called will be the past and future for Regina.  We also meet Flora, Lu, Aretha and bad guys DooDoo and King James.  We also meet Regina's mentor, Beth, who needs her expertise and gets more than she bargains for.<br />Ms. Cleage has the ability to make you believe in hope, courage and honor.  She however never lets us forget that the world is not perfect and no person is perfect in it.  She uplifts the African-American males by portraying the good males alongside the no so good males.  She upholds the spirit of community and neighbors.  All though there is romance there is also love of family, friends and neighbors and shows us an endearing side of our African-American communities.<br />The one thing that touched me and really expresses the title of the book is one statement that is made in the novel.  That one statement is that no one is perfect, but we all have  possibility of perfection.  So profound and so true.  No one is perfect but there is room for the possibility of perfection.  That is what we should all esteem to be.  Regina does as well as the other wonderful characters in this book.<br />This is a page-turner from the opening lines.  Well written and crafted by a gifted storyteller and writer.  Thank you for moving me with this wonderful story.  Highly recommended.	2003-09-12
US	52606467	R2LCAD729ZE2CG	0375508953	703087621	Trouble Man: A Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Honest and Real	This was my first experience with the writings of Travis Hunter.  I had read his contribution to Black Silk, but had never read any of his novels.  This story was a wonderful literary experience.<br />It is impressive when an author can uplift and leave you with a message that is honest and truthful.  Mr. Hunter does this and more.<br />Jermaine Banks is an almost 30-year-old hustler.  Jermaine has a son, a girlfriend and a baby on the way.  Life as a hustler has lost its sparkle and he is caught between the good of what he does and the hypocritical part that he struggles with more now in his life then ever.  He must decide what being a man entails and follow the road to better.<br />Calvin Sharpe is this 50 something father and husband who decides that he no longer wants to be married and makes the necessary arrangements to get out of this seemingly unbearable situation.  However, his questionable business ethnics remind us all we reap what we sow.  So not only is he running from the law, he is running from himself and the demons that drive him. <br />Both these African-American men epitomize the stereotypes of our men being hustlers and questionable businessmen.  Yet there troubles are of their own makings.  Although, they feel they are forced to make the decisions they make to earn money, in the end they must face what their truth really is.  Most importantly each of these men wants to do right by their children.<br />This is an honest portrayal of the dimensions of African-American men.  It shows their struggle to do right in a world that encourages them to do wrong.  The characters are real and forthright.  The female characters are true to form as well.  They also show us the strength of our African-American women.  <br />The story is strong just like the character development.  The dialogue is realistic and honest.  I am still laughing about that darn rat!  This is a well-written story of black men who in their own ways want to be true men, accept their responsibilities and be forgiven for the wrongs they have done.  We all want to leave our troubles behind.  This quick read makes you thirsty for a little more of an ending, but it leaves you with a wonderful strong African-American message.  Recommended.	2003-09-12
US	52606467	RDJ2GWCUYG7L4	0312316801	931084222	Minion: A Vampire Huntress Legend	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Highly Recommended Vampire Tale!	Minion is a tale of the legend of the Vampire Huntress.  Minion is defined as one who is highly favored, a darling.  This correctly describes our main character, Damali.  Damali is a 20-year old spoken word artist and one of the top acts for Warriors of the Light Records.  But at night, she and her group of guardians hunt vampires.  In this story, vampires and demons are not myths, they are reality.<br />Damali and her guardians have met with a vampire that is stronger and more powerful than any  vampire they have ever had to face.  These vampire demons aren't killing their people in the usual vampire fashion, two puncture wounds to the neck, they are actually mutilating the bodies.  Damali and her team of guardians are forced to face their most powerful opponent yet.<br />In the mist of this terror, the legend of the Vampire Huntress is revealed.  Unbeknownst to Damali, her fight has only begun. She is carrying a power she never knew she had.  Minion is the beginning of this vampire huntress tale.  We meet the guardian characters, the vampires and demons.  Surreal.  There is an eroticism associated with vampires and Fallon Nuit is no exception.  The author describes him with a sensuality of the most masculine of men, but the prettiness of a female.  Nuit is sexy enough to make a straight man want him.  It's this type characterization that makes this novel stand out.<br />Ms. Banks has written a novel to tantalize your taste buds, making you want more.  If you like vampire stories, you will love this novel and if you don't like vampire stories, you will still love this novel.  Ms. Banks whets your appetite for more.  The tone of the novel is dark.  The characters are very well developed.  You can feel their pain, power and terror.  The grotesque descriptions in the novel give it authenticity.  It's sexy, scary and thrilling.  It's also fast-paced and truly imaginative.  I was intrigued from the prologue and sitting on the edge of my seat with the taste of the next installment that is included at the end of the book.  This is one heroine I look forward to reading about until she truly saves the world from vamps.  I for one am in Ms. Banks' audience with I know many more people to join.  Highly recommended.	2003-06-10
US	52606467	R3I1UJOQ513SYO	0609610147	627092281	The Ecstatic: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Wonderfully Dark!	This was a very interesting novel.  The style, transition, characters, dialogue, realism and humor make this a stand out read.  I was initially compelled to read this novel based on the synopsis, but from page one I was hooked!<br />The author was able to reveal the antics of life for a very dysfunctional family and let us ride the insanity with the main character, Anthony.  Anthony is the 300+ pound paranoid schizophrenic.  We journey with Anthony and his family as they try to live life, but are compounded with obstacles such as insanity.  <br />The story has a myriad of characters who kinda come into Anthony's life for several reasons, but they add to the dark humor that is consistently displayed throughout the novel.  The author's play with humor and realism of insanity was compelling and scary at the same time.<br />This book is dark.  That is the one word that for me relates this story.  As the story continues, the darkness continues which makes the humor almost horrifying.  <br />The author's use of the English language is beautiful.  His style is very different, but quite refreshing.  The characters are well-developed and thorough characters.  The story is a mirage of several incidents that take place in Anthony's life and this is a literal perception of how one is mentally ill, but can do nothing to stop the insanity.  It is like a roller coaster ride of the insane.<br />I do wish for a different ending, but because of the subject matter no other ending would probably work.  This is one novel everyone should pick up and read if for nothing more than a change and read something that is brilliantly written.	2003-05-12
US	52606467	R37NAPTRJRNIH1	0312281919	161899185	An Ordinary Woman: A Novel	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Not An Ordinary Story	One of the most important relationships women form, are friendships with their best friend.  It is a bond that is sacred and difficult to destroy.  In one of Donna Hill's finest stories, in my opinion, we watch as infidelity cripples the lives of the three main characters.  Asha, is our self-assured, strong-willed, worldly and life of the party character.  She meets Lisa when they are both young and they become in essence, not only best friends, but sisters.  Lisa is our shy, good girl, and hopeless romantic who through two failed engagements finds Mr. Right.  Mr. Right is Ross, an architect, who exhibits strength by taking on and handling responsibility as well as being a strong family man.<br />Ms. Hill takes us on a journey as we examine the cracks in the facades of each character.  The reader will ask how could Asha sleep with Lisa's, her best friend, husband?  How could Asha hurt her best friend?  Asha is not so perfect.  Lisa seems to have forgotten that marriage is not about what she wants but a partnership.  And Ross has lost himself in making Lisa happy.  The issues each faces inevitably leads to the betrayal of a friend and wife.  Each character learns a lesson and they are able to finally look into themselves to recognize their faults and move forward.<br />The reader will empathize with all three main characters.  What we have is an ordinary woman who made a mistake.  <br />Well written and a provocative story that tackles a sensitive issue.  This is one of my favorite Donna Hill novels.  This is a must read!	2002-10-31
US	52606467	RXFZXNIBRUVLZ	0971322104	535303863	Momma, Please Forgive Me!	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Please Forgive Me!	This was a story where the issue of domestic violence could have been tackled from the viewpoint of the silent victims, children.  LaVonne made a decision one faithful night that changed not only her life but also the lives of her family forever.  LaVonne was a victim of domestic violence and her children witnessed the abuse.  The story goes on to try to explore the effects of the abuse and LaVonne's actions on her family.  Due to her actions, LaVonne was sentenced to prison.  The attorney referred by LaVonne's mother comes in to save LaVonne from a life behind bars.  <br />When I received this book, I really looked forward to reading a novel that tackles such a difficult subject such as domestic violence and really discuss its affects on the children.  The cover is striking and the author's background was impressive.  So it was a real disappointment to read this book.  It reads like a screenplay.  The author changes verb tenses and there are so many grammatical errors it is difficult for the reader to stay focus on the actual story.  The characters are not well developed.  There are errors in timeline sequences and the ending is absolutely ridiculous.<br />I tried very hard to give this book a fair chance.  When I read the celebrity endorsements on the back cover, not only was I impressed but also I was appalled to notice a misspelled name.  However, I tried to overlook that minor problem because I knew she was self-published and I try to give those who self-publish the benefit of the doubt.  Within 5 pages of the novel, I lost count of the misspellings and grammatical mistakes.  I have had the book for months and I began reading it within a day of receiving it, however, I just finished the last 10 pages.  Why?  Because I found the story lacking in content, structure and strength.<br />This would have been a very good story if it had been developed properly.  The author has a good premise and the story has potential, because domestic violence is a very serious subject.  <br />Toi Moore took a difficult subject and tried to compress it into 177 pages.  With some help from an editor, the actual story could be expanded to well over 200 pages.  Toi Moore's motive is sincere, but her novel is lacking in many aspects.	2002-09-30
US	52606467	R15VC8CC4J9EBJ	097059030X	908631104	Blackfunk	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Interesting!	I was intrigued by the excerpt that I read on the author's website so of course I hurried to order the book.  However, in my initial reading of the novel I found the story was fraught with typos and errors with the characters and timeline sequences.  So for me it was quite frustrating.  In fact, I put this book down several times before I finally finished it. (I had to put it down when the character defines &quot;Blackfunk&quot;.)  <br />The story revolves around the two main characters as they embark on a relationship.  The author gives us a glimpse into their past to understand why being in a relationship for these two is difficult.  When the main male character must represent his friend in a case of &quot;Blackfunk&quot; that is when the reader doesn't want to stop reading.<br />The beginning leaves a bit to be desired, however, near the end the pace picks up and the drama increases.  I found it hard to put the book down once I got near the end.  However, most readers don't tough it out to find out if a book is worth reading.  If the book has problems in the beginning, most readers will put the book down to never pick it up again. In this case, it will be unfortunate because the ending is wonderful and makes the reader look forward to the sequel.	2002-09-30
US	52606467	R3AOXF2LYRVB5P	0970819129	60057158	Twilight Moods	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Steamy! Hot! Scorching! Scintillating!	I was so excited to get this collection of erotica by some of the best writers in today's fiction.  I recently read another book of erotica and was solely disappointed because that particular book lacked heat and didn't fit my definition of erotica.<br />This book of eroticism will hold your attention from the opening by Zane to the very last story by Tracey Price-Thompson.  This book was hot.  Almost all the stories involved your five senses, and erotica should caress each of your senses and provide a purely sexual charge.  This book was not a disappointment.<br />Some of the stand out stories were:  Bobby Q's Sauce by Lolita Files; Daydreaming at Night by Joylynn M. Jossell; Fuller, Deeper, Smoother by Timmothy McCann (one of personal favorites); Watering Cherry's Garden by William Frederick Cooper; Possessive Passion by Jacquie Bamberg Moore; and Idiot by Michael Presley.<br />Each is a story where erotic possession evolves into some very stimulating sexual encounters.  Some of the stories have twists and other will make you laugh but they will all make you sigh.	2002-09-11
US	52606467	R3LTWIMF74DHI7	0679766758	629371597	Push: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	So Real, So Raw	This is a wonderfully raw story of the affects of abuse on a very young girl.  Precious learns so much in a relatively short amount of time.  The story is graphic, honest, visually and emotionally real.  Knowing the affects of abuse on children, I saw in this story the patterns abuse victims suffer through.  <br />To think, if there was not that one teacher who took time to nurture, care and teach Precious, what would her world be like?  It is sad to think that in these times, Precious' story is not unique.  Her mother's reaction and contribution to the abuse is not unique.  Sapphire reminds us that the abuse is real and we must acknowledge it and finds ways to discourage it.<br />The story makes you laugh and cry but it does not allow you to give up hope.  I recommend this story to everyone to read and absorb, then maybe we can save a child's life.<br />To Sapphire, thank you for keeping it real!	2002-05-27
US	52606467	R2E0FQ7OPHNRPB	0684871440	830045435	Blind Ambitions: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Imani Book Club Review - Montgomery, AL	We found this book to be a very quick read.  The novel reminded us of the Jackie Collins' books about the shallowness of Hollywood life.  One of the main strengths of this novel is that the story kept you guessing until the very end.  Some of us liked the midilogues and some of us didn't because we found them confusing.  Since this book reminded us of the Hollywood novels by Collins, it is fair to say the story was shallow and offered little redeeming qualities.  The characters were not well developed and some of us found the story seemed rushed at the end.  However, the author does provide a strong message:  Ambition is key to anything you want to accomplish.  <br />Although, this was not our favorite File's story it provided something quick to read and gave us an opportunity to escape for a little while from our everyday lives.  The book club looks forward to our second novel on our syllabus this year by Files.	2002-05-22
US	52606467	R1CPZU9ZTDI1XH	0525946039	149958128	Between Lovers	Books	4	1	2	N	N	One of His Best!	I must commend Eric Jerome Dickey on writing such a challenging novel.  His command of the English language is remarkable in this novel.  As one reviewer has stated, he paints a picture with his words.  For me, this was one of Eric Jerome Dickey's finest novels.  I have had the book for over a year and recently finished it.  I think I procrastinated starting the novel because I was a bit disappointed with Liar's Game, but I was pleasantly surprised with Between Lovers.<br />He took a very sensitive, taboo and every man's fantasy subject and made it real.  He gave us an honest portrayal of three people caught in a love triangle.  He explored how love can be different for each person involved.  He showed us love is love no matter the sex.  He brought to life the controversy and stigmas and judgments involved in homosexual relationships and in behavior that is considered taboo or freaky.<br />Eric Jerome Dickey wove a tapestry of love and its complications.  I also love the style he used with this particular book, because we know the narrator but we don't know his name and that adds to the mystic and beauty of the novel.  To Eric Jerome Dickey, a job well done.  Beautiful book and story!	2002-05-10
US	52606467	R29TTCOJJNBBSO	0970465203	33289116	Shattered Souls	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Imani Book Club's Reading List	Shattered Souls is an easy and exciting book to read.  It touches all your emotions.  The story line and details keep you interested and not wanting to put the book down.  The characters and storyline are well developed.  It is a great read for both males and females.<br />This is a story of four friends who have had their own personal struggles, but they are still able to survive.  They deal with their issues and try to accept their past.  They are able to express their opinions and feelings and still remain friends.  This book gives you an idea of how true friendship really can be.<br />I would and I did recommend it to our book club.  This was a really good book.<br />Imani Sister:  Mary	2002-04-25
US	52606467	RD55Q0KHN5DAN	0451201345	75400210	Liar's Game	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not My Favorite EJD Story!	I am a huge fan of Eric Jerome Dickey, however, this novel was my least favorite.  It was a title for my book club's February selection and the majority of the members were truly disappointed with the novel.  Only one member truly loved the book.  The writing wasn't the biggest problem.  The character development was weak at best, usually reading EJD's main characters you feel some empathy for them.  I found it hard to like Vince or Dana.  The message of the book is truly an inspired one and makes the book worth reading yet you must get past the slow beginning.  The story really gets interesting near the end if you can wait that long. <br />Every story cannot be great or perfect.  This less than perfect story will not discourage me from reading future works of Eric Jerome Dickey.	2002-02-18
US	52606467	R18WG8H5CV526P	0446676918	691363051	Black Silk: A Collection of African American Erotica	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Wonderful!	I have read several erotica anthologies and this by far is the best.  The range of authors and stories are wonderful.  The stories are not tacky, but erotic without being disgusting.  I loved the different authors who contributed to this anthology because you got to read something different from their usual writing styles.  <br />The stories will make you think, laugh, cry and smile a secret smile.  I loved the Eric Jerome Dickey story and Lolita Files has me looking and thinking about roses differently after reading her tale.  All the stories are worthwhile reads and I commend Retha Powers on her ability to pull together stories so diverse and well written.	2002-02-18
US	52606467	R3IYQY7Z4NTOQQ	0684856115	175166568	Sweet St. Louis : AN Urban Love Story	Books	3	0	0	N	N	I Know He Did Not Just Leave Me Hanging!	This was my first Omar Tyree novel.  Prior to this novel, I really had not been interested in reading his novels.  However, I met him at a literary event and found him to be a dynamic speaker.  <br />This is a story of Ant and Sharron's journey into true love.  There was some great dialogue involving the characters which would spark some great discussion in a mixed gender book club meeting.  Although the characters themselves were well developed, their romance was not.  At one point, I was really disappointed that Tyree would have the female character make the choice she did, when he created her to be at a crossroads in her life as far as relationships were concerned. I wished the romance had been more developed so you could actually feel it.<br />The ending is why I really rated the book a three star.  Tyree left his readers hanging.  No conclusion.  No closure.  He left the ending up to the reader's imagination.  That wasn't fair. However, I am still glad I did venture into Tyree's world.	2001-10-19
US	52606467	R1730AJ3KXG4P5	0684853418	244523164	Reinventing The Woman: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Perfect Title	The title of this novel is perfect for a story of an abuse victim finding herself after such a devestating period in her life.  Camille the main character suffered at the hands of her boyfriend Evan for many years and in the process losing her self worth and self-esteem.  The reader journeys with the victim on her quest to regain herself.  However, the abuse was only one issue the victim was dealing with.  <br />Returning home after the last physical confrontation with Evan, Camille reacquaints herself with her family.  During her return a family secret is revealed.  With the revelation, months of personal growth and realizing she was not ready for a permanent relationship with Greg our story ends.  The author leaves us with a resolution but more questions.  The end just was not complete.<br />I appreciated the Rules at the beginning of the Chapters as well as the raw emotion the author was able to give to Camille.  Ms. Rice eloquently put into words the depth of emotions victims of domestic violence experience.	2001-10-03
US	52606467	R34EVOY082ZR8K	0525945687	662398497	Four Guys and Trouble	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Another Job Well Done!	This second full novel was a wonderful and well crafted read. As always, Major has a wonderful sense of humor and couple with a warm hearted story this was a hard to put down book. The characters were very different as they search for that special someone. The issues touched upon are issues many in our communities deal with everyday. No relationship is perfect and nothing can be done to make a doomed relationship better if the feelings are one sided.<BR>Readers will get a chance to laugh and think about some of the games single men and women play. However, in the end love prevails.	2001-09-14
US	52606467	RRIXHAP6NVO7S	0380977338	622869821	I Wish I Had a Red Dress	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Joyce's Story!	Pearl Cleage newest novel is written in the voice of Joyce, Ava's sister.  This is not the sequel to What Looks Like Crazy..., but a follow up to the story.  The reader gets to read about Joyce and see how she views the world, in her voice.  The story re-introduces us to the Sewing Circus and some of the townsfolk of Idlewild.  Again, the author describes the town with a rich vibrancy.  It was nice to see Joyce tackle the dating scene after such a long hiatus.  The male character is taught several lessons by Joyce.  I was impressed that Joyce never compromised her beliefs and her strengths as she embarked on the relationship.<br />This story tackles issues such as domestic violence, feminism, and love.<br />Although, Ava, Eddie and Imani were not in this story their absence was explained early in the novel.  Having actually spoken and heard from the author her reasoning for leaving Ava out of the story, I understand.<br />This is not What Looks Like Crazy..., but it is a wonderfully written novel that should give hope and inspiration to all women whether young or old.	2001-08-22
US	52606467	R1ESA583S11X0F	0451202236	68493088	Got to be Real: Four Original Love Stories	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wonderful!	I preordered this novel when I heard several of my favorite authors had come together for this compilation.  This book had four different love stories that were written by four very different writers.  Each story reflected their differences.  Oh, what wonderful stories they were.<br />Eric Jerome Dickey's story is a departure from his usual humorous and crafty dialogue.  It is well written and the dialogue is great, but avid Dickey fans will immediately read the difference.<br />Marcus Major's story is the love story of Kenya and Amir.  I actually read Good Peoples before this compilation, so you know I was scratching my head until I realize that it was the prequel to Good Peoples.  Major writes beautifully and he has a way of making you laugh and cry at the same time.<br />All I can say about E. Lynn Harris' story, is Thank Goodness!  He has returned to writing in the style that I became accustomed to when I read his very first novel.  A love story with heart.  The love scenes have returned to this story, because in most of his recent novels he has tamed them down, but not in this story.  I loved this story.<br />Those who know me, know I love anything written by Colin Channer.  I find his writing profound, beautiful, and rich with descriptive phrases.  He can turn a phrase into its most eloquent form.  His writing is so classy and eclectic.  His style is so different and yet so awe inspiring.  When I read anything by him, he transports me into the story where I feel his words.  I feel the heat he has generated.  I just feel.<br />This compilation of short stories is a wonderful way to inspire your own love story.  Wonderful!	2001-08-22
US	52606467	R3SJJ1RTLDLYRC	0967460174	880046587	Addicted	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Too Hot to Put Down	I read this novel in one day. It literally was too hot to put down.  The explicit eroticism was a page turner.  As the reader, you just had to know why Zoe and her husband had the problems they had.  This novel was chosen by two of my book club members and I don't think they realized how explicitly the sex was going to be discussed in this story.  <br />The story serves up several twists and turns.  At times, it appears that the author has a lot she wants to discuss but doesn't have enough time to really delve into the issues.  For me the most memorable scene is when Zoe shows the love she has for her husband in such a profound and climatic way.<br />I have read several of the reviews that rated the novel under five.  I too, agree with the editing problems that I found at times to be distracting.  I also had some issues with the terminology used in the different eras the story covers.  I also remember thinking in the back of mind about safe sex and the main character never once mentioning the use of condoms, but I kept saying to myself that this was a work of fiction.  However, I think this is a wonderful discussion novel with its mistakes and all.	2001-08-21
US	52606467	RK1TE73XPN76D	1575667576	330429466	Forever	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Forever is Fulfilled	I have anxiously awaited the conclusion to Until... and it was well worth the wait.  I needed to know what happened to Betty and Andrew and my questions were answered.  The couple was faced with the problems many marriages face.  Life in general can throw you through some loops and the love the characters had for one another was tested in the beginning of their marriage.  The author gave us insight into there struggles and encourage the belief in their faith to see them through.  <br />You almost want to dislike Betty but you realize there are two people in a marriage and they both have faults.  Timmothy is able to write in a manner that encourages the reader to understand the characters and feel their love for one another.  Another story well done.	2001-08-21
US	52606467	R130KH6XPYLUWT	0948390611	500304291	Preconceived Notions	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Haunting Truth	Preconceived Notions is a sincere glimpse into the life of a victim of child sexual abuse (incest). A reader unfamiliar with the effects of sexual abuse on a child will garner a true understanding of how child abuse  affects the growth, life and circumstances of a victim. <br />Ms. Williams has  tapped into the mind of victims and made a character that is truly  believable.  The story is a page turner.  You just have to find out what  will happen to the main characters.  Ms. Williams was not afraid to tackle  some often difficult subjects to write about including domestic violence.   <br />Although some portions of the story are predictable, a reader still is  engrossed in how the situations will resolved themselves.  This is a  wonderful love story too.  You will find that you empathize with some of  the characters and hate and feel sorrow for some of the less likeable ones.   I cannot wait until I read her new novel.  I am sure it will be wonderful  as well.	2000-06-22
US	52606467	R51QU2T3YQ09Q	0380805790	411774905	Until...	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wonderful!	I am so proud of the writings of this new talent.  Once I started reading the book, I just could not stop. His sensitivity to the characters was so overwhelming because he made them seem so real.  To be able to write female  characters with such depth is to be commended, there are some female  writers who cannot do that.  He wrote of pain, love, disappointment and  betrayal, which everyone can relate to.  No male or female bashing.  This  is a wonderful story of young people surviving and waiting Until they reach  their potential whether it be love, work or even friendship. A great read  for all.  Thank you Timmothy for such an inspirational start. I cannot wait  until the next book!	1999-06-30
US	52606467	R2FI78FAMP76U1	0345411781	415512987	Waiting in Vain	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Wonderful First Time Novel	Waiting In Vain is a keep you moving kind of book.  You are drawn into the  complexed lives of artists, writers and musicians.  A world that is  unfamiliar to mine.  I found the book at times so erotic, I had to escape  from its pull before I too, fall under the spell of Channer's eroticism and  passion.  The characters are complexed, educated and full of emotion; good,  bad and ugly.  Their struggles with love are recognizable by all who have  ever felt the pain, fear and happiness of love.  Although there is a lull  before the end of the book, hold on, the end is like the beginning, you  just can't stop reading.  Great work.  I am proud of this first time  novelist.	1998-08-23
