US	52618361	R33YDZMZ2NHIME	0974575038	148349185	Goodbye Gutenberg: How a Bronx Teacher Defied 500 Years of Tradition and Launched an Astonishing Renaissance (Designer Writers)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Passionate	Valerie Kirschenbaum has written a richly illustrated and well researched volume on the changing face of writing and book publishing. Her passion and interest for the subject of combining illustration and color to enhance meaning of the written word come through brilliantly in her prose.<br /><br />Although I cannot agree with Valerie that plain text publishing will soon become (or should become) obsolete, I am impressed  with the argument she makes for an enhanced style of information presentation.	2005-04-10
US	52618361	RWQB0IMMO6R0H	0971758832	254398037	Cracking the Code (3rd Edition)	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Enlightening and Vitriolic	This book shows how every person born in the USA has associated with him or her an ALL CAPITAL LETTERS Trade Name which, according to the authors, is the only legal way the government or any corporation can deal with a flesh and blood human being.<br />The book shows how to take legal ownership of your trade name.<br />If you don't believe you have an ALL CAPS trade name, look on your credit card, birth certificate, drivers license, marriage license, voter registration card, mortgage, checks, legal documents, any bill from any corporation, etc.<br />The authors assert (with copious references) that the United States is a corporation, legally incorporating in 1871, that the United States is in fact the District of Columbia and is legally a 'foreign state' to the other 50 states, that the United States is bankrupt (1933), that the IRS and Federal Reserve are private corporations and have no association whatsoever with the government of the US; that the Secretary of the Treasury is the receiver in bankruptcy of the corporation 'United States', that the Secretary of the Treasury is a euphemism for the actual title 'Secretary of the Treasury of Puerto Rico', among other things!<br />Although this book reads at times like the rantings of a conspiracy theorist, there is a reference for every assertion.  Of course, you will have to make up your own mind about the validity of the quoted references. I am not a lawyer and so cannot determine the validity of such.<br />For all of its vitriol against the 'Masters of Control', I found this book to be very enlightening. It certainly is a different explanation than you heard in school, read about in the newspapers and hear on the news!<br />There can be no doubt of the existence of the trade name, I have checked that out thoroughly in my own case, and in a friend's as well.<br />The book is not just spewing accusations, but gives concrete remedies for taking ownership of your trade name so that those who want to take advantage of your ignorance of the system, may be foiled.<br />According to the authors, the UCC is the highest legal authority on the planet, superceeding even the laws of national governments (this includes, of course, the laws of the US).<br />There are templates in the book (with understandable explanations) of all of the legal forms necessary to take ownership of your trade name and become, legally, a sovereign. If it is true that the only way governments and corporations can deal with you is through your trade name, then this book should be considered vital reading.<br />I only wish the authors had left out their personal opinions and anger at 'the system' and had just presented the facts. That is the reason for the 4 stars instead of 5.<br />I'd be interested in reading other reviews of this book to see what others think.ance of the system, may be foiled.<BR>According to the authors, the UCC is the highest legal authority on the planet, superceeding even the laws of national governments (this includes, of course, the laws of the US).<BR>There are templates in the book (with understandable explanations) of all of the legal forms necessary to take ownership of your trade name and become, legally, a sovereign. If it is true that the only way governments and corporations can deal with you is through your trade name, then this book should be considered vital reading.<BR>I only wish the authors had left out their personal opinions and anger at 'the system' and had just presented the facts. That is the reason for the 4 stars instead of 5.<BR>I'd be interested in reading other reviews of this book to see what others think.	2002-08-08
US	52618361	R3JAKLYX0AIDVI	0201408252	165980351	Six Easy Pieces: Essentials Of Physics Explained By Its Most Brilliant Teacher (Helix Book)	Books	5	27	27	N	Y	Concepts in Physics	This book explains some basic concepts in physics so well that even someone who doesn't like physics might enjoy it! 'Six Easy Pieces' are 6 lectures from Feynman's complete 'Lectures on Physics', chosen for their accessibility to the general public.<br />Feynman, like all great teachers, understands his subject so well that he is able to explain the concepts behind it in clear, simple terms.<br />There are 6 chapters in the book, all of them generalized lectures on topics in physics. Feynman explains the structure of the atom and there is a very excellent description of charge and how atoms attract each other.<br />I really enjoyed the chapter on the relationship of physics to the other sciences, especially chemistry and biology. There is even a section on the relationship of physics to psychology.<br />Chapter 5 is on gravity and there is a great explanation of Kepler's laws of planetary motion and Newtons law of gravitation. These ideas are explained so understandably, I felt like I received a clear conceptual picture of what is happening.<br />But the highlight of the book for me is Chapter 6 on quantum behavior. Feynman explains the wave-particle duality and the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle so well that I really felt I understood the basic ideas. I am just a layman but I found I could really get what he was saying.<br />Another thing I liked about the book is its honesty. If there is something physics does not understand, Feyman admits it, outlining the parameters of knowledge but acknowledging deficiencies.<br />The author doesn't come across as a know-it-all, and doesn't 'talk down' to the reader, something which I find refreshing in a science book.<br />Like any book by Richard Feynman, this one is a delight to read. Informative, honest and with that unique Feynman ability to make even the most complex ideas understandable to the intelligent layman.	2002-07-11
US	52618361	R3JWUDV855DW9G	0192834630	569102650	The Vicomte de Bragelonne (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Stands the test of Time	I have a copy of this book dated 1910, it was my mother-in-law's. One day I picked it up on a whim, and was instantly pulled into Dumas' narrative. This is a very well-written and entertaining story set in the period during the very beginning of the reign of Louis XIV.<br />Dumas has a way of transporting you back in time. His writing is effortless, and flows smoothly from one chapter to the next. He is a great storyteller, and the dialog is superb.<br />What fascinated me the most about this story was the historical portaits. I always wondered about the period in English history after Cromwell and before Charles II. Dumas describes the situation and gives fascinating descriptions of the personalities of Lambert and Monk, the 2 English generals struggling for power after the fall of Cromwell's son.<br />There are also very interesting descriptions of Charles II (Stuart), Louis XIV, and Cardinal Mazarin, along with a description of the political situation in France at the time (1660).<br />I checked my 1910 translation with the sample pages of this book and discovered it to be almost identical, the only differences being the substitution of some of the French words left in my translation, to English.<br />I found the Vicomte de Bragelonne to be refreshing, entertaining and even a little educational.	2002-06-04
US	52618361	R2T1CTNL1EXBJO	0691024170	348587138	QED: The Strange Theory of Light and Matter	Books	5	79	79	N	N	Entertaining and Informative	A book on physics that is entertaining? Hard to believe, but during the reading of this book I not only got a grasp on some of the fundamental concepts of Quantum Electro Dynamics, but thoroughly enjoyed the way it was explained. Feynman is a master teacher. He has the ability to take complex concepts and boil them down so that even a physics dummy can understand them. It is obvious when reading the text how complete Feynman's understanding of the material is. You know how you can read a science book and not really get what the author is trying to explain? Sometimes that comes from your own lack of intelligence, but a lot of times it's because the author wasn't totally clear about what he was writing. In this book, you really get the underlying concepts becasue Feynman's understanding of the subject is so complete. I found myself absorbing some of the QED concepts almost by osmosis.<br />The book is composed of 4 lectures Feynman gave at UCLA in the  mid 80's.<br />QED is about the interaction of light and matter. Feynman starts the explanation of QED by dealing with the partial reflection of light onto 2 surfaces of glass, and uses arrow diagrams to make the explanation easy to understand.<br />He uses the arrow diagrams in the other lectures which continue the discussion of QED's attempt to explain the interaction of photons with matter. The last lecture deals with subatomic particles and QED's relationship to the rest of physics.<br />The part of the book I enjoyed most was the 3rd lecture called &quot;Electrons and Their Interactions&quot; which explains how electrons go from point to point in space/time. He gets into the famous &quot;Feynman Diagrams&quot; showing how electrons and photons seem to travel backwards in time, and how photons can go faster or slower than the conventional speed of light. It's fascinating!<br />What's great about these lectures is their clarity and humor. The author doesn't take himself too seriously and as a result the book is a delight to read, as well as being enlightening.<br />Kudo's as well to the editor who distilled the material down to a manageable length of 152 pages.<br />Can a book on Quantum Electro Dynamics be really fun to read? This one is.o read, as well as being enlightening. <BR>Kudo's as well to the editor who distilled the material down to a manageable length of 152 pages.<BR>Can a book on Quantum Electro Dynamics be really fun to read? This one is.	2002-03-06
US	52618361	R2JIP9H0OBX5T6	0020653204	600843433	Synergetics: Explorations in the Geometry of Thinking	Books	5	77	78	N	N	A  Work of Genius	...Synergetics is the clearest, most comprehensive attempt to explain the universe, and universal phenomena, that I have ever read. It is one man's  attempt to link the language of science to the common layman.<br />Fuller defines synergy as follows \\"behavior of whole systems unpredicted by the behavior of their parts taken separately.\\" (Synergetics, p. 3)<br />Fuller suggests that breaking down a subject and studying its parts separately, as is done in science today, can never lead to a comprehensive understanding of the whole. He writes \\"nature has only one department and one language.\\" (Synergetics II, p 234). Fuller on PI: \\"To how many places does nature carry out PI when she makes each successive bubble in the white-cresting surf of each successive wave before nature finds out that PI can never be resolved?... And at what moment in the making of each separate bubble in Universe  does nature decide to terminate her eternally frustrated calculating and instead turn out a fake sphere? I answered myself that I don't think nature is using PI or any of the irrational fraction constants of physics.\\" (Synergetics II, p. 233).<br />Fuller explains the universe through geometry. Geometry is the study of structure, and the relationship between objects (and points of perception) within space. The topics covered range from numerology to architecture to the nature and structure of the universe itself. Fuller explains scientific concepts in terms that anyone can understand. His insights are often astonishing.<br />Fuiller understands the universe throught the geometric form called the tetrahedron. The tetrahedron, according to Fuller,  is the basis for all structure in existence, and he has built a system of thought, and a geometry, consistent throughout, from the ground up, explaining everything from atomic structure to galaxies. Fuller uses the tetrahedron as the basis to construct his tenegrity structures, the geodesic dome, and the octet truss, among others, which are used in industrial and residential applications. Fuller was a genius, but not an esoteric one. All of his theories have practical applications.<br />This is not an easy book to read, as Fuller's language is dry and precise. But the book is filled with diagrams and charts that flesh out the text. This is a massive work, a work of a true genius.<br />Anyone who is interested in \\"how things work\\" should not fail to read this book . There is no math (other than arithmetic) necessary to understand everything in the book. Only an inquiring mind that is open to new ideas.industrial and residential applications. Fuller was a genius, but not an esoteric one. All of his theories have practical applications. <BR>This is not an easy book to read, as Fuller's language is dry and precise. But the book is filled with diagrams and charts that flesh out the text. This is a massive work, a work of a true genius. <BR>Anyone who is interested in \\"how things work\\" should not fail to read this book . There is no math (other than arithmetic) necessary to understand everything in the book. Only an inquiring mind that is open to new ideas.	2002-02-10
US	52618361	R23QSJQH2T2ZGE	0060609125	144768322	Kinship with All Life	Books	5	91	91	N	N	Inspirational	When my friend gave me this book to read, I groaned inwardly. &quot;Oh no,&quot; I said to myself, &quot;not another cutsy-cutsy book about animals.&quot; Boy was I wrong! This little book is one of the most profound I have ever read. I certainly will never look at another creature ever again without recognizing the consciousness inhabiting it.<br />The majority of the  book is about the author's consciousness-raising experience with an amazing dog named Strongheart, who taught the author that every creature has within it an aware being. The story of the author's unfoldment of awareness is simply mind-blowing. I am going to buy and give away copies of this little book to all of my friends. It's NOT just about animals, and communication with them, but about life, the universe, and everything (no joke!). From his interaction with animals the author gained insight into the nature of existence itself.<br />Even if every story in the book was made-up, it still wouldn't detract from it's impact -- these are well-written  stories which all have a deep and inspiring message.<br />I can't recommend this book highly enough, I consider it a must-read for every human being. Published in 1954, it is still in print, which should tell you something about the quality of this narrative.<br />Enlightening and inspirational!	2002-01-22
US	52618361	R3ROVRCCTTHDII	0878770534	902149059	Numerology the Complete Guide, Volume I: The Personality Reading	Books	5	23	23	N	Y	Thorough and Well Written	Having done numerology now for many years, I must agree with all previous reviewers. This 2 volume set is the clearest written, most thorough and complete guide to the subject of numerology. It is the book I most refer to when doing readings, and it covers all aspects of the subject.<br />The only drawback the 2 books present to an aspiring numerologist is, paradoxically, its strength: being such a complete guide to the subject, there may a tendency to rotely follow the examples given, neglecting your own intuition when doing a reading. Of course, it is important to &quot;read what the numbers say,&quot; but the overall tone of a reading must also come from a connection to source energy through your own intuition. But this is really a trivial point in comparison to the excellence of Mr. Goodwin's work.<br />The 2 volume set comes complete with tables and descriptions for every part of a reading, and Mr. Goodwin has many sample readings which will get you started.<br />Without question, this 2 volume set is the best description of the subject you can find, and should be required reading for any numerologist.	2002-01-13
US	52618361	R3H3GWJN0GAYB6	091581160X	700066181	The Life You Were Born to Live: A Guide to Finding Your Life Purpose	Books	5	26	28	N	N	A Perceptive Guide to Your Life Path	I have been a numerologist for many years, and I use this book often as a guide. Mr. Millman has a very strong connection to source energy, and I have found his life path descriptions to be<br />uncannily accurate.<br />Although not a complete guide to numerology, I always refer to this book when describing the Life Path in my readings. It gives a useful description of a person's  general vibration for each birth date.<br />Mr. Millman is not didactic in his presentation -- the book is well written, easy to follow, and very helpful. If you are new to the subject of numerology, reading your own life path description will be revelatory! And you can use it to help your friends discover more about themselves.<br />If you are a professional numerologist, Millman does not use master numbers, but prefers a reduction where all of the numbers are added singly and summed. I have found this system to be useful, but sometimes resulting in loss of information. But as an overall guide to the life path, I have found this book to be invaluable.<br />What I like most about the book is its overall tone. There is an energy of clarity and helpfulness that comes through the pages, every time I refer to it. It seems to spark my own intuition!<br />For the professional numerologist or those who are just curious, this is a book well worth studying.	2002-01-13
US	52618361	R13IHBZODH2Q2F	0060926716	584284045	A Beginner's Guide to Constructing the Universe: Mathematical Archetypes of Nature, Art, and Science	Books	5	187	189	N	N	Relates Geometry to Life	This is a very well written book that relates some basic  concepts in geometry to science, architecture and life. Each of the ten chapters is about a geometric shape and Mr. Schneider shows how to construct it using only compass and straight-edge. The author begins every construction from a circle, and every line is shown as the intersection of two or more circles. This is consistent with his assertion in Chapter One that the circle is Unity, but I believe it is also more accurate geometrically.<br />Mr. Schneider gets into the Platonic Solids, explains the golden section and its use in architecture and nature, shows the regularity in nature and a lot more. This is a very educational book that covers a lot of ground, and does so in an entertaining way.<br />What I really like about the book is the author's ability to bring geometry to life. There are many diagrams, drawings and pictures which make it easy to follow the text.<br />The book is written for the layman, not the mathematician. If you are looking for a more rigorous introduction to geometry, try reading H.M.S. Coxeter (if you can!).<br />This book would be a nice companion to &quot;The Power of Limits&quot; by Doczi,  'The Geometry of Art and Life&quot; by Ghyka, and &quot;The Divine Proportion&quot; by Huntley.<br />If I had to recommend only one book about geometry for the average reader, this book would be my first choice.	2002-01-10
US	52618361	R2BWQ9235QU2GH	0932813445	590379721	The Energy Grid: Harmonic 695: The Pulse of the Universe [The Investigation into the World Energy Grid]	Books	5	90	98	N	N	A Different Explanation	This book is not for those who believe in the &quot;accepted wisdom.&quot; Throughout the history of science, groundbreaking work has always been reviled by those in the mainstream, and that applies to all of Cathie's books.<br />For all but the most terminally stupid, the existence of UFO's is an established fact, unexplainable by modern science. Yet UFO's do exist. Therefore, there is something out there that science does not understand. Mr. Cathie makes an exceedingly interesting, non-conformist attempt to explain this phenomenon.<br />Cathie is a former airline pilot from New Zealand who personally observed a number of unidentified objects, plotted their courses, and noticed a pattern, from which he inferred a global grid of electromagnetic energy.  This global grid has subsequently been substantiated by Becker and Hagens, among others.<br />Essentially, Cathie argues that UFO's, nuclear facilities, and ancient monuments are places of power, and in order to utilize this power, must be placed in precise geometric positions relative to the earth's surface, and sometimes, to each other. He has also noticed mathematical constants which keep coming up in his investigations.<br />The arguments against Cathie all come down to his unusual use of mathematics, which he calls &quot;harmonic math,&quot; in which the  decimal point is sometimes inventively placed. But because harmonics can easily be observed in music and nature, this is not such a radical concept. Cathie's books contain harmonic studies of various places on the globe (including Stonehenge), showing the geometric relationships in their construction and placement. He asserts the impossibility of nuclear war, because, he claims, a nuclear device, in order to detonate, must be placed not only in a precise geometric position relative to the earth, but also to the sun, and that the timing of the detonation is crucial. He says that all of the possible places and times for nuclear explosions have been worked out by the governments of the earth in advance! This from a man who predicted beforehand the dates and times of the French nuclear tests at Mururoa Island in the south pacific in 1968.<br />Cathie claims to have uncovered the relationship between gravity, light, and mass, and shows in later books tables of these values with their interrelationships.<br />Whether or not you agree with any of his claims, the book makes very interesting reading. It presents ideas which challenge the accepted wisdom, and makes a unique stab at explaining phenomenon which are at present poorly understood.<br />If you are someone who will not accept anything you haven't learned in a classroom, heard on CNN or NPR or read in the New York Times, avoid this book. You will find it incomprehensible and a waste of time. If you are a mainstream scientist you will probably find it ludicrous.<br />However, if  you are willing to open up a littlle bit to some new ideas, you might enjoy it.<br />The book is not a light read. You will be required to expend some effort, but it is worthwhile effort that will challenge your present conception of reality.ernments of the earth in advance! This from a man who predicted beforehand the dates and times of the French nuclear tests at Mururoa Island in the south pacific in 1968.<BR>Cathie claims to have uncovered the relationship between gravity, light, and mass, and shows in later books tables of these values with their interrelationships. <BR>Whether or not you agree with any of his claims, the book makes very interesting reading. It presents ideas which challenge the accepted wisdom, and makes a unique stab at explaining phenomenon which are at present poorly understood.<BR>If you are someone who will not accept anything you haven't learned in a classroom, heard on CNN or NPR or read in the New York Times, avoid this book. You will find it incomprehensible and a waste of time. If you are a mainstream scientist you will probably find it ludicrous.<BR>However, if  you are willing to open up a littlle bit to some new ideas, you might enjoy it.<BR>The book is not a light read. You will be required to expend some effort, but it is worthwhile effort that will challenge your present conception of reality.	2001-12-29
US	52618361	R1U51K5G2ULC9Y	0877731934	70651831	Power of Limits: Proportional Harmonies in Nature, Art, and Architecture	Books	5	58	60	N	Y	Elegant	This beautifully illustrated and diagrammed book attempts to show the harmony that exists in nature and all good art and architecture. Not only that, Doczi attempts to weave into this picture, (with some success) Pythagorean concepts of harmony and it's relation to growth in nature.<br />The essential concept in this book is the 'power of limits.'  Doczi shows that this limiting factor is the golden section. And he does it using almost no math! The golden section has the powerful quality that division or expansion by this proportion always leads to harmonious growth. No matter how small or large is the division, there is never anything &quot;left over&quot; to create disharmony. This limiting factor is of transcendental power, thus &quot;The Power of Limits.&quot;<br />Unregulated growth could never achieve anything but randomness, which is not what we observe in nature.<br />Of course in nature and in life it is impossible to achieve  perfection. Yet Doczi elegantly explains how nature compensates for this inability by using the Fibonnaci sequence instead. Profusely illustrated with many detailed, easy-to-understand diagrams, this book is a must for those who wish to understand more deeply how our world is constructed, without wading through a lot of math.	2001-12-28
US	52618361	R40XQ29MDQUHV	0486235424	984807045	The Geometry of Art and Life	Books	5	112	114	N	Y	Accessible and Fascinating	This excellent book, written in 1946, still remains in print, and for good reason. Ghyka shows mathematically that objects in nature are not randomly formed, but all have regularity and harmony.<br />Beginning with the concepts of ratio and proportion in the plane, the Golden Section, and then to regular polygons and geometric shapes in 3 dimensions, Ghyka demonstrates these patterns with simple algebra and geometry, and plenty of diagrams.<br />He explains the logarithmic spiral and its role in harmonious growth in nature, with photographs and diagrams. He shows how ancient builders used the Golden Section in their architecture and in their art. This book is a wonderful weaving of philosophy, mathematics  and science, covering a lot of ground, and is very well-written. It is nothing like trying to wade through H.M.S. Coxeter! This book would be a fine companion  to Cook's &quot;The Curves of Life,&quot; fleshing out the concepts presented there.<br />This little book is a gem -- there is a tremendous amount of information packed into its 174 pages, yet it is understandable to the layperson. And it is aptly titled. It truly is about &quot;The Geometry of Art and Life.&quot;<br />If you are one of those observant persons who is looking for a more detailed understanding of the underlying patterns in nature, art and architecture,  and you don't mind spending a little time going through some simple algebra and geometry, this is the book for you.	2001-12-28
US	52618361	R3GGVRDLQ6MGVL	188907117X	554782162	The Code - 1997	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Mindblowing -- not for the weak-minded	Carl Munck has discovered that all of the pyramids, mounds, and ancient structures (such as Stonehenge) are all related to each other mathematically on a grid. In a presentation which requires no more understanding of math than multiplication and division, he presents irrefutable  evidence that the builders of ancient structures were not &quot;hairy barbarians&quot;, but advanced in the subjects of mathematics, geodetics and architecture. He shows that they thoroughly understood the concepts of PI, the Radian, trigonometry, the circumference of the earth, and a lot more besides!<br />Mr. Munck is a retired USAF colonel.<br />The planetary grid Mr. Munck has discovered is an elegant mathematical strucutre in which each object has a precise place. These ancient objects were built to be deciphered by obvious means: the physical characteristics of the structure itself. By simply observing the object's geometry, it's position on the planetary grid can be obtained. The author presents his case clearly, complete with detailed maps showing the precise position of all objects under discussion, and many drawings.<br />Mr. Munck shows that the key to the deciphering of this  planetary grid is the Great Pyramid in Egypt, and that previous attempts to find relationships between these structures failed becuase of the use of the Greenwich meridian. Use of Greenwich does not show any correlations at all, however, when the precise longitude of the Great Pyramid is used, viola!! all of the structures fit neatly into place. The Great Pyramid also turns out to be the master index of the global grid.<br />The implications of this are enormous -- too enormous for Carl to have had his books published in the mainstream press. It quite simply blows away the subjects of archaeology and ancient history. Those academics who have built their careers on knowledge of these subjects want nothing to do with Carl's work -- but it is now available to the layman. I would suggest that you read it -- your world will never be the same again. That is why in the title to this review I say it is not for the weak-minded-- if you are one of those terminal skeptics who will only accept what you learned at University, or from CNN, or the New York Times, or NPR, don't bother reading this. You will hate it. But, if you are willing to expand your mental horizons, this book will be a revelation to you.<br />This book is, quite simply, a work of genius. I am very pleased that it is now available at Amazon. If you want an exciting, mindblowing read that takes a little effort (but not too much!), pick this one up.d will never be the same again. That is why in the title to this review I say it is not for the weak-minded-- if you are one of those terminal skeptics who will only accept what you learned at University, or from CNN, or the New York Times, or NPR, don't bother reading this. You will hate it. But, if you are willing to expand your mental horizons, this book will be a revelation to you.<BR>This book is, quite simply, a work of genius. I am very pleased that it is now available at Amazon. If you want an exciting, mindblowing read that takes a little effort (but not too much!), pick this one up.	2001-12-27
US	52618361	R3P81GHJHNHLW2	0935526455	374207515	Captain Blood (Classics of Naval Fiction)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Carribean Adventure	I have 10 of the novels of Rafael Sabatini. Being a writer myself, I am constantly learning from this gentleman the proper use of the English language. Sabatini applies Occam's Razor to the language, evoking the most meaning from the fewest words. I have found myself often buried in the dictionary, looking up the meaning of wonderful, evocative words which have been forgotten in today's over-technical writing style.  I have often just had to put a book of his down to figure out how he expressed this or that scene, or emotion, in so few words. Reading his novels is a writers delight!<br />This book is set in the late 17th century, when Spain ruled the seas of the Carribean. It is about Peter Blood, a physician who is sent as a slave to the island of Barbados, and who winds up leading a group of pirates out of Tortuga, in all sorts of interesting adventures on the sea, usually against Spanish shps.<br />All of Sabatini's novels are romances, and this is no exception. Peter Blood is a man of intelligence and refinement, holding a high sense of honor, and Sabatini makes you really like and identify with the character.<br />I had my atlas out while reading this one and learned all about the Carribbean and its islands, the Spanish Main, and naval warfare.<br />This is a delightful, superbly written book,a real page turner.	2001-12-26
US	52618361	R1Z4KSO3DVZV9O	014014739X	701670710	Journey through Genius: The Great Theorems of Mathematics	Books	5	107	110	N	Y	Brings Mathematics To Life!	William Dunham has brought life to a subject that almost everyone considers dull, boring and dead. Dunham investigates and explains, in easy-to-understand language and simple algebra, some of the most famous theorems of mathematics. But what sets this book apart is his descriptions of the mathemeticians themselves, and their lives. It becomes easier to understand their thinking process, and thus to understand their theorems.<br />I am a layman with a computer science degree, and a layman's understanding of mathematics, so I am no expert! But I loved this book.<br />I found Dunham's description of Archimedes' life and his reasoning for finding the area of a circle and volume of a cylinder to be (almost!) riveting.<br />Dunham's decription of Cantor and his reasoning regarding the cardinality of infinite sets was fascinating to me. But most of all, I loved his chapter on Leonhard Euler. Having in high school been fascinated by Euler's derivation of e^(i*PI) = -1, I was even more amazed at the scope of this man's genius, and Dunham's description of his life.<br />The chapter on Isaac Newton is an especially good one as well.<br />Dunham smartly weaves these important theorems of mathematics into the history of mathematics, making this book even more understandable, and, dare I say it,  actually entertaining!<br />This book is a gem, and for anyone interested in mathematics, it is not to be missed.	2001-12-26
US	52618361	R1YNDOCAEL0HIK	0061056480	411840348	The Time Ships	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Imaginative	I had a great time reading this book. Steven Baxter tries to keep some of the characters (Weena, Morlocks, the narrator) and some of the plot, I guess maybe not to (upset) a lot of people, but his imagination is so vast that, by the end,  the book sprirals off into a tale of cosmic proportions. I love time travel stories, and this is one of the best, imaginative and far-reaching in the tradition of the original novel. Baxter's concept of the gigantic world-ring around the sun is spectacular. His alternate-earth timeline is fascinating, as well as being a message to us all. I simply could not put this book down when  I read it a few years ago. It remains on my shelf in a place of prominence so I can get to it again!<br />Baxter has a way of explaining the concepts of quantum physics and effortlessly weaving these concepts into his stories.<br />This is a very well-written book that holds together from start to finish, with clever plot-twists and imaginative scenes; I liked it better than the original.	2001-12-26
US	52618361	R32LADW70HOVS3	0671655817	593243338	Dinosaur Beach	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Poignant	This book can be read on many levels. At once it is a love story, a book about time travel, war, the future of mankind and above all, consciousness itself.<br />Perhaps I am reading too much into this little novel, but it struck me on a very deep level. The last 3 chapters of the book have a poignancy for me which I will never forget, which, upon reading it again, still brings a tear to my eye. It speaks to me of the nature of consciousness itself, which is not destructive, but loving.<br />To me this is a superbly written classic, a beautiful novel that can be read as just good SF, or as a description of the universal nature of consciousness.<br />I rank this little book at the very top echelon of the greatest SF of all time; indeed as one of the best works of fiction I've ever read.	2001-12-26
US	52618361	R1BR8AXKEV0XXB	0892724684	828137240	Oliver Wiswell	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Revisionist look at American History	Kenneth Roberts is, in my mind, the  finest writer of the American Revolutionary War period. He seems to have total recall of that time, as if he had just lived a lifetime there and has come back to tell us all about it.<br />Told from the Loyalist perspective, this is a fascinating acount of the period from 1775 to 1783, a viewpoint that you won't find anywhere else. The Amazon reviewer did a good job of explaining what is in the book, I need only add that it is a real page turner. I read this book 20 years ago, but the impression it made upon me then is still with me.<br />I found that this book, like all Robert's books, communicates to me not only a history of the period, but also a feel for the period. That is a very difficult thing to do! In Kenneth Roberts we are in the hands of a master.<br />This is a very entertaining and informative novel that will serve to give you a more balanced perspective of the Revolutionary War period.	2001-12-26
US	52618361	R1HH6YS4WNQ8L0	0312805179	344955922	Time Storm	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Multidimensional and Fun!	I love this book. I have read it 3 times, and I never read anything more than once. Dickson has written a fantastic story about time travel, multidimensionality, and the versatility of the human being. Dickson has the ability to make his characters come completely alive, and the plot is versatile, imaginative and interesting. This is NOT your typical time travel story; in everything Dickson writes there is a deeper message. This is a writer that knows how to convey meaning on many levels of consciousness. Besides, it's just a GREAT read, and a lot of fun too!	2001-06-11
US	52618361	R1SVW526MTV9PK	0449903370	906186841	Path of Least Resistance: Learning to Become the Creative Force in Your Own Life	Books	5	7	10	N	Y	A Roadmap of the Creative Process	I can't recommend this book highly enough. It is easy to read but the author has profound insights into creativity and the process of creation. That is what the book is about -- an explanation of the creative process, and how to enhance your own creative abilities. It sounds impossible, but the author really does have a lot of great insights about the process of creation that he explains in a precise, clear format.<br />He doesn't beat around the bush with a lot of meaningless generalities. This is information that can actually be applied in life, and that is the reason for the 5 stars.<br />While reading this book, you should have many pleasurable &quot;aha!&quot; moments.	2001-06-11
US	52618361	R2DM2HQ5SY7HNY	1892160110	191906700	The Reflexive Universe: Evolution of Consciousness	Books	5	48	51	N	N	Vast, Profound, Elegant	In this book, Young describes a &quot;Theory of Process&quot; which takes Spirit into matter and back out again.  It is elegantly written, the prose is effortless and along the way he gives insights into the entire spectrum of science, philosophy and metaphysics. Young has been recognized as a genius  on the level of Einstein, but I can tell you, Young's theory is far more coherent. You know how a genius can make a remark on a subject, just toss off a remark, that just opens your eyes because it is so succinctly phrased? This book is like that. I consider it to be a work of genius, highly recommended, if you are into the Big Picture.	2001-06-11
US	52618361	R3DWPI1TFU2OA5	0553572989	847641664	The Rise of Endymion (Hyperion)	Books	5	69	80	N	N	Heart rending and Powerful	This is one of the most powerful books I have ever read. It seems silly to say that about an SF novel -- but this book has affected me like only one other -- Dr. Zhivago by Boris Pasternak. I cried my way through the last 50 pages and after I put it down I couldn't sleep for hours. Mr Simmons' writing is so powerful, so  poignant that the characters of Raul and Aenea have been burned into my literary memory forever.  A teacher of mine once said that any book -- and life itself -- can be experienced at many levels of consciousness. The author has managed to encapsulate all of the incredible sadness, joy and beauty of being human into this book. The last 200 pages or so (from Chapter 25) is a prediction of where we are headed as a species, I believe, an expanded consciousness where every human is in effortless contact with every other. Mr. Simmons weaves a possible future based on the inherent power of LIFE -- not technology. He has conceived of a future -- correctly I believe -- where beings understand and use their true power. His handling of time is just brilliant and the ending is so poignant that I still get a lump in my throat thinking about it. One of the reviewers of this book said that it was predictable in some spots -- and I agree, having guessed the ending a few hundred pages from the end -- but it is a tribute to Dan Simmons that it made no difference. I was tugged along by the power of the story and I forgot all about my guesswork until the last sentence. I am sure that most people will find this review an over-reaction -- but I am understating the full range of my emotions as I write this. If any of you who read this have been so powerfully affected by this book and would like to share your thoughts, please e-mail me at kmaclean@ic.net.	2000-10-24
US	52618361	RN3A4QWHNJOYY	1891824171	55160339	The Ancient Secret of the Flower of Life, Vol. 1	Books	5	161	177	N	Y	Consciousness Raising	This book is not for those who think &quot;in the box.&quot; It IS for those desiring to expand their mental horizons. In this book the author talks about the 5 levels of human consciousness, the MerKaBa(the energy field which surrounds all living things), and explains with geometric diagrams, a very interesting interpretation of the Biblical story of Genesis. And there is a lot more in this book to blow your mind. Of course, there is no way to &quot;prove&quot; any of this, however, it IS information that you can apply in your life to see if it works for you. I have had personal experiences with some of this material that makes it real for me.  It is written in a conversational tone, because the book is an edited transcript from a series of lectures the author gave. The subject matter is very deep. Don't pick up this book if you are looking for a light read, but if you are a seeker of truth, you will surely enjoy this one.	2000-10-21
US	52618361	R3NR61L7PJI949	0553283685	47311872	Hyperion (Hyperion Cantos)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Richly imaginative, deep and well written	Reviewing these novels is really overkill, but I had to say my piece. Dan Simmons has written a series of novels that are really the most imaginative in all of SF. I enjoyed the sequels as much as Hyperion. I have been reading SF for over 40 years and this series of novels is, in my opinion, second only to Gordon Dickson's Childe Cycle novels in their scope, philosophical depth, imagination and enjoyment. Simmons is just a great writer, and I would place him among the top 10 SF writers of all time.  Based loosely on the poems and letters of John Keats, the author has woven around these ideas the most imaginative tale in all of SF. Simmon's imagery is astounding -- he keeps coming up with scenes and plot that you can hardly believe.  Endymion and The Rise of Endymion continue the universe created in the first 2 novels, but Simmons smartly continues the story 300 years in the future with new, but still fascinating, characters and astonishing imagery that seems to be the author's hallmark. This is imaginative fiction with philosophical depth, power and just plain great reading.	2000-10-21
US	52618361	RC0RYXFKZIJ5P	0812575598	684306945	The Chantry Guild (Dorsai/Childe Cycle)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Gripping and powerful	The Canadian Gordon Dickson is, in my opinion, the greatest SF writer of all time. His Childe Cyle novels are the finest Sf series that has ever been written, in my humble opinion. These novels are gripping, and with a depth and scope that is unmatched in the history of SF. There have been many great SF series with scope and depth, but none with the over all vision of Dickson. He knows where he is going in these novels and each seamlessly integrates with the previous, and with each other. The Chantry Guild continues the story of Hal and elaborates on the universe Dickson has created, all the while elegantly commenting on the human condition. The depth and power of these books is consciousnes raising, but at the same time they are really fun to read. That is a combination that is nearly impossible to attain, but Mr. Dickson has done it.	2000-10-21
US	52618361	R2MM3FJUMAEJ17	0929385381	29852664	The Explorer Race (Explorer Race Series, Book 1)	Books	5	30	33	N	Y	Mind expanding information about our human origins	This is a fascinating and informative description of the origins of humanity. Forget about Darwin, and the pitiful history courses we all took. This stuff is mind-blowing, witty, and a lot of fun. You couldn't make this  up -- it's too unique. I've read SF my whole life, and this was a lot  better than any SF book! A must-read for seekers of truth.	1999-09-28
