US	52611366	RQUBD5L6LDJG5	0813337445	854294549	Stasi: The Untold Story Of The East German Secret Police	Books	1	43	79	N	N	an amazing propaganda piece	Get a fresh highlighter when you read this book, and you will have a wonderful lesson in how to write a propaganda piece. This book does a real smear job on the DDR; Not that the DDR was such a wonderful place to begin with, but the author will not give you the opportunity to form your own opinion. Rather, he will \\"help\\" you reach \\"the right conclusion\\" through linguistic and numeric acrobatics. This would have been understandable had the author been a CIA agent, but is totally unforgiveable from a journalist. There isn't a semblance of objectivity in this entire book. Here are some examples I found most annoying:<br /><br />- The author uses some simple math to impress the reader as to just how totalitarian was the DDR. While his conclusion is almost self-evident, the route to that conclusion is misleading and incorrect. He begins by making a claim that there was one Stasi police officer per 166 East Germans. He gets this figure by dividing the total population of the DDR (17,000,000) by the total number of Stasi personnel (102,000). This calculation is nonsense, because organisationally, the Stasi is the equivalent of both the FBI and the CIA, i.e., both an internal and external intelligence aparatus. So the author is incorrectly counting people who were in charge of overseas intelligence. This calculation is nonsense also because this number 102,000 includes everybody, including the custodians, the people working at the cafeteria, the janitors, etc. This number is simply taken out of context.<br /><br />However, these numbers are meaningless for another reason, that is far more important: Unlike other security agencies, the Stasi was not in the least bit computerised. Therefore the Stasi needed many more people, relatively speaking, to handle the intelligence at all levels: From the simplest clerical workers doing filing, typing and archival work, through agents, informants, case officers, etc. Everything was done manually. How do you even begin to compare the quantities of information that, for example, the technologically-savvy FBI or NSA could gather on US citizens, to the low-tech paper documents in cardboard folders that the Stasi used: All filed manually, all looked up manually. Just imagine two librarians, one having a computerised catalog and the other using 3x5 library cards in the traditional library card files...<br /><br />The bottom line: The FBI, CIA, NSA gathered more information, could store and retrieve this information faster and more reliably, could index and cross-index information, more meaningfully, and could analyse this information to find patterns and trends, faster and better than anything anyone at the Stasi could have dreamed of, regardless of how many people worked for it. If anything, it's amazing that the Stasi was as effective as it was without resorting to computers (and without serious sigint).<br /><br />- Finally, try this one: As you read through the book, highlight the pejoratives applied to the Stasi and the DDR and compare them to the expressions used to describe the BRD, the US, etc.  It's just amazing: Americans spying for the DDR are refered to as \\"renegade\\" and \\"traitors\\", while East Germans spying for the US are called \\"defectors\\", even though they may have begun to collect information on their country two years before defecting, and then gave this information to their country's enemy, in return for citizenship and some money. Similarly, the Stasi is refered to as an \\"Octopus\\" with menacing tentacles... East German officials at a reception are referred to as \\"apartchiks\\" who are \\"stuffing themselves and guzzling vodka\\". I'm not sure that the author would describe US officials at a reception at a US function using similar disparaging terms.<br /><br />I think that a reporter needs to respect the subjects of his reports. The author of this book, John Koehler, certainly shows nothing but contempt for his subjects. Had he been some CIA hotshot -- this could have been understandable.For a reporter, however, this is unforgiveable.rstandable. For a reporter, however, this is unforgiveable. <br />	2005-09-06
US	52611366	RJ4WA1C0A8VZ8	B00008OI13	441704154	Simple Sourdough: Make Your Own Starter Without Store-Bought Yeast and Bake the Best Bread in the World With This Simplest of Recipes for Making Sourdough	Books	5	96	99	N	N	delivers what it promises	WHAT IS THIS BOOK<br />First off, you should understand what you're buying: You're buying a PDF file that can be viewed in Acrobat, printed, etc. It will take several hours for your order to go through (why, Amazon??) and you will be sent an email with a download link. The document, this file, is 12 pages long. A total of 3 pages in this book will have nothing to do with making sourdough bread (cover, about the author, etc), so in fact, you're paying $ for 9 pages of information. This doesn't mean that you shouldn't buy the book -- it just means that this is a very small book (at a very low price), and that you should be aware of this up front so that you're not disappointed. Of these 9 pages, there is quite a bit of fluff (and I don't mean dough); I think these 9 pages could have easily fit in 5.<br />WHAT IS THIS BOOK NOT<br />This is NOT a cookbook, in the sense that you will not find dosens of recipes here. You will find only one recipe and the author will present you with several (simple) variations on it. There are many books on making sourdough breads that come with dosens of recipes. If you feel this is what you need -- skip this one. I didn't and I'm very happy I got it. Read on...<br />WHY I LIKE IT<br />Rather than merely listing recipes, this book TEACHES you all you need to understand about sourdough. You could say, \\"the theory of sourdough\\". It explains in great detail what is dough, why dough rises, what are yeast, what kinds of flour exist and how to pick the ones you want, what is sourdough, how a crust is formed, etc. If you read this book, you will actually learn a few things, rather than have some mindless recipes to follow. Once you understand this ONE SINGLE recipe, you will be able to improvise and invent and modify it to create countless delicious variations. All on your own, all without any additional help. <br />This book will make you independent:<br />- You only need four and water and salt. You don't need to buy yeast or sourdough starters. Ever.<br />- The recipe works. Period. I've made my third batch last week, and the results are getting more and more delicious with each try. I've been making some variations on the basic recipe from day one, and it's been wonderful.<br />- You do not need to measure or weigh ANYTHING: Not flour, not water, not sponge -- NOTHING. The book will show you how to use textures to figure out what's missing and with experience, nothing will be missing -- you'll be cooking like your great-grandmother probably did -- with your own intuition.<br />- There's no real substitute for understanding. Luckily, there's not much to understand: Reading 9 pages is something you can do in a matter of minutes. Personally, I'd much rather have a book with one recipe, that would show me how to create countless others, than have a book with basically a long list of recipes and no principles to guide me. This book is one of the shortest routes to making sourdough breads -- get it and you'll love the results!	2003-06-21
US	52611366	R2PDVMFF0451IW	0262692767	938587490	Java Precisely	Books	5	50	50	N	N	the fastest way for a programmer to pick up java	If you're already a programmer, then Java Precisely is the fastest way for you to pick up Java. Finally, after spending embarrasing amounts of money on other books, I found the ONE book on Java that I like: <br />- This is a no-nonsense, no-frills book. Very precise, very concise.<br />- The book assumes the reader knows how to program, and perhaps even knows how to program in an object oriented language. If you know CLOS, C++ or Smalltalk, or if you've played with object-oriented \\"extensions\\" of other languages, then this books is THE shortcut to programming in Java now. Not tomorrow, not in 16 lessons, NOW.<br />- This book will not teach you computer science. It will not teach you programming. It will not teach you object orientated programming. You get straight to the point of learning the syntax and semantics of Java, and you get A TASTE of the class libraries (IO, collections, and more).<br />- Most Java books fall into the following categories: (A) Intro programming -- nice if that's what you want, but very boring if you already know how to program; Also very heavy! (B) \\"Web programming in N days\\"-type of books. These aren't as precise, aren't complete, cover GUI, and typically the older and faster AWT rather than Swing, and cover a host of other issues that are not really related to the Java langauge. (C) Complete References -- These are great dust collectors on your shelf. Impossibly heavy, prohibitively expensive, outdated as soon as you buy them. They're not the way to learn an object oriented language ANYWAY: Use Java Precisely to learn the syntax, semantics and basic paradigms of the language (threads, exceptions, etc), with a few very specific excursions into the class library, and THEN get a good IDE (my preference is IntelliJ's IDEA) and learn to use the online Java documentation to find your way through the immense class library. You don't want to own a printed version of the class library any more than you want to own a phone book for the entire US-- You want tools to find what you need online!<br />- The book is dirt cheap. <br />Use the book as follows:<br />- Buy it, admire it, show it to your friends, try to get it back<br />- Just start programming. Follow the examples in the book, page by page, and bug people for help when you're stuck. A good IDE will work wonders in how fast you can pick up a new language!<br />- Speed-read it over a weekend, just to get an idea of what the language offers<br />- Start working on your project, referring to language issues every time you need something -- the book is actually small enough to find things in it, and the index is great. Use the IDE to browse the online documentation for the class library, to find the classes you need and their documentation. Use Sun's online search engine to find examples, tutorials, FAQs and other documentation.<br />- This book is small enough to take anywhere -- take it everywhere.	2003-02-17
US	52611366	R3RIP7ER33COU2	0491023901	397331650	The Sisterhood	Books	4	1	1	N	N	the mystery of the missing book	This is indeed a mystery book. The library of congress doesn't list it, none of the online used book services I checked lists it, and all the used bookstores I asked (even calling overseas) didn't have it. The only reference to this book other than this page on Amazon is as follows:<br />This book was supposedly the basis for the movie &quot;The Ladies' Club&quot; (1986) in which a group of women discouraged by the criminal justice system and its lax treatment of rapists band together, catch rapists and castrate them. I gave the book 4 starts without having read it, because (A) One can't post a review otherwise, and (B) The basic idea underlying the book is an important one: The legal system is intended to serve the people and the peoples' sense of justice. When criminals get off with little or no penalty (pun unintended) the legal system betrays the people that it is supposed to protect. The moral force of the legal system is not intrinsic, but follows from the fact that law-abiding citizens relinquish their natural right to self-defense and revenge for wrongdoing in favour of a state-wide justice system. When this system betrays them consistently and irrepairably it is important to remember that they can always &quot;go back to basics.&quot;<br />For starters, it would be nice to know who published this book and where: Is it an American book? A British book? ... Secondly, an additional co-author is mentioned in the references to the movie: Casey Bishop. Why is she not mentioned in the Amazon entry -- blank.<br />If you have any additional information on this book, please post it!	2001-07-28
US	52611366	R37DVU0Z8NZR3L	0832910627	277694241	The Cotton Patch Version of Matthew and John: Including the Gospel of Matthew...and the First Eight Chapters of the Gospel of John	Books	5	63	65	N	N	Is there room for racism in the Church?	I would like to start off by saying that I know precious little about Clarence Jordan. I found his &quot;Cotton Patch&quot; translation of the New Testament at my university library about 8 years ago, and the book made a definite impression on me. I don't know if Rev. Jordan would be happy with my understanding of his work, but I love it, and am happy to own a copy, and am happy to share with you the thoughts inspired in me by this amazing work.<br />I don't think that the point of the Cotton Patch translation was to provide yet-another translation of the New Testament. Rev. Jordan was a scholar of NT Greek, and undoubtedly, he knew a lot about the NT. Rather, this work is a photomontage or imposition of images from the New Testament re-created and re-enacted in Gainesville, Georgia, where Governor Herod is seeking to kill the Baby Jesus; Where John the Baptist, &quot;dressed in blue jeans and a leather jacket&quot;, &quot;living on corn bread and collard greens&quot; is baptizing Protestants and Catholics in the waters of the Chattahoochee river... You can't help but smile. <br />But what is this place? Where is this place? What is happening here? In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus tells us &quot;For instance, when you make a gift to charity, don't make a lot of noise about it, like the phonies do at church and at civic clubs... The truth is, such praise is all they'll get out of it.&quot; Fair enough, but &quot;Church and civic clubs&quot; ?? This isn't even close to being a translation! That a scholar of NT Greek should translate the Sermon on the Mount like that is proof positive that he had something in mind other than providing a translation.<br />And the Gospel unfolds, and there is no mystery to it, except the mystery of how we could all be so blind: [John, chapter 8] <br />&quot;But we are blue-blooded white folks, and have never been anybody's slave. Why then are you telling us, 'You'll be liberated'?&quot; Jesus answered, &quot;Everyone who is addicted tosin is sin's slave.&quot; ... &quot;Our father was the original white man,&quot; they retorted. &quot;If indeed you are sons of the original white man, you would act like it. But here you are trying to lynch me, a man who has told you the truth that I got from the Father. A really good white man would never stoop to that. Yes, you're behaving like your father's children all right.&quot;<br />And now the mystery is revealed, if there ever was any mystery in the first place: The Cotton Patch books are about racism and Christianity, and by extension, racism and religion: Is there room for racism in the Church? Can racists be considered &quot;the children of God&quot; ? I think that to most people living today, the question must seem trivial, but &quot;back then,&quot; when the book was written, some time in the 1950's, there were many white seperatists that were comfortable with and saw no contradiction between their racism and with their religion. The Cotton Patch &quot;translations&quot; are Rev. Jordan's way of arguing that there is no room for racism within the Church. Rev. Jordan's argument isn't a theological one, probably because the point isn't worth arguing theologically, and because Rev. Jordan's works seem to have been grounded in practical, everyday human life: Rev. Jordan argues his point by super-imposing New Testament characters -- Jesus, Mary, John the Baptist, Herod, and others, on modern day self-righteous and self-contented racism and bigotry in American society, and he trusts our good judgement to see the screeching, dissonant absurdity of it.<br />The mystery isn't a very big or complex one, but it is a worthy point that Rev. Jordan is making, and his words are simple and eloquent and beautiful. Besides, we live long after St. John cried out at the end of the book of Revelation, &quot;Even so, come, Lord Jesus&quot;. If you ever feel as if the events of the NT happened way too long ago, be confident and happy that the Voice still cries in the Wilderness, and John the Baptist is still baptizing the children of God in the Chattahoochee river. :)	2000-12-08
US	52611366	RWWPSK9RWVDLX	0767900324	160523502	The Best Bread Ever: Great Homemade Bread Using your Food Processor	Books	5	91	92	N	N	the modern way of making bread at home	Three reasons to get this book:<br />- Technique<br />- Information<br />- Recipes<br />TECHNIQUE Technique is what got me: I've been baking breads at home for years. It's fun, the results are pleasing and well-received by friends and guests. But making bread at home has always been time consuming for me because of the lack of a professional mixer. This point is worth discussing here: If you want to knead bread without working hard and without making a mess, you need a professional mixer. Some home mixers or even hand mixers come with dough hooks, but don't be deceived: Very few home mixers are powerful enough to knead bread dough, and those that are are very expensive. There is no ordinary garden veriety cheap mixer that can knead bread dough. Period. Trust me on this one, and you won't burn your mixer's motor and burn your money as well. So you either knead dough by hand, which is time consuming and hard work, or you get this [rather inexpensive] book and learn the technique of using your ordinary food processor to do the job. Food processors work differently from mixers, and even a cheap food processor is powerful enough to knead bread dough using the technique described in the book. I should know -- I bought my food processor over 8 years ago for about US$40 in a supermaket... It's old and it's so weak that a fresh carrot could make it stick and halt. But I've been making batches and batches of great bread dough with it and so far it's been great. <br />If you are careful with the water and learn to add it gradually, you can actually eliminate measurements: You keep adding water gradually until the ball of dough is formed. If you go over a bit, just add a spoon of flour to try out the batch. It's quick, it's painless, and you can have perfect bread dough in under 1 minute (!). I think that no professional home or restaurant-class mixer can do that.<br />Once you get the hang of using a food processor to knead dough perfectly in under a minute, you will be more willing to experiment with bread making at home. It just won't be that big of a chore anymore.<br />INFORMATION The Best Bread Ever is not just a bunch of recipes for making bread. It will teach you all you need to know about the process of bread making: What fours to use, how much salt, what temperature is best, how to proof your bread, etc. There is no guesswork, there is no &quot;feel&quot; that takes forever to develop. Just read the introductory chapter and you'll know everything you need.<br />RECIPES The Best Bread Ever is filled with recipes. Most are great. I found some of the Middle Eastern recipes a bit off, but that's a minor point. From baguettes to Brioche to Pizza, the book is filled with great recipes and great ideas you can follow and/or improvise on.<br />But the bulk of my enthusiasm is reserved for the dough making technique. It's simply ingenious. I cannot over-emphasise the difference it will make in your bread making experience: Take the hardest, nastiest, messiest part of making bread and tame it completely, into a trivial process that takes just under a minute, and you will be free to enjoy the more creative aspects of making bread.	2000-10-27
US	52611366	R1YEM19DYKTU7Z	0385334966	539408457	Biohazard: The Chilling True Story of the Largest Covert Biological Weapons Program in the World--Told from Inside by the Man Who Ran It	Books	5	2	2	N	N	&quot;I have lost all sense of smell... &quot;	This is just one of these books... I bought it on a hunch, and I wasn't disappointed: Here you have the story of the Soviet biological weapons program told straight from the man at the top. Ken Alibek, previously known by the Kazakh name of Kanatjan Alibekov, started off as a junior researcher working on weaponizing tularemia. He did such a great job, that his next assignment was work on weaponized anthrax. He then moved up to smallpox. Sounds bizzare? Well, you ain't seen nothin' yet: Moving back and forth between maticulous descriptions of the inner working of Soviet science, the Soviet military-industrial complex, the Soviet bureaucracy, and the author's personal biography, you get an eerie sense of bits and pieces of history falling into place, and the resulting picture is beyond belief, beyond imagination, beyond the invention of the sickest minds. <br />The most memorable example is the story of the smallpox eradication effort: Shortly after the Soviet Union started the world-wide campain for eradicating smallpox, it started its research into advanced, weaponized smallpox... What does this mean? It means that while the world thought it got over smallpox, while the World Health Organization was declaring smallpox a thing of the past and countries were stopping the smallpox vaccination programs, the Soviet Union was developing stronger, more virulent smallpox viri for military use -- No longer vaccinated, the world was now ready!<br />Remember the 1979 Anthrax outbreak in Sverdlovsk? It's been long known of the accident in Sverdlovsk, the missing filter in the dehydration chamber, the workers in the nearby ceramics factory that had the highest death toll. But read Biohazard and learn what really happened: Learn about the cover up job, learn about the people that goofed up, learn about the roll played the local communist party chairman at Sverdlovsk, in causing a second wave of Anthrax victims -- Just to spike your curiosity, the name of that chairman is Boris Yeltsin.<br />Learn how the Soviet Union violated the 1972 ban on biological and chemical warfare -- how it signed the treaty and just stepped up research and production plans. Learn of the lies, evasions, tricks it used to mislead the West about the nature of its &quot;defensive&quot; biological research. Learn how nearly all the equipment used for the production of biological agents were purchased in the West, since they're &quot;dual purpose&quot;. Learn how the West supplied so much of the expertise, material, samples of bacteria and viri, in order to promote research into vaccines and medicines. Learn of the massive, really awsome throughput of biological agents produced in the Soviet Union -- just for Anthrax we're talking here about hundreds of tons of pure powdered bacteria per year: Enough to kill the entire world population several times over.<br />And this book is gripping, really gripping: Technical detail, Soviet politics, science, life in the Soviet Union -- from the perspective of the privilaged elite of scientists that collaborated with and advanced the Soviet war machine. You'll read about people living in denial, as they walk on the verge of realisation that they live in an oppressive totalitarian society: How they take for granted the KGB's intrusion into their lives, how they inform on their collegues to Get Ahead, how work was &quot;assigned&quot; and how you had to request to be &quot;released&quot; if you wanted to change jobs, and how your request could be denied. How some people excelled in that system, and how it drove others to desparation and alcohol.<br />And then there's the really personal touch. Don't take it for granted -- It's quite surreal to discuss your personal health problems while reporting on the production of weapons of mass destruction but it fits:<br />&quot;I have lost all sense of smell and have the broadest range of allergies of anyone I know. I can't eat butter, cheese, eggs, mayonaise, sausages, chocolate or candy. I swallow two or three pills of anti-allergy medicine a day ... The countless vaccinations I received against anthrax, plague, and tuleremia weakened my resistance to disease and probably shortened my life. A bioweapons lab leaves its mark on a person forever.&quot;<br />What does this book mean today? Biological warfare is by far the cheapest and easiest method of mass destruction. The equipment for biological warfare production is dual use and can be purchased openly and relatively inexpensively. Samples of deadly bacteria are not difficult to come by if you know where to look (just follow the ProMed reports!). If someone is not trying to invent some new agent, but rather use existing technology, bacteria and viri to create their own pet killer, it's a relatively straightforward thing to do: It seems as if the hardest thing is not to create the agent but to contain it so that the people making it are not effected. Tens of thousands of technicians and scientists worked on biological warfare in the Soviet Union. These people have experience, expertise, and knowledge. Where are these people today? What do they do for a living (pun intended) ? And for whom?	2000-10-06
US	52611366	R3439FRJ8SSXMK	1567121519	842552979	Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary: BOOKMAN(R) (Electronic desktop model)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	more than a dictionary	The Webster Collegiate Dictionary is much more than a dictionary -- it's almost a small encyclopedia. And with Franklin's wonderful search capabilities you can use it quickly and unintrusively while reading, writing or even speaking. Here are some of the advantages of this great product:<br />- Quick: If you need to look up many words, face it: You're NOT going to start paging through a dictionary... Why guess at the meaning of words when you can get a quick and accurate definition in no time?<br />- Flexible: If you're not sure how to spell a word, you can do one of two things: Spell it the way it sounds, and let the unit find all the words that sound the same; Or you can use the &quot;wildcard search&quot; to search for words that satisfy a given pattern. <br />- Informative: This is not just a dictionary, it's a thesaurus as well. Get synonyms and antonyms as well. The Collegiate dictionary will also give you phonetic and linguistic information on the word. The Collegiate comes with tables too: Tables of countries and information on them, the periodic table with full information, the Jewish calendar, etc. Go over the list of tables once, just so that you know what's available, because it would be a pity to have all this infomation and not know of it -- I found it very useful.<br />- A great user interface: The search is great. The unit's nice to use. If you turn it off and then on, it still remembers what's on the screen so you can turn it off safely without fear of losing anything. If you're within an entry and you click &lt;enter&gt; it will let you navigate between the words, select one and search it too! -- So if you don't understand the explanation, just click away until you do!<br />- Amusement: Use it to solve crossword puzzles! Just type in the letters you know, and place a ? for each letter you don't know. Franklin will show you all the possibilities! There are some games built in, but I prefer using it to solve crossword puzzles, or even better -- compose some!<br />- Extensible: This unit has room for two BOOKMAN cards. Add an encyclopedia or French or German or Spanish - English dictionaries, add the Bible in one of several available translations. And you can add much more. But if you are really adventurous, get the BOOKMAN creator kit from Franklin -- it's really inexpensive -- and DOWNLOAD ANY INFORMATION YOU LIKE -- create your own cards, inexpensively, and pop'em in and out whenever you need additional information. You could download an entire novel only such a card and be able to read it anywhere.<br />- Very well built: Sturdy -- I dropped mine a zillion times. The batteries last forever. You can plug in an ordinary earphone so you can listen to pronounciation without disturbing others (great for the library or when in class).<br />The most important thing is: Make sure to get the Webster Collegiate Dictionary and not some other Webster by mistake. The Collegiate is the best.<br />If you don't like the size and you're willing to give up the pronounciation, then get the pocket version -- it's just as good other than the pronounciation and the fact that it takes only one extra BOOKMAN card.<br />The ONLY drawback I can think of, regarding this unit, is that I would have REALLY liked it to have included a pocket calculator. It seems to have all the key markings for one, so someone must have had the idea of adding one, but the fact is that no such calculator exists -- not even as a BOOKMAN add-on. Pity.	2000-09-27
US	52611366	R3YYS2WV1KKYC	0891457577	402162703	Antique Typewriters and Office Collectibles: Identification & Value Guide	Books	4	9	11	N	N	a wonderful book if you like typewriters	WHO WOULD WANT THIS BOOK<br />Anyone that like typewriters, is nostalgic  about them, collects them or can't afford to collect them (space-wise or  money-wise). This lovely book contains pictures and brief descriptions of  old typewriters -- there are many beautiful and crisp photos and some brief  descriptions. There's also a small appendix with other office machines  (calculators, pencil sharpeners, etc).<br />WHAT'S NICE ABOUT THIS BOOK<br />The  pictures. Definitely the pictures. I could never tire looking at  them.<br />WHAT'S NOT NICE ABOUT THIS BOOK <br />It's hard to criticise what is  clearly a work of love. Some people mentioned that the prices are off. But  I would like to focus on other aspects; Perhaps some of these can be fixed  in further editions:<br />- There's very little treatment of foreign  typewriters. This is a pity because different languages posed different  mechanical challenges to typewriter manufacturers and it's nice to see how  they overcame those difficulties. It's also nice to see other alphabets.  :)<br />- It would have been nice to include a sample of the text produced by  each typewriter. Just to see the various typefaces. An index of  typefaces/typewriters and their samples could have been nice to have as an  appendix, so that people could match samples they have (old letters, notes,  etc) with the typewriters that could have possibly been used to write  them.<br />- A bit more prose -- a more thorough description of the mechanical  aspects of these machines would have been a nice thing to have.	2000-09-19
US	52611366	R2S18583MP65O6	0201541998	909552527	The Latex Companion (Addison-Wesley Series on Tools and Techniques for Computer T)	Books	4	17	21	N	N	not perfect, but indispensible	The bottom line is: This is the most useful book on latex2e that I own. I  use it all the time. This is not a great book, but there aren't many good  books on latex2e and this is probably the best or close to best there  is.<br />There aren't good books on latex; there are very few good books on  tex. People don't buy these books because they're fun or interesting, or  make good reading, but because they need to get things done and they want  the book to show them how. The latex companion will show you how to get  things done. If you need to typeset latex documents often, probably  &quot;pure latex&quot; in itself won't be enough for you, and the book will  make you aware of this fact: It surveys some of the more useful packages  for doing useful things: long tables, inserting and manipulating graphics,  etc. Once you get the hang of going over to CTAN, checking for useful  packages that do the stuff you need, downloading and installing them,  you'll be &quot;on your own&quot; and will be able to progress  independently. I haven't found a need for another latex manual beyond the  Latex Companion, though an O'Reilly pocket reference for tex and latex  would have been great! (O'Reilly: Are you reading this???) There are some  subjects it doesn't treat well, like foreign languages in latex, but  otherwise, it's fine. Another downside is that the book doesn't treat the  issues of pdf generation, html generation and hyperlinks, which are  becoming very popular in latex circles.<br />Get this book, and you will  probably not need another latex book until the O'Reilley pocket reference  to tex and latex comes out.	2000-09-19
US	52611366	REHZ1WW10YQRK	0023249803	862279440	Symbolic Logic	Books	4	22	26	N	N	a classic textbook on logic	This was my first textbook on logic and it has a warm place in my heart.  It is not very current or modern, and it's probably not appropriate for  teaching logic in the math or computer science departments, but otherwise,  it's a lovely book. The two nicest features of this book are the wealth of  interesting exercises and the emphasis on language: The correspondence  between sentences in English and propositions in logic. <br />Re the logical  structure of English sentences, I would like to note that I used many of  the exercises from this book in a logic class I taught a few years ago, and  was stunned to see the difficulties students were having: Difficulties in  comprehending the logical structure of a sentence in English and then  expressing this structure using Boolean connectives and quantifiers. I  found this discovery both alarming and curious.	2000-09-19
US	52611366	R26H7TBFP8D6U3	0201529831	937839193	LaTeX: A Document Preparation System (2nd Edition)	Books	1	17	20	N	N	a quick hack of the first edition, this book doesn't cut it!	I never thought Lamport's first edition was any good. This edition for  latex2e is worse. Many of latex2e's additions are treated poorly (e.g. the  new font mechanism).<br />Lamport wrote the first book on latex, and even  though it wasn't a great book, it had the advantage of being both the first  and the authoritative guide. As far as latex2e is concerned, Lamport  ignores so many new developments, so many new issues that this book seems  like a quick hack of the first edition. No serious treatment of the new  font mechanism, no mention of some of the important packages that now exist  for latex, no treatment of foreign languages, superficial treatment of  graphics, and no discussion of advanced math formatting issues.<br />The book  probably deserves two stars but gets only one because of the gall of  re-packaging and selling something that's so very close to the first  edition.<br />Don't waste your money on it (I got my copy as a gift, and will  gladly pass it on to the first person that sends me a self-addressed,  stamped envelope). If you need a good book on latex2e, consider the Latex  Companion.	2000-09-19
US	52611366	RJ1R5UYOK0PA8	0812005473	622560115	201 Arabic Verbs (201 Verbs Series)	Books	2	79	83	N	N	poorly done, of limited use	201 Arabic Verbs offers precisely what it says: 201 Arabic verbs fully  conjugated. Conjugating verbs in semitic languages is not a simple task  because there are many structures and those have many exceptions, so right  there, a book that lists fully conjugated verbs is a useful thing. This  book, however, is a failure because it doesn't live up to what it could  have been and because it was initially poorly thought out. Let me  explain:<br />First off, as a project, the book was poorly done:<br />- There is  no index of the verbs conjugated in the book, so the only way to see  whether a verb is there is to look it up.<br />- The verbs were chosen from a  list of words compiled in 1940. The verbs do not represent the most useful  verbs the author could have chosen from each of the verb structures in  Arabic.<br />- The organisation of the book is alphabetical rather than by the  type of structure (fa'ala, naf'al, etc). Of course, the lack of an index  makes this organisation nessary but this is a poor design choice.<br />-  Examples of usage would have been nice.<br />But beyond these technical  points, the basic idea of a list of 201 conjugated Arabic verbs is of  limited use. If the point was JUST to give the student an example of  conjugating different kinds of verbs, then fine, but this is a very humble  task. This book could have been INFINITELY more useful had it given exactly  ONE example of a fully conjugated verb from EACH verb category, and then  contained a HUGE list of thousands of verbs and a reference to their  respective category and page number... that way, rather than compiling a  mindless and mind-numbing repetition of similar conjugations, the book  could have covered all verb structures AND several thousand verbs all  within the same space! The title would then have to be changed to something  like 50001 Arabic Verbs Fully Conjugated in all the Forms and it would  still be about the same size. Such a book would be of immense value to  beginnersand experienced students alike.	2000-09-08
US	52611366	RZCKZ0RXJNMW	1565925793	626731317	HTML Pocket Reference (Pocket Reference (O'Reilly))	Books	4	17	18	N	N	indispensible	A pocket guide to HTML that covers HTML 4.0. This is about the most useful  book, in terms of daily use, that you could ever own on HTML. I give it 4  stars because of two problems:<br />- The tags are ordered alphabetically,  which is good. But it would have been better if tags had a &quot;related  tags&quot; item that listed tags that are relevant to the given tag. For  example, &lt;TABLE&gt;&lt;/TABLE&gt; makes no mention of  &lt;TR&gt;&lt;/TR&gt; and &lt;TD&gt;&lt;/TD&gt;... I realise that this is a  reference and not a textbook, but it would add to the usefulness of this  book immensely.<br />- Insufficient (close to none) information on styles. It  would help a lot to make this reference self-contained, if each with each  tag, there was a very brief description of the style components that  control its look.<br />The character entity table is very useful, if  incomplete. The colour chart is a nice and useful addition.<br />All in all,  this is a VERY useful book. Get it and stop carrying around those heavy  HTML tomes... My criticism is just meant for improving the next edition...  (hint, hint, ... )	2000-08-26
US	52611366	R27LLLR88FOG12	1565925211	776803101	JavaScript Pocket Reference	Books	4	25	27	N	N	near perfect, nothing better is currently available	First off, I'd like to say that I find these pocket reference books  absolutely indispensible. They're relatively inexpensive, they contain MOST  (if not almost all) of what you need, and they save you the need to carry  absolutely HUGE tomes when all you want is just to look something up  quickly. If you know HTML and JavaScript, then get this (JavaScript) and  the HTML quick references and you'll be able to do almost anything on your  own. To nerds, pockets were invented for carrying such useful pocket  guides.<br />The JavaScript pocket ref continues the tradition of  indispensible pocket references by O'Reilly. The organisation is good, and  the book contains examples and explanations that you wouldn't expect to see  in a pocket reference.<br />Amazingly though, there's no treatment of objects  and object oriented programming in JavaScript. Most readers can be expected  to know this, but if you're used to programming in C++ and Java, and don't  do a lot of JavaScript, it's easy to forget. I think all the missing  material on objects could be treated in ONE MORE PAGE. (hint for next  edition!)<br />Otherwise, this is a wonderful book.	2000-08-26
US	52611366	R2BMHACRMCHQN6	0671525360	74707483	The Third Pandemic	Books	4	5	5	N	N	fascinating, at times beautifully written	The Third Pandemic is a novel about the current emergence of  antibiotic-resistent bacteria. I've read several books of this genre, and  this is certainly one of the best. The book is at times very well written.  Noteworthy is that the author employs bizzare kind literary egalitarianism  as an interesting literary device: Disease is narated by ALL its  participants -- bacteria living in meat, a fly landing on the infected meat  and contracting he disease, an infected mouse biting on a person, that  person sleeping with someone else and infecting her, etc.<br />This is not  Camus' The Plague; If the author had some profound message to share with  his readers, he sure didn't develop it here, but it is a nice and  interesting novel nevertheless.	2000-08-26
US	52611366	R7FPNU1K98D9G	0881841641	951142638	The Maurizius Case	Books	2	7	16	N	N	inspiring writing cannot cover for adolescent ideas	The Maurizius Case is an amazingly well written book. The writing is fluent and inspiring. Wasserman is clearly and undisputably a master  craftsman of writing. Having paid my dues of admiration to the style and  technique, I want to focus on the ideas that fill this book.<br />The  Maurizius Case deals with the conflict of Law vs. Justice &amp; Morality:  Law, as a set of dry rules enforced by representatives of the State, leaves  no room for mercy or compassion or sympathy for the defendent. Morality, as  capturing the essense of Right and Wrong, Good and Bad, Justice and  Injustice: Unyielding and harsh as the Law, but in a different sense: In  the sense that our moral sensibilities should not rest until justice has  been served, the innocent victims vindicated, the guilty metted punishment  befitting and proportional to their crime and personal accountability.  Until Good has been done. <br />Law and Justice are not opposites, nor are  they synonyms. Sometimes they intersect, and we are satisfied. Other times  they do not, and we feel a disappointment that everything went correctly  and yet the end result is far from good.<br />Wasserman casts his characters  into a predictable set of roles: A merciless, emotionally frozen Chief  Prosecuter as harsh father. An intelligent, educated, rebelious and unhappy  child as his son. The first represents Law, while the other -- Justice. The  struggle between Law and Justice is thus super-imposed onto an adolescent  rebelion against a father figure. The basic plot starts off as follows: A  person was sentenced to life in prison for murder. The Father was the  prosecutor in that case. The child believes in the innocence of the  prisoner and sets out to clear his name. Quite a bit of the outcome of the  story becomes predictable at this point, and trivialised. Schmaltzy, as  some would say.<br />I don't want to give away more details about the plot,  and would like to turn back to the ideas behind the story.<br />Rest assuredthat the conflict between Law and Justice is not resolved by the end of  this book. Instead, exploiting the adolescent appeal as cheaply as he was  able, Wasserman marches on into the Land of Oversimplification: Justice is  cut off from what can be demonstrated, what can be shown, what can be  brought into a court of law. Once the hero of this story decides that he's  heard enough, that he understands the facts of the case, once he believes  what he's told and that all is clear to him, he rushes back to confront his  father.<br />I find this book nothing less than moral corruption. It is  corruption in the sense that Socrates never deserved to be executed for:  <br />- The book encourages a simplistic, superficial and over-emotional  attitude towards justice in a way that is guarenteed (albeit in other  settings) to cause great injustice. Cultivating a sense of Justice that is  above demonstration in a court of law, that is based on a leap of faith,  that is eschatological in nature, is cultivating injustice. <br />- The book  is in fact anti-intellectual. This is a difficult claim to make, since the  book encourages (and indeed relishes over) a kind of fanciful  salon-intellectualism where polyglots, historians, and poets use their  erudition to entertain, impress, and manipulate others while inflating  their already tremendous egos. It is the level headed application of  intelligence towards social order that the author scorns. Social good will  not come as a result of the ideas in this book.<br />- The book is loaded with  racial theory. The author being Jewish, this racial nonsense put in the  mouth of a Jewish character in the book is simply sickening. Even though  this character ultimately turns out to be a villain, the specific way and  context in which psychological phenomena are attributed to racial  differences causes me to think that the author is not unsympathetic to  these views. It's sad that Wasserman (who passed away in 1934) didn't live  long enough to see these ideas through to fruition.<br />As I wrote before,  the book is very well written. The ideas it expresses are sick. The book  reeks from decadence and nihilism. Read it at your own risk.	2000-08-17
US	52611366	R3L9X73522I659	0201433214	750162862	The JFC Swing Tutorial: A Guide to Constructing GUIs	Books	4	32	32	N	N	the fastest track to writing GUI using Swing...	If you know Java, that is, Java without the GUI, and you want to write applets or programs that use GUI components (buttons, menues, text boxes,  etc), pick up this book and you'll be writing your own GUI applications in  under an hour. Don't bother with the &quot;Differential Equations For  Dummies&quot; or with the Web Programming in 21 Days type of books -- Many  of them use the older GUI and others, even though they do use Swing, use  the older event handling model. If you want to program GUI, then do it  right: The book is systematic and accurate and has plenty of examples of  code. Use this book for textbook and/or reference.	2000-08-13
US	52611366	R2NQ5JEHQWHOHV	0937165107	327170423	By Way of Deception	Books	4	40	66	N	N	If this book is all lies, then why is it banned in Israel?	This is a very poorly written book. The organisation is poor, the writing  is sloppy, and the translation of technical terms from Hebrew is quite  often inexact. But if you want to read a well-written book, go and search  for Shakespear! This book was written by an un-happy ex-Mossad agent. It's  not altogether obvious what parts of this book, if any, are true and what  parts, if any, are false. But the book is morbidly fascinating, in that it  describes the inner workings of an organisation about which there are  hardly any &quot;legitimate&quot; ways of finding out. Especially  interesting is the detailed description of the training that Mossad career  officers undergo! So get the book, and read it, and judge for yourself.  Keep in mind that this book is banned in Israel -- neither it nor its  translation into Hebrew can be sold in bookstores in Israel. Now officials  in Israel have claimed on numerous occassions that this book is all  nonsense. This raises a basic question: If this book is nonsense, if what  it talks about is ALL false, then why ban it?	2000-08-10
US	52611366	R1DKUDEAZXJZSB	0937165115	446343385	The Other Side of Deception	Books	4	15	17	N	N	continuation of &quot;By Way of Deception&quot; -- makes things clear	The Other Side of Deception continues where Ostrovsky's first book on the Mossad, By Way of Deception, leaves off. Ostrovsky, an ex-Mossad agent with  a grudge, explains in great detail what prompted him to write his book,  what were the circumstances of his exit from the Mossad, and how the Mossad  tried to prevent the publication of the book. Ostrovsky also talks about  his contacts with intelligence agencies of other countries. This last part  of his story seems a bit strange and casts a shadow over the entire book.  Like the By Way of Deception, this book too is written in the same poorly  organised bad prose, but this doesn't detract from the interest in the  book. Keep in mind that while Israel tried and still tries to discredit the  book and its author, this book is banned in Israel. This means that neither  it nor its translation can be sold in bookstores in Israel. If this book is  all lies, if this book contains no truths, then why is it banned? The book  is sold all over the world, and Israel isn't preventing &quot;the  world&quot; from learning what the book contains; Why then is it so  important to prevent Israelis from learning what's in this book? I have  this disturbing, nagging feeling that Ostrovsky's books contain  sufficiently accurate information about something that Israel doesn't want  its public to know about. I really have no clue as to what that something  might be, but I'm still re-reading it... Buy, read, and judge for yourself.	2000-08-10
US	52611366	R230FX6J338XNM	0394718720	111155158	Black English	Books	5	12	13	N	N	a beautiful book, but how to continue??	I came across Dillard's book by mistake, while roaming around the  University of Michigan library. I started reading it and couldn't put it  down. All I knew about Black English was from movies and TV shows that  parodied it (e.g. Airplane). After going through the book and repeating the  examples, I couldn't get over just how lovely it sounded. So by now I knew  that Black English was a real language -- like Greek or Chinese or Spanish.  What next? How does one continue from there?<br />I decided to visit the  Afro-American Studies dept. By then I was a grad student at Indiana  University, and innocently enough, I thought that this was what a person in  the academia did when they wanted to learn something -- they went to  consult the experts... The experience was an overall disappointment. I  spoke to several instructors, several students, left messages with the  secretaries, but alas -- it was very difficult to get through to people:  They were all very suspicious that someone would even think of studying  Black English. Eventually I was able to learn a few things from peoples'  comments:<br />- Currently, there is no such thing as a textbook for Black  English in the same way that there are textbooks for Spanish or Russian.  You will need to make due with books like Dillard's, and there aren't all  that many of those either.<br />- Black English is more than just a  vocabulary. A dictionary of &quot;Jive&quot; won't do. You need to pick up  some grammar.<br />- There are many dialects of Black English, and Black  English changed over time.<br />- No one I spoke to had ever heard of a  university course in Black English.<br />- No one I spoke to knew of any book  written entirely in Black English, though there are books (including  novels) that have generous samples.<br />- I've found a reference to the New  Testament in Black English (I'm NOT refering to the Clarence Jordan's  Cotton Patch version of the New Testament), but no one seemed to know where  to get a copy (if you do PLEASE let me know).<br />Eventually, though, a kind  instructor pointed me to Zora Neale Hurston's books, for which I couldn't  have been more grateful. So, if you're interested in Black English, get  Dillard's book and go through it a few times, to appreciate the structure  of the language. Then if you would like to see some very beautiful if  somewhat out-of-date examples of Black English, pick up a copy of Their  Eyes Were Watching God, and in addition to reading a beautiful novel you'll  also get a beathtakingly beautiful sample of Black English. Enjoy!opy (if you do PLEASE let me know).<br />Eventually, though, a kind  instructor pointed me to Zora Neale Hurston's books, for which I couldn't  have been more grateful. So, if you're interested in Black English, get  Dillard's book and go through it a few times, to appreciate the structure  of the language. Then if you would like to see some very beautiful if  somewhat out-of-date examples of Black English, pick up a copy of Their  Eyes Were Watching God, and in addition to reading a beautiful novel you'll  also get a beathtakingly beautiful sample of Black English. Enjoy!	2000-08-10
US	52611366	R1680MGISWUJB9	0385067151	877241605	Instant Math, Based on the Trachtenberg Speed System of Basic Mathematics.	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Doing math in your head, without writing anything down...	The book is a collection of techniques for carrying out arithmetic  operations mentally according to Jakow Trachtenberg's system.<br />The  Trachtenberg system for speed math is essentially the techniques taught in  Vedic mathematics -- re-discovered. The bottom line is that using these  simple techniques that require no special efforts you can multiply 20 digit  numbers in your head and just jot down the answer, take square roots to any  number of decimal places, and carry out similar math wizardry.<br />IS THIS  POSSIBLE??<br />Sure it is. It's been done for thousands of years by the  Indians. Some of the techniques have been re-invented, re-engineered and  re-introduced by a Russian Engineer -- Jakow Trachtenberg.<br />HOW DOES IT  WORK?<br />The basic idea behind ALL these tricks is to re-arrange the  &quot;normal&quot; methods of calculation taught in school so that:<br />- You  calculate the digits of the final result one at a time.<br />- You only  calculate just enough information to enable you to come by the next digit  of the result, and continue the computation from there.<br />As surprising as  it may seem, discovering these techniques requires nothing beyond simple  high school algebra. Even that much isn't needed in order to learn to  follow these techniques.<br />If you're a math buff, if you like to play with  numbers, this could be a fun book for you. The book paces itself slowly,  introducing general techniques only by the middle of the book. There are  plenty of worked out exercises too. When you'll be done, you'll wonder why  you hadn't invented these techniques yourself; They're that simple!	2000-08-07
US	52611366	R1964JKTLKTJUZ	0684863847	966624665	Illiberal Education: The Politics of Race and Sex on Campus	Books	5	89	98	N	N	Coersion, indoctrination and intolerance in the classroom...	It's an embarrasing prospect to consider: Universities silencing  discussion and dissention. But D'Souza mounts a compelling case: Example  after example, case after case of faculty bullying students with opposing  views, silencing discussion in class, using campus police to keep out  students that ask questions. Where? At some of the top schools in the  United States. <br />The issue is not about using this or that term --  students pretty much absorb and abide by the vocabulary of Political  Correctness. The issue is not about speaking in a polite and civilised  manner. The issue is not about raising your hand and waiting for your turn  to speak. The issue is about what you think and believe: Apparently, when  students take positions that are opposed to the political views and agendas  of some of the faculty, it's discipline time!<br />Why are classrooms  politicised? Why do professors bring their political agendas into the  classroom? Of what value is an education system that holds that some views  are above discussion, considertation, challange?<br />The importance of  Illiberal Education is in the collection of cases it presents: Victims of  intolerance and indoctrination in the classroom can realise that what's  happening to them is not an isolated instance but a part of a larger trend.  It will also help them respond more effectively.	2000-08-07
US	52611366	R30DUDJ0BSXLLP	0887291082	959273014	Pocket Russian Dictionary: Russian-English/English-Russian (English and Russian Edition)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	more than just a dictionary, more than just a grammar...	This dictionary is more that merely a dictionary with a grammar supplement  in the back: The dictionary is highly integrated with the grammar tables,  so that you can conjugate EACH verb, and decline EACH noun in all forms,  all tenses, etc. Even Perfective and imperfective verbs are matched. I went  through 4 semesters of college Russian with this dictionary, while all the  other students follows the instructor's recommendation to buy the Oxford...  I had a much easier time!<br />If you live in a foreign country, your  bookstore might carry only the hardcover pocket edition, but don't  compromise -- get this edition.<br />These days I use a Russian dictionary on  my PC. It has a larger vocabulary and it's easier to search. But I STILL  carry the Langenscheidt pocket dictionary around because of the grammar  section.	2000-08-07
US	52611366	R3TMR2CLA191KQ	0201547996	156777775	TeX for the Beginner	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The fastest way to get started with TeX	Remember: This is a book about TeX, not LaTeX! If it is TeX you want to  work with, this book will get you started at no time at all. This is not a  tex reference, and it's not the only book on tex you'll need. But it will  do two good things for you:<br />- It will get you writing high-level tex  quickly.<br />- It will get you to do tex the RIGHT way, so that you won't  have to re-write the bulk of your tex later...<br />And you can write tex the  right way -- right away! The right way to write tex is to treat it like a  markup language, and to write plenty of macros for any kind of tagging you  need. Then, later, you can play with your macros to give your document the  look you want. But as long as you use tex macros to markup your document,  you don't even need to know HOW to get the formatting effect you want --  you can add this later, you can get someone else to help you, etc. This  book is so valuable because it will force you to write macros right from  the start, and use them as markup tags, to give meaning to your document.  The fancy formatting will come later, when you've mastered the language.	2000-08-07
US	52611366	R3FQ007BFLHLQA	1570621225	939361177	Sacred Calligraphy of the East	Books	5	21	22	N	N	a wonderful tour of Oriental calligraphy	Sacred Calligraphy of the East takes you through the scripts used in the  sacred writings of religions and nations of East Asia. If the book would  have just been a wide collection of calligraphic examples, this would have  been a good enough reason to get the book. But the book is more than this:  It actually teaches you to draw these characters. It's a wonderful book.	2000-08-07
US	52611366	R1FUJLCSP86NPP	0385040253	656774528	The Ashley Book of Knots	Books	5	15	20	N	N	encyclopedic -- you will knot find this stuff elsewhere...	The Ashley Book of Knots is an encyclopedic tome on knots -- It's huge,  it's very well organised, it's very useful and a lot of fun. <br />My  favourites are the Chinese button knots. I've never seen a more complete  compilation of these beautiful knots. I've asked many Chinese, Japanese,  Vietnamese and Koreans, and they haven't seen as many differet knots  either. Second favourites are Turk's Head knots. Again -- an excruciatingly  complete compilation, very beautiful pictures and very clear diagrams. Get  the book and have fun!	2000-08-07
US	52611366	R1AKM429K3HQKO	0471197130	243115764	AntiPatterns: Refactoring Software, Architectures, and Projects in Crisis	Books	5	20	26	N	N	An amazing look at how object orientation is misused	Most people make the transition from C to C++ or to Java with little  trouble, if any. If you look at their code, you'll understand why: People  figure out clever ways to do C programming in any language -- No person, no  discipline, no environment, and no programming language can FORCE you to  program in an object oriented way if you really don't want to. So you  don't, and you don't reap the benefits of object orientation either, even  though you're using an object oriented language... This means your code is  not factored properly, this means you don't have re-usable components, this  means you don't get the orthogonality and modularity and reduction in  program complexity that object orientation promisses. What would such a  program look like? It look like hell! <br />It turns out that people misuse  object oriented technology in similar ways, forming not  &quot;patterns&quot;, but rather &quot;AntiPatterns.&quot; The AntiPatterns  book is like a pathology textbook for software engineering: It helps you  identify projects gone awry, what were the basic reasons for the program to  have developed the way it did, what are the consequences of such  pathological development, and how to fix things. The idea is not to have to  do a complete re-write, but to either isolate the working-but-malstructured  parts of the program or fix them gently, a small piece at a time, or both.  The book will also teach you how NOT to think about patterns and object  orientation.	2000-08-07
US	52611366	R3B8MLYEF1Q4GX	0446604593	310523806	Mad Genius: Odyssey, Pursuit & Capture of the Unabomber Suspect	Books	5	6	6	N	N	very clear, very informative, very quickly written... :)	It's clear right from the start that Mad Genius was written in a hurry. The writing is uneven in places, there are stylistic rough edges, but this  is no novel, and if Kaczynski would like a nicer biography he'll just have  to write one himself. Still, the book is timely, and important, and  sufficiently well written to make for easy reading.<br />The book helps answer  many questions about the Unabomber: <br />- What are the facts of the case? [  not a trivial question for such a protracted case ]<br />- What is the Ted  Kaczynski's background? Who is he, where did he come from, could anyone  have guessed that this is what he was up to?<br />- Why he did it -- motives,  frustrations, ideas.<br />And that's basically all that most people will ever  want to know about the unabomber and his story. The book will also give you  plenty of minutia to relish over, such as his the inventory of his cabin at  the time of the arrest, what &quot;technology&quot; (or lack thereof) did  he use to assemble his bombs, and it lists his manifesto in full. The book  is not expensive and read quickly -- get it, read it, satisfy your morbid  curiosity! :)	2000-08-07
US	52611366	R1M966JBWG9S43	0130386707	387934222	APL 2 at a Glance	Books	4	11	11	N	N	This is a good book; Now here's what it's missing...	This book is a useful introduction to APL2 -- IBM's modern dialect of the  APL language. APL2 is available for many platforms, including Windows, OS2,  RS6000 and IBM mainframes.<br />The first thing to keep in mind about the book  is that IBM's bundling it with IBM APL2/Windows and IBM APL2/OS2, so if  you're planning on buying these implementations, perhaps you want to wait  and get the copy with your software. Otherwise, if you're using the free  TryAPL2 or your site has a license for APL2 and you need the documentation,  then this book is very useful and helpful.<br />Having said this, here is what  the book WON'T teach you:<br />- Shared variables. How APL2 manages  communication with other processors, with other APL2 systems, etc. This is  a very important topic.<br />- The associated and auxiliary processors: How  APL2 manages screen IO, how APL2 talks to REXX or to your operating system,  how to manage files from APL2 (!!!), etc.<br />You should keep these in mind  because when you'll be done with the APL2 at a Glance book, you might  wonder, for example, how to do file IO in APL2 -- you'll need the APL2 user  guide to help you with this and other topics.	2000-08-06
US	52611366	R8J7H8BALAWI	0201122782	381362368	Who Got Einstein's Office? Eccentricity and Genius at the Institute for Advanced Study	Books	3	44	47	N	N	interesting book, but the author's crassness shows...	Who Got Einstein's Office offers an interesting look at Princeton's  Institute of Advanced Study, the famous people that work(ed) there, as well  as their work. The book seems to suggest that the tenured researchers at  the Institute of Advanced Study have done their best work before they  joined; That somehow at the Institute, they were isolated from a vibrant  academic life, from contact with other researchers and students in their  field, etc. As such, the book is definitely worth reading.<br />Having said  that much, I feel that I should voice my indignation at the way the author  depicted and presented one of the greatest lights of this century, the  logician Kurt Goedel.<br />It's almost embarrassing to me to mention this,  since Goedel's work -- profound and deep and beautiful, is what most people  that remember Goedel at all remember him for. But Goedel apparently had  some difficulties of an emotional and mental nature that effected his life  -- from adolescence to adulthood, difficulties that the author, Ed Regis,  finds the generousity to mock. In describing Goedel's relationship with his  mother and the influence it had on his romantic life, Regis refers to  Goedel as &quot;Kurtele&quot; -- a diminutive of Goedel's first name --  like turning a &quot;Richard&quot; into &quot;little Dicky&quot;... This is  but an example. Regis goes to greater length to belittle Goedel and the  appreciation of his work. This is beneath contempt. However bizzare and  eccentric and troubled Goedel's life was, Goedel himself was its only  victim. Goedel left the world precious gems of thought and changed the  world of logic and mathematics forever. I think he deserves quite a bit  more respect and compassion than Ed Regis afforded him.<br />It certainly  doesn't have to be the case that if you don't respect someone you also  don't understand his work. It's just ironic that the author, who refers to  Goedel mockingly as &quot;The Grand High Exalted Mystical Ruler&quot;,  fails to understand even the most basic things about Goedel's work: The  incompleteness result is described as &quot;... the mathematical equivalent  of the assertion that 'This statement is unprovable.'&quot; What could be  simpler? Add to this Goedel's own self-doubts, and the author now begins to  wonder whether the incompleteness theorem isn't in fact a rather obvious  and straightforward result. <br />But as the saying goes, &quot;God is in the  detail&quot;, and the author doesn't even begin to see the subtleties  involved: Mathematics &quot;talking about itself&quot; -- Goedel numbering  as a mechanism for mathematics to encode sentences about methematics, a  mathematical proposition &quot;refering to itself&quot; -- indexicals,  expessing &quot;this&quot; in thematics... As a consequence of  &quot;mathematics talking about itself&quot; -- the effective computability  of the provability predicate -- What Goedel did in fact is write a scanner,  parser and interpreter in type theory -- all in 1931 -- twenty-something  years before there were computers around, and people could write canners,  parsers and interpreters for programming languages. And Goedel got them all  right -- scanner, parser and interpreter -- written maticulously as  recursive and primitive recursive functions. Merely envisioning these back  in 1931 is a tramendous intellectual achievement.<br />Not having appreciated  the depth of Goedel's contributions to logic, it's no wonder Regis doesn't  appreciate Goedel's admirers: In describing a meeting between Rudolf Rucker  and Kurt Goedel, Regis qoutes Rucker's words of appreciation of Goedel's  understanding and insight into the problems he raised during their meeting:  &quot;perfect understanding&quot;, &quot;informative laghter&quot;, ... to  which Regis has to contribute: &quot;Of course! Why not? We're not talking  about talking about a man, after all, a mere mortal. We're talking about  the Emperor of the Forms, the Grand High Exalted MysticalRuler.&quot;<br />Well, shame on you Ed Regis!	2000-08-06
US	52611366	R1YTD76UPYDJLD	0440202019	154673422	Coping with Difficult People: The Proven-Effective Battle Plan That Has Helped Millions Deal with the Troublemakers in Their Lives at Home and at Work	Books	5	197	204	N	N	you need this book wherever you are; Even alone on an island	Coping with Difficult People is an amazingly useful book. Difficult people  are all around you, even when you're alone: Most people don't realise just  how difficult and unconstructive they can be! This book gives helps you  identify difficult behaviour, and how to get around it.<br />WHAT THIS BOOK  GIVES YOU<br />Difficult behaviour is not all that difficult to identify. That  is, unless you're in the middle of a confrontation and you're either too  annoyed or intimidated or distracted to realise what's taking place. This  book won't turn you into a psychologist, but it will teach you how to  identify difficult, destructive, problematic behaviour in people, and how  to cope with it.<br />This book is about coping. You can't always convince  someone, and when someone's determinsed to make life difficult for you you  can't always win. But you can try to push ahead, keep your cool, remain  focused and constructive and pleasant and not be trampled on. If you're  experiencing a difficult time because of co-workers or friends or family  members, having read this book, your life will not become all of a sudden  easier and simpler and nicer. Difficult people will continue to make your  life difficult. But if you follow the suggestions in the book you should be  able to neutralise most of the difficult behaviour to the point where you  can get things done.<br />WHY DOES IT WORKS WITH OTHERS<br />This book will help  you because it's recipe oriented, and if you become adept at it, you will  be able to use its suggestions under pressure -- the elements of surprise  or helplessness in the difficult behaviour will be missed on you. Key  phrases, key words, body language are used to identify a type of difficult  behaviour/person. Then a basic approach is tailored around the type of  difficult person you're dealing with, though you will need to adapt the  material in the book to your particular environment, situation and style.  The better you anticipate an encounter with a difficult person and plan for  it, the less of a surprise will that person enjoy, the less a sense of  inevitability and helplessness will he be able to instill in you. In that  sense, this book is the equivalent to a book on Chess openings. It's very  effective.<br />WHY DOES IT WORKS WITH YOURSELF<br />Almost everybody is a  difficult person sometimes. This book will help you identify patterns of  difficult behaviour in yourself, and will give you some rudimentry insight  into why you're behaving that way. Becoming conscious of when you exhibit  difficult, uncooperative, destructive behaviour -- with what people, in  what situations, etc, is a first step to curbing these tendencies within  yourself.	2000-08-06
US	52611366	RPK8XL8Q3XX8C	0962513334	99529315	Complete Typing Business Guide: Everything You Need to Know to Start and Successfully Operate a Home Typing Business	Books	3	20	20	N	N	this is a nice but outdated book...	This is a nice book, written clearly, stays focused. This is more than a how-to book -- it's loaded with pep talk to encourage you on your way to  starting your own typing business. I'm sure some readers take to this style  of writing; I don't particularly like it myself.<br />The book is a lot  smaller than it first seems: It was typeset on a very old-fashioned word  processor and printed on what seems like a 9-pin dot matrix printer with a  large and low-quality monospace font... To this, someone added titles in a  letter quality font, and this typographical nightmare was then sent to the  printers... I mention this, because one would hope that a book on how to  start a typing business would be able to give some typographic advice --  after all, most word processors today are typographically rich and capable,  and one needs to learn how to use these features effectively while not  abusing them. No chance for that here, and not because of the author's  oversight! --<br />The most amazing thing about this little book is that it's  almost totally outdated. The book was published in 1990 and the information  about typing was outdated already back then. Today, it's practically  useless: The book discusses typing paper (remember that erasable typing  paper?  -- if not -- the author will remind you), typewriters and how to  test them, and has some information on what appears to be very rudimentary  word processing technology. VERY rudimentary.<br />What is still relevant  about this book is the information on how to start and manage a typing  business: The advice the author gives is plain and simple to follow, makes  sense, and works. Everything from how to start a business, how to advertise  cheaply or freely, how to keep costs down, etc. Frankly, some of this is a  bit outdated too, because I imagine that most home typists would run their  accounting, book keeping, invoices, etc on line, that is, on their personal  computer...<br />Still, this is a nice book, and if you want to make a little  extra cash on the side, you can get this book and learn a thing or two. It  isn't an expensive book, and even if it doesn't teach you anything new it  will at least help you plot a concrete course of action -- what to do to  get started. If you want to use this book, you should try to make up for  its weaknesses:<br />- Forget about typewriters unless you're a collector.<br />-  Forget about word processing systems that come with a typewriter -- special  purpose computers that only work as a word processor -- they're good for  anyone but you: (A) You can't upgrade the word processor -- you'd be stuck  with whatever you got; (B) These word processors are universally and  severely limited as far as typesetting features are concerned; (C) You're  locked into them -- they generally don't let you export your files to the  format of a PC/Mac based word processor; (D) They're expensive; You could  get a PC for the kind of money they cost. The bottom line is that a typist  needs to be able to offer typographic flexibility and those systems offer  anything but flexibility.<br />- Get a real word processor -- MS Word, Corel  Word Perfect, Adobe Framemaker, Interleaf, etc, and MASTER IT. At least  glance over the manuals once, just so you know what it can and cannot  do.<br />- Follow the advice in The Complete Typing Business Guide as to how  to get some business. Focus on colleges and universities.<br />[ There is a  lot of money to be made from scientific typesetting -- formulas, equations,  tables of formulas and equations, graphs, etc -- This is a skill in itself,  and you may want to get some more specialised software. Generally, most  math and physics professors HATE to typeset their papers and they'd do  anything and pay almost anything for someone else to typeset their papers  for them. ]<br />- [The cheater's guide to typesetting; A crash course:] Keep  a few examples of neat typesetting work in various categories: A novel, a  science book, an article in the humanities, an article in physics, a term  paper, resumes for different kinds of jobs -- examples of work that looks  sharp and clean and crisp and nice. Configure the macros, styles, formats,  etc in your word processor so that you can immitate THOSE styles quickly  and effortlessly. Then, when you get some typing work, use those styles.  Yes, COPY those styles. Stick to the styles that look best for the category  of work you're typing in, and remember: In typesetting, consistency is the  greatest virtue.	2000-08-06
US	52611366	R1CU1JXBB0Q1ZE	0440324971	212139280	The Feminine Mystique	Books	5	271	289	N	N	profound, penetrating, rational and humane	It's common wisdom to think of the Feminine Mystique as a classical feminist text. This is perhaps the case, but I would like to argue that it  is so much more than that. The book examines what society tells women about  their lives -- education, career, family, sexuality, goals, values, and  anything else. The book discusses what society tells women, who exactly  promotes these views about femininity, out of what possible motives, and  what toll do these views have on women, their family and their children.  The basic thesis of the book is that femininity has been mystified,  manipulated, and taught back to women, in their homes and schools and  churches, in the novels and magazines they read, etc -- that this  mystification of femininity is a monsterous distortion of a person's life,  resulting in emotional problems, marital and family tension, stifled  careers, and general unhappiness... That we -- society -- have been living  in denial of the condition women have been manipulated into, and therefore  have been ineffectual in our help. That there are good reasons why things  are the way they are -- it's embarassing to discover just how economically  profitable this distortion is.<br />The Feminine Mystique is profound and  penetrating in that it questions a state of affairs so many of us take (or  have taken) for granted. The book appeals to reason. You won't find any  &quot;masculine logic&quot; vs. &quot;feminine logic&quot; stuff here; Just  logic: The book is a systematic expose of the problem, its toll on women,  and its toll on the rest of the family -- men and children. The book is  humane and compassionate in dealing with human suffering: It doesn't place  men and women on opposite sides of some battle of the sexes, but rather  places all of us on the same side -- the side of the victims -- of some  really bad ideas that have been dominant in society for a long time.<br />The  book is frightening, because having read it, the magnitude and scope of  women's suffering takes on a new meaning. The book is liberating, because  having read it, you realise the mistakes you've made in your own life --  how you may have contributed to the problem, and you have a pretty good  idea as to how to go about changing things -- your own life, and the way  you deal with others. This is a great book.	2000-08-05
US	52611366	R3TIY07QCMS96A	0679724141	821994534	A Bright Shining Lie: John Paul Vann and America in Vietnam	Books	5	10	12	N	N	The most moving book on Vietnam I've ever read	I was recommended this book by an officer at the ROTC office at my alma mater. The title didn't sound promissing, but I took the officer's word and got the book. Of all the books I've read on Vietnam, this is by far, the  most moving book I've ever read. <br />The book focuses on one person, John  Paul Vann, his childhood and family history, his marriage, his military  service, his second tour as a civilian. William Blake wrote that one can  see a world in a grain of sand; If you want to see a piece of America, if  you want to see the Vienam war in the eyes of a person that fought in it,  if you want to see what was it in that war that infuriated, that raised  emotions, that drew people in, that readied them for the ultimate  commitment, get this book and read it.	2000-07-29
US	52611366	R2MKZXGLQY85BG	0471098469	113018554	Abstract Algebra: A Computational Approach	Books	4	8	8	N	N	a great book for non-math majors	Abstract Algebra, A Computational Approach is an introductory textbook on abstract algebra that emphasises the &quot;hands on&quot; approach of computing and calculating everything imaginable: Sets, groups, rings,  fields, and the operations on them. <br />This wonderful book struggles with a  major problem in math education: How do you get a class of 40 students to  visualise abstract algebra? Ideally, you'd want to give many examples and  problems for them to work out. Soviet books have traditionally taken this  approach, so with many Soviet math books there was a compendium of  &quot;1000 solved problems in... &quot;. There are similar books in  English, but only for the most elementary courses. Having a few dosen books  with solved problems in Topology, for example, would have been a great  thing, but there isn't any economic motivation for such books. Alternately,  if it were possible to calculate and compute things, then students could  experiment with and explore the subject matter on their own. This is what  graphing calculators, for example, did to intro calculus classes -- it made  it possible for students to experiment and visualise the subject matter  like nothing else.<br />But how do you visualise abstract algebra? You could  write computer programs to do such things as compute permutations,  intersect sets, solve matrices, etc, but in &quot;mainstream&quot;  programming languages this would take a while, be error prone and slow down  the class. It wouldn't be practical. The author's solution: Use APL! APL is  a programming language designed specifically for concisely manipulating  vectors and matrices. APL programs are so concise that in one or two lines  of APL code students can accomplish what would otherwise take hundreds of  lines of C code. With a few keystrokes, students could be performing  complex operations on groups and fields and sets. APL is fun, quick and  concise, and students will be focused on what really matters -- abstract  algebra,rather than delving into the nuts and bolts o yet-another  programming language. APL to abstract algebra is like a graphing calculator  to studying functions -- it helps, it's fun, it gives intuition and  insight.<br />The book doesn't cover as much material as, say, Herstein's  book. On the other hand, it will give the students a quick feel for the  subject matter. Perhaps the book would be ideal for computer science majors  and other non-math majors that are expected to take two semesters of  abstract algebra. Another minor issue is that the dialect of APL used in  the book is a bit old -- the code's great, but I think the students would  have a better experience with APL2 or J. J has a richer numeric tower and  much of the supporting software is made redundant by it.	2000-07-29
US	52611366	R18P8LLSY23X3G	0131655493	643523126	Smalltalk With Style	Books	5	20	20	N	N	great for improving your smalltalk programming style	This is a great book, it really is. The only potential for disappointment is if you think this book will teach you smalltalk -- it will not. This book is about good programming convensions in smalltalk -- it's about style  and consistency and clarity. All this may sound too trivial to merit a  book, but consider the following:<br />You will not find many people that  program in smalltalk and you will not be able to see a lot of code. This  means that your coding style will take longer to develop *naturally*, on  your own. This is where Smalltalk With Style comes in: It's a small book  and makes simple and easy reading. When you're done with it, you'll put it  aside and most likely never refer to it again. But it will change the way  you write code in smalltalk, and your code will begin to look the way  smalltalk code should. The advantage of this book is that it packs  invaluable programming experience in a wonderful, but not-so-popular  programming language into a very small book. Get it, read it, get over with  it, and go on to write code like a natural smalltalker.	2000-07-19
US	52611366	R3TVXBYW0FN455	0452279232	422504912	The Joy of Cooking Comb-Bound Edition: Revised and Expanded	Books	5	163	169	N	N	a classic: two reasons to get this book	The Joy of Cooking is by now a classic, a Bible of cooking. An encyclopedic tome of procedures, material and recipes. I shall not attempt to cover its many virtues here, but instead I would like to focus on two  reasons why you MUST get this book:<br />LEARNING TO COOK The Joy of Cooking  is more than just a recipe book. It's a textbook. As a student, living on  my own and having to take my first steps in the kitchen, this book was a  life saver -- it taught me how to cook. Other cookbooks are mere  collections of recipes: If you follow them carefully, you have a good  chance at ending up with something close to what the author intended. But  most cookbooks don't teach you anything about preparing food -- they're  just recipes -- so you never really understand, for example, how different  doughs are made and how they're used for different breads and pastries, or  what kinds of fish should be broiled, fried or cooked, etc. The Joy of  Cooking teaches you all that, and much more. If you take the time to  actually read the descriptions at the start of each chapter, as opposed to  just searching for and following a recipe, you will understand how to cook.  The importance of this is immense: If you actually understand what your  doing, as opposed to simply following directions, you can improvise, invent  new recipes, correct any problems/mistakes/errors, etc. You will begin to  think like a Chef. I own many cookbooks, but the Joy of Cooking is one of  the very few that actually attempts (and does such a wonderful job)  teaching you how to cook. You shouldn't miss up on this opportunity. It's  very clear, very well-written, and is ideal for those that are taking their  first steps in the kitchen.<br />RARE AND DIFFICULT TO FIND RECIPES While the  Joy of Cooking can't contain each and every ethnic food, it is quite  encyclopedic nonetheless. Often, I search dosens of cookbooks, surf the  internet, ask friends, only to discover that what I'm looking for is  already in the Joy of Cooking! I should have consulted it first! Do you  realise that the Joy of Cooking will teach you how to make marshmellows,  Halwa, Turkish pastry dough (for borekas), candy, and many other  not-so-easy-to-find recipes? And all from scratch: Marshmellows are  essentially whipped sugar syrup and gelatin. Halva is essentially sugar  syrup and raw tehini sauce. Making Turkish pastry dough is an involved  process that takes time and precision -- all the steps for which are in the  Joy of Cooking. While I have all these recipes in other books as well, I  have no other SINGLE book that contains them all. The Joy of Cooking is  encyclopedic and diverse, its scope as far as procedures or ethnic foods  are concerned is enormous. This should be your first cookbook, and unless  you're looking for some really exotic procedures and recipes, it could very  well be your only cookbook.	2000-07-19
US	52611366	R1HPORBHI72VIN	0805208534	433715283	Enemy in the Promised Land: An Egyptian Woman's Journey into Israel	Books	5	11	12	N	N	brilliant writer describes Israel &quot;as is&quot;	While the book contains many biographical and historical information, the book i s centered around three years the author, daughter of an Egyptian career diplomat, spent in Israel, long before Israel and Egypt established diplomatic relations.  Israel, Hebrew and things Jewish have always held a fascination for the author, and she decided to visit Israel and see for herself what the country and its people are like. Ms.  Hasan's visit to Israel met with family disaproval, a hostile Arab press and thr eats of imprisonment by her own government. Having withstood all these, the author's courage and strong will are even more note worthy. <br /> Right from the start, Ms. Hassan, the daughter of an Egyptian diplomat, impresse d me with her sincerity, humanity and powers of observation. Ms. Hassan encounters a very different reality from what she's read about Israel in the Arab media. \\"Ver y different\\" doesn't always mean better as it doesn't always mean worse. With envi able sensitivity, humour and humanity, Ms. Hassan is shares and disects her experienc es in the \\"promissed land\\".<br /> Ms. Hassan didn't enter Israel tabula rasa; She has many preconceived notions ab out the Arab-Israeli conflict, and those may or may not be different from those of h er readers. But she's very open and forthcoming in stating her views up front, and she's sincerely interested in opposing views. Her style of writing is neither preachy nor dogmatic, and so I think the book can be enjoyed by people with views different from her's.<br />Her insights about life in Israel, the Israeli-Zionist ethos, and the various so cial strata she encounters are breath-taking. It's difficult to see how someone could acquir e such a profound understanding of Israel after such a short stay (3 years) in the country.<br />During the three years the author spent in Israel, she underwent many experience s, some positive, some negative, some sad, and some just plainly bizzare. During th ose three years, the author has occassion to discover what Israel is really like -- to a celebrity, to an annonymous tourist, to a newly immigrated Jew, etc. She meets w ith people, is exposed to their views and feelings and fears. She finds friendship i n Israel, and love. She's also exposed to the uglier sides of life in Israel -- to the rac ism and the poverty, to the facist-militarist mind-set so many people here seem to hold, she meets, lives and works with the underprivilages -- people working in factories, a hotel kitchen, kids in a reform school. The author, Ms. Hassan, has been exposed both to the touristy side of the promissed land as well as to the less flashy, more mund ane sides.<br /> Throughout the book, Ms. Hassan retains her curiousity and optimism and most importantly -- her sense of humour. She's very self-critical throughout the book , demonstrating again and again how her own premises about Israel are undergoing constant revision and change.<br />Her basic attitude is intellectual, positively generous and humane. This doesn't mean that she changes all her views by the end of the book, nor does it mean that she converts everyone to her side. It does mean, however, that while she's an intens ly political and intensly intellectual person, she's also able to relate to people, to see their side (even if she disagrees with it), to show ampathy and compassion for o thers, and to see their needs and fears and motives.<br />As an Israeli, I found that Ms. Hassan's book certainly held a mirror up to my f ace, to let me see Israeli existance from a different angle. Unlike the other reviewer, I don't think that this mirror is the least bit distorted. I found the book inspiring, a nd I think that it's important reading material for Israelis at home and abroad, Jews every where interested in Israel or contemplating aliyah, and all others that would like to see Israel-as-it-is -- de-mystified, cleared of any romanticism, but still -- comple x, tricky, sometimes ugly and sometimes very beautiful.<br />All in all, the book was a delight to read, and I'm sure I'll re-read it again.	2000-07-19
US	52611366	R2G0ARUPKQS988	0061097632	221606529	The Eleventh Plague	Books	3	12	13	N	N	enjoyable reading, but...	I enjoyed the book, primarily because I am interested in the subject matter (cbw) and seek out books on such topics, whether fiction or not. Having said this much in favour of the book, I would like to linger on the book's weaker points.<br />EDITING/PROSE The book is very poorly edited for  language and consistency. As already suggested by some of the other  reviewers, date inconsistencies, grammatical and syntactic errors, poor  transliteration and translation from Hebrew, and many other slip-ups can be  found in abundence. It's difficult to imagine that this book was edited by  anyone other than the authors (and authors, quite naturally, become blind  to the faults in their own prose). The poor editing is probably a syndrom  of the word processing age: Authors generate camera-ready or near  camera-ready manuscripts that are printed as-is or subjected to but the  most cursory examination.<br />TECHNICAL ACCURACY At least one of the authors  is an M.D. It's therefore amazing and amusing to notice the many technical  inaccuracies that exist in the book; Presumably the authors are writing  about topics they have some knowledge of, and since these are technical  topics one wouldn't really expect an editor to catch on to them. Perhaps  books that deal with scientific issues, even if in the form of fiction,  should be passed on for technical peer reviewing. The most gross technical  error I found in the book was to classify prions as viruses. Prions do not  contain genetic material (dna or rna) and are therefore not viruses. I  found other slip-ups throughout the book, and once noticed, they do hurt  the basic credibility of the authors; After all, this isn't science fiction  they're writing about.<br />Otherwise, the book was interesting and  informative. I don't think it qualifies as great literature, but it was fun  weekend reading, and I certainly learned a few things from it. I took some  notes as I was reading, and this is a nice basis for learning more about  thesubject. One reference that's mentioned in the book, and that you DON'T  want to miss on is ProMED. There really is such a mailing list, and you can  search it online...	2000-07-10
US	52611366	R1O7Y2XNX6TAB6	0884050262	841874004	Handbook of APL programming	Books	5	5	5	N	N	One of the few books on APL that include *real* programs	APL is a language of one-liners and otherwise short programs. Most texts on APL offer simple one-liners that show what each function and operator do, and not much beyond. Very few books show you how to go beyond the  one-liners, and construct really useful programs. Even in those books that  do offer useful utilities, the code is often poorly written, and  pedagogically inferior: The transition from the one liners to a 60 line  program is missing, so the reader never learns how to extend his one-liner  skills to a real programs.<br />The Handbook of APL Programming by Clark  Wiedmann is different: The book is filled with wonderful gems of examples,  all under 10 lines, but still -- significantly more powerful, complex,  useful and interesting than the one-liners used in other books. The  drawbacks this book suffers from are that (1) It's out of print, and (2)  The examples are *so* interesting and *so* lovely, that there is a real  danger of getting caught up in them and not getting any Real Work done.  Somehow I think that most readers will look forward to this danger. :)	1999-08-02
US	52611366	R3HTQC20XUHYCR	0201523728	816223401	Thinking in Postscript	Books	5	12	12	N	N	This is a great book!	Thinking in PostScript covers very little graphics and page layout. This is not what this book is about. Thinking in PostScript offers you precisely what the title says: The ideas and intuition behind really *thinking* in  PostScript. PostScript is a postfix language, quite like FORTH or RPL.  While it is quite different from &quot;traditional&quot; Algol descendents,  it is a sophisticated high-level language that offers higher order  procedures, polymorphic data structures, run-time types, dynamic memory  management, local state -- if you want it, and much more. The language is  really quite similar to LISP or Scheme in its philosophy -- only that those  are prefix languages. The distinction is superficial.<br />I've written some  small snippletts of code in PostScript before tackling the book. Then I  read the book ... Within *hours* I was able to leverage my skills at LISP  and Scheme and generate efficient yet readable, debuggable and maintainable  code. I am now able to think directly in PostScript and produce really  useful code. Mr Reid deserves much of the credit for this. <br />If you need  to write in PostScript and find yourself sinking in the language, writing  unmaintainable, complicated mush, then this book is for you. It will help  you *understand* the language and *think* in it, developing a good  programming style as you go along. As for the info on font encodings,  graphics, etc -- you can pick that up from the PostScript reference -- once  you understand the language and feel comfortable with it.	1999-06-21
