US	52618134	R1MPZUPRFWYY3V	0312305346	380374832	The Eagle's Conquest: A Novel of the Roman Army (Eagle Series)	Books	2	11	15	N	N	Pedestrian series (no pun intended)	This series presents life in a Roman legion as seen from the middle ranks, unprepossessing foot soldiers under extreme conditions. In this second volume the scene shifts from Germania to the first successful conquest of Brittania, under Claudius AD 42. (Incidentally, Emperor Claudius is not shown here as the gentle, insightful character of the \\"I, Claudius\\" TV film).   <br /> <br />As in the first book (Under the Eagle), we have the nave, inexperienced (in love as well as war here), sentimental and modern-sensitive young Cato, a former palace slave and recent recruit to the 2nd Legion, acting more heroically in combat than the veterans. His instant promotion to optio (second in command of 80 men to his  centurian, Macro!) in the first book is as inexplicable as ever. (And what has happened to all the disgruntled vets who ridiculed him in the first book? Even his nemesis  there hardly puts in an appearance here.) Macro is a tough veteran who puts up with Cato, but is unrealistically and inconsistently foul-mouthed. It's a little too easy that this pair seems always to be at the crux of the battle, or tripping up evil plotters against their leader. The evil plotters are added to provide an opportunity for some sort of climax in each volume, since otherwise each book would only describe just a few months of a much longer campaign. Neither the military plot nor the evil plot seem to produce much character change in Cato, Marco, or the others series characters, who just go on hacking away. (Legion commander Vespasian is the other character through whose eyes we often see the story, providing the strategic view needed to make sense of the war. [Shhh: he's the future emperor, first of the Flavians, as viewed in the historical novels 20-years on by Lindsey Davis].) The only reason I can figure for why Cato has to be such a raw recruit (and jumped-up officer who nevertheless always chooses the right tactical move!) is to engage a young reader and/or to bring the reader along through the development of a legionary.  <br /> <br />Scarrow's writing is quite ordinary, flat in tone regardless of the emotion. It is historically descriptive but unexciting and not evocative of character, conditions, or terrain. It is pitched at a teenage level, that of the credulous (yet wise?) Cato, and possibly that of the students whom Scarrow normally teaches. Aside from the occasional Latin terms, words are confined to basic English--which is fine in speech but monotonous in the scene-setting and descriptive pasages. The series is promoted as a gutsy, brutal, and ferocious view of Roman soldiery--which might explain the lack of humor--but the combat and camp life is made nasty only spasmodically, as if the author has suddenly remembered, 'Oh, right, I need a little gore/cursing/sex/drunkeness here.'  Maybe that's just as well, because he's not very convincing, and undermines the harshness with sentimentality. As I've said, this is not a fully grown-up series.  <br /> <br />I'd suggest trying out this book in a library before you spend good money. Obviously, however, there's just enough of situations, action, military tactics, and historical people to keep me reading...as long as I come across a free book.	2005-08-04
US	52618134	RMKKVLC0CCW07	0425194116	545655521	Good Blood (Gideon Oliver Mysteries)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Weak Blood	Aaron Elkins knows his stuff; he was one of a small coterie of forensic anthropologists. Many of his previous stories are suspenseful, macabre, or scary, although always carrying a patina of rationality.  <br /> <br />This story takes off with two exciting, then ominous, events in the picturesque Italian lake country. Coincidentally, Profs. Gideon and Julie Oliver are there  vacationing, and visit the padrone of a family whose son has just been kidnapped.  <br /> <br />Unfortunately, Elkins miscalculates in the too-revealing Prologue and gives away one of the most vital final twists of the plot. If you don't get it right off you'll only find one more genuine clue (and another if you know medicine) until Gideon reveals all in a final set speech. For an ostensible mystery, Elkins' suspense is lax. They find the body of a character I hadn't even realized was missing. When Gideon is attacked, he coolly thinks about the \\"pressure on the soft tissues of the superior carotid triangles\\" (rather than being choked to death). This is humorous in a manner of speaking, but undercuts the suspense.  Perhaps Elkins' research stay in Italy was just too sunny a time to inspire him.  <br /> <br />Just sit back and enjoy the  travelogue Elkins provides. Good Blood is even simpler than most Elkins, but has pleasant Italian people and details along the way, as well as restaurant recommendations in case you ever visit Lago Maggiore as he did. Elkins' prose is clean and light. He distances Gideon from the occasional ugly bits by his command of emotionless medical terminology when examining a murder victim's bones, or sleuthing by telephone. If you insist on reading this sub-par Elkins, the 11th rendition of Gideon's adventures, get the pb. Editing is a bit loose, resulting in howlers on pp. 73 and 120 of the hb.	2005-05-16
US	52618134	RWX4ONWUI8MIX	052594799X	918485708	Slow Kill	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Sloow case	McGarrity is one of my favorite mystery writers. His stories are atmospheric, the characters human in their own intriguing lives, and the hunt devious. Slow Kill begins with Santa Fe Police Chief Kevin Kerney on vacation and, I'm afraid, rather continues in that vein throughout the pursuit of a murderer. McGarrity is more relaxed than usual and it shows. Other investigators besides Kearny are off the patch, almost moonlighting, going different directions, and turning over one seemingly incidental rock after another. They find remarkable traces of perfidy, like tendrils of a large web seen from the vantge point of a small fly. Irregular police work, baseless suspicions, chance, convenient connections, happenstance, and serendipity: they play a too-large role in exposing the strands that eventually come together with, yes, a case. The only death is on p. 7 and its true nature is only slowly exposed, perhaps thus accounting for the title. McGarrity doesn't drop clues as Agatha Christie did; these are more suspense and police procedural stories than mysteries or thrillers.  <br /> <br />McGarrity clearly likes his characters, rounds out their on-the-job personalities, develops Kerney's stressful marriage, and doesn't do too badly by the villains. Writers of series eventually face the problem of marriage: a hero without a wife soon loses his moral authority through the Scylla of inconstancy or Charybdis of a debilitating fear of commitment, while his family can become a target only once without becoming a cheap plot device for a tired writer. Fortunately, McGarrity solves this quandry by writing Kerney's wife, Sara, as a career Army officer who is frequently called away, thus allowing Kerney to remain an honorable man yet unencumbered when necessary.  <br /> <br />McGarrity's switch of publishers from Scribner to Dutton has done him poorly. I really dislike the cover art they've given McGarrity in his last two books. Generic urban scenes have no place for an author withsuch a powerful sense of place. The tension in these Big Sky books is well below the usual frenetic urban Sandford or the hysteria of Cornwall. Contributing to the lessened suspense of Slow Kill is splitting the action between New Mexico, California, and Virginia; introducing parallel investigations, two lead investigators, two strong suspects, and diffuse story lines; and leaving actual forensics to outsiders' reports. As in the previous novel, EVERYONE DIES, the conclusion is also a bit rushed, loose, and perfunctory. I now like the beginnings when all is fresh and tantalizing, better than I do the endings, when McGarrity is just wrapping up the obvious threads in a workmanlike fashion. I don't think these are his two best stories, in a very good body of work. If you haven't read McGarrity before I suggest you start with TULAROSA, because Kerney's career and family developments are a huge dimension, and play a role in this series.	2005-05-16
US	52618134	RGTRJFRQLK1L6	0451411196	859569618	One Grave Too Many (Diane Fallon Forensic Investigation, No. 1)	Books	3	9	11	N	N	New series off to a frenzied start	The heroine, Diane Fallon, is an ex-forensic anthropologist and has inherited the directorship of a new(?) museum, both under circumstances that remain mysterious for long. We are tossed into what feels like the middle of a story where Fallon is a febrile near-hysteric, frenetically trying to get her museum up and running, dealing with a hostile board, hiring staff on whims, and falling back into an apparently old relationship with equally distraught detective Frank Duncan, who now brings her bones she really doesn't want to see. Connor's choice of metaphors--for people, for buildings--is calculated to establish an undertone of threat and horror. These inexplicable doings continue through the first half of the book, by which time enough of the backstory has emerged for the reader to realize this is not the second book in a series. We see that  Fallon has some humor, the confusing incidents are beginning to settle into some sense, and the multiple cases in which overlapping sets of characters are involved become engrossing. Connor's gradual shift from psychodrama to forensic police procedural is, I think, a sophisticated way of showing how Diane is getting her life back together. That got this book another star. This book's title, One Grave Too Many, might better have applied to the \\"first\\" book implied by the appalling backstory that gradually emerges.  <br /> <br />It is difficult to imagine how this can be made into a series, since so much of the trail of clues depends on the colleagues, buddies, or family of Diane or Frank, and so many incidents are highly personal. Maybe the series will develop into a \\"family sleuths\\" situation? We never do learn much about Frank's background or earlier relationship with Diane. Here he seems to be inveigling Diane to join him in shady, if not illegal, activities, since he is not officially part of these investigations (the reasons why are another plot thread, one not resolved). In general I think Connor lacks polish and wholly convincing dialogue, indulges in caricatures of subsidiary characters who nevertheless aren't memorable, and has an overwrought, tiring plot with, like, two separate conclusions. The plot features a lot more \\"action\\" and plot twists than we have seen in Connor's previous and clever Lindsay Chamberlain (forensic archaeologist) series. I don't know why she has dropped(?) that series, one I enjoyed more than this.	2005-05-15
US	52618134	R1V94DEX8BNURO	0819150835	609967878	The Civilization of Ancient Rome: An Archaeological Perspective, Beginnings to Augustus	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Instructional text	The subtitle of this book is the key phrase. This slim volume has the virtue of showing and discussing actual physical remains, preserved and exposed, from the ancient Romans, but almost exclusively those found within their city of Roma sensu strictu. Coverage is spotty, as are the remains: pottery and houses, temples, fora, basilicas, and political monuments. The text is organized chronologically, but also marches geographically across ancient Rome. It begins with scattered Etruscan remains in Tuscany as prototypes, and concludes with Augustus' constructions in the early Empire, especially an analysis of the individuals sculpted on his Ara Pacis (Altar of Peace) of 9 B.C. However, Bender also interpolates a discussion of the immense palace of Domitian on the Palatine Hill, which dates A.D. 92-96, and mentions later structures while inventorying certain neighborhoods of Rome. Nevertheless, Bender does not describe the Colosseum and most later works--although they can be seen on the small photographs of the Model of Rome that he includes--or those outside the city of Roma. Thus, the main title could easily mislead the purchaser.  <br /> <br />This book makes most sense as an adjunct to courses in the Latin language, Roman History, or Archaeology, but could also be used as a supplemental, quite detailed, guidebook to old Rome if a tourist intensely interested in archaeology has a street map of modern Rome as well. Also, readers who enjoy Roman historical novels by the likes of Steven Saylor, Lindsey Davis, and John Maddox Roberts, or the infamous \\"Caligula,\\" or PBS \\"I, Claudius\\" PBS TV mini-series, could find this volume valuable to creating or verifying mental images, although it's probably too detailed and dryly descriptive of bits and pieces for most people. (Even better for visual realization of the original Forum area is GT Interactive's \\"3D\\" computer mystery game of 1996: \\"S.P.Q.R.\\") <br /> <br />The prose is pitched at high schoolers or undergrads, with detailed summary                                                                                                                        outlines didactically reprising much of each chapter. The text is highly descriptive, but also considers controversies regarding Greek, Latin, or Etruscan origins and over interpretation of certain outstanding later remains. Some names, titles, terms, and references within the text will be obscure unless you know your main Roman authors. The entire text is set in typescript, very neatly done...but still monospaced typescript. Bender provides critical drawings, diagrams, and building plans, but does not directly cite their sources. He adds a few illustrative snapshots of the Model of Rome. Everything is in black-and-white. His Further Readings are classics, and current through 1985. There is a short Index but no glossary.	2005-05-07
US	52618134	R20HOD23151PXR	0425199606	797916108	Hidden Prey	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A mature detective (!)	Sandford\\" has been one of my favorite thriller authors for years; still is, but this particular Lucas Davenport story is less a thriller than an ordinary mystery. The principal suspense is not who-is-crazed-enough-to-commit-these-monstrous-acts, but how will Davenport figure him out--there's never doubt it will be Davenport who does--so more than usual this is mostly a police procedural (with handy-dandy calls to the FBI or Russians(!) when a break in the case is needed).  <br /> <br />Hidden Prey is an intriguing, well-paced, and well-balanced story, with believable dialogue, some humor that's not macabre, a grounded sense of place, and crisply executed continuity. Something is always happening in a Sandford novel. It may be the case; it may be one of Davenport's relationships (very much tamed and domesticated here); it may be a secondary character; or a puzzled criminal, but it's always interesting rather than empty philosophizing or slow scene setting. This is like other recent Sandford novels, for it features an intriguing woman, this time not an attractive killer but an alleged Russian policewoman sent to help clean up the ostensibly simple killing of a Russian sailor off his ship. As a bonus, Sandford adds an elusive vagabond who happens to witness this killing while she is down and out in Duluth. While she does hold (back) a few clues, I would have enjoyed seeing her in a larger role. (Mayhaps Sandford has future plans for her, for he leaves open bringing her back, perhaps as a formidable legal adversary to Davenport in his current job of cleaning up potentially embarrassing cases for the governor of Minnesota. That would be fun to watch.)  <br /> <br />For once, there's a whole tangled conspiracy peeled away here, rather than a lone sociopath. However, compared to most of Davenport's demented cases, this story is almost genteel in its slaughter. Maybe that's because the killings are ideologically driven, \\"nothing personal\\"--so, murder is fine in the name ofThe Cause? Or is this killer just another psychopath BECAUSE he is a True Believer and does not have the excuse of rage against a personal affront? It's also true that Davenport has mellowed in recent novels, happy in his marriage, promoted off the mean streets, even driving a truck now rather than his Porsche! Gosh. Of course, Sandford could smash this happy scene in his next book, as he has done before, and return Lucas into the fervid mires of yore.  <br /> <br />This review was a near-run thing. I almost stopped reading Hidden Prey, it was so familiar. Then I realized I HAD read the first chapter, a year ago as a teaser preview in the previous paperback, Naked Prey. Won't be a problem here: no preview. As always, it's best to read the Davenport series in order. Five \\"regular\\" characters from this series flit by in this story, decontextualized, mere shadows of their painful herstories.	2005-05-07
US	52618134	R1A02F0FOP2CI5	0415232694	563397629	Frank Lloyd Wright and Japan: The Role of Traditional Japanese Art and Architecture in the Work of Frank Lloyd Wright	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Wright Explained at Last?	This book answered a lot more questions on Wright's (denied) influences than I expected. It is a remarkable look into how Japanese woodblock prints and traditional architecture (initially presented by American interpreters) may have helped shape Wright's development, creativity, and specific building designs. Nute has reviewed numerous obscure contemporary sources to help make the case that Wright probably knew a lot more about Japanese art before his first trip there in 1905, when he was already well into his Prairie style phase, than he would later admit. I found this book extremely helpful in clarifying Wright's ambiguities and obfuscations by drawing analogies to concepts clearly expressed by others, who were in effect his mentors.<br /><br />Nute structures his book around the possible early influence upon Wright of four authors, members of the Boston orientalists. Wright may have learned of the abstruse meanings of \\"organic\\" art (part to whole) as practiced in the Orient from Fenollosa (1892), who was instrumental in introducing Japanese art to Americans. Fenollosa's associate, Dow (1899), explicated a theory of pattern drawing as the realization of permutations upon kernal line-ideas, rather like some of Wright's house plans. From Morse (1886), and the 1893 Chicago Fair's Japanese pavilion (Ho-o-den), he could have learned of modular design, the expression of natural materials, lack of clutter, and the flow of space in Japanese houses. And from Okakura (1893, 1906) could have come Wright's references to Lao Tzu, Taoism, and the key Void or space at the heart of buildings--as well as an Artist's rationale for the scandalous breakup of his first marriage.<br /><br />Nute also explicates the geometric abstraction Wright imbibed from his enormous and early collection of Japanese woodblock prints. The only color pictures are nine of Hiroshige's lovely prints. This spare use of color reinforces Nute's argument regarding Fenollosa's and Dow's influence on Wright in the matter of \\"line\\" as his preferred mode of visualization. Although generously illustrated with old photographs and drawings, the many insights presented here will be more revealing the more familiar you already are with Wright's buildings and writings.<br /><br />A reader looking for proof that Wright was derivative and an imitator will be disappointed. Nute does not find any smoking guns, but makes numerous convincing circumstantial arguments from a carefully calculated timeline that compares Wright's known movements and associates with publications, lectures, meetings, and buildings that Wright COULD have known. Strangely, it appears (from a lack of citation here) that no one knows what was in Wright's own library.<br /><br />For example, what Wright was doing in his oriental pursuit of \\"elimination of the insignificant,\\" was to subordinate other programmatic demands to the creation of works of art (for which others happened to be paying)--hence the irrrelevancy of owners' complaints about leaky roofs, low ceilings, or lack of closets. The difference, then, between an early Prairie and a late Usonian house Idea, is, I suspect, the change in his core Form-Idea of womens' roles from social ornament in the parlor to the director of the family from her now open kitchen workspace.<br /><br />However correct Nute (or others he voluminously cites) may be in ferreting out possible sources for Wright's concepts, Nute does a clear and excellent job setting forth a significant part of the intellectual and aesthetic world of 1880-1910 in which Wright developed. Nute mentions, but does not disprove, alternative antecedents and sources in Arts and Crafts, the Aesthetic Movement, Pure Design, and other Euro-American design currents of the period. He does powerfully demonstrate that Wright abstracted and transformed any Japanese (or other) inspirations in Form (principally plan and section), and arguably transcended them in the Hegelian sense of revealing the Idea in his buildings.<br /><br />Nute's book ends with some extremely useful and well-organized appendices, if you want to learn more of the fin-de-siecle period from which Wright emerged.ings.<br /><br />Nute's book ends with some extremely useful and well-organized appendices, if you want to learn more of the fin-de-siecle period from which Wright emerged.	2005-04-25
US	52618134	R2TKGQK56VN8P8	0892968117	196680666	The Accusers: A Marcus Didius Falco Mystery Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Courtroom drama	Ah, it's wonderful to be back in sunny, familiar ancient Rome again, after the last two Davis books where we've been \\"exiled\\" to bleak and blustery Britain. Here, murder is again subtle and surrounded by the power plays of the rich and elegant rather than the muddy connivings of barbarians. The historical (textual) richness of Rome is given full play to produce one of Davis' best stories of Falco, informer to the emperor. <br /> <br />In Falco's hobnailed boots, you'll cross and recross Rome (there are handy maps), from dives to courts (not much difference there!, Davis would say), ferret out recalcitrant witnesses and suspects, smell the stench of corpses, suborn informants, suffer goon attacks, fence with devious lawyers, loose your shirt, and be rescued by smart wife Helena--and not just once. Davis leads off with unusually rough language for her. There are delicious ironies scattered through the story: the guilty getting off, the implication of innocents, the unscrupulous rewarded, foul murder excused, rich scions bankrupted--ah, the Roman Forum at work to maintain Senatorial probity.  <br /> <br />This story enters deeply into the snares of patriarchical Roman inheritance law. Unsuspecting Falco takes an involved family case of inheritance, suicide, and malfeasance, ranged against two far cleverer and wilier lawyers. Suitably, Davis has a striking change of style for this book. She adds the apparatus of law and deposition to Falco's usual investigations into the underworld or seamy side of Rome. Several times Davis merely summarizes on wax tablets (uh, casebooks) the results of the endless background interviews by Falco and Associates, rather than bore us to tears. Then she presents the entire speeches made before the judge. They read like actual speeches by an advocate like Cicero, full of flourishes and clever rhetorical devices, to insinuate scandalous guilt in the absence of real evidence. What makes this a 5-star story is the ending, one surprise after another, and still more twists follow. (One hint: keep track of the little children.) Superb.	2005-02-13
US	52618134	R1YFQETC4LLRGE	0812524268	654798971	Red Prophet (Tales of Alvin Maker, Book 2)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	The saga darkens	Book II of Card's Alvin Maker fantasy alternative history of frontier America covers some of the same ground as in Book I, Seventh Son, but now through different eyes. Rather than the mostly idyllic and rational vision of the white man's world-that-was-or-might-be, centered on Alvin's family, this story mostly gives us the Red man's view of white oppression versus working to live together. White's forest clearance vs. Red's forest custodianship is the most powerfully expressed metaphor of the contrast, while the black, Unmaker, rivers run through. Certain central events in Alvin's numinous awakening to his powers in the first novel are now seen from an unsuspected \\"other\\" side, not that of the Devil as the intolerant Rev. Thrower would have it, but from the native Shaw-Nee or Kicky-Poo side of the rivers. This book includes a version of Tippecanoe, the massacre that made William Harrison our President, that chills the blood. Card has an especially different take on liberty-loving Lafayette, an associate here of Napoleon rather than dead Washington! Really, these amazing shifts in view on American political icons are one of the great appeals of this series.  <br /> <br />The other appeal, of course, is that Card is an imaginative teller of tales. He infuses this tale with a mythic, sometimes elegiac and mystical, quality, despite dialogue cast in backwoods provincial patois. Card is imagining a more hopeful frontier experience, among Hoosier \\"hill-billys,\\" where the green hope of the Reds and their Napoleon is crushed finally. The story has become fiercer, bleaker and more desperate. It can be hard going because attention is not always on the central character, but digresses into sweeping quasi-historical tangents that only eventually feed back in to the \\"main story\\"--if that really is Alvin. I suspect the more you know of frontier history in the old Northwest Territory (after the East Coast Revolution and before the Cowboy Frontier of the West), the more fun these stories will be. That adds a level of detection to the interest of the story. The similarity here to Card's totally brilliant ENDERS GAME is the coming of age of another boy, who also struggles with \\"swarms\\" and powers whose strength is only slowly revealed.	2005-02-04
US	52618134	R2ZQ7NL45APSJ7	0812533054	856857613	Seventh Son (Tales of Alvin Maker, Book 1)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Wishful thinking	Ah rekon it'd be fair to say that this yere tale is an alternative fantasy history of the ole USA as close as no never mind.  <br /> <br />It's a frontier story set in the mid-continent, featurin tha birth and strange childhood of Alvin, a suspiciously accident-prone lad who just has this yere Talent for unknowingly makin' things with a little magic. He and his ilk are much to the frustration of the Rev. Thrower, who's a high-falutin' newly arrived English sophist, and probably a dang Cavalier to boot, against whom good Tom Jefferson and the Cheriky people be a-fightin', watched by the governor of Canada, the Marquise de la Fayette (hold, he's more important in tha next un, RED PROPHET).  <br /> <br />Instead of putting it right out, as a Turtledove might, Card has the good sense to hide much of his alternative view and let it sort of just seep its way into the story. The leisurely pace encourages a good bit of ambiance of early white America, with Apalachee style homespun and folksy wisdom and ways, really the backstory for the whole series. The history is wonderfully askew, with a quite different political landscape for familiar landmarks, and there's already steam power, in \\"Irrakwa\\" gun factories! Eventually Alvin does have a terrible vision, finds his purpose, and is about to start his wayfaring saga. Those readers who think God spoke long ago and preachers have \\"got the Bible safely interpreted\\" may have trouble with the way Card has God \\"show his hand of power\\" through differently-enabled practical people.	2005-02-01
US	52618134	R1F0AAEG6B9HJ3	0970777620	108211722	Khalifah: A Novel of Conquest and Personal Triumph	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Novel of Islam's origins?	Khalifah purports to be an historical novel about the rise of the first Caliphs (supreme rulers) to power at the dawn of Islam some 1350 years ago, a highly strange and exotic setting to Western readers. While I may have learned something of Muslim beliefs and customs, Elray's focus is on the bloody wars and eventual rise of Mu'awiya, the somewhat cautious and sensitive (rather than sympathetic) hero, who spends much of his time being inconspicuous in the face of great dangers between rival families and tribes. Elray is an enthusiast of early Islam, empire building, gore, and a bit of sex. Most of the men are depicted as unpleasant, touchy, and unsympathetic egoists, bloodthirsty, opportunistic, and quick to kill or rape. I think the author is earnest rather than attempting to exploit current fear of Islam. Elray's story is about the first Caliphs who attempted to unify Arabs and immediately expand their power based on Islamic faith. However, if what he depicts here is fairly accurate historically, then Islam may be one major religion that was propagated by war and conquest (forced conversion) from the instant of its creation (rather than secretively, by ideals, or an ideology later forced on people by emperors, kings, Crusaders, and the like). Is that right? <br /> <br />This book and its story may be very informative in an historical novelistic way, but Elray's writing is really amateurish. Is Aardwolfe Books a vanity press? The text has the aura of typescript about it. The book's subtitle instantly diminishes the major element of suspense, in a novel where Mu'awiya will triumph personally despite a lack of affect or charisma, or signs of early talent. (Why does Elray have him so often \\"twirl his beard\\"?) Elray's prose is terse and bland, his dialogue wooden, the grammar is occasionally fractured, and plot episodes skip about. Nothing comes to life, not the endless desert, the battles, the nomadic Bedouin, the Arab potentates and conspirators, and least of all thebit characters. Most of the men are depicted as unpleasant and unsympathetic characters, bloodthirsty and quick to kill or rape. There's not enough early background to put us in \\"the big picture\\" (who ARE these people so devoted to disfiguring each other?). The most interestingly presented character may be Mu'awiya's wife, both exploited and exploiter, clever lady in a society of oppression.  <br /> <br />I wish this were a better combination of chronicle and writing. Nine of the early chapters have the same title, and chapters are just cuts from a stream of prose, lacking dramatic or suspenseful structure. There are a fair number of undefined and untranslated Arabic terms. Elray includes a guide to proper names, a core genealogy, and antique maps, but no glossary, historical note, or sources that might help us know where he takes liberties.	2005-02-01
US	52618134	R3IB3ORUFUFCPX	1590130049	104902856	The Devil's Own Luck (The Privateersman Mysteries) (Volume 1)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Mystery afloat	This story begins with a bang and a shocking betrayal. Following a clever chase by privateer Capt. Harry Ludlow of a Frenchie in the Channel, the initial battle scene has a devastating twist for Harry and his brother James when the Royal Navy comes to his aid. Thrown into a hostile situation rank with dread, the two are soon struggling to survive. This story is far from the upbeat, sunny adventures of Pope's Ramage series, and beyond Woodman's Drinkwater series in bleakness.  <br /> <br />Unless you already know your way around an old ship-of-the-line, this story takes you into many nooks and crannies that are otherwise incomprehensible. But you don't really have to know much about square-rigged sailing or arcane nautical jargon (unlike the O'Brian books), because Donachie's emphasis is on the detection and exposure of desperate dark crimes, rather than on the thrilling high seas sailing maneuvers and encounters of most naval fiction. Sleuthing aboard ship is an unusual concept, but given sharp sense here because the accused killer is James, Harry's brother, so Harry is duty-bound to investigate. He must move stealthily, for Harry himself is already in danger from shadowy forces that swirl around an old nemesis, Capt. Carter, who commands the 3rd-rate which rescued the Ludlows but is a man scarcely 10th-rate in honor, with a crew to match.  <br /> <br />The English author modestly states that he has had more jobs than birthdays in his 60 years, and evidently none of them spent in ships. With 7 books in the series since 1991, perhaps he's found his calling. His inexperience may account for some of the dense writing and nautical errors here. Sometimes I found it hard to know who was speaking the lines of dialogue, and it took me an awful long time to match the officers with their names, to keep track of who was doing what to whom.	2005-01-31
US	52618134	R3OAMZ3NTKJP8L	059526882X	822467225	A. D. 62: Pompeii	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Romantic pre-Raphaelite story	This story is a romantic and gentle answer to the question, \\"what did ancient Roman families DO in the houses the tourist sees in Pompeii?\\" East's heroine, Miranda, a modern time-traveling tourist, is her means to envision what it was like.  <br /> <br />I suspect this is East's romantic wish-fulfillment--a modern lady as a chaste observer of Roman family life, administration, slavery, and cuisine--and pleasantly enjoyable as such. This is not Alternative Herstory, and the author's actual interest in time-travel, paradoxes, or subversive consequences is zip. Instead, this is the charming tale of a young modern woman adapting herself to a surprise life as an ancient Roman house slave in Pompeii. Necessarily, there are a great number of happy coincidences to get her started after she falls into the Roman sea, but the story becomes a satisfying tale as she lucks into a household that is tolerant of her daily ignorance and gaffes. Her advancement is facilitated by her conveniently extensive knowledge of Latin, Roman history, and world faery tales, and by her unexpected ability to play Mozart on a flute. The story builds through a series of tribulations and trials to a frighteningly personal decision faced by all women.  <br /> <br />Is iUniverse a vanity press? East's prose is rather simple, sometimes childlike, and occasionally repetitive, but effective enough. She digresses into ancient Roman rules at various points and has Miranda recount numerous famous fables (the Sheherazade ploy). A companion web site illustrates the places, faces, and items described in this book.  <br /> <br />For a fuller and grittier view of almost exactly the same story line--an emancipated Californian dropped into a provincial ancient Roman town--see Tarr and Turtledove's impressive HOUSEHOLD GODS. Harris' POMPEII is about an engineer's experience of the famous earthquake of AD 79, while East's story includes tremors, of diverse sorts, that preceded it in a young lady's life.	2005-01-07
US	52618134	RFT9IBP3CHJGX	0515090174	103586426	The Cat Who Could Read Backwards	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The Cat Who Captured My Heart	These are light and frivolous murder mysteries. This is the first (so 1966) of the series but the publisher often refuses to identify it thus (their first listed \\"...Who Saw Red\\" is actually the 4th). The stories don't \\"amount to anything,\\" but once started I can't put one down. The characters are what's so much fun. Qwilleran, a failed crime journalist and shamus manqu, is a pleasant, empathetic, inquisitive, suave, enviable sort of guy. Braun writes to a very pleasant formula that I find still enjoyable, even after realizing that each story features a different career field on which Qwill is newly assigned to report (without involving us in boring exegesis of that subject), a murdered careerist, a tool of that trade that is the murder weapon, and amusingly quirky, yet sunny, suspects one of whom will attract Qwill romantically. Then \\"his\\" Siamese cat Koko will eventually do something cat-like that will point to a vital clue (alluded to in the book's title) once Qwill, a mere human, recognizes the boon. The plot mostly consists of an entertaining string of interviews of the suspects, neighbors all, wherein one finds occasional clues, interrupted by elegant feedings of Qwill's cats (or else!). Braun provides clues to her mysteries, but you don't have to pay attention if you don't want to. These are just amazingly appealing stories, the touch of a masterful author.	2005-01-07
US	52618134	R11QT96ABIE1SS	0380819554	550971176	Grave Consequences (Emma Fielding Mysteries, No. 2)	Books	2	13	14	N	N	Once promising...	I have a mixed reaction. The setting of English town and speech, and Prof. Emma Fielding's archaeological project in a medieval graveyard, are both excellently rendered. This has the best representation of field work I've ever seen in a novel, better even than Elkins or Connor. Occasionally the text sparkles with wit: [a scheming archaeologist has] \\"more machinations than a Detroit assembly line, more plots than a graveyard.\\" However, this story is miscategorized as a mystery, dashing my eager anticipation. IMO it is, rather, an intense novel of emotionally saturated personal relationships, on the fringe of Romance novels. It has a very high talk:event ratio.  <br /> <br />The mystery is entirely encapsulated in the cover blurb (a misplaced body and a missing student), and, incredibly, nothing further develops in the first 243 pages (and then Emma grossly mishandles the new evidence). The plot is odd, for it is nearly static. This book is not for someone seeking an EZ read, suspense, action, violence, puzzles, clues, deduction, misdirection, archaeology, plot development, romance, sex, terror, or horror. None of that develops in the course of Emma's many long discussions, and few outward events. Emma, and her author, utterly ignore the police. This book is for oppressive psychological tension, spot-on English invective, feminism, acute observation, and a structure I think is derived from Romance novels (or perhaps the author's deconstructionist colleagues in academe). Emma is a self-confessed \\"confused\\" heroine who is short on humor, deductive skills, and solid motivation, but long on intense introspection, heart-to-heart talks, and fearful second thoughts (the source of most feelings of \\"menace\\" here). The English are reticent to join in the personal talk. Emma eventually wonders, after prying into the lives of many rather unpleasant people, \\"why was I getting myself involved in this.\\" I wondered, too, for I did not find her an empathetic heroine, let alone the other characters, and Cameron wasn't making efforts to keep my interest in this slow moving story. Emma merely has a \\"need\\" to pry into her friends' affairs, in both senses of the word. There's no final resolution, since Emma's vacation ends before the case is closed! Maybe all this is realistic of unsatisfactory relationships and episodes in ongoing lives. Some might think it cathartic; I found it overwrought and gravely glum.  <br /> <br />This is the SECOND book in the series, without SITE UNSEEN there are several fractured (incomplete) relationships in this story, especially with the males. Here, their role in Emma's life is to make opportunistically reassuring phone calls from overseas. I was hugely disappointed.	2005-01-04
US	52618134	RXHX2GWMIKENY	0451411471	850019131	Everyone Dies	Books	4	4	4	N	N	So-so McGarrity, But Always a Superior Mystery	I've been an avid reader of McGarrity's Kevin Kerney police novels since the first, because he is a highly skilled writer, the plots move quickly and smoothly, the characters are quirky and intuitive, Chief Kerney is very empathetic, and the scenic descriptions take me right back to New Mexico state. Despite the provocations of sociopathic killers, Kerney always remains laconic and cool, in control of his emotions and, seemingly, the events. For good or ill in its attractiveness to the reader, the author never ratchets terror high, even when a killer stewed in revenge, as here, intends it.  <br /> <br />My total enjoyment of this story had only two blemishes. Midway through, the author mistakenly let us see how the murderer is planting a false trail (rather than let us make that chilling conclusion). Rather than a clever twist in the plot, this view quite took the rising suspense out of the next 50 pages for me. (Perhaps McGarrity should be excused, in view of the subsequent shocking twist he gives to the \\"false\\" suspect.) Second, the ending was too rushed, both as a scene and relative to the intricate build up to it. The climax was too vaguely described, leaving me in doubt as to who had their finger on the final trigger. Minor disappointments are that we never do find out all the ways in which the killer got his incredibly detailed info on his targets; and Kerney allows his wife, Sara Brannon, a military policewoman, to insist on committing a great breakdown in discipline, leading to a more dangerous final confrontation.  <br /> <br />Thankfully, this is the first time McGarrity has used the plot device--targeting and terrorizing the hero's family--that, repeated, turned me right off of later Cornwall and Patterson mystery series. I'd not like to lose McGarrity, too. The art on recent covers is too generic, urban even, which the horse-loving rancher/policeman Kerney is not at all about; the art should return to New Mexican scenes of the earlier and strongly atmospheric books, please.	2004-09-15
US	52618134	R2N5JD4N5P7U0T	0425195449	893493496	Naked Prey (Lucas Davenport, No. 14)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	amiable Lucas Davenport	This is almost a \\"pleasant\\" read, due to a less demented killer than typical for Sandford. As usual, Sandford shows his murderer early on (and here even identifies him!), but he is such a good writer you'll want to read on anyway to  experience the twisted road to him and see how Lucas will finger him. Also in this story I was sure one layer after another would be peeled back, so my surprise was that I was NOT surprised at all by the final two twists. I hope Sandford's clues just happened to click with me this time, rather than that he ineptly telegraphed them. He's one of my favorite authors for his sense of place, plotting, and plausible characters. This just didn't have the tension, the socio-pathological intensity, of most of his other PREY thrillers. <br /> <br />It's fun how people from earlier stories reappear momentarily, like an in-joke for faithful readers--\\"ah yes, that Marcy!\\" The new characters are also interesting, especially a fatherless, mouthy, precocious girl--an informant--who attaches herself to Lucas in an enlivening and fetching way. Keep your eye on her.	2004-09-02
US	52618134	R8HYE13NMVT0U	159013091X	124202746	Man of War (The Bolitho Novels)	Books	3	38	39	N	N	The Bolitho emotions	This volume in the Bolitho series does not need, or deserve, a long review. If you like the series about \\"we happy few,\\" then you may want to read this, too. This is certainly not the place to start, as many references to earlier characters and situations of \\"the Bolitho legend\\" are oblique in the extreme: suitable for constant readers but hardly explaining the rushes of sentimental emotion among them that Kent offers here. Although this Capt. Bolitho, son of the revered admiral of earlier books, is young, he is not involved in much action because Napoleon has been finished off. Instead, the British are now pursuing American slave traders in a rather secretive fashion, and Bolitho has found a girl, another lost soul, to agonize upon. So, this is far from a sea-going swashbuckler of the sort found in the first ten or so books of this now-26 volume series. However, with its greater emphasis on manly sentiments among aging and retired sailors and their women on shore, this story is likely to appeal to a broader spectrum of readers of historical romance fiction than naval fiction is wont. This book is in a way of a love story between Adam and the lovely Lowenna, and also between Kent and his characters.  <br /> <br />Many of the scenes are interior, either in offices, homes, or inside the characters feelings. Kent makes it easy to tell good officers from bad: if the lieutenant knows his men's names he's good, if he don't he ain't. In fact, however, there's very little of the conflict between ranks that is a staple of nautical fiction (and powering whole books earlier in this series). This, despite the fact Adam Bolitho is now a flag captain and under the potentially oppressive thumb of his admiral. But Admiral Bethune has too much respect for the revered Bolitho name! In fact, this book lacks tension or much suspense due to its pervasive sense of nostalgia and a scarcity of open conflict, either at sea or in the halls of Admiralty.  <br /> <br />In the few scenes of life at sea, Kent is usually more careful than here to give wind and sailing directions so you can imaginatively follow the maneuvering. I think his mind was on other matters, a different kind of sea tale. As always, McBooks Press does a nice job of the somewhat antique typefaces, while avoiding the crowded little text of yore.	2004-09-02
US	52618134	R2YAW6JZN8ONEB	038081093X	604551094	Excavation	Books	3	5	8	N	N	thrilling pastiche	This is fast-paced summer trash. It has no redeeming social value and not much literary finesse, but, oh, what a pastiche of endless excitement. Any resemblance to real archaeology is accidentally from a textbook on Incan lore. Instead, Rollins' method is pastiche: here a bit copped from Haggard, Tolkien (Gollum), King, or Raiders, there another from Da Vinci, Poe, Drexler, or CSI; and of course, GOLD. He only missed something extra-terrestrial (oops, no he didn't). Rollins' structure is that of The Perils of Pauline, one cliffhanging episode after another, flashing between two interwoven tales and sets of characters, the professor in his lab with his love, and his graduate students stranded with burgeoning love on an Andean mountain. It's a good thing the &quot;science&quot; here is so fast-paced or our heroes' flashlight and cell-phone would never have lasted six days underground. (Rollins clearly has a thing for underground stories: a Dungeons and Dragons freak?) Characters? Forget 'em. Logic? Don't bother. Just start this at some mindless moment in your life and, amazingly, you'll be sucked right in. This story will probably stick in my mind because it is just so wildly outlandish, drats. The pb cover art is quite a work.	2004-07-20
US	52618134	R34OBBB1VOQW8O	0826329373	550482959	The Archaeologist was a Spy: Sylvanus G. Morley and the Office of Naval Intelligence	Books	3	24	31	N	N	Spymaster extraordinaire	Other reviews tell you accurately what this book is about. If you're looking for a spy, chase, suspense, thriller, or murder account, this isn't it, despite the flashy cover. Instead, this is primarily an unabashedly pro-American history report on a World War I sidelight, intended for those interested in the development of American intelligence services. If you are into Maya archaeology, this book will remind you that Morley (author of the pioneering: The Ancient Maya, 1946) was a very impressive hyperactive fellow. <br />For what it is-a dry academic piece with flashes of patriotism-this is an informative book. It substantially expands on a two-year episode in the fuller picture of Morley's adventurous career depicted by his biographer, R. L. Brunhouse (1971, Sylvanus G. Morley). Harris and Sadler's focus is really on the development of the Office of Naval Intelligence, using Morley as its central figure, I think, because he left uniquely complete diaries of this period (and throughout his life). The authors delve deeply into old ONI files and look at other academic spies, and at sub-agents recruited by Morley and his stumbling handlers, and what befell them. (They build on their previous book on clandestine activities in Mexico: The Border and the Revolution). Because extensive extracts from Morley's diaries and his 32 espionage reports are included, there's a great deal of entertaining local color on the 1917 state of radio, shipping, ports, earthquakes, diplomacy, Central American politics, etc. If you know this area you may enjoy these details of how it used to be. There is very little, however, on Morley's archaeological discoveries and publications during these years. <br />Morley may indeed have been America's greatest WW I spy in terms of his successful assessment of the submarine threat, but he turned up no German spies while Black Listing a few German companies in Central America. Harris and Sadler leave the reader with no way to evaluate their claim thatMorley was the &quot;greatest,&quot; because they don't compare his accomplishments to other theaters of the war, or services beyond ONI. Nor do they follow up their own references to German propagandists and activists in Mexico who might actually have been threats. <br />Another theme that briefly emerges, only to be dismissed with an editorial huff, is that of the propriety of archaeologists, or field scientists in general, becoming spies in foreign lands. Such activities, when they become known later, bring all their innocent fellow scientists in the field into suspicion, disrepute, and actual danger in the eyes of foreigners and officials who control their access. This is in addition to the common peasant suspicion that people like Morley walking around with compass and tape are really &quot;looking for gold, or working for the government to take the farm away.&quot;	2004-05-27
US	52618134	RRPHYIC2274A	0520074017	400506985	The Archaeology of the Roman Economy	Books	4	15	16	N	N	A Substantial Overview	This book is a semi-popular overview of the material underpinnings of the ancient Roman state. But you might say, If it just sets forth resources, manufactures, transport, and trade, how is that different from before and after the Roman Empire, so how does that explain Roman success? Well, Greene adds changes in the climate cycle, which was most favorable to agriculture and therefore human population at the imperial peak. Besides, Greene is not (re)writing an economic history or explanation of Rome-although he does admire what Fernand Braudel accomplished for pre-modern Europe-but rather of archaeology's direct contribution to various fundamental, if overlooked, corners of that enterprise. Accordingly, rather than text-based political history (to which archaeology can of course directly contribute newly discovered monument texts), Greene discusses examples of such typical archaeology subjects as transport (shipwrecks, roads, depictions), money (coins, treasure), agriculture (tools, irrigation, field systems, villas), settlement (farms and towns in their landscapes, environment, climate), and resources (mines, smelters, workshops, construction, and of course pottery shards). <br />Greene's well-documented point is that an archaeology of the ordinary provides systematic, patterned information on everyday Roman things in the economy that were quite beneath the notice of ancient writers, or simply not documented because they occurred outside of Italy or the major centers. There are no studies in detail here, but stimulating summaries that don't avoid controversial issues. Despite numerous archaeological (material) finds and an amazing variety of textual and depictive sources, many points are subject to continuing differences of interpretation (e.g, the proportion of slave to free labor, in different industries, and in different places). Greene's favorite subject appears to be settlement and regional archaeology: the fitting together of haphazard finds to produce views of how undocumented people once densely occupied a landscape and supported the relatively few town centers that produced the surviving writings. Citations and Further Readings provide access to full details at third remove. <br />I suspect this is a reprint of an English original, for the author refers to his editors at Batsford, and uses English spellings and typeface. In any case, the type is a bit thick and the B/W photographs are dark and printed on ordinary paper so I could not see all the detail mentioned in captions. Illustrations are appropriate but not plentiful; this is a book for college classes or dedicated Romanophiles rather than casual cocktail tables.	2004-05-24
US	52618134	RE5OAJDLHGBWK	0020175116	987670263	The Squares of the City	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Masterful moves	In the new South American capital city of Vados (think Brasilia or Curitiba) the perfect clarity of its plan is being smirched by peasants trying to get a piece of the good life from which they were designed out. Hakluyt, a worldly traffic planner, is called in to make the new slums unlivable by subtly tweaking the road system. He becomes a center of conflict between the founders of the sparkling city and those who would accomodate the countrymen. Gradually he realizes that the Mayor's party does not want a long-term solution but only the status quo, to chase the settlers out again. He is being pushed around like a pawn to achieve that end against his own best intentions. The two sides here parallel the splits between haves and have-nots in most countries. Whatever the virtues of the two causes-and Brunner is at some pains to lecture on what they are-his preference becomes clear almost from the start, despite developing the \\"bad\\" side more fully and interestingly.<br />This is thoroughly sociological SF, when that was still the coming wave (originally published by Ballantine in 1965). It reflects the contemporary concern with thought control (see The Hidden Persuaders). Brunner takes \\"subliminal persuasion\\" from advertising, the original fear, and explores its application to a city government in this story. It is eerily prophetic of the future total dominance of politics by televised sound-bites, advertising, and mass persuasion. (It is lacking only the diversion of war, as practiced by Clinton and Bush.) For example, as the city begins to break down, Brunner writes, \\"The political atmosphere was of the hothouse kind. The least incident capable of being made to bear political fruit was being nurtured, protected from the frost [of contrary information] and fed with manure until it blossomed out of all proportion.\\" Sound familiar?<br />Although one of my favorite SF stories, Brunner's prose style now seems a little naive. The fact is, however, you do not feel the plothas been forced to conform to the 1892 chess game on which he based it-and that is its genius (see the appendix for the white and black character-pieces). Unlike much contemporary SF, Brunner adds no graphic sex scenes and constructs the mere underpinnings of what could become Hakluyt's heartfelt love. My one disappointment was the ending, for I really wonder what Hakluyt could do next to retrieve the end-game. But that would have to be another story, not another game, indeed. Enjoy.	2004-05-23
US	52618134	RZQJ4XRQB9BB9	0393307050	680723399	Master and Commander	Books	4	1	1	N	N	On second thought...	On second reading: the prose is still splendid and the wry humor is now more understandable (full of allusive lingo and obscure situations). Capt. Aubrey's meaty speech and amusing malapropisms more intensely entertain. On the other hand, the shockingly unexpected situations are of course less so now. This is perhaps the most exciting volume in O'Brian's 20-book series. This first volume is awash in emotional extremes of hope and despair, women, allusions to sexual escapades, frequent battles, swashbuckling adventures, challenges to authority, and a surprising number of floggings (these are all toned down in later, more languid volumes). O'Brian includes a few explanations of the characters' backgrounds and motives, and, unusually, a few helpful comments on seamanship under sail occasioned by the ignorant landsman and ship's surgeon, Stephen Maturin, who strikes up a happy acquaintance with Capt. Jack Aubrey. I also realize now that O'Brian shamefully gives Jack a great pass, nay two, at his court-martial, where the matter neither of his orders nor his conduct of a convoy is raised. <br />If this is your first entry into the Age of Fighting Sail, I urge you to study carefully the single illustration of a square-rigged sail plan, committing to memory their names and puzzling the use of each rope in the standing and the running rigging. O'Brian's stories are so much more more enjoyable if they are intelligible! He  does immerse us directly in an antique world without so much as a by your leave. <br />If you like O'Brian's prose and pace, I pray you go back and read his The Golden Ocean and The Unknown Shore before continuing, in which you will gain the acquaintance, sir, of both an earlier Royal Navy and your illustrious author developing the prototypes of our prodigious heroes, Jack and Stephen. Acquiring a copy of Dean King's compendium, A Sea of Words, is also not amiss.	2004-05-01
US	52618134	R2H8V1XR0CAC6C	0312989407	860182791	Gods and Legions: A Novel of the Roman Empire	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A remarkable Roman emperor	This intriguing story opens with a bang, our heroes facing charging Persian war elephants! The first half, with Julian as a surprised and aspiring general in Gaul, continues the hot pace. It is fascinating in its scenes and the development of Julian into an inspiring leader. The second half, with Julian soon installed as the Roman Emperor in Constantinople, denying newly established Christianity, and invading Persia, apparently traces the course of his &quot;madness,&quot; except that it was evident only when the antagonistic narrator (Caesarius, Julian's companion, a physician and Christian) happens to assert it. This is not a good study in the course of madness; the final madness that leads to the climactic battle of Maranga didn't seem mad to me until the final moments (which trail off in an anticlimax). <br />Ford is a good writer, although somewhat off-putting in his primly grammatical correctness under all circumstances. This story is very easy to read even while jumping rapidly from one episode to another (perhaps due to Ford's sticking close to apparently authentic sources). There are few Latin words or Roman concepts to stumble over--of  course we also miss part of the potentially other-worldly feel those would have conveyed. For most of the book the story is an easy flowing combination of Julian's attractive personality, fierce battle, and insightful administration, with no lingering over technical details. The author employs an entertainly wide range of adjectives to enliven his narrative for much of the book. Later the Christian prejudices of Caesarius come to the fore and distance him from Julian, making it harder for us to understand Julian's motives, or for that matter who is really mad. (After all, Europe follows Caesarius' course and plunges into the Dark Ages, while its foe Persia does not.)  I thought Ford's story eventually bogs down. It may be in the nature of the subject, however; the all-powerful Emperor is perhaps a less interesting subject than was the struggling young soldier. Ford did not convince me how Julian is mad, until at the end I guess he must be since he finally makes one mistake? <br />I enjoyed the story about the rise of Julian, largely self-made, to the throne. Nevertheless, I don't feel Ford took the further step of creating a convincing view of Julian the Apostate and his motivation for such atavism. No doubt historically accurate in its particulars, yet Ford's story lacks a spark of genius and originality in the writing to make my spirit soar (or seek out another of his books). Caesarius was devout and cheerless in the face of Julian's deeds of pagan ritual, belief and mockery. Such an actively hostile narrator is hardly likely to be empathetic, and help our understanding, rather than mutter about madness (another word for misunderstanding here). He eventually becomes a major miscalculation on Ford's part. Perhaps Caesarius stands for early established Christians as a group, but, because we hardly observe Julian's effects on other Christians, Caesarius comes across as a sore loser. Note the pb is issued on paper that will soon age.	2004-04-21
US	52618134	R2IG5LIV6E7TWC	0440240948	817652979	Emperor: The Gates of Rome	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Caveat emptor	It's a good thing Iggulden (what an interesting name!) starts the book with his heroes very young, for his style in the first chapters is equally juvenile, prehaps suitable for young readers. It is amusing, sometimes gripping, its scenes well done. The writing does improve as the protagonists mature and become more aware of forces acting around them, and eventually kept me reading right along. It's a nice touch that the author leaves you to guess who Gaius and his friend will become, although this may leave you wondering where this story is going-more like real life! The story is well-plotted, but \\"the plot\\" will not come clear until a later book, unless you know your high-school history already. This book is just a set-up, as youth often is. <br />The author's research is shallow, as are his characters-but then Suetonius records hardly any of his usual scandal for Gaius's youth either, leaving it all up to Iggulden. The time is the late Roman Republic near the middle of the patrician ambitions and plebian pressures that would lead to an emperor. The story takes Gaius as a boy from his father Julius's estate into Rome, where Gaius joins the dangerous household of his uncle, Marius, general and consul of Rome.  Although the youthful adventures set up Iggulden's later stories, he takes vast liberties with known history for \\"dramatic purposes.\\" Unfortunately, the genius of Gaius's character is not well-exposed by all this artificial drama, considering the truly astonishing things he later accomplished. The author's prose does not rise to the occasion. Gaius is left at loose ends in the house of Marius. Iggulden also fabricates for the boys an unnecessary companion who has a Christlike healing touch. I think the English author takes Romans as an excuse for a rousing story rather than an historical novel sensu strictu. (The British seem to think they ARE Romans, Boudica aside.) Unfortunately, I think this story's main failing is not developing the political context for these events: so, Gaius's father is a senator, but what are the burning issues over which his colleagues are falling out, why should we care? For example, we don't get why it was such an extraordinary break to have a legion within the walls of sacred Rome and a hostile legion without. That is just glossed over in favor of tactics and battle, losing what must have been the apocalyptic horror of those years. Only a few Latin terms pop up and are briefly defined before vanishing again. That's bad or good depending how much you want to feel the Roman context.<br />The writing is straightforward narrative, with dollops of Roman brutality; nothing fancy, well-turned, or particularly insightful. Gaius is certainly an appealing protagonist as a youth, but what must have been his extraordinary charisma is not convincingly developed here, nor its possible sources. Where the story is more effective is in its dash, the outward events of a farm boy suddenly thrust into city politics. If you approach this book as an adventure story rather than an historical novel you'll be less disappointed. The author is one of those who writes minutely on the frequent gore, but is reticent about the rare sex (or why else does Gaius marry Cornelia? Iggulden ignores Gaius's historical role as a priest in this). Overall this author is a notch below McCullough, who is a notch below Graves in skill. Exactly, it's enjoyable leave-behind airline reading, as another reviewer wrote. The next book is Emperor: Death of Kings.	2004-03-25
US	52618134	R1X0C48C9L2XHE	0425189864	786303546	Mortal Prey (Lucas Davenport, No. 13)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Pull up a Comfortable Davenport	Looking through the 'scope, this novel features exotic locales for Lucas Davenport, well outside his usual Twin Cities ambit, and a new treat for the reader. Perhaps these varied settings presage a wider field of action as Davenport moves to a new, state job in the next novel. Viewed from the other end, I didn't find the excessive personal tensions and psycho-logical horror that he often encounters in his earlier cases. Although numerous changes are impending in his life, they play little role here. This is a stroll for Lucas, who leads all the work, and contributes all the leads, at a comfortable yet rapid pace. A nice vacation from fear for the reader, too, since the killer's hits are on people you won't particularly like. Incidentally, this could be a good book for retirees, who would be proud of the retired St. Lou gum-shoes who do good work (ALL the work, one might say, since the FBI seems only good for looking up 'phone numbers :).<br />Davenport's quarry is once again the memorably endearing professional of CERTAIN PREY, Clara Rinker, coming back into Lucas' conflicted life. Clara is ingenious and constantly surprising, ruthlessly efficient and creative. She is as confident as ever and bent on multiple revenges, less enigmatic in aims than Sandford's usual psychos but as devious in means as ever. Stalking her ends up much deeper than you initially suspect. I found very little was extraneous to the plot, despite a high page count. Numerous characters come and go, some stereotyped for the plot, but each each well and contrastively characterized. There are two developments in Davenport's slowly progressing family life. Lucas shows he is one in a long line of sentimental detectives in literature, but very close to the top.	2004-03-07
US	52618134	R5NKERG7Y56CQ	0892967404	573991046	Ode to a Banker	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Falco at home	The series of Falco books is constructed from three parts. Ostensibly exotic and intricate mystery stories-murders investigated by Falco, an imperial freelance agent of Vespasian's early Roman empire (AD 69-79)-they also serve as tours of the various (mostly western) provinces, and as &quot;behind the scene&quot; introductions and evocations of Roman versions of things such as: mining (SILVER), travel, art business, retail, city policing, the games and animal hunts (LIONS), stagecraft (PALMYRA), construction, apartment and family life, the status of women, water supply (FOUNTAINS), and now publishing and banking (but neither politics nor the army). Unlike the Ciceronian books of the Late Republic written by Steven Saylor, Davis' stories don't seem to hew close to actual ancient Roman law cases, but formulate what might have been typical middle class crimes that seem of reasonable cause to a modern reader. The dialogue can be English slangy modern without a tang of old Latin, but there's no need for footnotes or glossary either. (If you miss them then you can find a lot of pertinant background information in the glossaries of Colleen McCullough's Caesar books.) Davis seems to capture the roistering, tireless, scheming, and fouled essence of ancient Roman city life. <br />The wise-cracking, sceptical Falco and his so smart Helena are Davis's own splendid &quot;modern&quot; creations. Their repartee is usually spritely and intelligent-not because Davis is being politically correct but because they are partners in an alliance of man and woman unusual for Rome, yet serving to move the plot forward when a case is at impass. Davis (and Falco) are cynics in all things, but classically so, entertaining rather than mean. No one ages fast in this series; for example, this 12th book covers only one month in summer, AD 74, and Falco is only a prime 33 despite his many adventures. <br />Although I've said the Falco stories that stay close to Rome are the best ones, this sticks TOO close to downtown. ODE features a tight coterie of bankers, publishers, and authors (including Falco as a poet!). The claustrophobic atmosphere, the innumerable puzzling suspects, the dogged police interrogations, and the climactic confrontation in the concluding chapters a la Poirot reminds me strongly of an inelegant Agatha Christie closed-room mystery, not at all my favorite sort. Each recent volume includes more and more of Falco's domestic relations, disputes, and family love interests-a theme that almost eclipses the mystery here and is continued in the next volume, A BODY IN THE BATHHOUSE.	2004-03-05
US	52618134	R4G88Q9XZM8N3	0099298309	206344772	Body in the Bath House	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Back to Britannia	Falco revisits old haunts here, returning to Britain &quot;five years&quot; after the start of this series. In the interim he's had many far-flung adventures in increasingly domesticated situations. <br />The setting provides numerous opportunities for Davis to take jabs at her fellow Britons, while developing Falco's sleuthing after misbegotten building contractors-as if the caustic author were revenging herself on a bad personal experience. The first two-thirds of the story is more scornful witticisms than it is mysterious. Oh, right, there are some bodies falling from the scaffolding but what can you expect on an imperial construction site in barbarian Britannia? Falco has it easy for over 200 pages of banter with hardly a hint of suspense among the evident corruption. Davis is true to the modern archaeological finds at Fishbourne in that the construction of the royal palace hardly rises above its foundations. The story is more fun for its incidents and argot than plot and action. Falco's final apprehension of the miscreants makes little sense because it's so accidental. The slow pace of the first two-thirds of the story corroborates my previous suggestion that Davis, and Falco, are best when they stay close to Rome rather than gallivanting about the Empire into some provincial backwater like Palmyra, Corduba, or Britannia. This volume is not one of my favorites in the series.<br />This book should be read after Ode To A Banker because some issues and nefarious characters there continue here, along with Falco and his now familiar menagerie. Actually, this volume is the middle of a trilogy that concludes in The Jupiter Myth (still in hardback at this writing). The cover art on my pb copy (with the new circular mosaic theme) differs from that shown on Amazon.	2003-12-31
US	52618134	R3MXJDPRL1BAIS	0451210743	712732369	Hornet Flight	Books	3	4	5	N	N	busy as a bee	I had a hard time putting this novel down, there are no easy stopping places in this well-paced thriller.  The setting is early war-time Denmark, recently surrendered to the Germans, and under a then light Nazi heel (the only privation seems to be limits on petrol and butter). The British bomber fleet is having a disastrous time of it flying across Denmark, for unknown reasons obvious to the modern reader. It takes a while to develop a fast pace-with diversions into three discreetly developed love stories-but Follett always has something going on: sneaking, spying, flying, hiding, plotting, chasing, etc. We see developments through the words of several characters, from Danish innocents to dutiful Nazi Socialist sympathizers in the police. The premise is intriguing. There are clearer explanations of flying an airplane than I've ever seen before, in very basic Hornet and Tiger Moth biplanes. <br />The whole book smells of a concoction, or more charitably, an entertainment. Reading the unfortunately explicit blurb first, much of the suspense was removed for me. You can watch Follett pre-positioning the people, skill, and equipment needed for the successful espionage. You can kinda tell what's going to happen: who's going to be the hero, who's going to get which girl, how they'll escape. Another reason this isn't a real thriller is the lack of atmosphere, it never hits you in the gut, just buccolic Denmark in the summer of 1941. It lacks ominous scenes, shocking coincidences, menacing Ge.sta.po, or vibrant descriptions of anybody or anyplace. The characters are pleasant or bad enough, but no one's \\"grey' or conflicted and it all seems a bit easy for them. Even the schoolboy hero can figure out the Germans' technology before the British physicists. The ending seems much too hasty after the long buildup. Smoothly written but lacking emotional involvement. Enjoyable enough if you don't have high expectations, or want a mild taste of life in a collaborationist country. It makes a nice historical novel for young readers.	2003-12-14
US	52618134	R15P90ODUKJZ2O	0786890002	11329222	The Art of Deception	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Underground intrigue	Police psychologist (or &quot;profiler&quot;) Daphne Mathews has a long history in these exciting Seattle stories, and with Police Lt. Boldt, her mentor, idol, and more. Here she finally takes front center stage, with Boldt usually far in the background, and that ain't good. One thing that becomes clear is that Daphne is not only a bold, if erroneous, profiler, but is personally a bundle of boiling insecurities and anxieties in all directions. Here she seems like a caricatured throwback to pre-feminist women who sterotypically fall apart under pressure. I found this offensive, and maddening because it's not clear why she's suddenly folded into gibbering paranoia. While she tries to deceive her prime suspect into revealing himself, he is tying her up in his own unsuspected web of masterful deceptions. <br />The authorial tactic of personally involving the hero in criminal attacks is a cheap way for an author to ratchet up tension in his story without the effort of creating another victim from whole cloth-but you also know he won't eliminate a central series character. This tactic also tends to turn a &quot;good, clean&quot; mystery into an hysterical horror story-the reason I don't read Patricia Cornwall's Kay Scarpetta series anymore. Sorry, you might not have the same dislike. <br />What's neat is that even with a suspect in hand early, there are more surprises. And Pearson has again researched obscure facts about the city of Seattle that provide vital sidelights. There are two suspects chased into a fascinating Underground historic city (who knew?)-but how Boldt decides between the two eerie suspects is still a mystery to me. It's stock in this genre not to follow police procedure at critical moments because the detective is &quot;special&quot; or taking brilliant shortcuts-just so the author can put a desperately frazzled Lt. Mathews into the hands of unsuspected murderers. And real smart crooks don't go out of their way to toy with police. The chapter titles provide an amusing by-play.	2003-10-30
US	52618134	R2ZCFWKCBMWUAJ	0380978598	19223003	Roma Eterna	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Fun	This is a fun book: just suppose the Roman empire had continued for another 1500 years...? The stories are light and are written with the shallow depth of a young writer (which Silverberg is not). The chapters are a series of short stories, many previously published but recast here with dollops of cross-references. Silverberg takes the charming tack of seeing everything from slightly below, from noble Romans near the Emperor but on the outs in obscure places: an historian (for the key displacement event, of course: no intolerant Christians), an adventurer in the Roman Underworld (literally), an exile in Arabia (Mecca in the 7th century...), an underofficer in an army attempting to invade the Yucatan once more, a Greek translator to a cowardly emperor, etc. This device allows Silverberg to \\"sneak up on\\" key historic events and perhaps surprise the reader as well. He turns each chapter into something of a mystery: where is this chapter going? Besides Romans and Greeks, Silverberg is inordinately fond of Hebrews, a peculiar little holier-than-thou sect that pops up here and there. <br />I was disappointed in my expectations. This book is not a more thorough projection of how a Roman empire could have continued and evolved. Silverberg merely adapts as somehow Roman several of the major trends and innovations of actual Western history to our present. The focus is mostly politics and religion, but written without developing significant change in ancient Roman belief and practices. He is forced to reference true ancient Romans as the heroic exemplars for his characters because only historical figures will carry moral weight to the readeryet are most likely to have been forgotten by the lowly characters in the stories set a thousand years on. Nothing is too seriousthere's little about what happened to slavery, to provincial government, the evolution of modern languages, or how they dovetail with technological developments. Because the chapters are set a century or twoapart, there can be no continuity and development of his characters. Finally, the conclusion is a limp apotheosis. These may be my problems with the book rather than yours.	2003-10-30
US	52618134	R16SQUXYNW8NPU	039331538X	443616007	The Unknown Shore	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Outstanding anticipation	How did I ever leave this book sitting on a shelf since 1995? This book is a great place to start reading Patrick O'Brian's sea novels. This story of a minor ship in Anson's expedition to &quot;trouble the Spanish&quot; in the Pacific (see O'Brian's GOLDEN OCEAN, following the other ships of the squadron, for the broader, parallel picture of that remarkable voyage) not only precedes the commencement of O'Brian's famous Jack Aubrey/Stephen Maturin series (set during the Napoleonic wars 60 years later), but develops two characters that have uncanny similarities to the later heartiness of Jack and the erudite innocence of Stephen. The relationship here between Jack Byron, helpful friend and midshipman, and Tobias, the surgeon's mate, anticipates in so many ways the characteristics of the famous Aubrey/Maturin duo. <br />Not only was O'Brian full of youthful enthusiasm when he wrote this story, but he often explains his customary obscure references to the ancient ways of the sailor, making hilarious use of the lubberly landsman, Tobias-hilarious, that is, in a restrained British way and perhaps only recognizable once you've learned enough to catch the meaning of the ever-present nautical slang. Unique to this book, O'Brian inserts from time to time his own editorial comments on the action, again helping to explain antique situations to the modern reader.  My only knock on this story is that it eventually drags during the endlessly grinding struggle for survival along the wild and desolate unknown shore, and then wraps up too quickly. The same struggles against surf and hunger are repeated at least three times, although most artfully written without repeating the same phrases. <br />I highly recommend you read this story soon after beginning to read O'Brian's sea novels, for it is really a glimpse into what the earlier careers of Aubrey and Maturin could have been before we first meet them already well-advanced in MASTER AND COMMANDER. As always in the Norton editon, Geoff Hunt's cover art is precise, detailed, and relevant to the story. The joyousness of the writing and antics in this story remind me of Capt. Marryat's less believable book, MR. MIDSHIPMAN EASY.	2003-09-17
US	52618134	R27WITD3A97IMW	159013026X	181685270	Relentless Pursuit (The Bolitho Novels)	Books	2	22	25	N	N	Another Bolitho	Since Peace has broken out following the final defeat of Napoleon, the British Navy is on short rations. Nevertheless, Capt. Adam Bolitho is somehow kept on to continue his seaborne adventures begun in the previous volume, #24 Second to None. Before confronting the Dey again, he is assigned to the anti-slave patrols off Africa, and also encounters serious trouble while sailing as a courier for the Admiralty. <br />This is the second novel in this Napleonic Wars series to focus exclusively on Adam Bolitho, Adm. Richard's nephew. Adam is not a genius of tactics or leadership like his mentor. Actually, although Richard is gone, Adam and the other characters spend quite a bit fondly moping about him while they go sailing back and forth. Author Kent waxes nostalgic and layers this novel with extended sentimentality about Richard, We Happy Few, Catherine, Herrick, etc. etc. Naval action is relatively perfunctory relative either to the early books or the sentimental involvements here of Adam with his crew of faithfuls, and with another beautiful but troubled damsel. In other words, this book is strictly for people who've read all the others and are willing to reminisce about their leading characters, many of whom make cameo appearances here.	2003-08-19
US	52618134	R1WHYQ1MJGDS20	1590130340	272552329	Jester's Fortune (Alan Lewrie Naval Adventures)	Books	3	10	11	N	N	A mature Lewrie?	In this eighth novel, Commander Lewrie, in his sloop-of-war Jester, is attached to a British squadron tasked to the Adriatic to cooperate with incompetent Austrian and uncooperative Venetian allies. In desperation the British are driven to attempt to enlist the assistance of Serbian pirates to harass French trade in naval stores. A quirk of this novel is that Lewrie spends a lot of time on shore or in negotiations, rather than in his usual settings of boudoir or battle. While offered opportunities to play his usual &quot;ram-cat,&quot; Lewrie now acts like an &quot;old maid.&quot; Maybe it's understandable why this particular volume fell out of print. <br />On the other hand, an attactive new plot device  here is that the Great Enemy, Napoleon, is seen closeup with his admiring staff, plotting the ever-surprising tactics of his rapid conquest, er &quot;liberation,&quot; of Italy, in occasional chapters counterpoised to slow Allied expectations or Commander Lewrie all at sea. Also, in one surprising chapter we have no idea what's going on-has the author gone mad?-until the ruse is explained in the next chapter. While the infamous Alan Lewrie contends with the expectable obstructive superior, here this stock character becomes much more understanding and empathetic than usual, to Lewrie's discomfiture.  Travel quotations from an ancient Roman author are vaguely relevant. A map of the Adriatic would help visual the movements.	2003-08-07
US	52618134	R1OU0TXXYJXI1U	0297795260	545067852	Convoy East	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Hard knocks	Convoy East is one in a series featuring Convoy Commodore J.M. Kemp during WWII, here conducting a British convoy sailing from England to Malta. Featuring merchant ships and troopliners (instead of the more usual naval escorts), they can't fight back so there's grinding anxiety, fear and impotence throughout-although there's a bit of comic relief for the latter malady due to the WRNS on board, women sailors. There's not a lot about the sea and ships' handling. The focus is on Kemp and members of his staff, and their jobs, strife, connivances, and differing worries  about their wives back home in blitzed England. Kemp is echt-English (as is the author), stiff-upper lip and all that, don't give up just because your back's broken. This attitude and writing style makes for overly laconic expression of intense emotions as his convoy is shot, bombed, torpedoed, burnt, or sunk. <br />The book is a quick read, a competently written view of war from the merchant sailors' perspective, but not particularly uplifting or inspiring, true to its early stage of the war. I came away feeling a bit beaten up, so the writing is effective in its own way. Perhaps we can look forward to McBooks or someone republishing these very good sea stories .	2003-08-06
US	52618134	R3R9MBLXDA175W	1590130243	141306984	Ramage & the Dido (The Lord Ramage Novels)	Books	2	15	16	N	N	Alas, the last	I'm glad to have this volume in print again, but it's perhaps the most disappointing in the series. It's the last installment in an unfinished saga by the late Dudley Pope. Everything here is MUCH too easy for Ramage (still a captain) and his trusty, rich, and invulnerable Calypso crew, now shipping out in the Dido, a formidable 3rd rate &quot;74&quot; ship of the line. In some ways (simple lingo, explanatory vignettes, lots of action) this last volume is an easy introduction to nautical fiction. Or one could say there's lots of padding, one too many books in the series. After the unique setting of the penultimate novel #17, fighting the exotic Saracens, Pope is so tired that he even has Ramage return to the scene of one of his greatest accomplishments in the Caribbean (#7 Ramage's Diamond) and substantially repeats the same achievements to a still finer degree. Ramage fights five nearly bloodless ship battles and leads a cutting out expedition in boats. It's pretty incredible, Ramage is never at a loss for tricks and the French always are. I never felt much tension, suspense, or terror in the story, not strong points in Pope's prose anyway.	2003-07-14
US	52618134	R10PWYGACO7JRA	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Harry grows up	Once again, a beautifully published book that's a pleasure to read. We plunge right in, very little backstory. Rowling is forever inventing magic words and spells that are just so right in sound and etymology. She is really good at making you smile, less so at building tension and realizing action. There isn't much action but overmuch administrative detail in the Order and at Hogwarts, where there's now an insufferable government agent. Aside from Harry angrily moping around a lot (raging hormones?) there isn't much particularly dark here (aside from the US cover), amidst the shenanigans and Weasleys' pranksuntil a Star Wars-like finish.	2003-07-09
US	52618134	REDEOJ1J5CN14	0452259614	369132556	Flashman: A Novel	Books	2	11	52	N	N	A hero posing as a scoundrel	I picked this up as perhaps the first in a series of racy reads, but it's author (meaning Fraser not Flashman) is too reticently victorian in attitude. The story is risque and winking rather than ribald. Flashman reports how bad he is, but it's mostly words. He casts himself as a coward, but in fact is the only guy on all the scenes of critical events (even if he fled there). There seems to be some accurate history here (footnotes even), the generals are so quakingly incompetent they must be real, and the epidemic warlordism still rings true. I won't read more Flashman because life is short and this text is so smarmy, racist, and pointlessly offensive.	2003-07-09
US	52618134	R1FPDYBJISRM8O	0071377689	730466711	Wrightscapes  : Frank Lloyd Wright's Landscape Designs	Books	4	27	28	N	N	Essential, yet disappointing	This is an immense, original, dense, and unique attempt to evaluate what is &quot;outside&quot; of Wright's artful buildings. The authors' 50-year fascination with F.Ll. Wright's vaunted organic architecture and respect for nature results in the first book study of Wright's landscaping-only to discover Wright did hardly any landscaping, and what he did was often illusionary rather than natural (vide: spectacular and dramatic manipulation of artificial urns, planters, terraces, and axial markers)! The Aguars looked in the archives and, aside from impressionistic renderings or geometric exercises, they found hardly a developed site or garden plan from Wright's hand or after his early Prairie years! Consequently, the great bulk of this book is the authors' reconstruction or critical evaluation of the little that is explicit. Most of their attention is perforce upon what exists on the grounds of Wright houses today, 50 or 75 years on. The late Charles Aguar, a landscape architect, interviewed owners (37 original) and subjects 85 sites to intensive site analysis to try to reconstruct what was in Wright's mind and to evaluate the pros and cons of each landscape design. (Of course there's very little about the houses themselves, or their interiors.) Some of the most fascinating designs are Wright's ventures into mass suburban planning, where Aguar can trace the evolution of his thought and practice through a series of (mostly unrealized) housing schemes. Where available he includes original planting information from the archives, but supplies none of his own for the present day. He does address admonitions for maintenance or restoration to current owners of Wright places. <br />Aguar suggests that Wright was a far better architect than landscaper, that he was strongly influenced at specific points in his career by anti-realistic Japanese landscape design, that he became an &quot;organic&quot; (integrated) designer only with the development of his Taliesin estate, and thathe was at his best designing and siting buildings on flat land where his geometries were least constrained by the siting analysis, soil studies, and grading plans he never made.  <br />Text and illustrations complement each other well, but some corners have unfortunately been cut when the co-author had to reduce the text to one volume. Charles Aguar's lifelong devotion to studying Wright is poorly served by the tiny photos and maps, many his own. Despite taking thousands of color slides during their visits to 189 Wright sites, and publishing on heavy glossy paper, the authors include not a single color picture (the dust cover excepted). Gardeners will be immensely disappointed in this book, designers somewhat less so. There are no color schemes and hardly a decent planting scheme (at miniscule scale), but you can compile from the 13 appendices a short list of &quot;Wrightian&quot; species  (while recognizing that most of them actually derive from the work of Griffith or Jensen, early collaborators of Wright in Chicago). <br />For an &quot;environmental&quot; appreciation of Wright's buildings themselves, you might like Grant Hildenbrand's The Wright Space, with its exciting visualizations of shelter, prospect, and procession within his buildings.	2003-07-09
US	52618134	R1K3IZHYTBKN80	1574091239	201637366	An Eye of the Fleet (Nathaniel Drinkwater)	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	Start of a serious naval series	This is the place to start this series, with Nathaniel Drinkwater as one lowly midshipman (where DO these naval authors get their strange names: Hornblower? Easy? Ramage?). I'm enjoying the stories even though I've skipped about depending on what was available. Now they are all being reprinted in a very good trade edition from Sheridan House (just to prove McBooks doesn't have a lock on the genre). This is also one of the few in the series that takes place in American waters, here while that very claim was being first disputed, 1780. Drinkwater is learning his sea-faring trade in a series of episodes where he increases in maturity and responsibility, through a smashing battle, a fight for rank in the mess, and capture and mutiny. The author constructs a very authentic feel in the details of ship-board life and the cruelties of hazing the youngest members, without indulging in long feats of sailsmanship. Woodman doesn't give Drinkwater the enthusiasms (or arcane language) of O'Brian's Capt. Aubrey, nor the self-doubt of Forester's Hornblower. Drinkwater finds a dear chaste love that stands in great contrast to the amorous adventures of Alan Lewrie in the parallel books by Dewey Lambdin. The cover illustration is pretty useless but authentically captures the somber tone of the series. As ever, keep an eye on the wind, and fair sailing!	2003-02-27
US	52618134	R3SF262BJM6L5F	0345360354	728181423	Lovely in Her Bones (Elizabeth MacPherson)	Books	2	4	8	N	N	Too witty	I've read two of McCrumb's mystery novels now and had the same reaction: witty murder is hard to take. I won't be reading more because I seem to take murder a bit too seriously for this light, fluffy sort of treatment, where the author's emphasis is often on cute dialogue and witty repartee. <br />That said, the story here has three young people dabble in murder detection and forensic science because-naturally-grownups don't care. Several passages are very well written and McCrumb maintains a tongue-in-cheek touch elsewhere. Don't rely on either the science terminology and interpretations to be accurate even for the 1985 paleo-computer age. Other than the pedagogy, this story will entertain young readers and introduce them to an unusual Appalachian setting and the issue of proving Indian land claims.	2003-02-27
US	52618134	RZRXNEML2VLR0	067976268X	765856776	Anything Considered: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Adventure in paradise	This is a frothy, fun, food-filled adventure suspense story set in the author's deliciously described Provence along the Mediterranean littoral. An end-of-his-wits ex-pat Britisher accepts an innocuously luxurious job helping to dodge a rich crook's taxes and then his life turns potentially ugly. Mayle never realizes the ugliness; despite the ominous events no one is actually damaged, for the tone and intent is an appetizing entertainment rather than engrossing suspense. The villains are sinister and smooth, the locals are crotchety, while the victims are an engaging couple in love and on the run...and as larcenous at heart as any of the crooks and cops. Peter Mayle has an urbane light touch, almost tongue-in-cheek, but precisely expressed in crystal-clear prose and well-turned with finely crafted sentences. The pb is pleasant to hold, with a flexible letherette feel and generous typography, a true trade pb rather than a pulp novel, although ultimately no more satisfying than a meal of meringue.	2003-02-25
US	52618134	R2J0461GUKSS5W	0743435427	615518822	1633 (Assiti Shards)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Essential reading (in the series)	If you are hooked on what is now a series following on the deserved success of \\"1632,\\"  then you absolutely have to read this big book in order to know \\"why\\" the rest of this alternate history will happen, due to all the pre-positioning of characters and plot lines that goes on here (otherwise known as \\"loose ends\\"). If not yet hooked, then read Flint's remarkable \\"1632\\" first, or don't accept the preposterous premise at all. The premise here is the exact inverse of the Spanish conquest of the Americas. Instead, a small coterie of free Americans is conquering old Europe, how ironic (and how timely). This volume of the interesting saga is heavy on political and economic considerations for the nascent republic, industrial fiction in fact, for the first two-thirds of the text. This is not an easy genre in which to entertain readers, and is hard going for long stretches, aggravated by the authors' certainly workmanlike but not scintillating prose and dialogues. Nor is anything inconvenient or tense allowed: no spies, no infiltrators, no raids, no disloyalty. There is much more emphasis on talking about and preparation for the alternate future than present action (back in a divergent 17th century). More charitably, it is a thoughtful novel. <br />At base is the question, how can democracy emerge from ignorance. (Due to the structure of the novels the authors cannot discuss the historical question of why it only emerged a century later and in a country far, far away with American Indian models). American union democracy from-out-of-time continues to corrode the local aristocratic ways, even among enemies, who have now read selected chapters of its future history (what would have been as WE the reader know it,), a deliciously paradoxical literary conceit incorporated by the authors. The saga increasingly will become less intriguing alternate \\"history\\" than pure SF war fiction as it develops, thus changing its audience. I recommend you wait for the paperback of this particular novel (but I'll have a hard time taking my own advice when the next expensive novel is first published).	2003-02-25
US	52618134	RNTLZ04W2T347	0380710838	771833517	Fortune's Favorites	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Two fortunate lives	For the first time in this series we experience the charm and brilliance of its real subject, Caesar, close up and personal. As McCullough mentions, she has far more historical sources to work with now, and indeed the two new heroes were master propagandists. I enjoyed this book more than the first two. McCullough goes far toward weaving a totally convincing sense of patrician majesty and paternal authority in fortune-favored Roman lives like Caesar or Pompey the self-styled Great. <br />This is a transitional novel, covering the end of the Marius-Sulla conflict and the first stirrings of the rivalry between Pompey and Caesar. The &quot;problem&quot; with such books is aggravated because McCullough is hewing so close to history rather than inventing characters and episodes that will lead to some great climax after 900 pages. While McCullough's prose is skillful it does not soar, and the reader does need to work hard to keep track of the parallel stories taking place on a jiggered timeline in Italy, Spain, or Anatolia. <br />This volume begins with a 21 pp synopsis of the preceding two books, vital to understanding the long list of characters who pop in and out (many of whom bear very similar names due to Roman naming customs; geneological charts might have been a useful addition to keep them straight). McCullough's steadfast focus is elite politics and strategy: no vignettes of life in the legions, among the urban plebs, or on Latin farms. On the other hand, her 80 pp Glossary is a frank mine of information entertainingly supplied that supplements her earlier glossaries. Drawings of the main characters enliven the text. Have a magnifying glass handy if you read the paperback, for the many maps are microscopic.	2003-02-23
US	52618134	R2E833FJG79WD7	0345296915	780967949	THE CENTURIONS (V.1)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great start but...	This first volume is a story of two young brothers and junior officers coming of age in the same Roman legion on the German frontier. While some words are devoted to the politics and history of the time (A.D. 72 under Vespasian), the focus is on the brother's' rivalry for honors and women. The problem is that if you read this you will wish there were many more volumes in the series, but I have a feeling something bad happened to author or publisher. The name for the 2nd vol., set in Britain, changed. Some reviewers pan the third volume. The series stops far short of having the Appius brothers fight their way through all the frontier provinces (as the broad maps imply), and over as many women, and eventually try for the Imperium?<br />Book Creations, Inc. (Kent Family Chronicles, Wagons West) hired a capable and informed writer to fill out its plot for the series. The author is comfortable with Roman terms in context rather than ostentatiously didactic. I developed a respect and interest in the characters-Romans, slave, or free German-perhaps because all were handled sympathetically and we see them in their familes and marriages as well as on campaign as soldiers or warriors. Good maps and illustrations.	2003-02-17
US	52618134	R3F6M34JZ6N51C	0445406488	110990359	The Curse of the Pharaohs (Amelia Peabody, Book 2)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Fun #2	These are fun books; the author is having fun with her characters and with us, her tongue firmly in her cheek. In fact, the characters are more interesting than the pseudo-creepy mystery. Everybody is a \\"character.\\" Even if they are stereotypical, Peters really differentiates them in intriguing ways. And she waxes almost poetic in her description of Egyptian desert sunrises and sunsets-no one would be out in the sun at noon, right?<br />Readers who will especially enjoy the Amelia Peabody series are less those seeking a good mystery than a bit of eery suspense or those who (wish to) travel to Egypt or who enjoy history and archaeology. Peters scathes or satirizes Egyptology (in which she has a degree) as it was practiced a century ago by her contrasts between the deftly caricatured actual historical officials and her progressive protagonists. These novels will also appeal to readers who like novels of relationships and love conspiracies (which are dense and often unsuspected [hint, hint]), as well as gentle \\"modern\\" feminist sentiments in a Victorian romance, or light and quietly humorous writing. The mysteries are like an entertaining excuse to push her characters into incidents that reveal and develop them. It's also the rare series where child care is an issue (here the question of who stays with the baby), since we're beginning to see Amelia and Radcliffe's precocious child emerge in his obstreperous role through the early books of the series. This strong biographical flavor requires you to start at the beginning with CROCODILE.... (I once made the mistake of starting in the middle and gave up that try.)	2003-02-13
US	52618134	R1L6C0PQ6CED2B	0445406518	721002787	Crocodile on the Sandbank (Amelia Peabody)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fascinating first	This is the first novel in the Amelia Peabody series of antique Egyptological mysteries (but hardly Peters' first book!). Other reviewers have listed the serial order of these novels because the publisher shamefully omits to do so. I read an heirloom 1988 Warner pb whose pages are yellowing (but not yet fatally brittle): what is one to do to save a great series for future kids? Yes, you'll probably be hooked. And you can comfortably read these stories to kids, too. <br />Besides the requisite plotting for a satisfying mystery, the author has four entertaining propensities. 1) The characters are well differentiated and all have something to bring suspicion upon them, whether it is criminal or in a love interest. The recurring characters (later including an obnoxious child) really grow and change through the series, so be sure to start with this book first, giving the hilarious circumstances under which Amelia and Radcliffe Emerson first meet. 2) There's lots of spoofing of male habits by the redoubtable and feisty young heroine. I emphasize it is good-natured, sometimes tongue-firmly-in-cheek,  and enjoyable by all. 3) Another pleasant feature is the 19th century historic details contemporary with the story, like the Sphinx still buried in the sand, Shepherd's Hotel in Cairo, or the few brave tourists sailing the Nile. If you like archaeology the descriptions of monuments and the antique period methods will attract you. Particularly amusing are the characterizations of the actual famous Egyptologists of the period (with Amelia's &quot;advanced ideas&quot; modeled most closely on those of Flinders Petrie). 4) Mild horror enters from time to time, as you would expect from the Egyptological setting of &quot;efreets,&quot; dim tombs, and mummified corpses. These episodes counterpoint and provide opportunities for Amelia's extreme rationalism. All in all these are enjoyable stories about an interesting family frequently in danger.	2003-02-09
US	52618134	R1D13269PBJEYI	0375503722	64748518	No Certain Rest: A Novel	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Cruel surprises	Lehrer  presents two parallel stories, a contemporary American Civil War description of battle events and a modern archaeologist's attempt to decipher those events. (This is a technique also used to much more spine-tingling effect by Beverly Connors in her archaeological mystery stories.) Unfortunately the archy character is an excitable scatterbrain and mere day-dreamer, whose pursuit of the past leads to a cruel modern tragedy. There are passages of incantory violence found in an &quot;original&quot; soldier's confessional narrative.<br />Lehrer knows how to plot and has a good premise here, but his prose is jarringly rough, wheezy, and simplistic (e.g., he concludes far too many descriptions with the incredibly lazy phrase &quot;and whatever&quot;). Of the old McNeil-Lehrer PBS News duo, McNeil is the better writer of fiction. This could have made a chilling short story but it went long and whatever.	2003-01-28
US	52618134	R3QGXN45SEY4HD	0375503722	64748518	No Certain Rest: A Novel	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Cruel surprises	Lehrer  presents two parallel stories, a contemporary American Civil War description of battle events and a modern archaeologist's attempt to decipher those events. (This is a technique also used to much more spine-tingling effect by Beverly Connors in her archaeological mystery stories.) Unfortunately the archy character is an excitable scatterbrain and mere day-dreamer, whose pursuit of the past leads to a cruel modern tragedy. There are passages of incantory violence found in an &quot;original&quot; soldier's confessional narrative.<br />Lehrer knows how to plot and has a good premise here, but his prose is jarringly rough, wheezy, and simplistic (e.g., he concludes far too many descriptions with the incredibly lazy phrase &quot;and whatever&quot;). Of the old McNeil-Lehrer PBS News duo, McNeil is the better writer of fiction. This could have made a chilling short story but it went long and whatever.	2003-01-28
US	52618134	R2Q5KAKTIYXFGV	0300095325	853706599	Benjamin Franklin	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The excitement of Franklin	The book is an approachable appreciation of Franklin's energetic and very full life. Franklin is a fascinating renaissance man, jack of all trades, and master of same: printing, publishing, hospitals, libraries, stoves, fire companies and insurance, schooling, postmaster, jails, militia, and of course electricity. The first chapter is deliberately eclectic, jumping back and forth through Franklin's life to establish certain landmarks and themes in his life: transitional times, his love of constant and compelling enquiry, controlling a brilliant and irreverent intellect, and the public utility of his innovations and service to a public changing as least as rapidly as he. Here Morgan, I think, badly confounds Franklin's public service (meaning his role in coercive government) with the public usefulness of his ldeas and inventions. I believe Morgan errs in speculating that Franklin was driven by Charity (love of the public) although Franklin in fact omits it from his List of Virtues (pp. 22-23). Rather it is clear that Franklin acted as if what others might call charity sprang from a personal Virtue of usefulness to oneself and fair dealing with others--that is, tantamount to classic revolutionary liberalism untainted by the socialist belief in higher public good determined by the state and enforced by terror, as emerged in his beloved France only three years after his death. <br />Morgan traces the roots of the American Revolution to attempts to impose and devolve taxation without representation in the English Parliament, of unequal citizenship among English speakers on the mere basis of where you lived. But for the arrogantly parochial minds of British lord ministers they would have kept a growing America, and probably their empire. Morgan thinks Franklin believed in conditional, negotiable rights, rather than Inalienable Rights as did most Americans and certainly the firebrands like Adams and Revere (who hardly figure in this book). This is particularly apropos thecurrent debate between Liberty and Security in a world of non-state terrorism. <br />The book includes a chronology, list of people, and an index only of people mentioned. The only sources cited are Franklin's writings, a strange limit on Morgan's scholarship. A subtle touch is that YUP chose Fournier as the typeface, designed by one of Franklin's good friends in France. The \\"antique\\" deckle-edged paper is not so successful, as it is hard to page through.	2003-01-28
US	52618134	R1US81CBND9HHB	1574090992	915734283	The Bomb Vessel (Mariners Library Fiction Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Drinkwater must make good	There is realistic conniving, boredom, and petty squabbling aboard Lt. Drinkwater's aging bomb (mortar-firing) vessel (unlike what you'd expect in Dudley Pope's swashbuckling Ramage series). Yet Drinkwater feels that Virago is his last chance to make the step to commander. Then comes an exciting flurry of action under the impetuous Admiral Lord Nelson facing the ferocious guns of Copenhagen. Besides nautical matters this fourth story in the series contains two romantic angles, murder, family loyalty, and a bit of conspiracy with Drinkwater's former spymaster, Lord Dungarth (see An Eye of the Fleet). This book includes very helpful maps, something more sea tales should include ...	2003-01-28
US	52618134	R2ZMRPCIU0IK81	0425178951	788292440	Deep South (An Anna Pigeon Novel)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	"Deep-fried kindness and cotton-mouthed hostilities"	I found this the most engrossing of the Anna Pidgeon mysteries, almost Literature in the scope of its concerns. There's more depth of characterization here and a totally convincing atmosphere of nature's thick menace to match the hostility of the good ol' employees under her new supervision. The author's fulsome nature description should be expected since Mississippi is Barr's home, but the fuller characterization may stem from the fact that Anna is running out of time for a solid love interest, as well as due to the extreme violence to which she is subjected. Only one of these terrible episodes is necessary to the plot, the other is gratuitous and features animal cruelty. My only complaint is that the conclusion is rushed and its tension drooping (or limp from the heat?  :-)<br />Barr has a light touch but is not frivolous with her heroine or with death (unlike, for example, some of Sharyn McCrumb's Appalachian Scots stories). Barr is good at letting you build up a picture of the suspects (and she subtly make everyone so), then have Anna yank you into something else with a tiny new fact, and then do it again. That should keep you on your toes! This story has everything: prejudice, murder, kids, alligators, Civil War, crazies, punks, a cat and dog, and several cases of maybe-its-love.	2003-01-27
US	52618134	R1C19FNW2OJ1CV	0812564545	168651155	A Mystery of Errors	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Get your Shakespeare Lite	This story is an enjoyable diversion for any Shakespeare fan in a mood for something light and a little bit enlightening. It's fun to recognize bits of &quot;real Shakespeare&quot; embedded in the text, and Hawke gives several unorthodox slants to the Shakespeare character. He does miss his opportunity to have Shakespeare's companions feed the future bard all his famous lines, or to tweak those scholars who think Shakespeare was really older Christopher Marlowe or somebody. In Hawke's afterword he doth protest unnecessarily for his travesty on great Shakespeare; we don't really expect more. <br />Simon Hawke is an American college professor so despite his very English name this isn't a &quot;true English&quot; mystery. In fact, there's not much mystery here; it might better be titled a comedy of errors  ;)  There's nothing of great moment, but an interesting view of London and theatrical life in the 16th century. Aspiring actor Tuck Smythe is not much of a sleuth (his eloquent companion Mr. Shakespeare is none), and no real crime appears before the last third of the book. <br />There's much ado about social climbing parents-indeed that's a key to the mystery.  The author gives the impecunious and ostensibly ignorant young heroes (and us) an awful lot of background information, most of it interesting but told flat rather than atmospherically. He also talks at us too much rather than have his characters show us through their experiences. The ending is too rushed and wordy. I hope the author has learned from writing this rather academical novel and the next is better; there's good potential in his concept. The proofing and printing of this book on pulp paper leave something to be desired.	2003-01-14
US	52618134	R14X58EYTSIHZ0	1590130111	617119446	Ramage's Trial (The Lord Ramage Novels) (Volume 14)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Another court martial	Of all the fictional naval captains, Captain Lord Ramage is the most adored by his men. He is the alter ego of the real Admiral Lord Nelson, victor of Trafalgar and hero of the British Navy and of the English people. With his many victories and prizes, Ramage by now should be too rich to sail, but here he is in his 15th book and still only a Post Captain. But we'll allow that because frigate captains have all the fun, and admirals of advancing age equally late in their series, like Kent's Bolitho or O'Brian's Aubrey, have too many remote worries. <br />The main story line is a convoy back to England and its plodding operations overseen by Ramage, torn by a bizarre meet with another British frigate. Although newly married, Ramage struggles with an infatuation with a lady of the convoy. There's also the strangest case of mutiny I've ever read. Haled into court, Ramage is court martialled for his life, with an infuriatingly biased judge guiding his fate. Throughout there overhangs the disturbing worry that Ramage's bride (of the previous novel Ramage's Devil) has been lost at sea. Paul Wright's cover painting is the weakest in his series, a lethargic stern chase.	2003-01-14
US	52618134	R5L5LQZOJLOTB	1590130219	389538180	The French Admiral (Alan Lewrie Naval Adventures)	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Grim defeat in the Americas	The French Admiral in paper has been awaited by Alan Lewrie fans since 1990. It is the crucial #2 \\"missing link\\" from early in the series of Alan's swashbuckling adventures in the age of fighting sail. Although we know the general events of this long-missing novel about the Royal Navy from references in succeeding books, it comes as a throwback to the exciting rakehell that Lewrie was early in his career. The alleged orphan [] of a scheming English knight, Lewrie has a most modest opinion of himself, although he comes of age as a mariner in the course of this pivotal novel. American readers will be most interested that this novel takes place on the Eastern Seaboard, especially during the crucial siege of Cornwallis' troops at York Town. (From the detailed sailing descriptions in the Chesapeake Bay it's a good bet that Lambdin sails there often.) This story offers a chance for an extended look, from the British point of view, at the vicious enmities and fighting that characterized the American Revolution in the genteel South. It does not, however, offer the least personal glimpse of the French Admiral. That august and triumphant sailor, the shipbound Admiral de Grasse, is instrumental in the series of British blunders and defeats that lose the rebel American colonies to England.<br />The language is a bit rougher than is the salty talk customary in sea stories by genuine British authors. I wonder if Lambdin chose \\"Lewrie\\" as his hero's name because it resembles lurid and lewd, which Alan is, although he's not a scoundrel as well. This is a physically bigger book than the other Lambdin pb's I've read, thanks to the customarily expansive McBooks Press edition (i.e., larger type and better paper than the stubby Fawcett Crest/Ballantine editions).	2003-01-14
US	52618134	R12QA2EEQLPFSG	0061011975	774562648	Bundori	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Intense	Sano Ichiro, the Japanese shogun's (ruler's) official investigator, has \\"an inquisitive spirit and a talent for uncovering truth.\\" His rather innocent pursuit of the Truth of a heinous ritual crime leads him into conflict with mendacious or frightened viziers who control his master. Like Sherlock, Sano acquires a dutiful assistant and applies esoteric lore (here ancient texts rather than chemistry) to solve crimes. A subplot entwined with unraveling the mystery is Sano's infatuation with a ninja priestess, with whom he shares graphic scenes of rape and hurt. One might say this story adds the love interest missing from the first book, Shinju, but it often takes graphically violent excursions or employs episodes of  degrading homosexuality. <br />Joh has an engrossing style, a sensuous style that subtly wraps you in fleeting references to colors, motion, fragrances, odors, textures, and sense of place. She ingeniously uses the influence of institutionalized Shame within the samurai code as well as Sano's personal credo of Truth to drive the actions he takes. There is not a whole lot of mystery, unless it is the power of oriental codes of behavior unfamiliar to the reader, although the awesomely violent and desperate ending has its surprising twists. <br />This is one of those stories that is genuinely hard to put down even into the wee hours. Adding a glossary of the Japanes terms would be helpful, as would a map of 1689 Edo (Tokyo) where all the action transpires. In later printings the cover picture is different from that shown on amazon.com, and more appropriate, like a Japanese woodcut.	2003-01-13
US	52618134	R21MKBZ3UD05BT	0061009504	421509995	Shinju	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Suicidal behavior	This story is very strong on atmosphere and weaker on real mystery. I found it a fascinating glimpse into what the real tenor of medieval Japan might have been like. Suicidal behavior characterizes not only the initial crime victims but the obstinate actions of Sano Ichiro, a police commander struggling against the extremely rigid and hierarchical filial, political, and police &quot;system&quot; in 1689 Edo (Tokyo). He seems to instinctively know the &quot;truth&quot; despite all his social conditioning in the samurai code of loyalty, obedience, and reputation. As the first in the series the author should have shown by his actions, rather than assertion alone, that Sano in fact had had a history of dedication to the alleged &quot;truth and justice&quot; that conveniently appears whenever he is pressed by custom or patron to conform to an official cover-up he seeks to break. Aside from the author's simplistic psychology this is a fascinating story because of the realistic and exotic atmosphere, the feeling engendered by Joh's descriptive ability that you are really there. The author is particularly sensitive to Edo's sweet or foetid odors and to localizing each of the scenes with visual clues. The book is nicely printed. The story has a very exciting samurai conclusion, but despite the blurbs there's no love interest here.	2003-01-13
US	52618134	RW17FV0IXCFEZ	159013012X	50130655	Ramage's Challenge (The Lord Ramage Novels) (Volume 15)	Books	4	1	4	N	Y	Back to the Beginning	Ramage and his happy crew sail back to adventure off the Tuscan coast of Italy again, haunts where he first rescued the beautiful Gianna, the Marchesa of Volterra, escaping from the heel of Napolean. Now she's presumed to be his victim again, but will Ramage happen upon traces of her, or of the wife he married just before she disappeared at sea? In the meantime he has been tasked by the Navy to rescue some noble (and well-hidden) hostages, and he must try several ruses to outwit the clever French. This story and its allusions will make more sense if you've read Ramage no. 1 (and the rest of the series). <br />Among the interesting vignettes Pope loved to slip in are how to up anchor on a lee shore or cast a log line to determine ship's speed. Usual McBooks excellence in typography, with those lovely swash capitals (oops, the swashbucklers appear in no. 17). This time the cover art is misleading, since this is another story featuring Ramage's ingenuity, guile, tact, and luck rather than bloodthirsty battle.	2002-12-21
US	52618134	R3JYZ6RXVW66UH	0935526846	397444974	For My Country's Freedom (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 21)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	A Romance Novel for Men	No kidding, this is a romance novel for mature husbands and wives to enjoy. It focuses on the trials of aging love when politics and war eventually force the lovers-Lady Somervell and Admiral Bolitho-apart (but also Adam, Keene, and Allday-familiar series characters-from their loves, too). Why, the story is a real tearjerker in the most honorable sense, and has uncommon psychological depth. What it doesn't have is much naval action-Bolitho doesn't even put to sea until half way through. He then experiences the wrenching responsibility of conscientious command, a theme of this series and especially in these later books. The title of this story has special meaning of a &quot;just war&quot; to Bolitho, but also to Kent's many American readers, for this is a story from late in the Napoleonic world war when a young America took up arms against the ruler of the seas. It is a story particularly instructive for Americans because it exposes the internal rifts and conflicts of conscience within the ranks of the faceless British in the War of 1812. <br />A hallmark of Kent's style is the smooth transition between the thoughts of one character and another, a style of presenting multiple viewpoints not even attempted by most authors. While Kent is &quot;second-rate,&quot; I don't agree with another reviewer that Parkinson is one of the best: his prose is wooden and his sailors seem to end up doing a lot of land soldiering.	2002-12-21
US	52618134	R3LHCYYMAO4ZLW	157409100X	760967171	The Corvette (Nathaniel Drinkwater)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Drinkwater Takes a Step	The book is in three parts, in the first of which Acting Captain Drinkwater must establish his leadership in a new command and lead a convoy of hard-bitten and angry whalers onto the Greenland whaling grounds. The second concerns the hunt for whales and, despite its misfortunes, how Drinkwater slips into a yacht cruise mentality. The third part returns us to the fact they are all at war with the French, who are rumored to have sent out corsairs during the false peace of 1802 to lay in wait and cripple the British economy when the world war resumed. <br />I found this one of the most interesting in the series. For all the Napoleonic era novels out there, this contains the first discussion of whaling in the North Atlantic I recall (and only a few other series include the more familiar Pacific whalers). Also, Drinkwater essays humor on occasion, despite his author's rather grim prose and concern with political machinations. Drinkwater often struggles with scepticism and faith, God, and duty to the navy, abetted here by a pastor/surgeon who is philosophically inclined and by a righteously subversive whaling captain. Woodman describes the arctic well, but only occasionally does he evoke its beauty and terror.  Pay very close attention to the beginning chapters for there are clues to anticipating a final mystery. If you understand sailing commands and constantly track the state of the wind through the story then all the ship maneuvers make sense; otherwise ignore them as nautical \\"period atmosphere\\" and be poorer for it.<br />We get to hear more sail commands than usual, thanks to an insecure but punctilious 3rd lieutenant, and also learn in great detail the meaning of \\"jury-rigged.\\" What strange names some fictional captains have: Drinkwater, Hornblower-and quite the opposite of their true characters.	2002-12-21
US	52618134	R1ZYZ3PFTSJEW1	1590130227	913258476	Ramage at Trafalgar (The Lord Ramage Novels) (No. 16)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Fascinating	After a good deal of interesting matters on shore, Ramage and his faithful crew (already rich with prize money but faultlessly loyal to their captain) race off to join Admiral Lord Nelson before Cadiz in Spain, and the great naval battle of Trafalgar in 1805. More than any other nautical novel I've read, this one makes clear just how revolutionary were Nelson's killer tactics. It is worth reading just for the views of Nelson at home and at war. The reasons why Nelson is Britain's greatest hero are made clear. The story is constructed with a long narrative line building to a thrilling climax, and a wonderfully sad ending as Ramage appears headed for another court-martial due to his valiant actions taken without orders. <br />Book notes: poorly proof-read for a McBooks book. The only title in the Ramage series with a genuinely old painting on the cover (but has nothing to do with the story). While it can certainly stand on its own better than most in the series because it more closely concerns real historical figures than usual, as the 16th of 18 this volume is probably not the place to start.	2002-12-14
US	52618134	R2M5JJWXOPFVUX	0786889284	999720718	Beyond Recognition	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Overwrought	Sgt. Boldt plunges right into a frightening case full of the fear of fatally frying in fire, friends and foes alike. &quot;Overwrought&quot; for a Pearson novel, that is (Sgt. Boldt is immediately panicked by a nasty arson case but his reaction hardly seems initially [or finally] justifiable on the evidence presented). The story still doesn't hold a candle to the recent excesses of  psycho-mystery writers Cornwall or Patterson. While Boldt and his devoted  police psychologist Daphne Matthews are fully rounded characters, here they surely do have more than their fair share of personal problems, marriages threatening to break up amid other disasters of child abuse, disappearence, and psychic mummery. Several times you think Boldt has found his man, but then Pearson adds another jolting twist and the chase resumes. At times it is truly intense and thrilling.<br />The plot has a parallel story structure, but we see not the criminal, who is very well hidden, but a poor boy dreadfully afraid to leave his extraordinarily abusive father. Pearson has a wonderful ability to make a small observation-like a cleaned window-develop into bone-chilling significance. There are many fine moments here despite a story that starts too fast and ends too tamely.	2002-10-04
US	52618134	R290N6KTZJUOV0	0226677176	972532291	A Dance to the Music of Time: Third Movement	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Characterful	Powell's prose is elegantly uncorroded by the modern fast paced advertising style, as suggested by his fondness for commas and involved yet utterly precise sentences. He obliquely approaches a bleak war as it was experienced on the home front, and in the rear areas frequented by his narrator, Nick Jenkins, a remarkably incisive yet detached and circumspect character of whom we learn very little of the quotidian despite his ever presence. Powell is a master of underplayed scenes. WW II takes some familiar characters in casually shocking ways, invariably reported second-hand. It may be offputting that locations and outside events are frequently allusive, depending as they do on the state of the reader's prior knowledge for their significance, dating, and rationale. (This technique is not specifically intended to reproduce &quot;the fog of war&quot;-which it quite effectively does-but is generic to Powell's style.) Then again, this chronicle of the decline of a group of classmates, girlfriends, and relatives from rather upper-class Britain is not intended for Americans. It is an intensely observed and analysed view of people doing their none too good best at trivial jobs. The second novel here (each about 250 pages long and separately paginated), The Soldier's Art, features Widmerpool especially, one of the most socially awkward self-important incompetents ever to blunder through fine literature yet inexorably advancing, earlier in trade and now into ministerial levels. By this the third book in the handsome Chicago edition, I am beginning to appreciate the low-key but thorough humour of this masterpiece, although French is needed for several outright jokes here. The individual novels progress from one set of character studies to another, set pieces in social situations (often society parties, especially in the earlier novels), with three to five of these revealing episodes per novel. In sum, splendid writing, but not everyone's cup of tea.	2002-10-04
US	52618134	RQSE8X3RDQFB9	0140247955	527047329	Dead As a Dodo (A Homer Kelly Mystery)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Do do read it!	This story really grew on me, taking me longer to read and ponder than I had expected. It is a leisurely story told in crisply short chapters. It begins as a rather fusty sabbatical visit to Oxford, England, by Harvard professors Homer and Mary Kelly (Langton's series characters), and turns into an enthusiastical meld of Alice in Wonderland and Darwinian evolution, especially in a climactic dream sequence! There are hidden depths to the situations and academic theories juxtaposed here. The eventual murders are almost beside the point. The joy in intellectual disputation herein made me not really worried for anyone. For a professor of English, Homer is quite a scientist, an experimenter, and not in the least PC and post-modern like his ilk. While rarely laugh-out-loud funny, Langton definitely has an amusingly light touch and a bit of satire. The book is illustrated with the author's jaunty sketches of Oxford places. I suspect that any knowledge of Lewis Carroll, Darwin, and Oxford will increase the pleasure of the reader still further.	2002-08-27
US	52618134	R1WSYVB6E4P3BX	0140249001	372534986	Therapy	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Depressingly good	This is the humorous(!) story of a man's progress through utter depression to reconciliation with his primitive self. TV writer Tubby Passmore's rich life is falling apart, and we follow him through various trendy therapies right to the bottom. The specific prick to action is painful spasms of Mr. Passmore's knee as he tries to write his way out of a sitcom impasse. By the middle of this book he is so far gone in obsessive self-absorption that we can see his ultimate flailings only through the eyes of astonished onlookers: his wife, his Platonic lover, a script assistant, etc. A new obsession with Kierkegaard's \\"Existentialism\\" becomes a core concept in Passmore's therapeutic journal of dreaded indecision and regret. That this story of a midlife Englishman's depression is hilarious yet touching is testament to the author's skill. Wonderfully, precisely written, droll to a T, it is funny on the surface in a way comprehensible to an American (compared to Anthony Powell's humour, say). By the conclusion Passmore appears to be his old cheeky self (who was already missing as this story began), an uptempo recovery from complacency and scary mid-life crises that parallels a Continental journey from sceptical Denmark to credulous Spain. <br />A cute stylistic trick is to have Passmore \\"look up\\" the meaning of any unusual key word the author introduces. We learn something that way (although not ordinary Briticisms like wanker, clanger, kefuffle, yonks, phutted and pong, gazump and gobsmacked). It's curious how many out-of-print versions are listed for this book. My copy... has an unusual leathery-soft cover and rough yellowing pages; reminds me of fragile post-war Penquin books, tattered British \\"pulps.\\"	2002-08-27
US	52618134	RKG5EYTJQPDEZ	0553579274	687453166	A Finer End (Duncan Kincaid/Gemma James Novel)	Books	3	9	11	N	N	..but a better beginning.	Pros. This is a pleasant read. The first half of this book consists of vignettes developing Crombie's expendable (non-series) characters. They are interspersed with glimpses of the changing state of the romance between our two police detectives, Kincaid and James. The small-town characters are really well-developed, the strongest part of this story. I was really drawn in to their roundly depicted and interesting lives, and not one of them is an obviously crooked or villainous person. Each character has an engaging personality and profession. It turns out that most of them also are concealing regrettable, if not criminal, episodes somewhere in their pasts that provide motivation, and suspicious behavior, in the present. And you get a good feel for their ancient Arthurian pilgrimmage town of Glastonbury, now a New Age mecca, whose glowering Tor  and ruined Abbey play their own important roles in the plot. Half way through the story some crimes finally occur and everyone is sucked into the stew. <br />Cons. Because the characters are so well drawn the periodic attempts to introduce an ominous or creepy Glastonbury atmosphere seem artificial. I've never run into a mystery like this where you have to accept visions, dreams, premonitions, sceances, and spirits to make the plot development at all credible. The passing of time between vignettes is not well-marked, and transitions can be jumpy. There isn't as much consistent \\"Britishness\\" as you'd expect from a true English writer. Kincaid and James are on holiday here, in another copper's patch. There's a lot of police leaping to conclusions and speculating-obviously to keep us guessing-and rather little hard police procedural. I enjoyed this book much more as a story that resolves the varied personal difficulties of the local characters (ancient as well as modern) rather than specifically as a mystery (which is thin).	2002-08-23
US	52618134	R3SIXCH5FGJT09	0312973179	838100015	Bone Hunter (Em Hansen Mysteries)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Split personality	If you like mysteries, pass this by because there's only a little suspense. Although the author tries hard to mislead you it's pretty clear early on who the villain is. Andrews waxes poetical about dinosaurs and rock strata, and personal approaches to religion and science, without bogging down the story-in fact that IS the story here. So if you like geological landscape, discussion of science and religion, spiritual quests, or Mormonism, this is an excellent book. It has some of the clearest direct writing on these topics I've ever seen. <br />Sarah Andrews takes her geologist sleuth, Em Hansen, in a new direction here. For the first time Em is dealing with biology (dinosaur bones), and must face questions of evolution. Em self-consciously struggles to articulate and resolve religion and her science, while falling in love with the handsome Mormon policeman who suspects her of murdering a notorious paleontologist at a conference in Utah. You have to wade through Em's usual spunky &quot;attitude&quot; and a string of sharply drawn &quot;characters&quot; (suspects) for a few chapters before finding the new Em. In a candid Author's Note Andrews explains the fascinating gestation of this book. It is an exploration of how a life in science differs from an ordinary, particularly religious, life.	2002-08-13
US	52618134	R3EX9E1H1XXQD7	052594656X	499017825	The Big Gamble: A Kevin Kerney Novel (Kevin Kerney Novels)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Kevin Kerney is back!	The real Kevin Kerney is back from the irreality of his previous case UNDER THE COLOR OF LAW. For the first time McGarrity splits the story between two cops: Chief Kevin Kerney of Santa Fe and his newly revealed son, Deputy Clayton Istee, 150 miles apart. New and old deaths are gradually interwoven in parallel to the reluctant yet beautifully described reconcilement of these two strangers. This is as much a Big Gamble for the two strong and silent men as are the casinos that figure in the scandalous plot. Maybe they will develop into a famous duo like Hillerman's Joe Leaphorn and Jim Chee. Clayton may be a needed addition in the series because, with an entire police department now at his beck, Chief Kerney will have a hard time doing his old lonesome investigations that made his reputation as a maverick lawman. <br />McGarrity's stories are not hidden clue mysteries a la Poirot; rather they are dogged police procedurals firmly driven by vivid local color. Here Kerney and Istee must tread carefully, from opposite ends, through personal, ethnic, and political, as well as gambling, sexual, and jurisdictional, minefields. It is McGarrity's ability to write believable plots and personalities that \\"feel real and right\\" that makes him a master, and this may be his best. It's curious how some publishers overly rely on spell checkers and miss homonyms; here Dutton drops occasional prepositions.	2002-08-08
US	52618134	R1E6A1SLES3GFZ	0786889616	916635301	Parallel Lies	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Railroad caper	Even though this story lacks Lou Boldt, I read it on Pearson's reputation for acute psychological insight. However, this is a mild-mannered thriller in a setting of eastern railroad operations, more in the nature of a caper than a crime. Only people who \\"deserve to die\\" for one reason or another do so, in contrast to the shocking Boldt stories. This is a cat-and-mouse story you can sit back and enjoy without the usual stomach-turning surprises. It has many moments of tension but little that is repulsive. Two obsessive and rather gray men are on opposite sides of the law and destined to collide in spiralling violence. Sacked detective Peter Tyler is handicapped not only by an ill-contained temper but claustrophobia as he tries to rebuild his career by solving a series of train derailments. Various police procedures help track the clues back to the perp, an outraged family man known to the reader. Unfortunately I'm made to understand neither how the security agent heroine, Nell, is Black, nor falls in love with Peter, nor turns against her employer in some key episodes.	2002-08-08
US	52618134	R222QVAI14IES8	0312269692	716626202	Black Storm: A Novel (Tales of the Modern Navy.)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Gulf War again	Although the 7th volume of Dan Lenson's experiences in the modern US Navy, this book seems to jump back to his earlier tours in the Persian Gulf. The opening scenes of insertion behind enemy lines are harrowing descriptions of helicopter operations that will have you ducking your head. Here and elsewhere Poyer extends the action not with technical descriptions a la Clancy, but through minute by minute narration from the point of view of each of the specialists along on the mission. The main similarity to CHINA SEA, his previous and incredible novel, is the vagueness of the force's target, some unknown kind of horrible Iraqi weapon of mass destruction (shades of today's headlines, too!). Once again poor Dan is on a deniable operation that won't earn him promotion. <br />Poyer is a master of claustrophobic conditions, whether underwater or in tight conditions like the sewers of Baghdad. Even in desert Iraq Poyer manages to find underwater(!) action (cf. his Tiller Galloway novels). Otherwise, the presence of navy man Lenson is hard to explain, and is something Dan also has to essay several times during the story itself (harking back to his work in TOMAHAWK). One disconcerting stylistic quirk is that Lenson finds time to ruminate on profound qualms of war and humanity even while in mortal danger during a fire fight in an underground weapons bunker (\\"when is counter-aggression more dangerous than the aggressor?\\"). Serious consideration of such thoughts, however, is what make Poyer's stories so different from mere technothrillers or the ordinary run of war novels. He truly is an excellent writer, psychologically acute and able to evoke just the atmosphere he wants, however much mainstream reviewers may ignore his military genre.	2002-08-08
US	52618134	R33LRQMELQBU1J	0380765454	594860920	Desert Heat (Joanna Brady Mysteries, Book 1)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Hope for better	This is the first in the long Sheriff Joanna Brady of Cochise County series. It shows the sad family events that initially pushed Joanna, as the wife of a  deputy sheriff, into law enforcement. Joanna is a determined, able, and frank talking woman who must deal with an allegedly suicidal, drug-dealing, and cheating husband. It's not really a \\"suspense\\" novel, as personal threats are few and Joanna sorta backs into solving the crime. The story is set up well with empathetic family situations and loyalties, but towards the end the plot goes ratty, a couple of glaring holes in the plot conveniently appearing as Jance races to wrap up the story. I think Jance also severely underplays local Arizona color and ambiance: this novel could be happen anywhere, quite unlike the great specificity and plot drivers of Hillerman or McGarrity's novels that could only be set in New Mexico. I hope Jance gets better in later novels, for this one doesn't generate much heat. For some reason this Avon pb is printed in rather large print, which may contribute to why it's a nicely fast and easy read.	2002-08-07
US	52618134	R2XNB7XBD9FISD	0060194448	657088689	The Wailing Wind	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Irresistable	This has all the traditional elements that draw me to Hillerman's novels: traditional Navaho, Anglo stereotypes, and Hillerman's own tradition of excellence in plotting, characterization, and believable human developments (witness Jim Chee's successive love entanglements). This is mostly a Joe Leaphorn, retired Navaho policman, story, dredging up an old unsolved case of his that involves a contested lost gold mine. Sgt. Chee helps out with his knowledge of Navaho shamanism (which, sadly, he is no longer studying). Navaho seem very \\"cool\\" characters, deliberate, kinda laid back, and reasoning within their logical framework of Harmony (with its frightening tales of divine sanction). I had a chilling moment when I realized what the wailing wind would turn out to be. The realization came a bit early I thought, but then maybe Tony wanted to reward us for paying attention. As ever the atmosphere is lovingly authentic and the clues dovetail so neatly despite being scattered across a century of Southwestern history. In McGarrity's New Mexico stories the police produce the clues through hard work, in Hillerman's they are strewn across the landscape and have to be recognized.	2002-08-07
US	52618134	R3RKCR7XK41KG6	0312974507	123394648	China Sea (Dan Lenson Novels)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Best yet	Our emotionally buffeted series hero, Lt. Cmdr. Dan Lenson, USN, has excruciating dificulties here. It's like the author thought up the most impossible set of conditions at sea he could imagine, and then put poor Dan smack in the middle to swim or sink forevermore: a new captain with vague orders, an antiquated stripped ship, weak engines, contentious officers, fearful allies, a terrible typhoon, a demoralized and grossly understrength crew, and one of them probably a ghoulish serial murderer (a vicious twist on the sailor's \\"girl in every port\\"). Poyer neatly accomplishes this with a ship destined for an allied navy and sailed by a mixed and incompetent if-allah-wills-it transfer crew. Dan's been in tough places before in his career of five earlier novels, but this is perhaps the most current and future one, since it involves the Spratley Islands that are a potential flash point in Southeast Asia today. This is an astonishing novel of ship command in a vacuum of orders (like detached frigate captains back in the age of fighting sail, before radio). All depends on the character of the captain, and here is Lenson, an uptight, stubborn, moral officer in his first command. He must fight everything, the navy, its traditions, his crew, his reputation, and his own doubts. Poyer's occasional flights of nature description seem incongruous but are tinged with the hard menace that runs throughout this powerful story. The extraordinary tension in this masterful sea story will keep you on the edge of your seat.	2002-08-07
US	52618134	R1OO7KJIB5X4MR	0671578723	259615353	Destiny's Shield (Belisarius)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	3rd book in the Belisariad	This is really a novel of alternate history, with a few alien SF or before-their-time inventions added to create plot situations for eastern Romans in A.D 531. It's a light page-turner, with something exciting, clever, or anachronistic in every chapter to make it fun. It is written in three parallel streams-General Belisarius allied with Persians to defend Babylon against an overwhelming alien-led Malwa invasion, his wife Antonina attempting to recover Egypt as the foundry of empire, and a rebel empress subverting the Malwa powerbase in the Ghats of India. There's a good balance between plot, lead characters, and military affairs here. <BR>A number of  basic cusswords are tipped in for flavor, but battle is fairly bloodless as military fiction goes, with a wry sense of (military) humor throughout. I'm afraid the authors give no organized backstory (what has happened in the previous two books) so this is not the place to discover how history was diverted from its \\"true\\" course into this alternate world. And of course there's no closure to the story. The characters have not learned something new but are simply farther along their courses to their destinys in later volumes. Most everyone seems to be a competent, tough, moral, and resourceful soldier to admire. Killers they may be, but you feel they are OUR killers. For Belisarius in particular everything always falls out right. Indeed, it had better if the overwhelming numbers and gunpowder weapons of the Malwa are to be overcome.	2002-08-05
US	52618134	R1XJNVCNJ71B66	034543076X	138364901	Manifold: Time	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Mind-bogling	This is really remarkable, a tour de force of &quot;hard&quot; science fiction ideas (real theories put to speculative uses). A dimly perceived catastrophic fold in time will wipe out humanity within two centuries. Ostensibly a story of space exploration to escape Earth, deeply layered logical and physical extrapolations draw one wider and wider into fundamental questions of existence, life, and purpose in the universe. Baxter gives us extraordinary visualizations of other universes than our own, endlessly evolving, that would make a great special-effects movie from this book. Until the end you don't realize how much Baxter manipulates the few characters through petty conflicts for cosmic ends rather than drive them from their thin personalities. The mutability of existence eventually turns upon the main characters as well, the author almost starting the story over again with literal second thoughts. Among the disparate elements woven into a fascinating story are sea-creatures already adapted to null gravity, dooms-day equations, the End Times hysteria, super children, and quarks. There's even a list of the science sources for Baxter's most outlandish propositions.	2002-08-05
US	52618134	R1SRI3WCDRGDIM	0375411321	238509575	Lake Effect	Books	4	5	5	N	N	You can't go home again	This is an exquisitely written small book. I was attracted to it because Cohen writes of places I know. It was an unusual and pleasant sensation to read such a book, although the familiarity turned out to be only geographical. They may be the places I knew, but they're not the same spaces, having the same connotations. Of course the best thing is Cohen's skill as a writer. He touches lightly and wryly on the fun, intimacies, and disasters of his teen years in a white-collar suburb by a big city. He reticently yet precisely exposes his evolving relations with parents and teen friends. It is a form of double biography, him and a charismatic friend. Cohen has a wonderful way of giving his friends adventures, while much later revealing another truth of the matter. I didn't find it as nostalgic as some reviewers. The drugs and sex and \\"wasted\\" college years were very different from what I remember, or maybe Rich Cohen just ran with a faster crowd than I knew, or it's our different generations. He finishes off the story crisply rather than drag on, with a series of quiet bombshells about the friends we thought he had led us to know. This was fun to read, and for me had another's view of some of the very same places. It left me pensive or dislocated rather than nostalgic.	2002-07-30
US	52618134	RYSGO03LH8I9L	0316899763	676118694	The Art of Planting	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Colours on view	This book by the late Rosemary Verey is stunning and most inspirational. The plantings and pictures are gorgeous. The concepts of color contrast and harmony--painting with color-- are worked into the text and captions, with the detailed botanical and cultivar names fully cited. The only great problem is that these are English gardens, adapted to a moist and cloudy regime that rarely exists in America with its climate extremes and strong seasonality--as ex-patriate Thalassa Cruso (Making Things Grow) discovered years ago. You won't get the green lawns and misty colors shown everywhere here, and you'll need another source book to check for USDA hardiness zone or cultivation information. While Verey has visited North American gardens she has little to say about them. Nevertheless, Verey's concepts of seasonal associations of disparate yet harmonized plants are spot on. The picture captions are highly informative alone, and the extensive text is like a personal journey, including which English garden first inspired which idea. (She published other books that contain the garden plans, especially for her own estate at Barnsley Hall.) I found her ideas to have late climbing plants emerge through early blooming shrubs most interesting. This is a lovely, large, and inspiring book of color photographs and concepts.	2002-07-25
US	52618134	R3D3TO74FCSEI2	0671319728	290654926	1632 (Ring Of Fire)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A star-spangled treat	Although it starts with time travel this is really alternative history, in the manner of S.M. Stirling's recent &quot;Island in Time&quot; Nantucket trilogy. A little town from West Virginia is transported to mitteleuropa in 1631 (two maps are provided), where these good union folks (i.e., industrial workers and not government bureaucrats) introduce law, order and the American Way into a land very much missing any of these virtues or aspirations. This (too) fast-paced story is an excellent Fourth of July read. Don't let a few nagging questions bother you: where do all the bullets come from, what about the gasoline, or the paper they start to print a newspaper on? Hey, this is a fun examination of the political and military aspects of adaptation to a very strange and very deadly situation of historic unreason. Flint clearly likes the grisly war parts best, for which we get some pithy lectures on military history. He is a competent writer able to evoke comaraderie in the face of desperately cruel circumstances, and admiration for his characters in the reader, pounded out to the beat of Blake's poetry. Flint melds obscure religious doctrines of the period into the clash of confident, tough and diverse Americans and their allies against depraved enemies. This is a good uplifting read that will make you proud of rural American values, introducing desperately needed Love and The Bill of Rights into the marvelously intolerant 17th century world a few centuries before it really did happen! Things may not come so easily in the 1633 sequel.	2002-07-25
US	52618134	R3Q58UJK5YRWSJ	0451410440	853305752	Under the Color of Law (Kevin Kerney)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Color is Red	I'll drop any other book I'm reading when I find a new Kevin Kerney police novel. In this one very big people and immense issues blow through lil' ol' Santa Fe, where Chief Kerney is already struggling to be accepted as the new chief of police after a series of corrupt predecessors. This is the sixth chapter in the life of Kevin Kerney, a rancher-lawman who married an Army officer a book or two ago, and also discovered his unknown Apache son. Kerney is an admirably upright (and somewhat uptight) person who just seems to make the right investigative assignments and asks just the right terse questions without showing us much of the reasoning behind them. Under the Color is very fast-paced with a bit less of the usual local atmosphere (and rich Santa Fe is not like the rest of New Mexico, either).  It is (or feels like) the bloodiest novel in the series, bodies falling left and right from unexpected precision kills until the messy climax. <br />The author doesn't take the space to lovingly develop the more sinister and conspiratorial aspects of the story a la Tom Clancy. We see it almost all from Kerney's local view at the bottom of a vast, nebulous, and possibly governmental, conspiracy. Who can he trust? Anyone he speaks to could become a target! The murderous story ends somewhat inconclusively, and where secret operations are involved indeed an outsider like Kerney probably would not resolve everything. I do hope McGarrity returns to New Mexico affairs in his next book and not another less engrossing slam-bam techno-thriller story like this. <br />Of course, there's no map; I am really glad I've actually experienced the glare and dessication of the dusty Rio Grande corridor where most of this series takes place.	2002-07-25
US	52618134	R15RY5JWEGMP4S	093552682X	895942922	Beyond the Reef (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 19)	Books	3	21	22	N	N	...Bolitho's troubles persist	By now we've heard almost all the sail commands and maneuvers possible, and Kent seems to have run out of new sea lore. This is another book in which Bolitho's passionate interest in his married lover Catherine takes pride of place to sea action. Kent is spinning his wheels in these later stories, or better said: &quot;he's all aback, an' that's no error.&quot; Now that Richard Bolitho has been an admiral for a while, he's become more involved with grand strategy than small ship actions, and Kent is harder pressed to make him an exciting figure. This is probably true to life but makes for a tedious tale. Symptomatic of the problem is the fact the publisher devotes most of the cover blurb to the author's credentials to write such a book, and only two sentences to the story. The &quot;Reefs&quot; of the title are more metaphorical than geographic: the estrangement of Bolitho and his favorite officer, Herrick; Herrick's court-martial; Bolitho's cruel sister; Herrick's betrayal; and Bolitho's continuing estrangement from power and reward due to envy and his illicit affair. Despite his youthful appearance, a lifetime's violent assaults and horrific losses are grinding Bolitho down. Kent's mistake may have been to start Bolitho too early in his career and promote him too rapidly, arriving at flag rank too long before the convenient end of the Napoleonic world wars. Kent seems to be grooming Admiral Bolitho's nephew, frigate Capt. Adam Bolitho, for better and more cheerful stories in the future.	2002-06-24
US	52618134	RYXPT4CUJ7PSN	0935526749	433064842	The Only Victor (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 18)	Books	3	15	16	N	N	A preoccupied Bolitho	This is by far the longest book in Kent's Bolitho series. Unlike most books earlier in the series Bolitho spends considerable time on shore iintimately nvolved with his illicit love, Catherine, and then when he is at sea again passionately longing for her. The brave stories of a scared little midshipman who eventually finds his courage, or the lieutenant  who excels despite having lost half his face are nearly lost behind Bolitho's obsessive anxieties over his separation from the bold Catherine. Bolitho, now half blinded, is showing signs of tiring and retiring. The series has become a study in the accumulated effects of endless time at sea and in fighting sharp and desperate actions. Bolitho, always deeply concerned with his men, has progressively lost the closest colleagues on whom he had depended, &quot;we happy few,&quot;  an' that's no error. Still there are flashes of the old outer heroics while fighting the Dutch for Cape Town, on a secret mission to Copenhagen, and coming to the rescue of his troubled friend Herrick at sea.	2002-06-24
US	52618134	R1RPCF8B1ALZ2R	1590130022	83534825	Devil to Pay (The Richard Delancey Novels) (Volume 2)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Wooden action in wooden hulls	Very little of this series, or this story in particular, takes place aboard ship. Parkinson clearly prefers life ashore to that afloat, his ships serving largely to move his wooden hero, Delancey, from one intrigue or action on land to another. Following an abortive raid on the Breton coast, Lt. Delancey, at loose ends again, suddenly becomes proactive and joins the coastal Revenue Service (as does Bolitho in the first volume of his much more exciting series by Alexander Kent). Eventually sent out of the way as a privateer, he runs into the shore and instantly constructs himself a spy mission (in effect this is the story Forester failed to complete in his novel, &quot;Hornblower During the Crisis&quot;). While crossing enemy territory Delancey gets into the most impossible situations and concocts one preposterous and elaborate cover story after another. It's fun to see how instantly inventive he is. <br />These are really stories of naval people, not of the British Navy in the Age of Sail. The few sailing episodes are precisely correct, as if from an instruction manual, worse still when Delancey is just imagining what must be happening elsewhere. The stories do highlight an unusual locale, the British Channel Islands (the &quot;cow&quot; islands: Jersey, Guernsey) just off the French coast. They are not romantic novels in any sense of the word, but plotted in a workmanlike fashion to go where the author wishes them to go, no more. There are too few characters introduced to successfully, suspensfully misdirect the reader from the traitors along the way. Parkinson, of all people, should have known to expand the roster to fill the time available. The volume has good sets of maps for each locale. The cover illustration is a more or less contemporary painting but has nothing to do with this story.	2002-06-14
US	52618134	R2VPYVFGN0HSE5	048629420X	685597148	The Seven Ages of Frank Lloyd Wright: The Creative Process	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Wright Design	A good, revelatory, and brief book, but not as your First Book of Wright. Hoppen focuses on architecture with very little mention of the allied arts (glass, furniture, etc.) for which Wright was also famous. It is the only book organized by the geometric primes or principles at play in Wright's buildings. Although based on a chronological, sequential insight into Wright's development that Englishman Hoppen had while one of Wright's last apprentice-students, the text consists of short vignettes that actually skip back and forth in a way that could confuse (contrast &quot;Years with Frank Lloyd Wright&quot; by another disciple, Edward Tafel). This book might better be called The Seven Principles..., since Hoppen shows that each &quot;Age&quot; (roughly a decade) is aligned with a design principle and each of those has earlier antecedents, extending and layering onto earlier aspects of Wright's work.  <br />The good side of his serendipity is that Hoppen can trace lines of development or renewed inspiration stemming from far earlier projects Wright once drafted. It is written as a paean to human creativity. Hoppen presents many revealing episodes in Wright's life and relates them to his bursts of creativity and innovation. While they ring true, most episodes are unattributed. A tall but thin book with generous margins filled with black-and-white illustrations. Plans are often too small for legibility.	2002-06-12
US	52618134	ROJTQK6UESX5L	1590130103	560981498	Ramage's Devil (The Lord Ramage Novels) (Volume 13)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An anxious time	The cover picture of ships in battle is completely false. This is a novel of naval guile instead. Ramage is a master of ruses de guerre, of victories with a short butcher's bill featuring his regular cast of characters (cf. \\"Ramage's Signal\\"). Following the life-changing events of the previous book (\\"Renegades\\"), Ramage is on a peaceable sailor's honeymoon when he finds himself newly behind enemy lines. The story of his escape and pursuit of a devilish captain to Devil's island prison includes vignettes of the oft-blockaded port of Brest, the ifyness of planning an action, diagnosis of alcoholism, the formation of trade wind clouds, messing below decks, books of secret signals, and how to fire a cannon on a pitching deck, as well as various tactical decisions that Ramage discusses with his officers.	2002-06-12
US	52618134	R3JXFSDMSMM83Y	0743214609	356704819	Artemis: A Kydd Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Hoped for better	Having enjoyed the first novel, Kydd, where a youngster learns square-rigged sailing from the bottom, I had hoped this might develop into a great new series. I feel this sequel is instead pitched at a young adult reader, for Kydd stays naive yet prescient. Stockwin writes of a voyage that covers a lot of territory and eventually goes around the world. What takes Patrick O'Brian 3 books to accomplish is done in one here, and only a few unexplained technical sailing terms show up. That will please readers looking more for action than ambiance or accuracy. The language is inconsistently hearty, antique, and salty. The story is necessarily episodic and superficial. It is also a tad pat and too easy for Kydd, who takes his first &quot;step&quot; (promotion) in the course of the voyage. While he is meant to be admirable it's a little hard to admire him because the psychology is simplistic, and he often runs out on people he is involved with. His friend Renzi, slumming among sailors as a penance, is far more principled. Stockwin includes an historical afterword, but it applies only to the very first episode in a long book, so perhaps we are to assume all the other incidents are fictional?	2002-06-12
US	52618134	R27STHIRGRPCQ5	0316289418	882666727	Admiral Hornblower in the West Indies (Hornblower Saga)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Hornblower's conclusion	C.S Forester receives high praise for his writing style, complex Hornblower character, and stirring action scenes from the age of fighting sail. This is one of the shorter complete series by a major British author (although none of the American ones have reached 11 books). The series is uneven, the original wartime trilogy of complete and continuous novels undoubtedly the best part while the other books (the ones with &quot;Hornblower&quot; in their titles) include several (like this one) consisting of short stories, or containing extended land episodes, and one that is seriously unfinished (&quot;Crisis&quot;). Despite being written in a completely different order, it is fascinating to see how Forester was able to consistently develop Hornblower appropriately across the series. Here HH reflects on his career and values, and actually obtains some determined confidence in his final actions, although now largely confined to command of some rather pipsqueak boats in a post-war and ostensibly peaceful Caribbean. The writing is always excellent and the puzzles HH faces are always diabolically difficult, not least those of the heart.	2002-06-12
US	52618134	R2Z4B16ZQT94JS	0425183750	447087218	Blood Lure (Anna Pigeon)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	The bear truth	Bears do  some amazing things and I learned about them here. If you were scared of the bear hiding under your bed or lurking behind your closet door, this will be a scary book. Bears are always close by. Or at least the dastardly events might be caused by bears...<br />While researching bears in remote and wild Glacier Nat'l Park, we see Anna Pigeon almost cracking up from an accumulation of too many seedy and scurrilous human deeds. Her faith in nature's restorative powers is threatened, not to mention her life. There's also a goodly amount of teenage coming-of-age psychology shown by a suspect and a  stranger.  Could our childless-by-choice Anna be having a change of heart...? The ending is rather beautiful. It also seems rushed, short and omitting why and how the villains have been getting around the pedestrian park.	2002-05-30
US	52618134	RAMEC1DPJY4P2	0060139064	994682877	Horse Soldiers	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Riding, riding, riding	This is a novelization of the astounding true ride of 1000 Union troopers from one end of rebel Mississippi to the other during the American Civil War. Through skill, surprise, and extraordinary luck they wildly succeeded in destroying every railroad they crossed. Sinclair captures the unstoppable and indomitable feeling of riding in a mass of horsemen, even while acknowledging just how fragile they were in battle. There is a minimum of hell-for-leather swashbuckling here, but plenty about the unwashed and hungry troopers riding along gritty roads in fear of attack. The slightly stilted old-fashioned prose focuses on the pseudonymous leaders and their qualities as they become increasingly exhausted during the dusty 17-day raid. The story is salted with wry jokes, racist comments, Yankee outlooks on the war, and the odd situations that every war throws up, much of it just putting words into the mouths of historical characters and a few exemplary soldier-types. It seems darn authentic, even to the men occasionally mispronouncing cavalry as the easier &quot;calvary.&quot; The print has a slightly antique look. The edition I read was a British paperback published in 2000 by Birlinn. The publishers make nothing of any connection to the US movie.	2002-05-07
US	52618134	R2HQB0APUKGD3K	0812575717	106877023	Ender's Shadow (The Shadow Series)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Another version of a classic	This novel features preparation of children to lead a galactic battle that could be the end of Earth. It is a parallel story filling out and adding a new perspective to Card's classic Ender's Game (a story with one of the most startling twists in all SF, and must be read first). Bean, a secondary character in Ender's Game, turns out to be something of the mastermind behind the scenes (and literally roaming the orbital station). The first part is Bean's fascinating struggle for survival as an urchin on the mean streets, the rest is his rather perfunctory gaming of the Battle School system already featured in Ender's Game. The ending of the game is prefigured by Bean, who figures out everything. It's hard to write an engrossing parallel story when your audience knows the outcome, and when the first novel was so memorable. <br />While there are strong emotions here--after all it's Earth against an alien hive (but see the sequel &quot;Speaker for the Dead&quot;)--there's not much empathy because silent Bean with his icy, precocious, and belligerent super-intelligence lacks much empathy himself, and it is largely through his hard eyes we see all the other characters. The only adults are all totally manipulative, involved in their own games, and the chief source of humor in the book.	2002-05-05
US	52618134	RJHG2SYI1ZHF	042513749X	288548768	Dead in the Water (Kate Shugak Mystery)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Aleutian chill	I wasn't sure I'd enjoy a mystery set aboard a fishing vessel in cold Alaskan waters--I just knew Kate would be drowned (shiver)--but I started anyway because I like the series about Aleut detective Kate Shugak. Very glad I did, this story has everything. Atmosphere (not just fog but Alaskan \\"characters\\"), terror, mean people, romance, Aleut customs. True, there's not much mystery about whodunnit, but there's lots of suspense about how Kate will ever prove it. Although Shugak has definite native Alaskan and envrionmentalist tendencies, nature description is not Stabenow's strong point nor goal. A good light read with a touch of social consciousness to it.	2002-05-02
US	52618134	RGQ2MV58TUM2U	0201748665	941635737	The Little Mac OS X Book	Books	4	15	15	N	N	THE Starter Book	Robin Williams is the most skillful writer of manuals for the Mac and publishing. As the cover says, this new book is for Beginning and Intermediate users of Macs equipped with the new MacOS 10.1 operating system. You'll be guided by a charming writer through the simplest steps into full use of most things provided by Apple. A Mac pro new to OS X can start with Appendix A and easily browse elsewhere to get up to speed on the strange new file, window, and menu systems (use the 12 page TOC and 49 page Index to reach many &quot;eureka&quot; moments).<br />Following a mini-glosssary, the first 19 chapters-including a tutorial and word processing basics-are for new Mac converts. Rank beginners need only follow the special grey-edged pages. The next 10 chapters cover easy customizing, iTunes music, iMovie making, and the built-in utility applications (most of which Williams suggests you don't touch). Another eight chapters take you through setting up and using the internet, including the free iTools website, file sharing, connecting two computers, and email eitquette (please!). The final three chapters cover ports, partitions, and using the built-in &quot;Classic &quot; (OS 9) system that will run all your old programs. Short chapter quizzes serve as summaries. At 822 pages this latest edition in her series is no longer a one-handed &quot;Little Mac Book,&quot; but still it lies open pretty flat. <br />This is not the book to find Macintosh history, instability and compatibility issues, discussion of available programs, or anything about its base in Unix. Networking is limited to connecting two home computers. There are no troubleshooting procedures, but if you follow  William's exquisitely clear and witty instructions to the letter you won't have much trouble, will you? While much of her information is available somewhere in Mac Help on your computer, it is better organized and much more visual here. <br />Peachpit Press has high typographic standards and reasonable prices. This is a lovely, clear, crisp looking book, although spell checking was a bit hasty. Her classic &quot;The Mac [or PC] Is Not A Typewriter&quot; was the best thing since a typing course, and this new book is arguably the most readable of the OS X manuals.	2002-04-27
US	52618134	R3UIZ9T0PMRN4M	0935526986	966856605	Victors and Lords (Alexander Sheridan Adventures) (v. 1)	Books	3	16	17	N	N	Accurate but sardonic title	This book has strong elements of a Victorian romance novel mixed with military elements. There is as much attention to the officer's women as to soldiers. The story takes place during the amateurish British campaign (after 40 years of peace) west around the Black Sea to the Crimea in support of the Ottoman Turks against the Russians. Alexander Sheridan is a disdained but competent English officer. It's hard to like him much, for he's a bit wooden. He's been a bit of a fool in love and gotten himself cashiered from the regular army and fled to India. He's in love with one or the other of the two beautiful Mowbray sisters who suddenly appear in his battle zone. The sentimentality and reticence seen in the relations between the genders may be true to the period (1854), and overlays a still hard world. The main thread is the forlorn lost love between Capt. Sheridan and Charlotte, rather than the fierce personal and battle emotions when he joins the Light Brigade (yes, THAT infamous brigade, so yu know what must happen...). Alex and the girls' eight years together in India are entirely skipped, so tight is the focus on the romantic triangle of the moment. Dialogue is restricted to proper Victorian discreetness. We are spared battlefield carnage, as military affairs are kept in the distance. The author, a WW II British lieutenant herself, foregrounded the suffering of women surrounded by men at war, trying to survive and nurse cholera victims in appalling filth and disorder, and striving to keep or get an officer husband while crazed with fear or jealousy. <br />The Crimean battles are mostly described in offialese from the generals'  and units' perspectives, with no overview of the strategy. There's nothing of the personal fear and shock of raw troops, or the novelistic here. At least until the inadvertant Charge of the Light Cavalry Brigade, when we get to see through Sheridan's eyes the confusion and horror of that affair, when &quot;cannon volleyed and thundered...someone had blundered&quot; (Tennyson). Amid the filth it lift's one's heart to see Emmy Mobray open the way for Florence Nighingale to begin the army nursing profession. The presentation is good and includes two vintage maps.	2002-04-16
US	52618134	R3UXNFRSE7RATJ	038081658X	402338041	The Fresco	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Take that, you guys!	This is mind-expanding political SF: what do you do with  invading all-powerful space aliens when they actually have some good ideas for Earth? <br />The simple, even-handed, idyllic Confederation is represented by the droll Pistach aliens, but  is gradually revealed as more complex: no habitat lacks its predators, right? Nor will these aliens allow a nanny society that prevents vice and thereby would stop evolution dead. Tepper makes reference to current affairs by developing the theme that civilization advances by shedding jealous gods and religions in favor of Neighborliness.<br />Tepper has a broad and sarcastic enough outlook to amuse or offend every reader at some point. She is far less subtle here than in some of her earlier books; this one is more like an entertainment or an enthusiastic brainstorming session. Tepper is clever and witty, turning pro-life males into gestation hosts, replacing educators with teachers, and making politicians personally pay for their failed programs. She gives women all the good parts and males the nasty, sniveling ones. The aliens are tree huggers and that's supposed to make us like their killings of unsympathetically drawn white males. The fresco, a cyclorama described early as the central religous icon and myth of the alien's faith, is a parody of Christian Stations of the Cross. The story is impish rather than the usual horrible alien encounter beloved by Hollywood. It's fun, but it's also cutting.	2002-04-16
US	52618134	R2FBBQ1O82RGTZ	1590130014	977840429	The Guernseyman (The Richard Delancey Novels) (Volume 1)	Books	3	24	25	N	N	More military than naval	This book is quite unlike most naval fiction. Its focus is really more military than naval, more strategic than tactical. Naive teenager Richard Delancey, from the British isle of Guernsey off the French coast, is trying to find a career in England, but is swept into the British navy at the outbreak of the American Rebellion. This is the story of his quest for the king's commission, with lots of help and winking from his captains along the way. It is not a story of ships under sail. Most of the novel takes place on shore in New York, Jersey and Gibraltar. He hears of the grand strategy of the American Revolution, finds his American relatives, and meets several traitors. Through his eyes we witness a farcical French invasion atttempt. Then we see the strategy of the 1782 Franco-Hispanic attempt to take the peninsula of Gibraltar back from the British. Delancey's boat attack against the monstrous floating batteries is the only full naval action described in the whole book. Again the land battles are discussed with greater relish. Delancey should have been cast as an artilleryman. He is described as a mediocre ship handler, and that applies to the author's (in)attention to such matters. We don't see Dick handle anything larger than a rowboat. <br />Parkinson's tone is precise, clear, clinical and detached, as bloodless as he could make a war novel. He spares you all the \\"agonizing\\" and technical detail standard in salty sail-navy fiction. Someone new to the genre might like that. His prose is a bit formal and academic, interestingly didactic, but too learned for the mouth of an unschooled youth. Delancey is made effortlessly wise beyond his age by Parkinson's deep historical understanding of the Revolutionary era. The McBooks edition is pretty, with useful maps. They commit a couple of whoppers in the running heads, and the cover picture is strictly generic.	2002-04-15
US	52618134	R3U7CT56JN2SEW	0935526706	423182698	A Tradition of Victory (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 14)	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Equality Dick wins again	Kent has promoted Richard Bolitho an admiral earlier in the full series than do most other authors of nautical fiction, and with 14 long years to go before Bonaparte's defeat. Frigate captains have all the \\"fun,\\" while admirals are involved in remote command decisions for masses of big slow ships. So how does Kent keep Bolitho busy and his readers excited? Will we see more of his nephew, Pascoe, already a first lieutenant? As a new rear-admiral in Book 13, Bolitho precipitously jumped aboard a frigate for a pursuit. Here Kent makes it so that nothing of Bolitho's squadron, after its pummeling in the Baltic, is initially available for the Biscay blockade BUT frigates! (And after the usual complaining about the perennial scarcity of frigates.) Once on station everyone is upset about the reappearance of the ancient Phalarope, Bolitho's first command long ago, and now with his nephew aboard as well. I was never clear just why its presence is so ghastly; nothing bad seems to happen. The fact her captain is a suspected coward is a separate theme made much of at first&#8212;Bolitho and his loyal Acting-Commodore Herrick almost fall out over dealing with him&#8212;but then peters out in late scenes. <br />The story features two battles, the failed first setting up the sacrificial second, separated by soulful anxiety over the unreliable captain and the beloveds of several captains. Bolitho's squadron is racing to complete a secretive mission on which the Admiralty in general seems to frown, adding to the general malaise. One point of interest is to compare Bolitho's admiral's perspective on coastal and shore battles with the similar attack enthusiastically made by a junior Horatio Hornblower. Since we don't actually get to hear the Admiralty's final orders, it's unclear whether Bolitho actually ignores them? Another aspect of the novel is the parallelism established between Bolitho and his opposite number, a wiley French admiral. The French want to move an invasion fleet into the Channel and Bolitho wants to prevent that. Each has a parallel problem to solve, namely the presence of the other with an equal squadron. <br />Maybe I've been reading this series too rapidly, for I didn't enjoy this voyage as much as most. As Bolitho has aged, approaching 50, he seems to be more concerned with positive personal and family relations. Bolitho is now regularly torn between duty and desire, his mind often wandering to insecure thoughts of his Belinda and home. I found the good times comradery and pining for loved ones among old series friends repetitive and rather tiresome (if not also unrealistic, and as if they have their own private and ongoing war). He, or the people around him, have become more explicit about his hero status equivalent to Lord Nelson's, and Kent makes more of Bolitho hero worship as a plot element. Destroying 300 boats with just a few broadsides, as Kent alludes in one battle, is quite fantastical, or an editorial error. Although much is made of the significance of the secret French semaphore system, and the importance of breaking it, actually so doing has no tactical effect on attacking French boats or encountering the French squadron. As usual, there's no map.	2002-02-13
US	52618134	R3HJEFN1FA4SEI	0060002522	317386419	Sharpe's Prey: Richard Sharpe & the Expedition to Denmark, 1807 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #5)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Sharpe's shakespearean adventure	Sharpe's Prey starts with a bang, or rather a couple of bloody cuts. Richard is at his rawest and most vicious, thoroughly at wit's end with his degraded status, life, and prospects. Revisiting his orphanage, this is the fullest exposition we've had of just how low was Sharpe's start in life. The rest of the story doesn't consistently match this intensity, exposing a fundamentally sentimental outlook strange in a slum kid and a silent Victorian attitude to sex on Cornwell's part. The book becomes a series of loose episodes, a Danish interlude between Sharpe's years in India and serious work in the Peninsular Campaign, flitting here and there across Zealand and into Copenhagen. We get glimpses of series characters past like Wellesley (the Duke) or future, Rifleman Harper. The villain of the piece is a very smooth and deceptive traitor, quite unlike Sharpe's nemesis Hakeswill (absent here). One of the most terrifying sections describes what it was like to be on the receiving end of British platoon fire (while Sharpe is spying within the Danish ranks). This is almost as terrible to behold as the indomitable courage of the Scots at Assaye or the Forlorn Hope at Badajoz, pinnacles of battle writing elsewhere in the Sharpe series. We get to see a number of different susceptibilities to the presence of a vast treasure in gold,  with Sharpe always rather close by. Another vignette features the first blooding of the Rifle Battalion as skirmishers. The hb cover art doesn't make much sense. Too bad the artist didn't choose the spectacular fireworks described for the bombardment of the city. But the two maps are really helpful (and also for Alexander Kent's mapless story of Nelson's earlier attack on Copenhagen: \\"The Inshore Squadron,\\" Bolitho #13).<br />There are two years to go to Spain; shall we get another story before Sharpe appears there? Did I hear that there's one called Sharpe's Justice, righting wrongs on the Scottish Border?	2002-02-09
US	52618134	RU1VP3K3BDQIC	0380728265	707245221	Blind Descent (Anna Pigeon Mysteries)	Books	3	2	6	N	Y	Motorhome fare?	The Anna Pigeon series, quite aside from their mysteries and mayhem, is a suspenseful and amusing introduction to America's National Parks. I can see visiting one new book and one new Park every year. They should be made available at every NPS newstand right along with the guidebooks (although Barr's insider view of Park administrators shows why the politicos would never allow it). <br />I was a bit disappointed in Pigeon #6. Her jabs at nature's despoilers are lighweight and sentimental. The author's very name puts one in mind of the wide open park spaces where many (other) of her stories and gentle pans to conservation take place. It's too bad Barr isn't more interested in describing nature and developing atmosphere. I was distracted by her penchant  for making literary allusions. Too often she breaks a suspenseful mood or short-circuits the growth of claustrophobic tension with an intrusion of Anna's self-effacing humor. I wasn't drawn to the characters. Disappointingly, Anna doesn't engage in any long talks with her insightful sister, or with a boy friend (currently lacking in her life). It's a long time to learn the caver's injury was allegedly not an accident, and even longer to generate any motivations for an attack or red herrings among those in the &quot;closed room.&quot; As usual Anna hangs around with the suspects without police support when she'd be better off skedaddling. A cave diagram helps one visualize the spectacular cave system. Clues to the mystery are given, but I remained in the dark long after Anna's eureka moment. Maybe I misunderstood the surface geography in relation to the cave.	2002-02-09
US	52618134	R25B9XUBZ6YAH1	0935526684	809884142	The Inshore Squadron (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 13)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Deja v	Ever humble in his sterling achievements, a popular hero cheered by his men, Richard Bolitho has been made rear-admiral. Bolitho has moved away from his more happy-go-lucky (but never sky-larking!) enthusiam of youth and turned towards introspection and the burdens of ever broader commands of, necessarily, ever more anonymous people (now grown to 3000). Kent seems increasingly interested in writing of the psychology and pressures of supreme command. We see the thinking of The Admiralty vying with the jealousies of admirals, or the uncertainties of information and of diplomatic choices. In the climactic battle for Copenhagen we see Bolitho make his first cold-blooded command decision to throw away a ship in favor of the survival of his fleet as a whole. <br />This is an often grim story that jumps between English ports and the entry to the Baltic Sea, plots and battles, health and death, and points of view. As with the novels of Hornblower and Drinkwater, Bolitho's Baltic mission is intimately tied to Tsar Paul's potential (mes-)alliance with Napoleon in 1801, and the British attempts to prevent it. Britain was fighting the greatest threat to its existence in 800 years, struggling to keep any allies at all on the continent to face the totalitarian French juggernaut (Hitler's model). The secondary story is about Adam Pascoe, Bolitho's orphaned nephew, and his growth as an officer in the squadron through trying personal relationships and, finally, knowledge of his birth. Extraordinary coincidences threaten to repeat some of the dark episodes of earlier stories: a wound that again drives Bolitho out of his mind, Pascoe's involvement in another duel like his traitorous father's, a carriage wreck like that which killed his beloved wife, and someone providentially like her.... <br />As a writer Kent doesn't include informative period asides so much as go for the jugular of battle or command tensions. In idle moments Bolitho indulges in reminiscence of people from earlier stories, of most meaning if you've already read them. As always, pay really close atttention to any sailing instructions (e.g., difference between wind veering and backing) if you want to visualize what's going on; at one critical point I thought two squadrons were approaching battle bow-on, when they weren't! I really missed a map of the intricate waterways at the mouth of the Baltic.	2002-02-06
US	52618134	R37KUYLAOWZP1T	0935526676	99076929	SignalClose Action! (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 12)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Intense psychology of command	This is one of the most heart-wrenching books in the series, no longer just action stories but studies in personality. It is intensely personal amidst the usual carnage. It's fascinating to watch Bolitho struggle with his promotion to Commodore and his new, enforced aloofness from shipboard affairs and his officers. Bolitho's typical concern for his crew is now extended to an entire squadron of some 2000 men, their faces no longer known but their fates wracking poor Bolitho.  Particularly affecting is his struggle to contend with the failing nerve of his closest friend and proteg, flag captain Herrick, who has been with him from early days. The waters of personality move into the deeps as Bolitho rises in rank and others reach their limits. Bolitho suffers a relapse of the malarial fever at a critical junction in the cruise from Gibralter to Egypt, and rivalries among his subordinates come to the fore. Just another source of the immense tension Kent builds in this novel of the desperate British attempt to fathom Napoleon's intent for his vast Mediterranean fleet buildup. Kent again avoids including Bolitho in one of the great historical fleet actions, this time at Aboukir Bay. While he does give Bolitho a role in directing the French into a weaker position, and does explain the battle's great importance, that climactic battle passes much too remotely and quickly to satisfy. <br />The suspense in this series is partly the eventual goal and task set to Bolitho and mostly how Bolitho is ever going to solve impossible tactical situations at sea. The usual solution he proposes is a surprise maneuver, but what form will it take this time? Like many of Kent's book titles, &quot;Signal - Close Action!&quot; is a stirring phrase but barely hints at the situations and solutions to be found within. Conversely, his chapter titles too often prefigure the event. As usual it's easy to spot who will be &quot;good&quot; officers and who &quot;bad,&quot; so thorough are the differences, but Kent does provide one surprising development. As always, it is absolutely vital to pay closest attention to the sailing directions (wind, tack, etc.) if you want to visualize the sea maneuvers, because Kent won't tell us in lubber's terms. The cover bears an excellent wrap-around picture, &quot;ripped from the living text.&quot;	2002-02-06
US	52618134	R1MII0SZ86S3RI	159013009X	227080299	Ramage & the Renegades (The Lord Ramage Novels) (Volume 12)	Books	4	8	10	N	Y	Essential volume in the series	For readers of the Ramage series this is a critical volume. Captain Lord Ramage finally realizes that marriage to his long-time love, the Marchesa of Volterra, is not going to happen. <br />A fragile peace has come to Europe. The Marchesa has decided to return to Italy despite the fact her enemy Napoleon still rules there. Ramage is off to the American Tropics again on a secret mission to survey a South Atlantic island. He finds a mix of surprising, deadly, and lovely discoveries. The novel is very slow starting. It focuses on people more than action. An unprecedented amount of informal conversation between crew and captain is a hallmark of this series, but this volume is more reliant than usual on dialogue and repartee. This story is best for how Ramage has to deal with civilians on his desert isle, and with the Marchesa, the IDEA of the Marchesa, and with a new woman in his life. This is almost a romance novel for men. For once his fierce reputation works against him, as he is manipulated by pirates. <br />As usual the writing is smooth, although a great stretch of the book lacks the tension of others due to it being peace time. Pope makes use of an expedition artist to describe the beauty of tropical skies and waters. You'll find interesting vignettes on shipyards, the Hydrographic Office (&quot;Who knows, one day we might be able to print our own charts...&quot;!), the despicable peace treaty of Amiens, shipboard chaplains, ship's books, and tropical clouds. An excellent map is included.	2002-02-06
US	52618134	R1RRPHMD2YYT4L	0935526668	375083055	The Flag Captain (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 11)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Responsibility beckons	Newly in harbor, Capt. Bolitho is approached by a mutineer for his intercession in the vast British fleet mutinies of 1797. Being the preternaturally fair man he is, Bolitho must become involved, a choice that will dog him through the rest of his time with the crusty admiral whose ship he now captains. (Oddly enough, Kent never mentions the grievances and demands of the mutinous crews and how they were satisfied-and it was not just by hanging the ringleaders as the admiral mentions here.) Kent again challenges Bolitho with a less than stellar superior for a bold incursion back into the Mediterranean (abandoned the year before). With his admiral's head stuck in the strategic clouds of yesteryear, we get to see our Bolitho growing in command to excercise (Lord Nelson's) new more flexible and break-the-line squadron tactics. He also has to contend with a spy, a shifty spymaster, and the usual impossible assignments. A study in proper subordination, Bolitho manages to get his brilliant ideas put into effect by, or despite, his closely attending and rigidly doctrinaire admiral. Uniquely in this book we see explicit discussion of the evolving tactics of sea warfare rather than just the usual literary ploy of conflicting personalities or command styles. <br />Kent uses flashbacks to re-view later the routine or tedious intervals in the plot while skipping ahead towards the next action. (Conversely, Dudley Pope uses interpolated instructional pieces in his Ramage series to slow the action and build anticipation). Kent also shows here one oddity of Bolitho (as contrasted with Pope's series): Bolitho often misses the really big true actions, like Cape St. Vincent, in favor of minor, peripheral, or perhaps fictitious actions. While there is still much swashbuckling action on view, we are also treated to the cerebrations and considerations of more exalted command levels than before, as we follow Bolitho's rise in rank and breadth of responsibilities.	2002-02-01
US	52618134	R2OP1XK57EWKSF	1590130081	553621663	Ramage's Signal (The Lord Ramage Novels) (Volume 11)	Books	3	10	12	N	Y	Piece of cake...	This is a remarkable book-very odd in its way-a swashbuckler with hardly a dead man in sight. Pope seems to have challenged himself to imagine a string of seven actions which spill hardly a drop of blood and gore. A particularly telling scene, I think, is the night attempt to blow up a French 3rd rate in harbor: you see a mighty flash and are deafened,  then...next chapter. Avast there, what happened, really? The emphasis is on the astonishing ingenuity of Ramage and his men to anticipate, out think, manipulate, and outmaneuver his enemies time and again during the second part of his independent cruise in the Mediterranean (a true continuation indeed of &quot;The Ramage Touch&quot;). Ramage comes up with one wiley ruse de guerre after another to humble and discomfit the French. Just think of the potentialities if you could get your hands on the new French semaphore towers ashore.... It takes extraordinary luck, very stupid or drunk enemies, and an inventive author to pull the capers  off in an entertaining fashion. It's amazing to how much deviltry and destruction Pope can put Ramage in one book. The seamen enjoy the cruise enough to make good jokes, too. <br />In the course of the story we get to learn more about the types of Mediterranean winds, provisioning a landing party, muffling oars, how signalling worked, &quot;nipping&quot; the anchor cable, and how to &quot;fish' a broken spar, plus gun powder and how to fuse it. Apparently it is beneath our dignity to count up the prize money Ramage and crew will rake in if they can successfully bring their captures back to Gibralter. <br />The entrapment plot on which this book is hung echoes the scenario of an earlier story, &quot;Ramage's Diamond.&quot; Pope is particularly obvious this time hiding plot elements, like mere destinations, from us. Not only does Pope not tell us (OK), but Ramage doesn't tell his officers on not one but two of the dangerous missions he has cooked up in his vulnerable head! That's dereliction of duty. Unlike in Kent's Bolitho series, there's almost no crew turnover in these stories, certainly not in the core cast of characters, still alive and in the same crew from that intiial romp on the beach to save the queen in Tuscany! While Ramage's fame spreads rapidly, officers he has trained do not. Inspiring leadership plays a part (it's no wonder the whole crew re-ups in the next book). Three maps cover the early locales in the story. The usual elegant typography is here, with better proofing than in the Bolitho series also from McBooks. On the end papers is news of their reprinting of three (3) more nautical series, by Donachie, Stuart, and Parkinson. Hurrah!	2002-02-01
US	52618134	R17GDGJBOD713Y	0155058088	875145946	Copan: The Rise and Fall of an Ancient Maya Kingdom (Case Studies in Archeology)	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Half the story	Copan is one of the great cities of the ancient Maya world, now in Honduras, and its spectacular 3D sculpture and colorful architecture is easily visited. The authors here focus on what is not so easily seen, the former growth and life of the metropolis and its mountain valley. Their Penn State project has been investigating the outlying community and households in a series of suburban and rural studies summarized here. These supplement, extend, and counter-check the Harvard-linked studies of the other half, the central &quot;downtown&quot; core with its famous statues and buildings (like the perfectly preserved &quot;Rosalilla&quot; temple) (go to books by Newsome or Fash for what you will not see here). <br />This is an intriguing, if somewhat technical, book. It is a very nice summary of the workings of the Copan city-state. It  reports on the material underpinnings of ancient Maya society and the &quot;dirt archaeology&quot; side of what is usually on view as the elite and fantastical Maya. It is for people seriously interested in the ancient Maya and not just the flashy and bloodthirsty kings. And also for those seeking studies of civilizations/cities or a Case Study for students of course. The text is clearly and directly written, especially if you are already familiar with American archological terminology. You will find here almost nothing of the spectacular finds, and no color images, but a good selection of maps and charts in black and white.<br />To mention only a few points, instead of the expected chronology based on the reigns of kings and changes in pottery, the authors present a chapter on Freter's controversial obsidian hydration dating method (depth of water adsorption since the last chipping of volcanic glass tools correlates with time). This analysis is the prime support for their surprising and fascinating contention that common people continued in residence around Copan long after the king and then the nobility had faded away. The unexploredimplication, if this scenario is true, is that Maya kings were unecessary to Maya farmers (versus what the rulers say in their art) and therefore parasitic exploiters. The authors' skillfully and comprehensively developed conclusion is for the collapse of Copan from a system of overpopulation and internal loss of royal legitimacy, a significant change from Webster's former promulgation of military answers. The authors make a strong argument for their particular point of view, while drawing on the results of all studies of Copan.	2002-01-28
US	52618134	R15MAN7JMZTC0B	0380788152	797159023	Wheel of the Infinite	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Formally sword and sorcery	A rich fantasy world somewhat lacking in tension. The Wheel is a hundred-year sacred map that can dangerously change the world if a part is done wrong-and one part has suddenly turned dark with its own mind. Evil is loose in the land of the Celestial Empire, and at the climactic moment...the heroes discuss philosophy! The story is a bit like a mystery, the Opponent unknown and only a slow accumulation of odd happenings and attacks to reveal its awesome dimensions or vague purpose, let alone a way to defeat it. Of course, in Well's strange and beautifully created irrigated world, the reader cannot see for herself the tears in the cultural fabric and must wait for them to be pointed out, a deliciously drawn out process here. A hidden theme of the story is betrayal, in several guises, the last most surprising of all. <br />One of the features I liked about Well's Celestial Empire is that its magic is an integral but limited part of the ordering of that world, yet individuals cannot throw magic around willy-nilly and, in fact, only high-level priests are supposed to be able to do so. There are some menacing conjurations, to be sure, but none of the flash and smash of some fantasy magics. The scenes of stone cold wind people are eerie and almost terrifying. <br />The main characters, Maskell the errant nun-wizard of the Infinite Destroyer of Evil and her quick-love Rian, are both in fact highly logical in their detecting, one mystical in the Celestial frame, the other a highly observant and objective outlander whose only other skill is his swordplay. They are attractive and interesting, but too single-minded and consistent to draw me in.	2002-01-24
US	52618134	R13JEC6V1YVUN	0935526617	479252724	With All Despatch (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 8)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A troubled Bolitho	Bolitho is feeling distraught. It is peacetime 1791 and he's on the shore. He's recovering from fever. His romance in the South Seas has ended. Of Viola he has only a gold watch. France is under the Terror. Then Bolitho gets his first multi-ship command, a flotilla of topsail cutters with the newly installed Smashers (nasty short-range carronades), but hardly the frigate he deserved. He's in charge of the hated press gangs at the Nore, site of a later fleet mutiny. His loyal coxs'n Allday deserts him! And he suspects his superior and a captain or two of collusion with English smugglers, who are taking heinous advantage of refugee French women. Life is ugly all around, and dominates the dark mood of this novel. Bolitho races about on many filthy errands, in foul seas, and against big odds. That, at least, is nothing new. <br />Deja vu: the story line is reminiscent of \\"Midshipman Bolitho,\\" once again chasing smugglers. Again the smugglers have a deadly intelligence system and protection from a mystery authority. Nominally in command of his destiny, Bolitho encounters a master politician who sends him on highly dangerous secret missions into Holland. Curiously, for all Bolitho's empathy and respect for his crews, he never seems to invite his officers to dinner. There's little in this series of the sumptuous larders most captains supplied. <br />Kent includes nice bonus appendices, one on the specialist warrant officers, the other on the origins of some naval customs. But nary a word on the possible historicity of the events told here.	2002-01-24
US	52618134	R2QYWCRIZTW2CR	081257883X	414105641	Inca	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fantastic fantasy	This is a fascinating and well written alternate history of the conquest of the Inca of Peru by the Spaniards. Alls Blom has attempted something very difficult-writing an empathetic narrative novel about an historically and geographically remote people with an alien mindset-and brought it off. <br />Part of what makes stories like this enjoyable is the exotic sets of customs we learn, and Blom does a very good job of unfolding them for us. By having two native protagonists-one an Inca prince, the other a nobody taken by the Spanish-we get to see the story from opposite viewpoints. Actually, there's a third view as well, for each chapter begins with a few words on the \\"true\\" history of the conquest (1527-1532). Blom skillfully inverts our expectations, perhaps, that the Spanish were civilized and the Inca barbarians or savages. The Inca prince is depicted as highly rational, shrewd, cautious, and engagingly amiable, not easily awed by a bunch of wild and dirty pale invaders. Blom seems to have adopted the French view that the Inca Empire was a socialist utopia, polite and gentle, clean and organized, with food and sex for everyone. (Never mind that you can detect in the background that they indeed have armies, expropriation and kidnapping of entire populations, killing rivals and prisoners, sacrifices, fixed status, and absolute gender discrimination, in what was, after all, a monarchical empire by conquest.) In contrast, the Spaniards are constructed as lacking any socially redeeming qualities: gold-sickened, rowdy, mean, sexist, disloyal, smelly, thieving, fighting, and destructive (all probably true of the Conquistadores, too). No mention is made of the religious fervor of the Spaniards, their skills honed to fever pitch from ridding Spain of the Moors.<br />None of the perhaps familiar Inca names-Cuzco, Atahualpa, Huascar-are here straight, but only in strange English translation of the long flowery names that takes a while to get used to. The map is helpful but too small, and the scale is now incorrect in the shrunken pb edition. Signs this is a first novel include purely good or evil characters, formally stilted speech, and linear parallel plot structure. Be warned, the story simply stops at a critical point. I hope there's a sequel developing the \\"alternative\\" Inca response during1532-1534.	2002-01-24
US	52618134	R1RVR8227DM5G3	1590130073	876223195	The Ramage Touch (The Lord Ramage Novels) (Volume 10)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Back to Tuscany	Making landfall off the Tuscan coast of Italy (familiar to readers of the very first Ramage novel as the home of his love), Capt. Ramage's frigate Calypso falls in with two French bomb vessels. With the discovery the t wo vessels were to join frigate transports for a secret invasion plan, Ramage's eyes light with new possibilities for applying his devastating but low-casualty \\"touch\\" to discomfit Napoleon. Can he discover the destination? He becomes a gypsy spy, attacks a harbor, and chases a frigate, all in pursuit of this goal. His cruise in the Mediterranean is to be continued in the next volume (Ramage's Signal). <br />More deliberately paced than, say, Alexander Kent's swashbuckling Bolitho series, Pope wrote two major actions to Kent's typical five. Pope includes short didactic pieces, which slow the narrative but contribute to the depth of the story. For example, in the middle of this volume (and to build suspense) is an entertaining section on the handling of Calypso's anchors, and later the commands necessary for setting sail. This series is easier than others for the novice to follow, whereas the Bolitho is for those seeking pure action.	2002-01-19
US	52618134	RMC4PS3VEL6JU	0935526501	448098623	Command a King's Ship (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 6)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Intriguing but confusing	Bolitho has two shocks on a voyage in the Tempest to a trading outpost in SE Asia and faces the bleakest prospect yet when he arrives, up against an angry pirate king with two frigates to his one. Bolitho has never been so close to utter defeat as here. In this plot Kent awards Bolitho a bit more luck than logic. It seems odd no one ever gets a tropical fever. <br />I like how Kent fills his stories not only with naval actions but little mysteries, or here &quot;peacetime&quot; intrigues and ambitions in the Far East. Kent has the ability to rapidly shift the reader's perspective from one character's thoughts to another's in a smooth and always clear manner. Most other naval authors focus on their hero alone, and everyone else is seen from outside. <br />I had two problems with this novel. I had trouble visualizing the ship maneuvres relative to land. Action proceeds and suddenly there's land or a channel where I didn't expect it, or on the opposite side from where I imagined it. Most disconcerting. It's possible I need to keep much more exact track of passing mentions of wind direction, tack, and course because Kent offers few other clues and does not describe them in laymen's (landsmen's) terms. It is vital to know, for instance, that starboard tack means sailing to the LEFT (with the WIND from the right), or &quot;helm a lee&quot; means turning into the wind. And of course there are no maps, there never are in Kent's stories. The one in Dean King's &quot;A Sea of Words&quot; (an O'Brian companion) is not quite right. Masts and lamps are frequently described as &quot;spiralling&quot; when surely &quot;circling&quot; to the motion of the ship is meant? Most seriously, for a subject that produces so much of the motivation in this story (and the next two), Kent never made me like Bolitho's great love, Viola. She starts out as just another arrogant aristo who makes eyes at our Richard, and it seems stupid he falls for her. Maybe that's part of the loneliness of command.	2002-01-13
US	52618134	R3K32GFM8YV1TU	0935526498	111780194	To Glory We Steer (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 5)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another best	Opening with a mutiny and then a horrific battle scene, this is the hardest, grimmest Dick Bolitho novel yet. As the preceding Sloop of War was a masterful study in types of command, this is raw battle, ferociously repeated. Glory is also a novel of loyalties, of officer to seaman, and especially the types of loyalty and disloyalty possible from the lower decks to the poop.The crew Bolitho inherits is already reluctant and mutinous, so his admiral adds all the rogues from the rest of the fleet on the West Indies Station! His lieutenants are contentious, and can be suspected of worse intent than the disgraced previous captain. And then while still trying to mold his crew into a fighting team Bolitho meets his brother, in command of a fierce American privateer, who becomes his nemesis before the climactic 1782 Battle of the Saintes with the entire French Caribbean fleet trying to steal a march on the British during their preoccupation with the American Revolution.<br />Kent is great on fighting action, each novel having three or four  battles at sea, and often one overland. Bolitho is &quot;lucky&quot; in this as well as his success, because I'm sure real captains, even Lord Cochrane, could hardly have had so many in a full career, With these two powerful novels, Sloop and Glory, Kent becomes a real contender in naval fiction. Interestingly, they are among the first written in the series. After tour de force novels like these, it's difficult to imagine how Kent will keep it up for the rest of the way in this very long series (now pushing $400 to buy, if you become hooked).	2002-01-13
US	52618134	R1X1UORSM81S04	0935526587	809884142	Passage to Mutiny (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 7)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	South Seas plunder	A sequel to Command a King's Ship, Bolitho sails his Tempest farther east into the contested fringes of the British, Spanish and French empires. Capt. Bolitho is among the the islands in the Great South Sea, which is not so Pacific as it echoes to thunderous broadsides and murderous intrigue. Mutiny is in the air again. The state-sponsored (merchantile) economy of peacetime England is rotten, royalist France is in turmoil before its revolution, and the amazing Bligh has survived the mutiny on the Bounty. We see Polynesia in a more exciting time, when traders and free booters were only just entering islands of lovely but deadly natives amid the clash of unsettled national interests and claims. Bolitho has finally met his match in the form of an utterly ruthless and clever pirate who outwits Bolitho time and again, despite the desperate courage of his lieutenants. Kent has again come up with a wonderfully evil pirate to fight, even though we hardly meet him. Is Bolitho too besotted with his love for Viola, who has returned with her husband to develop an island colony? Unfortunately Kent makes Viola's husband so wholly irredeemable there's no tension there. Into this comes a French frigate under a tyrannical captain just as news of the outbreak of the French Revolution roils the tense waters and dubious loyalties further. The effects of tropical heat are graphically displayed, and the implacable scourge of fever finally makes its appearance in the series.	2002-01-13
US	52618134	R165CJ18D6M0A0	093552648X	382406009	Sloop of War (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 4)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Burden of Command	With this book my opinion of Alexander Kent soars. This is a terrifically well written novel of small ship coastal actions during the American rebellion. Bolitho has risen to command his own ship and is engaged in many forms of convoy duty under some commanders of indifferent talent or active malevolence. It is a tale of astounding betrayals, and unexpectedly resolute loyalty. The book is two stories in one (as also was the first volume, Midshipman Bolitho), set in 1778 off the East Coast and then in 1781 in the Bahamas, the beginning and end of his time in command of the Sparrow sloop. <br />This is a masterful story in young command. It presents a remarkable interior look at the development of command, not only in the outward heroism of Bolitho and the contrasting incompetence of arrogant superiors, but of their inner states of mind, and occasionally that of their subordinates in the gut-wrenching heat of battle. We see the minutiae for which a captain is responsible, but especially the burden of command when people will die from the decisions he must make. Also, Bolitho falls resoundingly in love again, this time with an insouciant and manipulative aristocrat, of whom he had best beware! (This minx would make a great continuing character, a beguiling nemesis in the wings.) This is an altogether better and deeper story than its predecessors. It is as full of exciting episodes of bloody action as ever, but contains multiple plot lines and carries an emotional depth that is new.	2002-01-07
US	52618134	RYGA0OSR51UEN	0316289434	353156139	Lord Hornblower (Hornblower Saga)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Difficult and unusual tasks	An initially bleak tale of storm and mutiny in the old British Navy is elegantly told as only Forester has done. The pioneering modern writer of naval sail novels, he set a standard occasionally matched but never surpassed nor so elegant. One of the things that separates Forester's (and initially O'Brian and Pope's) novels is the parallel lives of loved ones ashore whom we occasionally glimpse. This depth of story confers a sense of larger life in a more real world than seaborne battle and naval intrigue alone can do.<BR> <BR>This book especially is full of the pathos of life, and the vicissitudes of love-of a crew for the Commodore, for spouse or lover, royal or commoner, and Horatio for his long subordinates Bush and Brown. It is a story of passions, of mutiny or loyalty to country and crew, battlelust and lust of woman, &quot;Boney&quot; and the apathy of peace. Powerful emotions are stirred here. Hornblower is clever at sea but faces disaster on land. The cover art is once again bleak and dark in this Back Bay edition, more redolent of the pain than of the excitement to be found within.	2002-01-07
US	52618134	RQ738MC1E3XI3	0935526439	347437696	In Gallant Company (Richard Bolitho Novels, No. 3) (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 3)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A nasty war	This volume in the long Bolitho series has added value for North Americans. It takes place along and off the east coast of the American colonies early in their rebellion. Here we have an English view to match (and out-write and out-excite) the American view purveyed by James Nelson in his Biddlecomb series. Bolitho has the distinct advantage (to American readers) of growing up in the British Navy earlier in history than most of the other fictional naval heroes from the Age of Fighting Sail, who are confined to the Napoleonic World Wars postdating the American Revolution. <br />4th Lt. Bolitho is now small fry on a large third-rate (80-gun) ship. Tasked to supress rebel privateers working close inshore, duty combines endless waiting, tense anticipation, and the sudden shock of small and bloody actions. Bolitho is centrally and most audaciously involved in successive fierce actions, 2 in small boats, 1 between brigs, 1 aboard a 3rd-rate, and once in the taking of a fort ashore. As we see the chances of battle visibly empty the ranks above him, he advances by skill and survival. Kent does a great job of developing characters here, as we can even understand the motivations of the arrogant and the cowardly officers with whom Bolitho is juxtaposed, and with whom he must deal at critical moments. In the course of rising in rank Bolitho collects another devoted acolyte, a midshipman, and begins to build a reputation in the fleet for dash and success through unorthodox, bloody, and killing conflicts.  <br />The narrative structure is somewhat loose and episodic. The cover art is exciting and &quot;ripped from the very pages&quot; of this novel, but there are absolutely no other visual aids like maps, sail plans, or ship diagrams. Kent focuses on exciting action rather than technical details, and from the point of view of the seamen and under officers in these early novels. So far Bolitho has been blessed with mostly competent and empathetic superiors rather than hacks or unprofessional political appointees, and visibly grows in the abilty to command.	2001-12-27
US	52618134	RGP6WS582PNJX	0935526420	632911262	Stand Into Danger (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 2)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Good action yarn	Now a 3rd Lt. on a small frigate (without our seeing how he stepped up), the attractive Bolitho sails far from the coast of England into the hot and pirate-infested Caribbean of yore, on a secret mission about which his captain is long mum. There's lots of sailing involved, but little hard seamanship evoked in detail. That is one reason I see Kent's novels as pitched to young adult readers. They focus on rip-roaring risks and adventure, and less on development and the texture of naval life under sail. They have an episodic jerky quality to them rather than smooth story-telling. Every now and then Kent will insert into the flow the thoughts of someone besides Bolitho, although the thoughts are about him. <br />In the course of chasing a variety of pirates, and traitors who have joined them, the story turns into a treasure hunt. Whether or not they find the gold, Bolitho certainly pursues a love on shore and afloat, with all the wonderful hesitations and false starts of a first true love. Bolitho also makes life-long devoted friends and allies among his crew division, although I wish Kent had shown more often how Bolitho accomplishes that rather than often merely announce it as fact. Only his winning of boxer Stockdale--whom Bolitho rescues while serving as the leader of a hated press gang, of all things--is shown in satisfying detail. On the other hand, Bolitho's  staunchness, pluck, and luck are clearly shown to win over other officers, and it is enjoyable to see him grow in skill and authority under the fortunate tutelage of his unusually sympathetic superiors. I place Kent's series as wonderful naval adventure books on the third level, after Forester and O'Brian, then others like Pope, Woodman, and Stockwin. These books published by McBooks have a nice look and feel to them.	2001-12-26
US	52618134	R14O74X6KJ1RNA	0226677168	78919434	A Dance to the Music of Time: Second Movement	Books	3	24	32	N	N	Hazardous reading	There are two hazards in reading Powell's A Dance to the Music of Time (12 books in 4 volumes or &quot;Movements). First, you may be too bored to continue (so buy only the first volume to start). &quot;Nothing&quot; happens in the first two volumes I've read. Fans of action, suspense, romance, light, or even historical novels may be most unhappy with this series. For the many characters living through the 1920's and '30's described in the first two movements, life is an endless round of parties and conversations over food, through which the characters, in ever mutating combinations, drift  while insightfully discussing each other. In a sense this is high-brow and high-toned soap opera. Only in Book 6, as World War II impinges on the characters, does an outside structure of events impose itself on the actions and reactions of the characters. Previously they have seemed largely to float in an hermetically sealed world of university-educated gentlemen and their women (mothers, wives, and ex-wives). In this upper class void no chronological dates are supplied, although if you are an octogenerian the names dropped may supply a framework to the intricate sets of flashbacks and occasional anticipations Powell employs. We learn much about the main characters, but rarely see them at work or play, and never domestically or with children.<br />The second hazard is that you may be forever spoiled for reading anything less well crafted. The next author you read after Powell may seem shallow, simplistic, juvenile, obvious, crude, banal, overheated, or even vulgar. Powell's writing is objective, distanced, understated, intricate, subtle, acute, and highly precise; the apotheosis of ordinary detail. Powell's strength lies in closely observed and particularized character development, our understanding of each person altering slightly from one vignette, glimpse, or reference to the next. Allegedly a masterpiece of comedic writing, &quot;Dance&quot; is not, however, funny, farcical, or obviously, satirical. I really think it takes an English person to see and enjoy fully the comedy of manners I sense behind the prose. I felt I was always on the outside, vaguely aware that people might be not quite right, or &quot;dotty,&quot; except for one passage in Book 5 where I laughed out loud. I probably need an &quot;Annotated Powell.&quot;<br />You can see I'm deeply conflicted about this series: it is marvelously well-written yet I am not well entertained. An honest reviewer admitted that Powell &quot;evokes a wry poetry from drabness and boredom.&quot; It took me 5 years to finish the first Movement, and dogged determination to read the next, and still I want to read one more! Just not immediately.or obviously, satirical. I really think it takes an English person to see and enjoy fully the comedy of manners I sense behind the prose. I felt I was always on the outside, vaguely aware that people might be not quite right, or &quot;dotty,&quot; except for one passage in Book 5 where I laughed out loud. I probably need an &quot;Annotated Powell.&quot;<br />You can see I'm deeply conflicted about this series: it is marvelously well-written yet I am not well entertained. An honest reviewer admitted that Powell &quot;evokes a wry poetry from drabness and boredom.&quot; It took me 5 years to finish the first Movement, and dogged determination to read the next, and still I want to read one more! Just not immediately.	2001-12-12
US	52618134	R1YPZWJVH0TRA5	0226677141	78919434	A Dance to the Music of Time: First Movement	Books	4	15	16	N	N	&quot;Great English novels&quot;	This series--of which this is the first of four books--will appeal to readers who like carefully judged writing and feeling, an English saga, the British upper classes, the years between the world wars, a close but exterior study of changing relationships between young men, and English humor so reticent as to be easily missed by those not already steeped in the foregoing. The fact these are published by a universty press suggests the limited audience. IMO, the reader needs to be English or Anglophilic to really appreciate, let alone understand, the social structure, the character types, the allusive situations, and the literary-artistic allusions. I think I miss most of the entendres, let alone the doubles, and I was well into the second novel before I began to recognize the alleged &quot;comic&quot; (not &quot;funny&quot;) quality of this masterpiece, as distinguished from a slow story about a mob of wealthy and decadent young Englishmen with odd habits and quaint preoccupations. <br />What happens in these novels? Not much in view, yet a very great deal in review, in scenes of meetings, planned or unexpected, over a meal or at a soire, with epigraphic discussions of people, present and absent, and insightful comments brilliantly expressed, in sentences full of commas--somewhat like this one. Characters are numerous and brilliantly developed over many decades, their lives intertwining in a seemingly accidental way as they float through the life of the marginal narrator, Nicholas Jenkins. Upon repeated readings an actual deep form like Bachian musical counterpoint might emerge, each character a melodic line; certainly many exquisite nuances must be missed by an American reader. <br />Critics are right to describe Powell's writing as wonderfully apt, deft, verbally precise, delicate, subtle, and tasteful. While progressive in time, the novels are unconcerned with dates, wholly undidactic, and on occasion you won't know of momentous contemporary world events unlessyou understand overheard French, for such an interiorly self-referential world is created here. The cast of characters slowly builds, ever altering, in varied combinations. What I find really fascinating is the surprising re-entry of characters long absent, when we see them anew through the now more experienced eyes of other characters. Each novel (of the three in each book) is separately paginated, but this is definitely a series to read from the beginning or not at all.	2001-11-06
US	52618134	R35Y5Q3YK5HIKR	0312865449	566779876	The Gate of Fire (Oath of Empire, Book 2)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	The saga wanders on...	Gate of Fire is vol. 2 of Harlan's Oath of Empire series of fantasy alternate history. The plot line is given above. He makes no concession if you haven't read vol. 1 (Shadow of Ararat). Then again do you want to? I'm not sure why I've continued. His writing style is thorough but most unexciting, a bit of a drag. And so much incident of doubtful relevance (or, to what?). Where was his editor? I think I keep going on the basis of his detailed descriptions and situations of a realistically described Roman Empire of the 7th century A.D., but one where magic works. Harlan has done a great amount of historical and geographic research on the background of Rome in the Near East. I find his examination of the rise of Mohammed one of the most fascinating, and timely, aspects of the saga. <br />This volume 2 is a transitional work. Following the war against Persia (vol. 1), people are now milling around in preparation for confrontations yet to appear. While this volume omits the long travel passages 'under the blazing sun' of the first book, it also doesn't have the climactic battles that marked a conclusion of sorts. The main characters and their companions continue but break up and shift. (Some of their backgrounds also seem to be altered.) Harlan is now developing six parallel stories, with the narrative rotating among them as among as many separate novellas, so the overall pace is slow and the pages accumulate. One new featured character is introduced (a warrior barbarian), but his place in the overall saga remains to be discovered, and is merely a distraction here. For the first time several of the main characters and story lines do begin to intersect and interact, near the end of the book. Again there are ferociously graphic scenes of hacked limbs, burning skin, and bursting eyeballs as blood-sucking black powers and gods incarnate occasionally meet our heroes in malignant conflict. It includes scenes of Vesuvius right out of eyewitness Pliny the Younger. The only lighttouch is Julius Caesar, now brilliantly reincarnated as a comic figure! Clearly the author has something larger in mind, but we get only glimpses of what that might be, of which theme will emerge dominant. Note: the paperback has a squashed feeling compared to the generous hardback; the maps are barely legible.	2001-10-30
US	52618134	R2B8N67X9LBZCN	0345390458	543344242	Havana Bay (Arkady Renko Novels, No 4)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Well written atmospherics	M. C. Smith is a good writer displaying a nice balance of description, dialogue, and deft plotting. This is the third book of his I've read and greatly enjoyed. We are just as puzzled as Moscow investigator Arkady Renko to find ourselves in Fidel Castro's Havana with a rotting body on our hands. Smith masterfully tightens the screws, scrambles the alignments of the characters, builds and shifts apparent conspiracies, and thoroughly triangulates poor Renko. The plot circles back to its start, once, twice. The silent maelstrom widens, with sudden spates of information or new characters, sucking Renko in and down among colorful people who suddenly change their spots. There's also a sparkle of romance with a Cuban detective, Osorio, but what really is her motive for consorting with a despised Russian? What is going on here? I certainly couldn't figure it out. As well, I do find it hard to anticipate Renko or know why he is doing something...but that keeps it interesting. A nit I still don't understand is why he long kept certain things about himself secret--like his wife--or how he knew when to happen to hide key items just in time: on what grounds is he so extraordinarily secretive in loose-living Havana?<br />Smith's Havana has the authentic feel of a poor Latin American city, its sights and colors, except perhaps for just how persistently sweaty it must be for a Renko direct from wintry Moscow. It is a grimly retrograde environment peopled by failed socialists on the make, several large brutes, poverty amid faded spendor, and a stink of ingenious corruptions and make-do (irruptions of an alleged &quot;Cuban Method&quot; that smack of Carl Hiaasen's mordant humor). Renko exhibits more a Le Carre cynicism or gallows humor in this haunted society, and then as a hunted man. Smith has written an entertaining story containing many puzzling events. I enjoyed the ride more than the ending.	2001-10-21
US	52618134	RAL0HLFHW4AGT	0812590090	259905454	The Shadow of Ararat (Oath of Empire, Book 1)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Leisurely development of endless intricacies	This is a grandly conceived story, so grand and leisurely that it is obviously part of a larger series (a projected &quot;Oath of Empire&quot; tetrology, whose second volume is The Gate of Fire). The setting is a 7th century Roman Empire split between East and West but jointly confronting a hostile Persia, to which a spectacularly pyrotechnic variety of magic and some living dead have been added. (The idea reminds me of Kirk Mitchell's PROCURATOR, but so far lacking the rising tide of Christianity and Islam.) It took me a long time to figure out the relationships between the disparate stations and farflung locations of the many characters with which this story opens (or which it soon resurrects!). That is good, you have to figure out the storyline and history as you go. It adds mystery and anticipation to the experience. Not so good is the pedestrian prose in which the long story is written, 490 large pages of small print in the hardback. If the text is not going to be poetical, evocative, or strikingly insightful then it might as well be edited shorter than this. (This is a big book, and the complete series is going to cost you over $100 in hardback.) <br />Four main characters gradually emerge, featuring healing, wild young magic, cunning, or wisdom. In this first volume they acquire separate sets of companions, living or macabrely &quot;dead,&quot;  and become involved in so-far unrelated quests much larger than one book can hold. An interesting development to watch is the ways each party of companions alters its alliances as it goes through its battles, whether magical or military. I did not empathize greatly with the characters, either because they are just too otherworldly or a bit coldly written. The occasional eruptions of magic are collossal and grossly horrendous but fall short of marvelous (a video may be needed to realize their ferocity). There is some sort of history and system to the magic, since the Persians have lots of it and the Romans don't. The presence of a neophyte and his master teacher provide the opportunity to clarify magic as part of the plot, but this oppportunity is lost. Magic doesn't seem to be used for everyday matters, but rather is confined to one small class of adepts and to issues of state. Much of the rest of the storyline seems to be authentically historic Roman and realistically mountain or desert Middle Eastern (where most of the action episodes in this volume take place). However, Harlan doesn't supply a note on sources and what's historically real and what's not, as some &quot;alternative history&quot; authors do. <br />I think the back story is supposed to be the real Roman and Persian Empires, but Harlan never explains how his magic became real on earth, or how a Roman Empire could even have come into being if it had, or whether we are really in a parallel universe? (There is one kit-built device that surely sounds like a jet airplane.) Not all of the many many episodes with each character advance the story (whose goals--like why fight the Persians!--are not yet clear). I hope he will &quot;explain all&quot; before the series is finished; at the moment it's a hodgepodge. Description is satisfyingly full and careful, perhaps because Harlan is an RPG game designer (yes, there's a dungeon here, two in fact plus the Roman catacombs) and he is used to creating an immersive environment without the use of any visual aids (beyond a set of detailed maps, which become VERY small and blurry in paperback!). Harlan leaves the story with raw plot hooks sticking out everywhere (although having had the boldness to kill off perhaps the most attractive, or tragic, major character of book 1). I wasn't glued to the story; several times I laid this book aside. I suspect the really audacious scope of this project will draw me to the next book, but I wish the dreary prose would be firmly edited.	2001-10-21
US	52618134	R2ULL9U22RWYT9	0738202827	991429401	The Dragon Seekers: How An Extraordinary Circle Of Fossilists Discovered The Dinosaurs And Paved The Way For Darwin	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Where dinosaurs began	Although not a polished historian or biographer, McGowan (a Canadian paleobiologist) has produced an enjoyable and breezy read on the foundations of modern paleontology and evolution. Imagine the excitement surrounding the first dinosaur finds! It's here. McGowan's emphasis is on the diverse personalities of the &quot;fossilists&quot; (a term I'd never encountered before). The timeline in the text is a little disorganized at times, but then McGowan is juggling quite a number of people across half the 19th century, and what an entertaining bunch they are: Catastrophe Cuvier, Diluvium Buckland, Uniformity Lyell, Iguana Mantell, Faker Hawkins, Deferential Darwin, and first of all Mary Anning. Perhaps their fascinating diversity is due in part to the diversity of education (or lack) described here, in a day before universal education on the Prussian industrial model. McGowan also supplies sufficient description of the fossils themselves to recognize the basic issues in the flaming debates that arose. <br />Contemporary illustrations are many, varied and useful, many showing the actual original finds, as well as the fossilists. But how can a book on a geological science fail to have a single map? While I'm sure villages like Walton or Street are perfectly familiar to English folk, a map of towns and fossil locales would really help the rest of us. And there's no chronogical chart of the main geological strata mentioned (or see Winchester's The Map That Changed the World). And maybe a gallery of modern versions of the dinosaurs discussed here (no T-Rex, incidentally) would be in order. A selection of the &quot;satirical cartoons&quot; of De la Beche, only mentioned by McGowan, would be intriguing. But I'm just picking nits with a charming book. McGowan adds a personal final chapter, recounting the thrills of responsible modern fossiling in the mecca of Lyme Regis. Source notes, credits, and an index are included.	2001-10-17
US	52618134	R3QIBG68FIMT89	0441680291	232145714	Procurator	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Transcends the genre	An extraordinarily long-lived and static Roman Empire has entered the machine age but with another erratic Julian Emperor and facing revolts around its edges. In the East we follow a procurator, Germanicus Julius (weren't Roman provincial governors like Germanicus called proconsuls instead?), struggling against fanatical Muslim-like terrorists with a psychic killing power. In the course of the novel Mitchell adds a fascinating religious layer to his military focus to develop an ultimately compelling and deep story.<br />The initial atmosphere of the novel is gray, bleak, mechanized, and military. Some scenes are pretty horrifying. Yet Germanicus is involved in a crucial love triangle with his assistants, although the author did not first lead me to care much for those three. (The lady's motivation never did come clear: this book could use a prequel). But the dynamics of the novel require that eventually the three must make tragic choices. As we learn more of the rebels and their ideology this story remarkably rises into a gripping theological fantasy of transcendent change based on Jesus sayings forgotten in this alternative timeline. Mitchell's writing style is merely competent and the characters didn't evoke my sympathies until late in the story as the plot moved from the military onto a theological and dreamlike plane. In one of several wrenching dream scenes Germanicus even slips momentarily into our parallel world of 1944.<br />Except for the sheen of a few titles and Latinized names, I don't see what is particularly &quot;Roman&quot; about this story. And surely more evolution of the terms, offices, and organizations mentioned would have been expected. Historical issues of slavery and technology, succession, and the internal east-west split aren't addressed, while Eastern religions, barbarians, and boundaries are significant here. A new fantastical element is introduced: psychic telemagic, that skips around in a convenient but unexplained fashion and may bleedover along family lines. Gurney's cover art doesn't match the technology I think is described in the text. Then again, description and atmosphere are not Mitchell's strong points (while plot development, incident, ethnic differentiation, and intellectual interest are). The publisher provides no clue whatsoever that this is actually the first of three books (followed by New Barbarians and Cry Republic). Perhaps this omission deliberately increases the suspense as to who survives this story. The Sibyl's oracular &quot;hooks&quot; left loose on the final pages seemed too explicitly revealing (quite un-Sibyl-like, in fact) to permit a sequel, until I was alerted by other Amazon reviewers.	2001-10-04
US	52618134	R13HP0VUZ5ILNM	031227257X	944130641	SPQR VI: Nobody Loves a Centurion (The SPQR Roman Mysteries)	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Decius the Legionary snoop!	SPQR is probably the most approachable Roman Republic mystery series because of its amused self-awareness (as Lindsay Davis is the author for the Roman Empire). Also, you do not HAVE to begin with volume 1 of this series, for there is not a lot of biographical reference, development, or aging from one to another...nor is the chronology all that clear in fact. Considerable Roman lore can be found in these stories, but it is worn lightly and contributes to the plots or atmosphere rather than irrupting as distracting digressions. <br />The sixth novel is very different in setting and atmosphere from the others. It is a fine inside story of service and intrigue in a Roman legion, far from Rome on the wild Swiss frontier at the start of Julius Caesar's famous Gallic War, c. 58 B.C. Our man, Senator and temporary under-officer Decius Caecilius Metellus, joins a legion--whose units, roles, organization, and rationale is cleverly made clear as the plot develops--but quickly runs afoul of a vicious First Spear, the unloved centurion of the title. Soon Decius is again involved in murders and treachery threatening Julius Caesar, and Decius is ordered by this most vividly dangerous of Romans to uncover the evil. We also learn of the nature of Gauls and ferocious Germans, and of Caesar's plans to dispose of them. Decius, too, struggles with a great historical question, how did Caesar become such a charismatic leader following such a mediocre start?<br />In this story we learn Decius is honest, and not just an upright man in a temptingly decadent Republic. He is saved from being an insufferable prig by a complete lack of righteousness (which may offend PC readers), his sardonic outlook, and self-awareness (the stories are all written in the first person as if with the historical benefit of old age). Within the strict confines of a legionary camp under threat of imminent attack there is less scope for his entertainingly sharp comments on the corruptions and contradictions of ancient Roman life. Likewise there's no place for his betrothed, Julia, one of the more interesting developments of earlier novels. <br />Here Roberts is better at avoiding the need for a final stand-up scene where someone finally spills all the beans. We can discover more of the wide-ranging conspiracy before the final confrontation, which here is not only surprising but manages to add a final twist. Roberts is the continuing victim of somewhat casual publishers: the ugly art, the same old incomplete map of Rome (here wholly irrelevant), an expanding glossary (also nearly unnecessary here), and never an historical note to help us distinguish between the real and the fictional events. The publishers have finally rendered correctly the &quot;SPqR&quot; quote that always appears on the title page.	2001-10-03
US	52618134	R1S1133P603RN1	0312246986	521171168	The Temple of the Muses (SPQR IV)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Entertaining departure	Decius Caecilius Metellus has an odd penchant for using curiosity and logic to deduce grand political intrigues threatening the ancient Roman Republic. Decius's optimistic cynicism and amusing asides make for lively reading, but outrage the stolid Roman virtues of dignitas and gravitas expected of young Senators like him. Since Decius rarely succeeds in actually doing something against the powerful villains like Crassus, Pompey, or Caesar at the heart of this series (but not this interlude), he frequently finds it necessary to leave town. In this episode of his saga, the noble Roman family Caecilius Metellus is up to its ears in trouble again, but in Egypt rather than its usual Roman haunts. Decius is a minor functionary in the Roman embassy situated in the remarkable town of Alexandria, where he is soon nosing after murder in the famous Library, snooping on a new religious cult, questing after dreadful new engines of war, and attempting to save beautiful Egyptian princesses and even the puppet ruler Ptolemy. We also get a glimpse of the 10-year-old Cleopatra before she was quite able to snare her first Roman. Once again the plot spirals into politically catastrophic events--will Decius save the Roman-Egyptian alliance?--even though the events seem loosely plotted and made up, even fantastical, rather than more tightly historic as elsewhere in the series or in the tales of Steven Saylor. I find Decius quite a likeable character; I'm glad the series continues. <br />There's a didactic subtext to these stories: pay attention and we can learn much about the organization of Roman society and politics, its economic basis and strategic considerations (especially re Egypt in this book), and the origin of modern terms like politics or Muse-um. Roberts does a great job of fusing geography and story here: the exotic city of classical Alexandria and its many extraordinary buildings--not just the Lighthouse or the Library--are ably evoked, and their forms play several crucial roles in the story. Unfortunately, the map and glossary of the city of Rome that again appear in this volume are quite off the mark, helping not at all with the descriptions of Alexandria and the Egyptian mystery religions that are so prominent in the text. The editor also allows Roberts to indicate that this book 4 takes place before book 3, is that right?	2001-10-03
US	52618134	R3VF6F29PTO9MJ	0312246978	30939762	The Sacrilege (SPQR III)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	How convincingly realistic	Decius Caecilius Metellus, scion of an old and noble Roman family, and a snooper with the best of them, is now a Senator. That only means he now can pry more easily into matters that bring him to the really dangerous attention of truly powerful opponents who are playing the lethal end game of the Roman Republic (c. 61 B.C). Here he comes up against the most powerful triumvirate Rome ever produced, but inexplicably he has the protective respect of Julius Caesar, one of its members. This story revolves around a sacred secret women's rite and why an up-and-coming popular rabblerouser, Clodius, would want to spy on it. As usual, from such a minor incident Decius gradually uncovers a colossal conspiracy against the Republic. I found it hard to keep track of the minor but crucial characters not only because they are numerous, but also because they frequently have similar names and certain of them are also busy changing those names during the action (practices explained in the highly useful end-glossary of the Latin terms Decius drops into the narrative). <br />One unique aspect of these Roman mystery stories is that they are purportedly narrated long after the events by Decius in his old age, thus allowing him amusing and droll comments (in the manner of Suetonius) benefiting from historical perspective. Roberts has a light touch on otherwise grim happenings, many of which he is not making up. His use of Caeasar's famous quote about how his wife must be above supicion is deliciously ironic. I'd guess the more one knows of classical history the more fun is this genre of mystery novels (cf. McCullough's biographical use of Caesar, Saylor's use of Cicero's law cases). The current St. Martin series has a much nicer presentation than the original Avon pulps, but has no more &quot;Roman&quot; an appearance (e.g., no Roman numerals). A useful map is included although its central parts disappear into the book's gutter. Incidentally, a computer mystery game titled &quot;S.P.Q.R.&quot; was published in 1996 (has an amazing virtual Rome and gameplay a la MYST I, but is unrelated to the Roberts stories).	2001-10-02
US	52618134	R2BDC1QCAW13WR	0380759934	886337975	The King's Gambit (SPQR I)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Hugely entertaining	This is the original volume of a series featuring the wry exploits of Decius Caecilious Metellus, a noble ancient Roman and a snoop. At the beginning of his career up the Roman political ladder he is a ward conmmissioner in a murderous sector of the city of Rome, c. 70 B.C. during the fall of the Roman Republic. Beginning from a little murder and a small arson, Decius gradually links and unravels a horrendous plot to undermine the state, against many hazards to his morality and his health. Along the way we are introduced to major historical and series characters who oppose or further Decius's inquiries and ascension, from Crassus (the Richest Man in the World) and Pompey (self-proclaimed The Great), ambivalent Julius Caesar, to lawyer Cicero and useful figures from the underworld of Rome. Decius recruits and adopts several independent assistants who promise to be of help in the future, either forensically or as smart muscle.<br />There is more of Roman administrative intrigue here than in most mysteries set in ancient Rome, because Decius is pursuing a political career, is himself a noble from an exalted lineage, and his father is already a high official (but frustratingly remote from his son's endeavors and progress). Decius is too old-fashionedly morally upright for his own good, but--happily for us--he is pleasantly cynical in his outlook and in his historically informed asides to us. This story is spendidly written, marvelously worldly, and rich with historical and archaeological detail that actually moves the story along. I disagree this is a fantasy; it is a fictional but plausible mystery set in a solidly realized historical context. Roberts writes this series in a rather more breezy style than the parallel Roma sub Rosa series by Stephen Saylor. Roberts depends too much on an illogical climactic confession by the villain to wrap up the many loose ends he has creatively developed in this story. (St. Martin's Press has republished the first two books in this apparently intermittant series. This as SPQR I: THE KING'S GAMBIT, q.v.)apparently intermittant series. This as SPQR I: THE KING'S GAMBIT, q.v.)	2001-10-02
US	52618134	R31JK1SRHFJOIC	0316288942	353156139	Commodore Hornblower	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Truly Heroic Now	Here we find Hornblower leading adventures of prodigious consequences in the Baltic Sea while in command of a small squadron of ships and bomb ketches. He contemplates the nature of elevated command, tries to restrain himself from interfering in Capt. Bush's ship operation, and deeply worries over diplomacy while running the Kattegat, stalking a privateer, laying a howitzer, meeting royalty, raiding coastal shipping, and attacking Napoleon's flank during Nappy's fateful march on Moscow. In this volume Hornblower is truly, extraordinarily heroic, a hero for all of oppressed Europe. By force of arms and words in a tiny corner of the Baltic he stiffens Russian resolve, frustrates the French, emboldens the Spanish, and perturbs the Prussians. He brushes shoulders with famous Clausewitz and von Bulow. You could have had no idea of the importance of a little river-mouth town in Latvia until C.S. Forester pulls the fateful threads of destiny together in the person of Hornblower! The sense created by Forester here of monstrous forces converging may have something to do with its date of composition, 1945, when another European tyrant's dreams had crumbled. This is so different from the lugubrious version of Baltic action seen in Richard Woodman's book entitled Baltic Mission, in the Drinkwater series. Note there are at least two pb versions from Little Brown still available.	2001-09-04
US	52618134	R21877SOUIRGO5	0060193611	112419171	The Map That Changed the World: William Smith and the Birth of Modern Geology	Books	3	163	176	N	N	What a Presentation...	This is a potentially fascinating book for readers who like biography, geology, landscape, England, rocks, or fossil ammonites. All right, I admit I was suckered by the cover: the hb dust jacket unfolds into a single large geological map of England, Wales, and southern Scotland! It is The Map That Changed the World in 1815 by revealing the rock strata beneath an entire country: the existence of time and order, of coal beds, building stone, ores, and soil types, all now made predictable. The fact this 1/13th size version of the immense hand made and coloured original by William &quot;Strata&quot; Smith won't stand magnification might have warned me about the text within. Once beyond the exciting promise of the clever jacket and quality presentation I was increasingly disappointed. <br />Winchester's biographical construction of Smith's life, while chronological overall, casts Smith's remarkable rise from the farm, and his wonderful scientific observation and insight, as a morality play against 18th century class prejudice and religion (&quot;the blind acceptance of absurdity&quot;!) taken quite out of historical context. Aside from Smith never having been involved in religious controversy (see pp. 195-96), the authorial tactics make it hard to follow Smith's story rather than Winchester's arch exegesis. Despite the frequent assertions of how earth-shaking was Smith's map, the book is such a farrago of description, quotation, flashforward, biography, travel, snide remark, foreshadowment, reconstruction, admiration, speculation, flashback, asides, suggestion, British nostalgia, coincidence, and digressive (but not scholarly) footnotes that the revolutionary consequences of Smith's innovations in stratigraphy, fossil assemblage, and mapping are buried and never come across coherently and convincingly. Because the author implies that Smith's recorded life and journal were boring and pedestrian, he must think it necessary to gussy up the very real scientific discoveries with this potpourri of diversions. Nevertheless, Winchester's own text is mared by banality, repetition, and common cliche, and larded with his anachronistic prejudices. <br />I'm glad I read this book, but the book's handsome presentation set my expectations way too high. I don't know that I've ever encountered an author who so gets in the way of his subject. His choice of supplemental illustrations also turns out to be off the mark, largely lacking maps of place names (which are particularly obscure to non-English folk) and entirely lacking views of the specific countryside that was critical to Smith's revelations. Other contemporary geologists are used as foils for the hidden excellence of Smith, rather than to fill out the real context and consequences of his discoveries. So, if you want to read something truly exciting about geology or landscape, seek out John McPhee's four books describing and interpreting a cross section of America. For a better understanding of Smith's historical context, see The Birth of the Modern by Paul Johnson.	2001-09-04
US	52618134	R1MGQ3VHZRJMRW	0345409345	578330403	Stars & Stripes Forever (Stars & Stripes, Book 1)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Come, Let Us Reason Together	It's nice to read an old-fashioned &quot;science fiction&quot; book where everyone is so wholesomely rational and well-intentioned, and the bad people are bilious, mad, or blundering. It is upbeat, jaunty, declarative, and reasonable. Anyone who gets really emotional isn't with Harrison's program. Actually this is more &quot;alternate history&quot; than it is a novel, hewing very close to real events and speeches. There is a huge cast of characters here, almost all of them well known or obscure historical figures, as far as I can tell. Outstanding people of the time like Lincoln and Davis, Lee and Grant, have their appointed roles or speaking parts, but there's no central fictional characters on which a personalized story, or novel, is constructed.  The only bits of inadvertent &quot;SF&quot; are Harrison's tendency to condense or overlap time between episodes--producing too obvious seams in the story--or perhaps the too rapid acceptance of technical innovations. <br />I don't think Harrison has played fair by his situation or by his readers. He sets up a circumstance under which Britain would really have entered the war on the side of the Confederacy, and effectively builds tension up to their entry. Their entry would have created enormous problems for the Federals, but instead Harrison has the British make a colossal blunder and prevents them from retrieving it. From there on the Yanks and Rebs get along famously as if there were no yesterday between them. But then, the British isn't really what this story is about, instead it's an alternative solution to the slavery question proposed by the famous political economist John Stuart Mill. Or maybe the scope will be even broader than that, a whole new 19th century world order? We'll have to see: the book ends with some very mad Englishmen, a hook for the next monster plot, the British will be back!	2001-09-04
US	52618134	R369JKNCQAVNTE	0684871335	955311655	Fire on the Waters : A Novel of the Civil War at Sea	Books	4	2	2	N	N	New series	This is going to be a most interesting series because it is the rarely novelized naval side of the American Civil War, the war seen from off shore, and shows the awkward mid-19th century transition period between sail- and steam-powered ships. This first novel deals with three weeks of turmoil and unsettling time in April 1861 as the Civil War came into being, people began to sort themselves out, and incompetence was rampant. This parlous state of affairs makes for a rather unsatisfactory novel. There's hardly a competent person on view and all are confused. This is probably realistic but makes for more frustration than satisfaction on this reader's part. It will undoubtedly make more sense as the larger series unfolds, for David Poyer is an excellent author of novels of the modern navy and of diving. I don't know why people claim this will only be a trilogy; if so it will have to be most highly selective of events, given the level of detail and incident displayed here. Although it seems the central character is to be a volunteer New York officer--an abject, tuburcular pappa's boy who is so naive he appears to be a &quot;cool customer&quot; under fire--the story is also chopped up among several other characters and their viewpoints: Southern Federal officers who must decide where their loyalties lie, an enthusiastic steam engineer, a Black gunner, casual bigots of the time, and a sheltered feminist abolitionist. Because Poyer doesn't play the omniscient author, we all stumble through this first book together. We can expect to see these characters again, each providing a markedly different perspective on the war, from below and above, from home and at sea. Some of the Southern gentlemen may come back aboard Confederate ships as opposed to the exclusively Federal ones here, and there are hints we can expect to see ironclads and Adm. Farragut in future volumes. Certainly more than enough for two more books! Sounds and colors are described in iron hard metallics. Much of the story is grey-toned, frequently taking place in fog or night or firelight, much exacerbated by the unsettled, and unsettling, times when all was rumor. We see conflicts between sections, father and son, financier and ward, black and white. Poyer is excellent in scenes of storm, shot and shell, and fire, whether ashore or on the water. Several passages, like stoking a boiler or the swaying out of ship's boats, seem to be inserted for atmosphere or to show off Poyer's knowledge of period minutiae. The book has been composed with a nice old-fashioned look: a spidery typeface, analytical chapter headings, antique jargon, and (annoying) m-dashes instead of quotation marks for spoken words. The cover art is useful.	2001-08-26
US	52618134	R2D28E5JCS7VBS	0935526919	42137409	Ramage & the Rebels (The Lord Ramage Novels) (Volume 9)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	More freebooters in the Caribbean	In #9 Capt. Ramage continues his Caribbean cruising, now out of the Jamaica Station under a purely political Admiral (i.e., one with no practical experience or understanding). This is the first book in several with any gory slaughter in it, here either privateers' victims or a long, running fight ashore. By planning--glimpses of which we get to see and guess their purpose--and always by surprise, Ramage avoids taking losses and instead metes them out to his enemies. Still, Ramage manages several more of his special bloodless surprise conquests that earn him citations in the Naval Gazette. As his conquest of another beautiful foreign lady who falls within eyeshot would not! The theme of this novel is honour, what it is, who has it, and what it requires. We get to see Ramage as a diplomat on his own--a role not previously seen even when he was &quot;Governor&quot; in Book 4. Plain to see is the difference between honorable and dishonorable conduct as the situations between the Dutch, British, and French--and various privateers or rebels--suddenly alter, and then shift again. The key is that governments are never honorable and steadfast, only some of their &quot;regretful&quot; citizens. Curiously, the one map doesn't name the islands featured here, the Dutch Aruba and Curacao, leaving readers as blind as if we were chartless in shoal water! The book's wrap-around cover art is different from that shown above on amazon.com (= picture from #8), but no more sensical (a frigate in pursuit with no headsails set?). As ever, Dudley Pope is precise and accurate in his descriptions, although it certainly helps in following the ship manuevers if you know the difference between starboard and port tacks and remember where Pope says the wind is from.	2001-08-24
US	52618134	RDQ6C7J9IQ5DM	0935526900	160695083	Ramage's Mutiny (The Lord Ramage Novels) (Volume 8)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Hardly HIS mutiny	Wherein Capt. Ramage expects prize moneys (from #7 DIAMOND), fits out a captured frigate, attends a court martial, hears of mutiny and a mad captain, reconnoiters the Spanish Main (I'd always wondered what that was) on an impossible task, cleverly incites a &quot;mutiny,&quot; enters an enemy harbor and mans another ship, sets off some fireworks, is hit by a storm, and searches for a bit of treasure. Just another West Indies adventure taken in stride by Lord Ramage! <br />An interesting facet of these middle books in the series (this is #8, and they're not so good if read out of order), is how Dudley Pope is using Ramage's officers as commentators on the qualities of superior leadership, exemplified by the inspiring Capt. Ramage of course. Here it is finely calibrated anticipation of enemy responses and &quot;planned surprises&quot; for them (a la the real Lord Cochrane's prescriptions, again). Pope skillfully lays out Ramage's plans but never spoils them with anticipatory details: you still have to guess 'em. The Admiral back in Antigua makes a fine foil for Ramage's audacity. The concluding chapters are something of an anticlimax. <br />The action scenes race along, and the storm fearsomely roars--a sudden calderete cascading from the Venezuelan mountain valleys. Another wrap around cover art by Paul Wright (but the sail plan depicted doesn't make sense to me). One map of the eastern Caribbean (&quot;Cannibal&quot;) Sea, that would have been good to have back in volume 3 already.	2001-08-23
US	52618134	R12X5KRDJ901GE	0935526897	144937842	Ramage's Diamond (The Lord Ramage Novels) (Volume 7)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Almost too perfect	In which newly made Capt. Ramage buys arms, commands a slovenly ship, blockades Martinique and sees a diamond, removes a frigate, climbs a hill, and plots to devour a French fleet single-handedly in 1804. Ramage, like Hornblower, has a depth of character best revealed in their moments of introspection. But while Hornblower doubts his own courage, Ramage knows courage is a facade put up for the encouragement of others. I found the most fascinating passages were on pp. 259-263, where we get an outsider's view of Ramage and feel the effect of the meticulous planning that is the essence of inspiring leadership. It is likely these passages embody the secret of Lord Cochrane's astonishing successes as a winner who, like Ramage, didn't do it over the dead bodies of his men (the historic Lord Cochrane [1775-1860] being the inspiration for much of British naval fiction). As always Pope's descriptions are clear and precise, but here supplemented with diagrams of a jackstay lift for the central hill-climbing business.<br />The reader might want to know that this is really the first of several books dealing continuously with Ramage's renewed adventures in the West Indies (but a separate cycle from his W. Indian adventures in vols 2-4). Although this is a pretty complete story unto itself, if you've already read this far in the series (you did, didn't you?) there's no way you won't want to move immediately after this to MUTINY. Proofing is a little sloppy in a series that is doing the McBooks imprint proud.	2001-08-20
US	52618134	R255F6NLGZF0NM	080505569X	774344100	Lord Cochrane, Seaman, Radical, Liberator: A Life of Thomas, Lord Cochrane, 10th Earl of Dundonald (Heart of Oak Sea Classics Series)	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	The real stuff	Lord Cochrane won an astonishingly brilliant series of victories  in three different British ships against the French and Spanish during the Revolution and Napoleonic Wars. The first 80 pages of this biography cover his astounding career in single-ship actions, and the inability of the Admiralty to understand his innovations. The next 55 pages deal with his ignominious Radical parliamentary career and financial fiascos. Another 46 pages cover his attempts to free a series of colonies from their Iberian or Ottoman masters, and how the rebels repeatedly frustrated victory and, of course, didn't pay up. The final 21 pages cover his attempts to restore his honor and his contributions to the deveopment of a recognizably modern navy. The editors say this 1947 book was selected for its congenial style and vignettes of Cochrane, not because it is the last word on the irascible man. This biography is superseded in accuracy by those employing additional family and governmental papers made public since the 1960's and listed in the brief bibliography.  <br />Fans of naval fiction should note that Forester's Hornblower frequently adopts Lord Cochrane's audacious naval exploits, as do many other series' heroes. Forester having appropriated Lord Cochrane's real adventures, Dudley Pope's Lord Ramage series seems to depend more on invented exploits to fill out the same general historical progression. O'Brian's Jack Aubrey also partakes of Cochrane's political ineptness and suffers his finanacial scandal (see especially the early Aubrey novels). While occasionally you see inspiration from Cochrane's later attempts to aid South Americans win their freedom from Spain (Forester, O'Brian, Cornwell), no novelist has taken up Cochrane's inventions (like ship lanterns, tar derivatives, chemical warfare!, and steam warships). This book might slightly disappoint some fiction fans because it lacks details or even a brief description of ALL of Cochrane's remarkable exploits in his Biscay or Mediterranean theaters of operation. But for any fans of Fighting Sail, Lord Cochrane is the inspiring source, and Lloyd's book a well-written introduction.	2001-08-20
US	52618134	R1TKGGVS9OUK9O	0060194251	77138633	Sharpe's Trafalgar: Richard Sharpe & the Battle of Trafalgar, October 21, 1805 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #4)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Richard Sharpe on vacation!?	After a gap of two years from FORTRESS, here we contemplate Richard Sharpe at his leisure on a pleasant sea voyage back to England: fighting Indian thugs, befriending an amusing naval captain, stiffing a lord, smelling treason, and falling into yearning love with Lady Grace. She utters the best capsule description of Sharpe: \\"You're like a weed, Richard. You can grow anywhere.\\" Also, there's reminiscing of his orphan childhood, ignominious capture, rescue and pursuing the traitors, breakfasting with an admiral, and becoming a Marine for a crucial month. This is Sharpe \\"off-duty?\\" <br />There are lots of interesting tidbits about fighting a sailing man-o-war, but little of the complex and esoteric business of sailing her that would confuse a lubberly admirer of the Sharpe series. The endpapers display a highly useful cutaway diagram of the type of ship in which Sharpe goes to battle. The description of ship-board battle during the crucial encounter off Trafalgar is better and bloodier than anything I've read in standard naval fare, focusing as Cornwell does on the stinking and bloodied men and not the cool captain as series hero. The French & Spanish line of battle was \\"capping the T,\\" normally the decisive maneuver in sea battle, but Nelson smashed it with his audacity and firepower. The relative casualties of the French & Spanish vs. the British, given in Cornwell's historical note, are simply astonishing, given the mutual slaughter described here. Note: there has got to be at least one more book to get Sharpe into his Rifles and then to Spain (yeah!).	2001-08-16
US	52618134	R37XG1KARLW9IP	0060194243	137888326	Sharpe's Fortress: India 1803 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #3)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Another winner	The third volume in the saga of Richard Sharpe (biographically speaking), this is a fierce novel of land warfare, of another triumph of implacable Scot discipline over massed armies, glory, and an impregnable fort, and of Sharpe's fictional role in graphically described historical battles. This volume, last of Sharpe's &quot;conquest of India&quot; trilogy, has a hard act to follow after #2 (Sharpe's Triumph), where Sgt. Sharpe saved a general and obtained his heart's desire, promotion to officerdom. But Cornwell surpasses it with non-stop action, intrigue, and desperation. Now a lowly and apparently penniless Ensign, Sharpe is subject to condescension from officers of &quot;quality&quot; and must doubt his own skills and determination. Nevertheless, we see other men, and officers, flocking to him as an outstanding leader beset by adversities, particularly in the form of his immortal and bottomlessly malicious enemy, Sgt. Hakeswill. Cornwell's vivid descriptions of the awesomely black and terrifying cliff-top fortress of Gawilghur make me wish to see it if I ever go to India.	2001-08-14
US	52618134	RX01RVYWMO1VM	0316289299	882666727	Hornblower and the Atropos (Hornblower Saga (Paperback))	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Tense and action-filled	The fifth volume: in which we find Hornblower, as a newly made Post Captain, riding the seiche wave on a canal boat(!), walking a tunnel, organizing Lord Nelson's funeral*, having a child, preparing for sea in a panic, contriving an adventure while fog-bound, conducting diplomacy in Ottoman Turkey, diving for treasure, eluding one powerful opponent and precipitously encountering another! In short, another eventful and rip-roaring adventure tale on the high seas. The difficulties in handling the (ill-fated) funerary barges are an unusual feature of this story, as are the the details on the diving practices of the day. It is gratifying how little--or how skillfully concealed--repetition there is among the authors who write novels set in the same years of the Age of Fighting Sail. This is a full-fledged continuous novel** of Hornblower in his first command after being made Post Captain, and not a collection of vignettes like some other Hornblower books.  <br />*The sort of music that might have been played to accompany Lord Nelson's funeral can be heard on a Herald [UK] CD: #232, ASIN: B00003OT8U.) **The negative review by Wood Hughes refers to CRISIS (#4) and not to ATROPOS.	2001-08-13
US	52618134	R1IFYWJ2NGKORC	0316289442	128719673	Hornblower During the Crisis (Hornblower Saga (Paperback))	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	Fascinating Forester Flotsam	This is genuine Forester and Hornblower, lovely what there is, but a bit out of sorts. First, one of the two short stories appended to this volume, Hornblower's Temptation, should be read immediately following the Mr. Midshipman book (#1). In it we see Hornblower in his first Lieutenancy, solving a mystery. <br />Second, the main novel here (#4 biographically) is the &quot;final&quot; one left incomplete by Forester's death. Hornblower has left Hotspur on the Brest blockade, but not finally, due to his incompetent successor. After that flurry of action, Hornblower waves to his wife and is off to London to become a Post Captain, but is promised a ship only if his rash espionage plan successfully penetrates Bonaparte's Empire. In the succeeding book 5 (Atropos) there is no allusion to Hornblower's incredible deception of the French set up here (but unwritten). Third, the other short story in this volume, The Last Encounter, as its title implies, might be reserved for reading after the last novel in the Hornblower saga. <br />The Author's Note published here to forward the unfinished novel--setting Hornblower ashore to deceive the French Navy into its most colossal blunder--is disappointing in its brevity. On the other hand, one infers that Forester must have been in the habit of writing only the sketchiest of outlines and usually wrote from page 1 right through to the end in order. The 9 chapters that were completed are fully formed and polished. Perhaps Forester enjoyed writing his stories the same way we enjoy reading them: inspired from the beginning and no skipping!	2001-08-12
US	52618134	R1QMFRFKR7BDKA	0935526811	265976531	Ramage & the Guillotine (The Lord Ramage Novels)	Books	4	13	13	N	Y	Ramage the Spy	In which Lt. Ramage speaks with Lord Nelson and smugglers alike, takes passage for &quot;Boney's&quot; France, is astounded and becomes a shipwright, employs a thief, speaks to a policman of knives and sealing wax, and joins the French army! One suspects that Liberty - Equality - Fraternity meant only the liberty to reduce your brother citizens into equal misery. Of course, the British Navy's blockade also had something to do with the desperate state of the French economy revealed here (and rarely depicted in other seafaring series). <br />If you like stories of the Napoleonic era you'll enjoy this close up view of the French Terror into which idealists descended, but if your desire is only battle at sea this volume will disappoint. As far as I know this is the only nautical novel that brings its naval hero so far and long into enemy France (perhaps Pope is fulfilling the promise of C.S. Forester's &quot;Hornblower During The Crisis&quot; left unfinished by Forester's death before HH gets ashore).	2001-08-12
US	52618134	R3C4NKEYQT8XX3	0671519247	309881095	By Force of Arms (Revolution at Sea #1)	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Forced story	Here's the beginning of a good, or rather, promising series for American fans of Age of Sail fiction, a series that takes place in Colonial American waters. The story consists of a long string of bad luck but action-filled encounters between a surprisingly naive merchant captain (with the awkward name of Biddlecombe) and elements of the British authorities and Navy in 1775. Two of his antagonists, the elegant British Captain Pendexter and his First Lt. Smeaton, are perhaps the most hilariously inept stooges in nautical fiction (a genre that takes itself seriously, in the main), and their mates are among the most strenuously vicious. They stand out in a text that is rather dry and features likable but otherwise mostly flat characters. Some of the most fascinating incidents illuminate the contentious and contradictory state of mind in the New England colonies just before the outbreak of rebellion. The forces pushing Biddlecombe's conversion are there but the actual moment seems too abrupt. <br />Nelson's test suffers from spill-checking that left homonym misuse. The cover art does not apply to this story. Otherwise the presentation is good and I look forward to reading the rest of the series.	2001-08-05
US	52618134	RCBG3LSORRT02	0345421949	526632959	Roads Not Taken: Tales of Alternate History	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Some real gems	A broad introduction to the genre and authors of speculative history writing, where the emphasis here is on speculative events rather than technologies. Several superb stories that touched my emotions include Silverberg's sensitive love story where a modern Roman Imperia backstory is hardly the issue. A disturbing time travel situation in &quot;Colonial&quot; America, leisurely developed by Flynn, has a real feel to it because description of nature gives a solid context for the philosophizing. An hilarious twist on &quot;war games&quot; of every sort by Wolfe (in the vein of the free-associating style of Douglas Adams) is, as with all stories here, the more enjoyable the more you know of history. One of my favorite &quot;alternative&quot; authors, Turtledove's story unfortunately exhibits his stiff dialogue in an academic's leftist view of &quot;fascist&quot; America, as especially does Prof. Benford's trifle about the left's whipping boy, Nixon. Between those alphas and omegas are five other stories among which you are sure to find striking twists and ironies. Also, if you want to get the &quot;feel&quot; of an old &quot;pulp book,&quot; this will do fine.	2001-08-05
US	52618134	R1CN23GQDH5FIJ	1898660778	87898060	Rules in Practice 2001 - 2004	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A must for sailboat racing	This is a terrific instructional text for the beginning sailor and racer, and graphically updates the expert on the ISAF Racing Rules of Sailing new for the 2001 quadrennium. The heart of this manual is Willis taking you around the race course in a separate chapter for each stage, from before the start, around the marks, and to post race protests. Each stage is quite thoroughly explored, illustrating in clear diagrams many likely situations of potential conflict between boats. For each situation Willis puts you in each boat in turn and tells you, with a touch of humor, what you each can (or must not) do, in order to avoid collision or protest. He points out that knowing the rules of sailing gives you the advantage against someone less certain of their applicability. <br />My copy has 111 pages and is from Fernhurst Books, U.K. It is written in a succinct, clear, and engaging manner. One fault is that the signal flags are not shown in color. And of course Willis' interpretations are not officially sanctioned! Some say this is the best instruction in the Racing Rules of Sailing (whose official text appears only at the end). Or if your only contact with competitive sailing is to watch the America's Cup on TV, this book is like a spectator's manual for appreciating the basic or fine points of the tactical maneuvering you witness.	2001-07-31
US	52618134	R2OA5UKCL21570	0316290467	764983778	Hornblower and the "Hotspur" (Hornblower Series)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Exciting action and character	This is a long story of endless excitement, Hornblower in trouble or on the go! We see him fit out, spy on the French coast then blockade it, spar with a frigate, trap coasters, lead a raid, weather gales, suffer thirst, disrupt a French sortie, find a child, obey stupidity and start an heroic legend, look for riches and battle a frigate, visit his wife, and get his heart's desire. We also understand better the gap between his inner and outer persona, what he is thinking and what others esteem, the uneasy tension between feeling and duty, especially in a responsible ship's captain. How can a Hornblower novel be better? Blockade was never so exciting in other series as when Hornblower is on station. But don't start with this one if you plan to read Forester's series of eleven.	2001-07-31
US	52618134	R5NN80EYSQQ15	0393037053	878853693	Desolation Island (Vol. Book 5)  (Aubrey/Maturin Novels)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Simply matchless	Volume 5 is O'Brian at his most adventurous and thrilling. In blessed escape from shore duty, Capt. Aubrey is tasked to carry convicts and a captured spy to the penal colony of Australia in the old Leopard. This story (the first in the long Pacific voyage sub-series) contains what I think is the most memorable and thrilling chapter in the Aubrey-Maturin saga. It's an exhausting stern chase by a &quot;Flying Dutchman&quot; that reaches a nightmarish peak through monstrous gale-wracked waves in an iceberg-laden sea, the Leopard threatening at any moment to be pooped or to broach to at the slightest error of judgment or chance. The cover painting hardly catches the terror of this episode, prodigiously evoked by O'Brian. The rest of the story isn't too shabby, either, as we see life ashore at home and shipwrecked, with Maturin pursuing love and his best natural studies. You must, of course, start with Volume 1 (Master and Commander) or even the two earlier and pre-Aubrey sea novels (Golden Ocean and Unknown Shore). The first five Aubrey-Maturin novels may also contain the onshore romance and domesticity matters of keenest interest to readers of historical novels who are not enamored of heroic seafaring and salty sailors. <br />I get these books in hardcover because I plan on reading them again, but the pb seem good quality, too, and both printed in an attractively antique typeface.	2001-07-28
US	52618134	R3BB0VJ9DMEF9F	0393307611	952337324	H. M. S. Surprise (Aubrey / Maturin)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	And something more...	The third volume in an improving series sees Capt. Jack Aubrey commanding his happiest ship, the ex-French Surprise, and surgeon-naturalist-spy Stephen Maturin tragic in love. Like all the early O'Brian novels this is a great story, richly told with many layers of interest to appreciate, and the more so the more you learn of the arcane lingo drenching the text in 1805 authenticity (see Dean King's A SEA OF WORDS, for help). A theme explored in this story is the dangerously motivating force represented by the taking of enemy ships--due to the controversial but immense prize moneys to be distributed among the victorious sailors involved. We see Aubrey doing his best to gain such wealth and renown while tasked to destroy the French fleet in the Indian Ocean, Napoleon then at his most audacious in the first global war. <br />Some readers smitten with Aubrey-Maturin or the Age of Fighting Sail may be gratified to know that 1/24 scale, 110&quot;, working, wind-powered, sailing models of this very H.M.S. Surprise can be purchased. Frightfully expensive...ah well...but the photos and additional history on the web helped me to better understand the ship.	2001-07-28
US	52618134	R249TBCWHSH4JP	1900371154	517275451	Radio Controlled Racing Yachts	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Schizoid	Radio ControllED Racing Yachts is a decent introductory book to the hobby and sport. It is the most recent and only one of the 5 I was able to acquire fast.<br />Mr. Jackson provides a suitable framework to building and sailing a wind-powered sloop-rigged model boat. The first half of the book seems to me much too advanced for the beginner, unless he OR she (the sport depends on smarts not strength) already has some modeling skills and ambition to build from scratch. After all, these boats have to actually work, not just look good like a static model. The discussion of picking a boat is wholly inadequate, incomplete and overlooking that the size and seaworthyness of the classes of boat vary with cost (from about $200 for a complete kit and radio, upwards). I suggest you first visit  ...for an overview of what's available in the USA and for all sorts of advice. (Americans will need it for supplies to substitute for the English ones in the book.) Find out what class other people in your area are sailing and buy that if you want fair and fun competition. Skipping to the second half of the book, Mr. Jackson's friendly advice on setting up, trimming, sailing, and racing your completed boat is really helpful for organizing what you need to do step by step, whether you've bought a ready-built, or built from a kit or scratch.<br />The book is well illustrated throughout with B/W photos and a few diagrams on large pages. Mr. Jackson writes in British English, uses undefined specialist terms, and is not well proofed, but is very aware of international variations in boats and classes.	2001-07-26
US	52618134	R3KM9AZM89QJZA	0316290637	75936355	Lieutenant Hornblower	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Hornblower as we wished he were	Hornblower has a &quot;hand?&quot; in a near-mutiny against a paranoid and exasperatingly capricious captain (who has none of the real brilliance and fortitude of Capt. Bly of Mutiny on the Bounty), spurs gallant plans and vaulting action against the Spanish on Hayte during Toussaint's slave revolt, suffers an inquiry, and is put ashore to live by his card-wits. Despite being set on the West Indies station, the deadliest in all the budding British Empire, no seamen here suffer from tropical disease. Forester writes unevenly here, rather than sustaining the glories of the original trilogy (Books 6-8). This is partially due to our viewing Hornblower only through the eyes of another lieutenant, Bush, who is stolidly dull (Forester resorts to telling us what Bush's inchoate feelings WOULD be if only he could express them!). At least we can't see Hornblower's self-doubt that tiresomely emerges in later books whenever he awaits the onset of action (a small price to pay for such glorious stories). In this story, Bush witnesses the emergence of Hornblower's seeming deference and the brilliant tactical and interpersonal skills that blossom in his later commands.	2001-07-22
US	52618134	R2VUSBAUHGH12S	0802138101	158786120	The Battle: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Butchers at work	This is a prize-winning novelization of Napoleon's battle at Essling in 1809, presenting the whole crushing spectacle from the abattoir of a field hospital to the ridiculous glory of the Imperial Guard. This is a one-sided (French) view of the events, but (a) hardly flattering in any case, and b) of great value for not being another of the British novels on the Napoleonic war we already have in plethora (e.g., Hornblower, Sharpe, etc.). Essling was the only time Napoleon was personally defeated without British intervention (and their high rates of fire). For once I think I understood something of the utter genius he was. However, we get little sense of what the Austrian opponents were thinking or up to (nor a citation in the bibliography); in fact the slaughter among them was far worse than that depicted so vividly for the French under the arrogantly indifferent Napoleon. But their absence enhances the clouds of gunsmoke and 'fog of war' which drifts through the French ranks and disrupts everything in this battle. Although seen from multiple perspectives drawn from the memoirs of true participants, there's no one protagonist and you don't get a coherent view--unless it be Col. Lejeune who, as liason for the Emperor, thankfully serves to link some actions across 3 miles of desperate and maddening battle. The battle maps are essential to making out the larger sense of the individual actions, since you are plunged into the story without preamble, much as battle is like for ordinary soldiers. Future-famous author Stendahl is the pretext for additional civilian perspectives from nearby Vienna.<br />This story is not for the squeamish; the author relishes the gore of war as part of the close-up and personal atmosphere of this novel. And the whole affair was pointless; it had to be refought less than two months later. Don't let the page count fool you, the typography is generous and the story enthralling. This seems to be the only one of Rambaud's three novels of the Napoleonic era that has been translated into English.	2001-07-18
US	52618134	R1K0C89SIM7DV	0312186967	776066517	Publish and Perish: Three Tales of Tenure and Terror	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A-cute	The three loosely (but ingeniously) connected novellas here all examine academic personalities and their lack of real power malignantly interacting with postmodern postures (YOU are situated in a constructed context, only I, haha, am free to criticize). Each story begins with allusions to postmodernism and to the trials of climbing the academic bureaucracy, but then veers off into more fictional terrors. All three stories reveal personal horrors (reminiscent of Poe's Telltale Heart, for example), layered twist upon twist, finally even a touch of eerie but by then devoutly wished-for supernatural revenge, but there are no unalloyed heroes here. It's the revenge of the despised &quot;real world&quot; upon the pretentious, particularly visible in the middle story. That is a profoundly disturbing but dead-on satire of &quot;participant observation&quot; and modern self-subverting cultural anthropology: a particularly obnoxious character intones &quot;the proper study of anthropology is ...anthropologists&quot;! Hynes's stories will be a delight for anyone who has had a brush with recent academic humanities, the perversion of cultural relativism as an observational tool into personal philosophies of paralysis, or &quot;the other&quot; as morally superior. The deft skewering here of the self-parodistic pontifications of postmodernism will make more &quot;sense&quot; if you are an academic, although you may recognize its arcane, obscurantist, humorless, nihilistic, and unprovable PC qualities. Hynes' obsession with sex is, I think, his own, but his macabre and humorous take on his vicious characters &quot;engenders empowerment.&quot; The pb is nicely designed.	2001-07-06
US	52618134	R15JIY1GJVV788	0935526803	649306994	Ramage's Prize (The Lord Ramage Novels) (Volume 5)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A real story	Pope writes heroic stories of the British Navy in the age of sail, not as easy as Capt. Marryat nor as grimly vicious as Jan Needle's. The stories in this series are suitable for anyone from a youthful age. They build well to the moments of intense action and there's darn little vivid blood, &quot;salty talk&quot; or eloquent cursing even in situations that demand it; Ramage is one ferociously cool customer. These books have a generous look and feel, like a hardback without the boards (or price). <br />This is the first Ramage novel based substantially on true (if minor) historical events. Maybe for that reason there are fewer daring action scenes here than in the previous four novels. Ramage is assigned another thankless and politically dangerous mystery to solve, loses his fourth ship in 5 books, faces his second mutiny and second privateer, upsets the Admiralty again, requires an Act of Parliament to be passed, and is still a Lieutenant. We learn such things as the British mail packet-boat system (when surface mail was faster to the Caribbean than it is today!). Also, how to fiddle insurers, the loading of guns, detecting wood rot, rules of neutrality, the giving of parole, and the origin of mahonnaise, among other bits of nautical lore. Pope seems to give Ramage expert knowledges that such a young man might not have known. Pope can write evocatively of the seas and seacapes when he turns his mind to it.	2001-07-01
US	52618134	RIRZAG67MMK2E	1586632086	530046116	Frank Lloyd Wright: A Gatefold Portfolio	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Good illustrations	This volume presents 16 gatefold illustrations of as many outstanding buildings by architect Frank Ll. Wright, along with photos and brief appreciations. The gatefolds are Wright's own presentation drawings. You can almost see the individual bits of texture in the colored drawing leads. These pastel colored drawings have some beauty in themselves--Wright was a man of many talents--and are valuable to show what the architect found the centers of interest in each project. <br />The layout of the portfolio is ingenious: bound loose-leaf and prefaced by a page of appreciation, the gatefolds on medium stock will lay flat to the right for examination, or can be wholly removed. The reverse side of each contains another page of discussion, a small plan by William Storrer, and colored photos of interior as well as exterior views. I suppose one could cut off and frame the long drawings. All the text can be read without opening the gatefolds. Text and headings are set in a most attractive, 1930-ish Wrightian typeface (&quot;Eaglefeather,&quot; I believe). This is not an essential study of Wright, but for the price it is impossible to go wrong with this quick overview of his most spectacular works.	2001-06-26
US	52618134	RQ69CXKAYFZ1P	0805051163	217013243	A Sea of Words: A Lexicon and Companion for Patrick O'Brian's Seafaring Tales	Books	4	87	88	N	N	Get with the lingo	This book is a great reference for all interested in the age of fighting sail, or readers of nautical fiction. The heart of the book is an immense lexicon or dictionary of nautical terms and (British) naval history and leaders during the times of the French Revolution and Napoleonic world war about A.D 1800. Specifically geared to the Patrick O'Brian novels about Captain Aubrey and his surgeon-spy Maturin, this can be read with benefit also to understanding any other authors in the genre. The lexicon is prefaced with Hattendorf's chapter on the organization of the British Navy from top to bottom. It specifies the career ladder from landman to Admiral of the Red, basic British vs. French battle tactics, and overviews the War of the French Revolution (1793-1803) and the Napoleonic Wars (1805-1815). A time line of these wars is appended. Another chapter by Estes discusses the state of contemporary medicine. Perhaps most immediately useful is a brief section illustrating the standing and running rigging of square-rigged ships, and their sail plans, the most confusing part of all for a lubber. In light of Maturin's cover as a naturalist, a chapter on the state of naturalist studies before Darwin would be a useful addition to a future edition (as would a section about the competition to determine longitude accurately). <br />If you are new to nautical matters, and begin the Forester, Kent or Woodman series of novels with the start of the hero's career, I suggest you not consult this work until later so that you taste the same initial confusion as any raw young midshipman. This is a useful rite of passage for anyone falling in love with nautical fiction: if you care enough to learn the challengingly obscure terms you will be hooked. You will also learn the origins of many slang expressions, like scuttlebutt, three sheets to the wind, bye and large, bitter end, squared away, cut and run, scuttled, doldrums, son of a gun, at liberty, etc. The geographical companion book, Harbors and High Seas, could be acquired anytime, but I don't consider it as useful as this book. (Note: my review is based on a 2nd edition [green cover], which did not contain the error Desiree mentions in her review.)	2001-06-26
US	52618134	R2R0WOL8JANFQR	0688035671	671924440	Basic Sailing	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Terrific intro	This is it, your basic instructions for small boat sailing. It covers what you need to know for your first crewing, training course, or rental boat. Written with straight talk and without condescension, this slim book is suitable for all ages of beginning sailor. Opening with a photo of a complicated sail rig, by the end of this short sweet book you will know the function of every line visible (only practice will train you how to USE them). Chapters are organized in practical order, from preparation and unmooring, through sailing against and before the wind, to mooring or anchoring again, just like your first voyage. Although the beginner will want to keep this booklet handy, it is far too large to be carried aboard in a pocket. <br />George is very good at gently telling you how to avoid doing something stupid, cracking your skull, or capsizing. He is particularly adamant that sailing with wind astern--what seems easiest of all--carries great danger in boats, due to the potential for accidental jibing, or disastrous boom-swing, if you don't pay minute attention to the wind. If you are a lubber who only knows the difference between starboard and port as fixed directions, pay close attention to the opposite sense when tacking, for this controls rights of way (and &quot;road rage&quot;) on the water. What George says in the chapter about sailing and sail trim is of special interest for model sailboaters, who have much less control and timely adjustment available. Numerous well chosen b/w illustrations are provided, although several photos are too dark to see the detail to which attention is drawn. The book concludes with useful sections on law, equipment, reading the wind, and a glossary of terms. You will soon want to learn more knots, rules of right away, racing tactics, or larger boats than covered here, although George includes only one suggestion for further study.	2001-06-26
US	52618134	RPOFDMJP2EXU2	0892361646	909857151	Herculaneum: Italy's Buried Treasure	Books	5	49	49	N	N	Excellent popularization of a horrific event	I greatly enjoyed this book. It carries you along deep into the personal lives of ancient Romans, nearly two millennia gone. Deiss constantly links the architecture to the minutiae of finds and to individual lives and actions. This is a wonderful way to do popular archaeology. It is worth taking along on a trip to visit Herculaneum, although slightly oversize for a pocket. It is not a street by street guidebook but rather is constructed by themes that make sense of the whole as well as the individual lives, and deaths, recovered deep in the ruins.<br />Herculaneum (and its neighbor Pompeii) are archaeological godsends, the rarest of time capsules showing the complete range of life at one particular instant in the Ancient world. The spectacular history, deep burial and rediscovery of Herculaneum is excitingly covered in the first five chapters, including eyewitness accounts of the fatal eruption of Vesuvius as lunches were being prepared on August 24, A.D. 79. In the next six chapters Deiss systematically tours you through Roman housing there, from top to bottom of the social hierarchy (including the astounding copy of a Roman villa Paul Getty built for himself in Malibu CA). Five more chapters take you through the public spaces and functions of the town revealed in tunnels and exposures. The book concludes with a summary of the skeletons and plans for site conservation and exploration. Yes, a few pages deal with earthy topics, just as the Romans frankly did. (I think the Getty Museum has since put out a separate book for parents of American kiddies.)<br />Excellent b/w photographs are found throughout. An absolutely vital aerial photograph and map is provided on p. 34 which you will want to bookmark. It's really too bad they are so tiny that a magnifying glass is needed to read the labels in order to locate the houses when their plans and ruins are discussed individually later in the text. Some locations are never identified. Larger foldout versions would be a real help in the next edition (excavations began in 1709 and new things are constantly found).help in the next edition (excavations began in 1709 and new things are constantly found).	2001-06-26
US	52618134	ROO06HD7T5W8W	093552679X	234912248	Governor Ramage R. N. (The Lord Ramage Novels) (Volume 4)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fast-paced seafaring	This 4th volume picks up the events in the eastern Caribbean following Lt. Ramages's FREEBOOTER adventure. You really should read this series in order, if only because at first opportunity some character will recapitulate the previous volume's heroics. In this fast-paced story Ramage endures 1797 convoy duty, suffers from his family's nemesis again (RAMAGE #1), sees a new heartthrob, spots a skulking privateer, is terrorized by a hurricane, hunts treasure, obtains a prize of no interest, is subject to another court martial, and pursues an ugly vendetta. This time out Pope teaches us about convoying, the muster book, hurricane colors and frights, estimating distances at sea, ship weights, and the then value of gold. <br />Pope writes pretty well, with great pace, plot, and crystal clear action. The structure of the stories is dramatic, moving from small to large troubles with pauses for strained humor. Scenes are dead on, but the overall plot is so improbable you don't want to think on it. His characters are interesting but so predictably one-sided you soon learn to recognize the clues who will turn out good or bad. An authorial tic is interrupting long climactic action sequences with dry disquisitions on naval minutiae that could easily have been put in the slow parts instead. Or perhaps Pope is trying to show the thought processes of a somewhat naive leader who is at his best only in angry action (vide his model, Hornblower). Pope doesn't give away upcoming events in his chapter headings (none), unlike Kent's stories of Bolitho. The language is unoffensive; the blood and guts of battle is simply not strongly felt, and we never learn whether Ramages's new infatuations actually betray his first love. The characters' emotions are restrained, like a contemporary painting by Ingres or David rather than the horror of Goya or Blake. The book design by Paperwork is a fine job. (368 pp only.) Hardback copies of Ramage are way up in value.	2001-06-24
US	52618134	R5RHTB9QNBPCE	0935526781	189417809	Ramage & the Freebooters (The Lord Ramage Novels) (Volume 3)	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	#3 in an exciting series	Lt. Lord Ramage single-handedly overcomes the fleet mutiny at Spithead, sees through a slaver's ruse to take a rich prize, exposes a spy, and winkles out a secretive privateer terrorizing the Caribbean.  A busy, and entertaining, fellow. <br />I like the sense of adventure, the clever plots, Ramage's audacity and modesty, the nautical lore and clearly described maneuvering, and the sense of place. I don't like Pope's insertion of interesting lore as a device to delay the action once it's underway, his predictably good or evilly incompetent characters (irrespective if friend or foe), and his telegraphed plot solutions (despite coy circumspection). However, in Freebooters there IS one key character about whom Pope did maintain my suspicions through many chapters and another person turns out to have had conflicting loyalties. Two minor plot elements jumped out as inconsistent. <br />These McBook pb edition books have a nice look, heft, and feel. (Why DID they pick that silly name?) Again there's wrap-around cover art by Peter Wright, evocative in its ghostly silence and spidery tracery. Wright repeatedly over-emphasizes an integrated design for the catheads, one that reminds me of horned beetles or owls.<br />Is it odd how many maritime authors write series rather than one-off novels? Pope, Woodman, Kent, Forester, O'Brian; D.C. Poyer doing it for the modern navy. Maybe it is the ready handle of a rigidly structured career ladder to follow and explore, each rung offering a different view of command behavior and individual psychology. Do others find the early books in a series offer the greatest compass for ingenuity, excitement, and water-level story telling? For example, some of the later O'Brian titles in the Pacific drag interminably to small effect, and Lambdin's Lewrie loses some of his bold, ah, flirtation.	2001-06-20
US	52618134	R6GCDAY1Y5KKB	0935526773	404727298	Ramage & the Drumbeat (The Lord Ramage Novels) (Volume 2)	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Exciting fare, very good series	After a brief recapitulation of the eventful first volume in this series, Pope picks up the day to day adventures of Lt. Lord Ramage in his first command. Carrying the love of his life to Gibraltar, Ramage falls in with frigates, both Spanish and British, has an onshore diversion spying on the enemy, has a run-in with a Levanter, and returns to save the day for the fleet and his beloved Commodore Nelson. <br />Ramage is a clever dog, and Pope smart enough to keep us in the dark about his hero's tricks until he's about to crash aboard an enemy ship. I love the atmospheric detail of antique things and actions, but Pope is also a bit talky, his factual asides occasionally breaking into the action, rather like a sprinkle of sand on plum duff. Often his asides serve to draw out an action to interminable, almost real-time, length. For example, Pope has Ramage engage in a monologue on the texture of deck wood while he makes a fateful decision during Adm. Jervis' great fleet battle off Cape St. Vincent in 1797 (NB: this is NOT Nelson's fatal battle at nearby Trafalgar, in 1805). In such ways Pope stretches a single-ship action to 80 agonizing pages, with hardly a page for the actual cut-and-thrust of boarding. Maybe Pope is trying to give us a study of the thought processes of successful leadership, at close to the last time leaders were wholly on their own. Good thing Ramage has the loyalty of his crew and the luck o' the divil for his thrilling but disobedient series of escapades here off Spain, or he'd've been flogged 'round the fleet. (If you want to try your own hand at sailing a radio-controlled model square-rigger, my search of the Web suggests it will cost us thou$ands vs several hundred$ for a fore-and-aft rig.)<br />I suspect many of the episodes are exciting fantasy, but set in solid historical contexts (easiest to write while the hero is still a minor officer unlikely to have been mentioned in dispatches).  The jolly steadfastness of Ramage's tars could become tiresome; reminds me too much of Marryat. Kudos to McBooks for the typography that catches the insouciance of Ramage, and for the thrilling wrap-around cover art of Paul Wright.	2001-06-18
US	52618134	R34GCSWIB0GNOG	0312954603	84654842	The Lady Chapel (An Owen Archer Mystery)	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Good series	Number 2 in the Owen Archer series of medieval mysteries, there is much here for men and women readers alike. In pursuing the grisly deaths of a string of wool merchants in York in 1365, the love between Owen and his new wife Lucie vacillates and grows as they strive to protect the innocent and pursue the conspirators at the behest of their Archbishop. This is a &quot;snowball&quot; novel: a story in which the circle of suspects widens and expands with each murder, rather than narrowing. As the author says, for mystery writers &quot;innocence [is] little more than lack of opportunity.&quot; While the male characters appear to be concerned with the wider world, the female characters are the strongest and most interesting ones, for good...or evil. The writing style is somehat dense; it neither leaps off the page nor draws me in. <br />Except for one character's &quot;thee- and thou-ing,&quot; and a few odd terms (see glossary), Robb makes little attempt to render the sounds or cadences of middle English, to differentiate classes of people, or to fill in the religion of the day. In more outward respects the sense of small town England comes across pretty well: tight and narrow towns, remote manors, the pageantry, diverse hand crafts, medicinals, the chill of winter, and the dangers of the night. The plot is somewhat intricate; you may eventually know who is at fault but have a hard time knowing how Owen will prove it. The stories usually evolve into more widely significant political spheres. In The Lady Chapel, we get unusual glimpses of the primitive economics of the time, and a remarkable excursis (for a novel) into the weak understanding of wool supply and taxation underpinning the government and court of King Edward III--and not irrelevant to the plot, either. The Archbishop's moral concern with the &quot;purety&quot; of monetary donations to building his Lady's Chapel (and tomb) is a thin excuse for the book's title.  The pb fabric itself is nothing special.	2001-06-15
US	52618134	R8BCZAY6O1KJ8	0140233946	117251154	Cut to the Quick (Crime, Penguin)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Elegant sleuthing	A leisurely developed closed-room murder mystery story set in a lovingly rendered 1823 England. It is an &quot;onion peel&quot; mystery, wherein a small number of suspects is peeled down, layer by surprising layer, to their rather smelly cores, but still, it seems, without settling on who murdered the beautiful stranger. Ross seems to have caught the elegant yet tawdry activities of the Regency period, which, like the 1920's, must have been a time of exhuberance after a similarly exhausting war (Napoleon's). Ross skillfully evokes the colors and morals of the period. It would only take listening to a disc of John Field or Franz Schubert's piano music to complete wrapping you in the period mood.<br />The &quot;upstairs&quot; dandy, the style-setting fashion-plate Julian Kestrel, is in fact a sentimental rescuer of the naive groom and bride in a remote country house. His &quot;downstairs&quot; servant is a low-life who speaks the amusing cant of thievery (his previous, but useful, occupation until Kestrel's rescue, again). Kestrel becomes a covert (undignified) private sleuth in the course of this first book in the series. While Kestrel is undoubtedly the principal character, narrative viewpoints do shift among the main characters, sometimes rapidly, so one glimpses many motivations, not always generous, that it would be hard for Kestrel to discover alone. One character comments on the original Gothic novels by Mrs. Radcliffe, although ghosts and terror are most minor parts here. I find it a little hard to credit Kestrel's initial motivation for sleuthing on his own, but he's not really a vapid dandy and once he starts it's fun to follow. A map of the house, which Kestrel eventually acquires (but does not show us), would have been a helpful aid in visualizing the scenes.	2001-06-13
US	52618134	RV3STZRR43CO9	0935526765	189417809	Ramage (The Lord Ramage Novels) (Volume 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Exhilarating fare	Everything about this story is over-the-top: Ramages' incredible luck and skill (after surrendering his frigate) in boldly carrying out his mission in nothing but an unarmed ship's boat, his loyal and adoring seamen, his disgraced but virtuous Admiral-father-Lord, his mean but laughably incompetent enemies who shoot each other with ball or word, the lovingly described Italian landscape, and not least, diffidently falling in love with the utterly beautiful, noble and powerful damsel whom he rescues. The latter is handled with a romance novel cliche, the man obdurately misunderstanding the woman's intent. Lord Ramage can walk in the best circles or rough it with sailors and peasants; all characters seem fixed in the mold in which Ramage first sees them. Pope goofs when the French-occupied frigate Ramage rescues fails to employ sternchasers against Ramage's approach in its supposed blindspot. Napoleon's soldiers weren't as incompetent handling artillery or holding their ranks as depicted, but then they are enemies too.<br />Dudley Pope has conducted much research, as he reminds us by tacking on occasional dry passages of customs. His narrative is closer to a day by day and even minute by minute story than most.  Such detail can become tedious as in the long trips in open boats, or the slow approach to a night shore. Nevertheless, this is an entertainment, a story of extremes, and hugely enjoyable if no more is required. It reminds me more of a pep-book Marryat than Forester (with whose Hornblower Ramage allegedly first shipped out!). I look for lots of &quot;texture,&quot; local color, and sail handling in a nautical story (having finally figured out what most of O'Brian's esoteric lingo means), so I'm going to continue this series before I return to Kent's contemporary Bolitho series.	2001-06-12
US	52618134	R3H48IO2MAZ6RG	0935526412	575383576	Midshipman Bolitho (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 1)	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Anchor's a-weigh	First in a nautical series modeled on Forester's Hornblower, the action and settings are intriguing although the prose lags a bit, never catching the music of Forester. Really two &quot;peacetime&quot; stories, Bolitho is already an experienced midshipman (lowest officer) when he and his buddies invest a pirate island off Africa, and in the second tale hunt smugglers and a particularly canny &quot;wrecker&quot; luring vessels to a rocky doom on Cornwall's shore. One learns considerable of 18th century customs on land and sea, some of its morals, and hears several amusing dialects. I couldn't always visualize the ship handling. Among the second tier authors, Woodman's dour Drinkwater feels more authentic, but &quot;Alexander Kent&quot; provides a better read and one that would appeal to younger readers, given the more heroic than introspective Bol-LYE-tho, and his more modern sensitivities for his men. The cover painting by Geoffrey Huband has a darkly authentic look to it, but I didn't recognize the scene in the actual text.	2001-06-11
US	52618134	R26ALDFR8NOQ0R	1574090984	852119835	In Distant Waters: #8 A Nathaniel Drinkwater Novel (Mariners Library Fiction Classic)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Rather distanced, indeed.	Following on BALTIC MISSION, Woodman again shows us British-Russian enmities, but here far, far from the European scene of the previous seven novels. Now 1808, Capt. Drinkwater's frigate rounds the cape and heads to the Northern Pacific, experiencing a long slide of morale among his crew of sailors too long without shore leave. For once he is not on a spy mission. He encounters a dishonorable Spanish captain and perfidy, intrigues his way through Spanish San Francisco with the help of a beautiful woman, runs afoul of bad luck and helpless defeat, and is bested by a Yankee mountain man. The book climaxes in a series of violent encounters with the Russians, who are moving on (British) Oregon from Alaska in alliance with Spain. This is an unusual but true setting for one of the more remote encounters of the Napoleonic Wars, the world's first true World War of global empires. <br />These are well-crafted and authentic sounding stories, but without the infectious humor of a Forester or O'Brian, or the gusto of Lambdin. Woodman writes in a style that is a little too serious and grim to evoke my empathy or wonder, and skips too quickly through the battle scenes. He doesn't quite seem to love the sea and those who sail upon it. IMHO, the better sailing-navy authors I've read would rank as: O'Brian and Forester, Lambdin and the new Stockwin, Woodman, with real Capt. Murryat and Adm. Mack below the line. (Sheridan House omits three of the early books from its Drinkwater republication list, but is printed on better stock than the earlier, execrable but much cheaper, Time Warner pb edition.)	2001-06-07
US	52618134	R1FU67254FT1NT	0316289124	254335526	Mr. Midshipman Hornblower (Hornblower Saga (Paperback))	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Superb start	This is the start (biographically speaking) to the thrilling Horatio Hornblower series set in the British navy at the culmination of the Age of Fighting Sail two centuries ago. Here are 10 short stories that fill out the early background for the original Capt. Hornblower trilogy (Beat to Quarters, et seq.). Each story reveals a successive character-forming or -revealing stage in Hornblower's emergence from abject misery, through disaster, small success, and capture, to a leader with a passion for action. Curiously, however, we learn nothing of his family or who bought his way aboard ship. <br />Patrick O'Brian's Aubrey-Maturin series may take you authentically deeper into the lives and concerns of able sailors and quarterdeck commanders, but no one's prose scintillates like Forester's. His writing is flowing, precise, colorful, and atmospheric. With stirring descriptions and flashes of humor, he leaves a tingle of pride in Hornblower's excellence and goodness amidst a harsh and butcherous, but passionate, world. (Dewey Lambdin's LEWRIE rather exploits and revels in it instead.) Far from the boys' adventure stories of a bombastic figure I once thought would be Hornblower, he is shy and insecure (until gripped by a brilliant battle madness), and enmeshed in real historical situations and events (although their larger political contexts during the French revolution may not be so clear as in, for example, Woodman's rather gray DRINKWATER series).  <br />The Back Bay pb edition is appropriately old-fashioned in appearance. It lacks any &quot;navigational aids,&quot; like ship diagrams or maps. Those who have finished Hornblower might want to keep an eye out for the vivid new series by Julian Stockwin entitled KYDD (and to avoid the new one by W.P.Mack). For the landsmen's view of the Napoleonic Wars there is, of course, Cornwell's outstanding SHARPE series.	2001-05-31
US	52618134	RQUCGAMM5SET3	0446606669	234515585	Dinosaur Summer	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Disappointed	This is an exciting lost world dinosaurs story. It really seems pitched at young readers rather than adults, and not only due to its teenage hero. It is not particularly uuplifting fare for kids, however, as there are many nasty people here, many disappointments, and nothing much profound to pique a grownup's interest. The adventures are rather fantastical, yet there is nothing of ethereal fantasy in this gritty story by an author who is usually among the better SF authors.<br />If you DO like this, note that Time Warner has once again printed a book on excreble paper. I bought the first pb issue and two years later the pages are already yellowed. Does no one save their favorite books anymore, or to read to the grandkids someday, or is TW simply contemptuous of its customers?	2001-05-30
US	52618134	R3LP2RWIPJT46F	0425178269	18719325	Captain Kilburnie	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A first nautical book.	This sea story is suitable for youth or adults new to the &quot;Fighting Sail&quot; genre. W.P. Mack, a retired U.S. Admiral, writes of an impetuous Scot lad who advances to command through unusual maritime situations during the War of the French Revolution. Amid typical shot, storm, and stupidity, Kilburnie wins through to command and love, but fails to charm me. This book is notable for including family, social, and hospital scenes, and is particularly good at showing how political &quot;interest&quot; (patronage) could work to advance a young man's naval career, despite his alleged handicap of Scottish ancestry. At several points Mack helpfully instructs in basic seamanship and jargon, but by and large sail handling is not critical to the story, which is shaped more as a biography of Kilburnie. Withal, Kilburnie rises rather easily in the author's hands and is on the way to achieving his goals with less sweat and conflict than usually depicted in novels of this type. He is always loved by his men (without convincingus us), and gets on with garrulous subordinates as if they were buddies. These contemporary American values are expressed in prose that is best described as &quot;in ordinary:&quot; flat, a bit simplistic, emotionally sanitized, and lacking dialogue in British dialects. Thus Mack also misses the flavour of the better historical novels of English naval warfare two centuries ago. Only if your appetite is whetted here and you thirst for more naval cant, lore, adventure, and atmosphere should you try that paragon of obscure and inexplicable prose and period, Patrick O'Brian, by way of C.S. Forester's Hornblower saga.<br />While Mack disappoints me in his shallow characterization and awkward style, this could be a good start for beginners in the genre--a quick overview--and is a quality large paperback. Although this will have a sequel, I am much more excited about the hugely promising new KYDD series by Julian Stockwin, a true British captain.	2001-05-30
US	52618134	R2BYP0TVMMTTF8	0553579177	342675383	Spirit Sickness	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Sickening violence	This second Turnipseed &amp; Parker action-mystery of western Indian country law enforcement is an intensifying knock-down battle, and furthers the deepening relationship between the two as well. It has a fair number of scary moments and damage to our heroes (no wonder Parker fears rookie Turnipseed will quit). I doubt the FBI would really sanction rookie Turnipseed taking charge of the entire manhunt operation, Indian Policman Parker's trial-by-fire way of curing her. Although the settings are grand and desert, the author pays little attention to them or the building of any atmosphere except dread, squalor, and the brutality of human life. There's also a lot more heart-pounding physicality and culture conflict than in Hillerman's stories of Chee &amp; Leaphorn, and the lore of the Navaho and the desert seem perfunctory and disjointed. I couldn't figure out how Trunipseed derived the final target of the monstrous but well-trained serial killer, in order to set up her trap. The villain has been thoroughly touched by a species of sadistic Patricia-Cornwellian dementia. Besides a background in policing, author Mitchell seems to know alot about psychology, for a central personality dynamic here is a long-running pre-lovers quarrel between the heroes. (It's something admirable that despite the opportunities in these stories no one has yet been bedded; instead of prurient interest the author relies on old fashioned unrequited sexual tension to drive the main characters.) The story felt like an L.A. noir story transplanted to a more empty locale, with its gangs, thirst, and endless driving around.	2001-05-27
US	52618134	R1SGOAF8Z6EI9K	0743214587	959873800	Kydd: A Novel.	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Brilliant debut	\\"'Ooray,\\" a retired British skipper has begun another great new \\"Age of Fighting Sail\\" series (2 more vols. in work)! Beginning as a pressed man torn from home upon the outbreak of (22 years of) war with revolutionary France in 1793, young Kydd starts all confused, and he/we first learn our position (the lubberly bottom) and shipboard duties (brute labor) at the end of screamed gibberish or slashing \\"starter\\" rope (no shore classes in those days). This is the only Napoleonic maritime series I know whose hero actually begins \\"before the mast,\\" rather than as a petty officer (Lambden, Woodman) or a captain already (Forester [with only episodic flashbacks], O'Brian). [I also don't know of any series that gives a contrasting French take to all these Limey views of \\"the Frogs,\\" and Americy.] It's also nice to have a view from inside a first-rate (100 gun) ship, for so many series have never reached that exhalted point from their initial sloops and frigates (O'Brian). Kydd gradually \\"learns the ropes\\" as his old, leaky, and f&#339;tid ship sails to meet a French squadron in vividly described battle. Then his promising (yet so far unheroic) rise in the Navy takes a fateful lurch in the last chapters that promises to change all our expectations for the series. But here I think the story ends more hastily, conventionally, and less terrifyingly than it might have done (so, 4.5 star review actually).<br />The series will celebrate the rare type of hard man who managed to grab onto and then climb to the top of the Naval ladder of command without \\"interest\\" and by his prodigious talent and luck alone. Kydd's personality falls between the randy worldliness of Lambden's Lewrie, the patriotic idealism of Forester's Hornblower, and the ruminations of O'Brian's Aubrey-Maturin pair. The supporting characters are highly individual, interesting, and engage in wonderfully dialectic dialogue. For the realism and suspenseful interest of this series, it's good to know that leading chaactersare subject to random death like any other Jack Tar. No sure thing on a sailing ship of war. <br />Stockwin writes well, crisply, and spiritedly, with what I thought was exactly the right level of sharply observed sea-faring detail (the smells are almost palpable, too). There's enough of sail handling to confuse a lubber, but not to obscure the story. Readers new to sailing stories would be helped by the addition of rigging and wind-rose diagrams to future editions (or consult Dean King's A SEA OF WORDS). The HB dj painting by Goeff Hunt captures remarkably the settings for much of Kydd's activities on the three-decker. This is a gripping start for the Kydd series, may it prosper. I'll ship out for the voyage.	2001-05-27
US	52618134	R1SXKNSU0LPXA2	0345360362	464809317	Highland Laddie Gone (Elizabeth MacPherson)	Books	1	2	6	N	N	Aye peppy, but no fer me	If peppy murder stories are your bag, here's one. Recommended to me as a Scottish forensics story, the jolly setting is Highland Games (caber tossing and fling dancing) but actually set in the hills of W. Virgina. Apparently third in a series featuring forensic specialist Elizabeth MacPhearson, she is facetious, chipper, sassy, and distances herself with clever wordplay. A number of characters are set up as people you'd love to hate (suspects) and then events are allowed to spin out apparently from those conflicts. There's no agonizing over relationships, just &quot;off with their heads.&quot; A fast, light, vacation read for those times when you want to let the author do all the work. In fact, this is so fleet, light, and smooth, it probably takes a major writing talent to pull it off. The paper quality is strictly throwaway. <br />Nevertheless, I learned something from this book: maybe I don't appreciate jocular murders. I know, I know: it's fiction, it's just a story, no more significant than a drive-by shooting....	2001-05-17
US	52618134	RTAF42J8OJSBO	0553576305	727642571	Vast	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Vastly creative	Although nothing on the Bantam pb hints at it, this is a sequel to Deception Well I should have read first (and possibly the Bohr Maker and Tech Heaven, too, for the origins of the technology?). The characters and desperate situation are already fully formed as this escape-by-sentient-spaceship adventure begins, but you have clues and time to reconstruct enough of their history and motivation during the slow chase that begins the story (stretching over years, you'll wish you could enter cold sleep, too). The story is simple: 5 humans of future aspect, perhaps the only ones left, confined to their ship on a fixed trajectory to the enemy's homeland. That said, Nagata presents an amazingly original, ingenious, and convincingly detailed universe. Every so often a stunning revelation really twisted my perspective on the story in astonishing directions. The pursuing Chenzeme are as alien a thing as I've ever read in SF, convincingly different, chemically adaptable, implacable, and ageless machines, or perhaps bio-machines just pursuing sexual congress! The story is full of concentrated invention, a whole new realm of polymentalist humans, versions of self-cloning aptly termed &quot;ghosting,&quot; planet creation, and more. What is unsettling about Nagata's talent is how, just as I got my mind around one thrilling new alien concept, it morphs into something further, or still another entirely new idea appears. While the human interactions don't go much beyond &quot;the eternal triangle&quot; as new individuals are created, the intellectual fascination is what kept me reading through the slow parts, to a more exciting if abrupt end as they break out of their confining &quot;core.&quot;	2001-05-17
US	52618134	RK4DHI13JHTZN	0380728273	196701038	Liberty Falling (Anna Pigeon Mysteries)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Author Rising	More intensely personal than her earlier adventures, this story opens with an already distraught Anna Pigeon, Park Ranger, attending on her deathly sick confidant and sister in the urban jungle of NYC, while bunking with a friend on Liberty Statue Island. This story has greater philosophical, or morose, depth to the character, full of ruminations, and glorying in the decay of once urban splendor. I don't recall such a passionate dislike of cities on Anna's part. The scenes shift between New York harbor and the uptown hospital, islands of familiarity connected by the subway. She effectively communicates feeling very alone in a crowded city, her sister dying, a lover wandering, a roommate hostile. Barr employs the current ghost fad, but to her own ends to create a creepy and vaguely sinister Ellis Island. <br />Many clues to the subtly developing mysteries are dropped, but I wrote most off as just part of a coincidental ghost story given for atmosphere. There's even one amazing point where Anna actually lists all the clues flat out, as the eureka moment flashes into her bruised head, although much remained unclear in mine. Very effective. Barr's writing has improved steadily, abetted by the fact each story is different and appropriate to wildly different National Park settings: mountain, lake, cliff, forest, beach, cavern, and now historical statue. She gives us some of the local insider lore in Anna's conversations, but skillfully avoids potted &quot;ranger lectures.&quot; Hmm, what's left to do...river, military, museum, scenic, volcanic.... Anywhere I look forward to the next.	2001-04-12
US	52618134	R1665IV3JAU0JH	0312209282	12186643	Last Seen in Massilia:  A Novel of Ancient Rome	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Ancient Tragedies	There's no murder case in this story, or rather many little mysteries. It is 49 B.C, Gaius Julius Caesar (&quot;Red-head&quot;) has crossed the Rubicon in the previous story, and is currently off pursuing rival Pompey the Great in Spain. Gordianus the Finder is looking for his lost son, who is thought to be holed up in rebellious Massilia (Marseilles), and a traitor to Caesar. An unusual number of intriguing bits of ancient lore and custom are woven into the text: a Celtic death temple, fire horns, a sacrificial Scapegoat, philosophical Fallacy of the Veiled Woman, the peculiar hierarchy of Greek Massilia. These vignettes compensate for the usual flattness of Saylor's writing.<br />The only reason I don't give 5 stars is the lack of Saylor's usual clever historical mystery featuring some famous Roman. A fully historical SITUATION at the dawn of the Roman Empire is credibly reconstructed from scattered ancient sources, and offers a &quot;you-are-there&quot; realism and vibrancy to a city besieged by Caesar's forces. The several mysteries seemed to rise almost incidental to a much fuller exploration of Gordianus's character and philosphy of life, among a series of well diversified characters. I very much like this series, which takes a tragic turn here, but may have to recalibrate my expectations in favor of character over sleuthing. The hardback has some annoyances in the proof and printing department.	2001-04-07
US	52618134	R34PAZPBOJJ92S	1581821239	930021356	Airtight Case: A Lindsay Chamberlain Novel (Lindsay Chamberlain Mysteries)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Rich	This is a sprawling, richly detailed, and multi-level novel. 100 pages longer than the others in this fascinating series, it is 300 pages before the first skelton appears, and more mysteries are still arising rather than a promise of resolution. An indulgently developed air of menace appears through small incidents and chilling events, perhaps made worse if you know something about human bones and see the macabre coming. Connor has loaded the story with so many subplots I had no idea which was the main one. Mysterious events emerge in the present: forensic anthropologist Lindsay Chamberlains's paranoid amnesia from an episode of live burial, drugs and conflicts of leadership, possibly stolen documents, ancient epigrams, ownership questions, hillbilly enmity, lead coffins, and local protestors. Then there's 150 years ago on the remote and ghostly defunct farmstead site the archaeological team is excavating, and the still earlier shadowy owners of 250 years ago who may hold the key to the architectural and archaeological mysteries. At least four fully realized main characters roam these pages, and many secondary ones who are either interesting or threatening. Only in the last 50 pages do these threads really begin to come together and the bodies begin to appear in surprising places. I realized a whole series of eerie crimes have been committed and cleverly glossed over. Like Poe's Purloined Letter, everything is hidden in plain sight in a seamless tangle of everyday events, words, and circumstances. If Lindsay weren't smart, inquisitive, and recklessly brave, I still wouldn't know what had happened, as the ending comes so quickly. Lindsay also is called upon to display mastery of documentary, social, folkloric, and historical skills hitherto unsuspected. <br />This novel has more Smokey Mountains lore than the last (Skeleton Crew), and seems to me more a novel of character, atmosphere, and psychology than a straightforward &quot;mystery.&quot; With that realization, Ithink this fifth novel of all in the series will most reward rereading. Connor has become a really good author. It is really just that her publisher has begun to issue paperbacks, for Connor deserves a wider audience.	2001-04-01
US	52618134	R1EPYZU5WGVRV9	1581820429	509026276	Skeleton Crew (Lindsay Chamberlain Mysteries)	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	Connor's Best	Skeleton Crew, Connor's fourth volume, is the best Lindsay Chamberlain forensics story yet. It benefits in focus by occurring on a small island 5 miles off the Georgia coast, where University of Georgia Athens has a luxurious archaeological project underway to raise a sunken Spanish supply galleon--in dangerous competition with lurking privateers who think it was a homeward bound treasure ship instead. The archaeology of the dig is realistic, with normal procedures and lab techniques actually contributing clues to the modern mystery of suspicious attacks, disappearances, or death. A set of maps helps make the excavation, as well as the adventure, intelligible. Lindsay's fascinating specialized contributions on bone analysis (given with a light touch) actually are focused on the intriguing parallel story of a newly discovered journal written by one of the sailors actually on that ill-fated galleon. That unusual old account, too, has its mysteries, ones gradually resolved during its translation while also becoming entwined with the solution to the modern puzzle. This plotting of two stories, one ancient one modern, each informing the other, is a happy device to animate dry archaeological detail that Connors first used in vol. 2, the memorable Questionable Remains, to equally great effect. And you get two stories for the price of one!<br />Still lighter in touch than Cornwell's Dr. Scarpetta, Connor's skeleton detective has a number of serious adventures, a spectacular hurricane danger, and many osteological discoveries recreating the lives of the departed. These are stories of character and Southern customs, as well as leisurely unfolding mysteries. It is wonderful to see Connors becoming a skilled writer. Her villains are still a bit obvious, but then again they are often red herrings! I am also so glad Lindsay has dropped her fading beau of the first three novels, Derrick. Their relationship was becoming an annoying distraction, a romance cliche, dysfunctional, anddetracting from the image of Lindsay as an intelligent independent woman. Instead we now find Lindsay growing a mature relationship with a Native American antagonist from a previous book, and it is a real contribution to the development of the plot and our interest in these characters. In addition, Lindsay has a new boss--hopefully to become a series character--who adds his slightly devious and moneyed machinations to help speed the plot along. All in all these books are ever more fascinating reading.	2001-03-27
US	52618134	R2BFDWUVR7O9MM	0425155501	255316313	Murder in Grub Street (Sir John Fielding)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Historical novel	As others say, there's not much mystery here. But I enjoyed the atmospheric story of 1750's London street life, the new civil police, religious conspiracies and debate, criminal jurisprudence, and the effects of windstorms. I liked the contexts provided for famous but hitherto isolated things like Bedlam, Co(n)vent Gardens, coffehouses, Boswell's Samuel Johnson, Henry Fielding (Tom Jones), and the famous Grub Street itself (scene of the bloodiest events). The writing is quite &quot;proper&quot; and rather sentimentalizes boy hero Jeremy, aide to the blind Judge Fielding, but includes an intriguing dollop of the &quot;flash&quot; street slang of the day, in the person of a street urchin who one hopes becomes a regular in the series. In an odd way the major events of the second half, when the evil genius has been singled out, are a reprise of the first: the type of murder, the undertaker, the street vendor, the reformed prostitute, the urchin, all come back rather as goody-goodies.	2001-03-11
US	52618134	R29EZK6EKCL28Y	0446608904	78981579	The Martian Race	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Good story, bad binding	Benford continues as one of the leading lights of plausible SCIENCE fiction.  This story touches many of the same concerns as Robinson's magnificent multi-generational Mars trilogy, but limits itself to the trials of getting there (voluntarily funded via the commercial marketplace), and to the initial search for life forms. Although the technical problems and descriptions seem realistic and solid, the real emphasis is on the life forms. First there's the attention given to the relationships between the astronauts in training and cooped up for two years, and with their controllers and competitors. This as a paean to American capitalism: they get it done fast and cheap and for everyone through commerce, while NASA with all its redundancies and tight spin control blows up in politicians' faces. Then Benford also explores the fascinating possibilities for anaerobic Martian life, which I found quite thrilling. I thought the story rather petered out near the end, not so much leaving hooks for a sequel[?] as too quick to resolve a sudden crisis with a pat communal solution for all the worlds' ills. This after the socialist Airbus effort has conveniently caused the crisis, through too much haste in an effort to show up the private Mars effort and steal their amazing discoveries. <br />The &quot;Aspect&quot; paperback began to fall apart by p.62, the most execrable publishing job I've seen in over a decade. Time Warner should receive market revenge: no sales! If you think this is a keeper, the hardback might do (but it's also from Time Warner, who shows here they could care less).	2001-02-24
US	52618134	R3TEMPFVJP7N4I	0140231706	502785255	Berlin Noir: March Violets; The Pale Criminal; A German Requiem	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Ugly Good	(Couldn't say &quot;Pretty Good&quot; about the Nazis.) I liked Kerr's atmospheric description of the 1936 Berlin setting, inhabitants, slang, and notorious characters, even though it is written over 40 years later. The cover photo of a dark and foggy street is redolent of the infamous Nazi policy of Nacht und Neble, what we now call &quot;Disappearance&quot; in today's tiresome totalitarianisms. Ex-&quot;bull&quot; PI Gunther makes a career of finding the missing. He is on the outs with everyone (except a couple of drop-dead gorgeous women), but is inexorably sucked into the sewer of National Socialism as he pursues an ostensible murder and theft in MARCH VIOLETS. For some reason Kerr puts great emphasis on tracking him through precise street addresses and intersections (but doesn't provide a map). I'm a bit put off by Gunther's bouts of hardboiled flippancy--this too-obvious Chandler/Hammett gambit (even Goering is a fan!)--that for me recurrently broke into the spell of the oppressive ambiance of random fear built up in the novel. The plot ramifies aimlessly for a good part, until two revelatory plot reversals shook my carefully nurtured beliefs and pulled the threads together. However, by then the obsessive (and historically accurate) intrigue among the Nazi heavies had me mistrusting anything, even the author! The ending seems coincidental and strangely inconclusive, leaving Gunther's love life particularly hanging, perhaps for the sequel. Or perhaps the ending is just hush-hush (the creepy Gestapo might be watching US, don't you know?).	2001-02-11
US	52618134	R6LKS882LY20J	0060951974	771081045	Sharpe's Triumph: Richard Sharpe and the Battle of Assaye, September 1803 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #2)	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Early Sharpe, redux	This is the second novel of Sgt. Sharpe's early service (following TIGER), set in exotic India with places, battles, and currents of empire-building of which most American's haven't the faintiest idea. Here we finally see the enigmatic event (long alluded to in the original Sharpe series set later in Spain) that forever indebts the future Duke of Wellington to Sharpe; that icy young general in not one but two brilliant actions; Sharpe at his most ferocious ever; Sgt. Hakesbill at his absolute evil worst, consumed with jealousy and private revenge; and Sharpe receiving his first promotion to officer. After a meandering buildup, which includes a convincing Temptation of Sharpe by private pay, the climactic battle scene is horrendous, a vast set piece in front of Assaye where we witness the extreme heroism of the steadfast Scottish 78th under shot, shell, and shrapnel, 600 men (at the start) who rout 100,000. Just incredible. The battle that made the reputation of imperturbable Wellington. As usual, Cornwell brings the era alive through his details of everyday life, without the excessive technical fascination of techno-novels.	2001-02-06
US	52618134	R33MOE0Z8981VX	0500051038	973860385	Chronicle of the Maya Kings and Queens: Deciphering the Dynasties of the Ancient Maya	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	Excitingly political	Highly recommended as a short, accessible, and not too technical introduction to Maya political history during the Classic Period (first millenium A.D.). Simon Martin is a brilliant young English art scholar and Nikolai Grube an outstanding epigrapher from Bonn. They collaborated to propose a new theory of grand shifting alliances among ancient Maya city states that roiled the Yucatan Peninsula 1500 years ago. This Chronicle (one in a Thames &amp; Hudson series) includes that and more: it is an event-based chronicle of all the best known rulers of the ancient Maya world as currently inferred from their own pictorial hieroglyphics. It is a wonderful supplement for people interested in the Maya, with an exciting new history to outline. <br />There IS a chronological narrative running through it, but really this is a book to be studied. Only the 11 most powerful (or well-documented) Maya city states are presented in full. After a brief introduction to Maya history, five chapters trace the glyph-based histories of the most important cities (including Tikal and Calakmul). Then six chapters cover as many peripheral cities with full records (like Palenque and Copan), concluding with the fall of the kings. The text is festooned with innumerable photographs, line drawings of hieroglyphs and royalty, explanatory captions, kings' names, biographical tables, sidebars on archaeological topics,  views of buildings, and shaded city plans. Helping you keep track of the impossible (and often similar) names are king headers and timeline footers. A useful bibliography and name (not topic) index complete the book<br />This book is not intended as a guide to famous ruins nor does it deal with the popular subject of Maya religion and cosmos. It deals with the political outcomes of the scheming and murder that underpinned all that. It does not provide glyph by glyph readings (as Schele and Mathews do for many of the same cities in the very different CODE OF KINGS). The book is printed onfine paper in Slovenia. (Hopefully we shall soon see some good novels fleshing out the bloody tales implied here.)	2001-01-30
US	52618134	R2V3C4ERQZZ49Y	0553582097	588527292	Unsolicited: A Booklover's Mystery (Booklover's Mysteries)	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Mixed	This is the first of a series of thrillers exposing the working of the publishing industry (as Dick Francis exposes horse racing). Kaewert's hero, Alex Plumtree, a small publisher, starts in the Dick Francis mold (a determined, lone, moral, thirty-something), but is more garrulous, ironic, and timid, and is tiresomely subjected to the romance cliche of misunderstandings between destined lovers.<br />Unsolicited is a very mixed bag. It has everything--characters, books, beatings, murders, locales, speeding cars, love, spooks, gadgets, sailing--but not a polished author (maybe because it's her first mystery/thriller). After an awkwardly written start, it begins to roll and contains an amazing amount of incident, intrigue, and driving around London, parts of which grabbed my attention. But it doesn't contain the really fascinating insights into the publishing industry promised by the series subtitle (&quot;A Booklover's Mystery&quot;). (John Dunning does that for book collecting, in his splendid pair of &quot;Bookman&quot; mysteries). Instead this is a bit fluffy, a vacation read. <br />Kaewert's prose is a curious mix of English and American, perhaps reflecting her mixed background (and poor editing). Without the thwarted romance to pique one's interest the jury-rigged plotting might fall apart over its leaps in logic and &quot;intuition&quot; (which do, however, keep it moving right along, and closer to the concealed plotting behind the events). It's one of those stories in which both 1) just enough of the hero's history is given so you know why he happens to have exactly the skills needed for survival, and 2) of course no one ever does the obvious when they're beaten, burned out, or trashed, like go to the police. Bantam Books is determined you don't know which novel (of the 5) follows which (and perhaps the paper will self-destruct before you find out). So I can't tell you until I've read another, which I may do because I still found the subject and excitement attractive.	2001-01-19
US	52618134	R57XM9ACVDKA3	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Enthralling	Oh, wow, folks, this is a great one. This tale of two families, one of emotional poverty the other merely poor, drew me in as fast as I could read. I chose the book because of its combination of artist and historical atmosphere, but got an engrossing, touching, and well-plotted story as well. It feels as if Chevalier has truthfully captured the sad, proud tale of an anonymous, enigmatic girl painted by Vermeer (the real Painter of Light). Reviwers seem deeply split: yes, it is slow, because scenes and characters are fully developed, not always enviable human beings, and little overt action takes place, in this intimate look at family lives and the ties that bind (as in rub). Who knows what Vermeer's family life was really like? Chevalier imagines a great deal from the details of one painting, and convincingly so in at least the novelistic sense. <br />Appropriately in a story that concerns (but is not exactly about) a great painter, Chevalier wonderfully expresses the play of color and light in her descriptions. Chevalier's writing style is expert, smooth and observant, and produces a richly evocative sense of place and social condition in one corner of Delft, Holland, in 1664. I found far more than I had sought in this memorable novel. A quality paperback, too. The only improvement would be an edition with more vignettes of the paintings mentioned.	2001-01-14
US	52618134	R2NK2MKP4GBQ9L	0679893105	994627826	The Golden Compass (His Dark Materials, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Amazon.com Scores!	A personalized Amazon.com recommendation pays off! Golden Compass is a soaring and scary book, a captivating many-layered tale of a classic Great Quest (aside from momentary stumbles into simplicity). Yet the tale is modern in tone because the ultimate goal is not made clear, and is only incompletely revealed in small steps in this first book of a trilogy. Even the scintillating conclusion here is only a sunlit precipice edging on a vague promise. The clever authorial misdirection parallels the growth in experience of the determined heroine, Lyra, as she passes through increasingly grand and chilling events beyond her youthful ken, or ours. The fantasy and magic here is far more in Pullman's imagining and skillful writing than in the grittily mundane, yet alien and strangely distorted, Victorian mechanical age from which the story is built. <br />This pb edition is very nicely composed and printed, but its paper may not survive to the heirloom status it deserves. The trilogy might take its place in the firmament of classics for the young at heart like My Secret Garden, Anne of Green Gables, or A Wrinkle in Time. Another English series, Harry Potter, is more contemporary and droll, and explicitly magicked, than this. I wouldn't want to be without either.	2001-01-08
US	52618134	R1OYZFSBGMCX2O	0199172420	298031446	The Ancient City: Life in Classical Athens and Rome	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Revelatory	Ah, so that's what it looked like; so that's where it fits! Visitors (in mind or fact) to the Cradle of Democracy or The Eternal City can consult Connolly's stunning views to great advantage in developing an historical mind's eye for place, and understanding how settings reflect and shape events. Although the glossy book is a bit oversize for travelers, it's a fabulous companion to history books (or modern novels and mysteries set in the Classical World, like those of Renault, McCullough, Saylor, or Davis!). The outstanding feature is Connolly's illustrations, which include both sweeping and minutely detailed views of cityscapes, and  detail, cut-away, and exploded views of structures, often showing their original decorative colors. Also included by way of both illustration and documentation are a number of topographic models that provide the natural settings; building plans; ancient paintings and figured vases; several charts; and many photographs and drawings of remnants and artifacts. With all these aids you can think yourself far into the city. <br />A really surprising amount of basic knowledge and trivia is presented graphically and in concise sections of text. The details are an utterly fascinating introduction to life and belief in Greek and Roman cities, and delve well below the level of the well-known archons and emperors. This results in a great conjunction between history and archaeology. Organization is largely topical for each city, Athens and Rome: brief political history, then material underpinnings of work, water, and daily life, then religion, and entertainments. Throughout, the authors illustrate and discuss successive changes to the fabric of each city, which help to make sense of the tattered bits and pieces you see today. Although the present state of ruins, especially Roman, is often shown in photographs, I missed maps or overlays showing where the standing bits fit. A true fault is that maps and plans lack scales and compass arrows for orientation.	2001-01-08
US	52618134	R2U5WXPXBIUMSG	0806130768	504529632	Rio Azul: An Ancient Maya City	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	A Maya City Revealed	This is one of a small number of reports on individual Maya archaeological sites that is written for laypeople as well as fans of the Maya. Rio Azul was a riverside city of the ancient Maya located in the forested lowland corner of Guatemala next to Mexico and Belize. The book is an excellent introduction to the format and reasoning of archaeological reports, but in this popular summary of his findings, Adams, who directed mapping and excavation a decade ago, digests all the numbing lists of basic data and highlights the most interesting discoveries. (If new to the Maya, follow the author's advice [Preface] and read his stirring conclusions first.) In his early chapters Adams ably shows how insights and broad implications can be drawn from simple facts by analysis and wide comparisons. He explores his favorite topics like architecture, pottery, tomb ritual, wetland agriculture, population estimation, and rank-size ordering of sites for determining political relations. He has long championed military explanations for ancient Maya events and the rise and fall of their cities, a useful counterpoise to the euphoria over Maya religion and personalities generated by the recent decipherment of Maya hieroglyphics. Strong on comparisons with the regional capital, famous Tikal, to the west, Adams almost ignores the extensive investigations across the river in Belize which he has since led! (This book seems to have been about 5 years in publication.) <br />Other than six color plates, 60 illustrations are slightly fuzzy because they are printed on ordinary paper. The index is terrible. A completely different way of presenting a Maya city, which looks an awful lot like Rio Azul, can be enjoyed in the oversize pictorial book of fictionalized history titled San Rafael: A Central American City Through the Ages, by Xavier Hernandez.	2001-01-07
US	52618134	R1VVZ32KO4UCU9	0440234964	775860330	All or Nothing	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Passionate thriller	I enjoyed my first Adler because I liked her effervescent characters, even though they are too perfectly gorgeous. The heroes are breezy, flip, active, and passionately self-absorbed characters. They are presented as if nothing else existed in their lives: no legal class prep, no other clients; how nice. They like eating out, and we get their menus, as well as learning of their ever-changing clothing (or lack). The Baedecker's worth of restaurants seems worth visiting, but as a non-Angeleo I can't verify they're real. The cross-country sleuthing is clever, if expensive for a P.I. with no visible income. <br />Adler is a good writer, with clever turns of phrase and capable descriptions. Is there any significance that she seems to have a dynamic Jewish P.I. duo pursuing a satanic, fallen Baptist killer? Adler has the tough lingo and soft manly man attitude to a T. She likes to write, and writes with a gusto that carrried me right along. I may read more of Adler, especially since other reviewers say her other books are better than this fluff.	2000-12-18
US	52618134	R1T2XZMLW0N7ZB	0553578049	252391034	Wake of the Hornet	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Vacation fare	Light, fast fiction to be read on a tropical vacation. Imagine a Pacific island (&quot;Balesin,&quot; baleful sin?), Cargo Cult believers and killer crabs, CIA spooks, academics with axes to grind, old airplanes, an infatuated pilot, a typhoon, and WW II secrets. A discordant mix that eventuates in a wonderful concept behind the final resolution. Heroine Nick, in her third adventure, is every bit the tom-boy implied by her name, a modern (universally talented) woman with peppy repartee. Nick, her father, and other archaeologists do some exploring and observing of the ominous islanders (ethnography), but no one does any archaeology or forensics here, nor are they equipped for it. Also, despite their native-brewed mosquito repellent, I've never known one to work for long in a tropical forest. <br />Patricia Cornwell needn't &quot;move over&quot; for Val Davis. This is neither so bleak, scary, desperate, hard-bitten, accurate, atmospheric, nor well-written. Davis fantasizes about military-conspiracies everywhere. Editing could be better, some type is ugly, and the island map seems wrong in scale and compass.	2000-12-16
US	52618134	R1Y7XKSKDS1OE9	0316289396	236338073	Flying Colours (Hornblower Saga)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Hornblower triumphs!	Flying Colors (3rd in orig. trilogy) opens with Hornblower in French hands after his valiant action in Ship Of The Line. Thus we see another possible condition in the life of a Navy captain, although Napoleon is not so honourable a captor as he should be. Hornblower's subsequent escapes and victories are excitingly near-run things. In this story sometimes Fortune seems to smile too kindly, and is exasperatingly disparaged by HH. Nevertheless, by the end we are very proud of HH.<br />These are not at all the flashy novels of pure guts and glory I had expected (although this comes closest of the first three books). Despite his silly name, Hornblower is a doubt-ridden, but impassioned and charismatic, leader: we see both inner and outer aspects of the illusion of command. Ultimately he is an heroic figure, not merely the protagonist, as Forester no doubt intended, writing under the shadow of another continental monster, Hitler. <br />Forester's prose is flowing, like the rushing Loire stream at the center of this picaresque story, carefully crafted, without excess description or digressions (which some may find in O'Brian's comparable Aubrey/Maturin series). Curiously, I find O'Brian's characters more interesting than Hornblower--perhaps because they ARE loquacious while HH is self-sworn to silence--but Forester is more likely to draw me into reading into the wee hours.	2000-12-14
US	52618134	R3EIV8L00RMNFP	0060197005	832267718	Stonehenge: 2000 B.C.--A Novel	Books	2	10	14	N	N	I'm sorry...	...but I wasn't able to get far in this book. I came to it with high expectations, for I've enjoyed Mr. Cornwell's hard-bitten sailing adventures and his Richard Sharpe series, and thought he might make a go of it with Stonehenge. I am intrigued why and how Megalithic monuments were built, and archaeology can only provide nameless clues. However, after a few chapters I could no longer take the primitive dialogue and unlikable characters. <br />After reading a number of other equally unsatisfying pre-historical novels, I think the problem may not be mine, but is the general difficulty, for any author no matter how skilled, of writing a good story out of whole cloth, with no written, personalized, historical framework. After all, we can assign not a single person's name to Stonehenge; there are no chronicles from this pre-literate time. Thus there's nothing to force a real structure into a narrative, to present known conflicts of interest. We have no set of expectations for an author to work against, or surprise us by. This situation is quite different from writing truly historical novels set in ancient Egypt, Greece, Rome, the Middle Ages, or, potentially, China (see the Judge Dee series) and now the Maya. Instead, for a Neolithic or Paleolithic story, an author has to be fabulously creative, constructing a whole intricate world of social and economic relations as well as engrossing characters, from almost sheer imagination. Maybe it will take someone with talents in creating science fiction or fantasy worlds to do it right, or perhaps a collaboration. (Or I may, unfortunately, simply not know who has done it already?) I still have this book, in hopes I gave up too early and I'll give it another go someday.	2000-12-11
US	52618134	RPK6PUY6TJEEI	0316289361	341662961	Ship of the Line (Hornblower Saga (Paperback))	Books	5	35	37	N	N	Thrilling writing	As the preceding volume, Beat to Quarters, shows the end of a long voyage, so here we get to see the curious activities attending on the the start of another--the captain personally responsible for acquiring his crew and his victuals (and to be repaid from prizes possibly awarded from the sale of hoped-for captured enemy ships). Second in the original series (#6 in the whole), Ship of the Line soon sees Hornblower in the Mediterranean serving in a squadron of four under his near-lover's stodgy Admiral-husband. (We remain as achingly puzzled as Hornblower how the smart Lady Barbara could ever condescend to marry this wart.) Whenever Hornblower manages detached duty he is at his best, terrorizing the French, and their army(!), on the Catalan coast, where the sea crashes into the Pyrenees. <br />The action in this type of novel is not much fiction, but artful transformations of actual events from the long-running Napoleonic Wars, down to actual ship manoeuvres. As you read other naval novels, you will recognize certain episodes repeating, like the &quot;cutting out&quot; expedition here. Always they are put in different contexts, however, featuring a different cast of idiosyncratic characters. It is hard to devine why Hornblower has such fear and doubts about his own abilities, when he is worshipped by his men (more perspicacious than he!), and becomes absolutely possessed in hot battle, a human computer! He is a great contrast in this regard to O'Brian's stolid Capt. Aubrey, but that is one way in which each series is uniquely worth reading (similarly with Lambden's racy, or Woodman's severe, traversals of much of the same naval territory, up the same ladder of command). <br />Maybe I read too many modern novels, with their grimey action and prose to match, but C.S. Forester stands out as an impressively good writer because he lacks the crutches of gore and sex. I could not put this down; even though the author gives you chapter breaks, his measured cadence and rolling words just kept me going into the wee 'ours. There's a palpable joy to reading Forester. You become aware what an artful choice of words can do. I think if I read the whole Hornblower series one right after another, I would begin to sound like him! If the language of sailing ships is a mystery to you, the new DVD of A&amp;E's TV mini-series on Horatio Hornblower includes a glossary. But Forester does not delight in obscure, archaic expressions as does O'Brian. Having a nautical reference handy makes the confusing swirl of the climatic battle a little less of a muddle, although its horrifying devastation is quite clear enough already.	2000-12-11
US	52618134	RZ2DEBOV1HNF5	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	4	0	0	N	N	exciting combination	Really two stories in one: the mad scientist with a plausible time machine, and archeologists fulfilling their dream by actually visiting the past they've been studying. The long initial discussion of &quot;Quantum Teleportation&quot; is a good fictionalization of new theories. It is respectable and timely, too, for an article with the same title appeared in the April 2000 Scientific American magazine.<br />Most of the rest of the novel takes place in the well-described Middle Ages (already visited in Crichton's Eaters of the Dead). In this unfamiliar setting the action heats up, and turns gritty and abruptly brutal. The archeological findings and procedures are realistic enough. Here the characters become not particularly lovable under the ferocious stress of their &quot;new&quot; world. The emphasis is on derring-do along with some ratiocination, but logic is subordinated to the demands of a good story.	2000-12-07
US	52618134	R1URBQ8RMT71KH	0316289329	236338073	Hornblower: Beat to Quarters (Hornblower Saga)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Stirring saga	The Hornblower novels are famous as the first in the age of fighting sail novel revival. First published in 1938, this and the following two volumes (Ship of the Line and Flying Colours) were quickly reissued on the eve of WW II as a trilogy, with illustrations by N.C. Wyeth. These three &quot;Captain&quot; novels come midway in Hornblower's career, but were written first.<br />Set midway in the Napoleonic era, with Britain against the Spanish, then with them (as Hornblower learns to his chagrin), we first encounter Hornblower as already a frigate captain, with frequent references to mysterious battles and escapades in his past. Currently he is dealing with the consequences of a secret, long, seven month voyage across the Pacific to a dead-on landing in Central America, during which he has vowed not to utter an unnecessary word! Captains are already omnipotently separate from their men, but HH goes to an extreme out of fear of some career-ending embarrassment. Indeed there is little dialogue, aside from interior monologues. We learn considerably about the running of a ship under sail, but the detail and jargon is not so heavy as in the Patrick O'Brian novels, nor is the language so authentic. (If overwhelmed by either at first read, there is an admirable book on all the terminology, Dean King's wryly titled A SEA OF WORDS, where you can learn of the origins of such common expressions as &quot;scuttlebutt, the bitter end, in the doldrums,&quot; as well as the esoteric sailing terms.) &quot;Hornblower&quot; might be thought to be a joke name, but as a character he is much too serious and shy, indeed full of self-doubt (that never threatens to pull the story down), and not too lovable.  <br />Once on station, Hornblower engages in diplomacy with all parties, and fights battles with a more powerful ship. His greater battle is with his petulant self concerning a young Lady who has imperiously sought his aid to return to England, which leads to some delicious scenes at sea as Hornblower's emotions gradually overman his desire to have her speak well of him to the Naval Lords in aid of his career. Forester balances well the setting, action, and characters, but with a lighter tone and fleeter pace than O'Brian (whom you might wish to read only after the Hornblower saga). I think most people would find something to enjoy in this novel of adventure on the high seas.	2000-12-07
US	52618134	RZP8SJ3LH4QM4	0553575716	407343361	Imperium Without End (Pangeae, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great start...	Pangaea I is one of those marvelous stories where you get to gradually figure out the rules of an artfully crafted, but ultimately totalitarian, Big Brother (actually &quot;Angel Dreamer&quot;) society. Pangaea is an obliquely alternative earth, now beginning to fall apart in literally all respects, rather like our own gondwanaland and plate tectonics (which they haven't quite figured out on Pangaea, to their sorrow). The story's structure is episodic (cleverly &quot;faceted&quot; like its Orbs of Power), featuring a rotating cast of characters, before it all begins to hang together. While you get to see all sides of Pangaea, of course it therefore takes a while to identify, come to know, or care for our heroes--and then the story cuts off abruptly. <br />The plot about power slowly becomes spell-binding. The characters come from diverse walks of life, called &quot;pures,&quot; in an extraordinary, genetically stratified, human society. The opening pages are difficult, for they abound in truly obscure, incantatory words appropriate to the aethereal &quot;angel&quot; who has the first scene. The whole story feels much more like a mainstream novel because Mason is stronger on characterization than most traditional SF, and doesn't delay things with long descriptions of technical minutia. &quot;Things&quot; are just there (hence touched with seeming magic); instead we get to see the interactions develop among the strongly drawn characters, as their world opens to our view. <br />Reviewers say the sequel, Imperium Afire, is a bummer, so we are, sadly, left well and truly hanging about the involving, cross-caste partnering Mason carefully developed for the characters here. Ah well, Pangaea vol. 1 is worth re-reading instead. The paper quality is cheap, but there's no better hardback if you want to treasure this.	2000-12-06
US	52618134	R10917KVUFVQ56	0312967020	337898023	Only Flesh and Bones (Em Hansen Mysteries)	Books	3	4	5	N	Y	Circumstantial and circumspect	A mystery long on character and short on plot. The relentlessly self-deprecatory Em Hansen, again between geology jobs, returns for an even more languid run in the oil patch. Not a suspense or puzzle whodunit, these have become novels where I wonder whether Em will ever look up from her indecisions and sorrows to see the villain and dangers encroaching on her, and driving her by circumstance. <br />Em hardly has a case for the first half of the book, and is conflicted over accepting it from a lecherous former boss (husband to the victim) in order to help the deeply troubled teenager who is his daughter. Entertainingly diverse character elements include skewering unfriendly psychologists, hard-scrabble ranchers, a cold mother, teenage hostility, an unassertive boyfriend, many nasty men, and the clever device of dear-diary revelations. After three successful previous cases in this series, I'd think Em would be more confident and entrepreneureal by now, rather than still obsequiously begging for a job from the smarmy, patriarchal bosses around whom she still orbits. <br />Andrews is a skillful writer, strong on the emotional atmosphere and physical environment, but ultimately bleak. Never brisk, Andrews' stories linger on Em's exasperating diffidence, spunky whining, fumbles, and frustrating attempts to communicate and connect with opaque, mean, or joyless others. While a romantic author, Andrews never descends to romance novel cliches. After the intriguingly different TENSLEEP and its follow-ups, I found this book too easy to put down. Nevertheless, these Em Hansen novels do remain in mind long after more active stories are forgotten.	2000-11-06
US	52618134	R5PQ6BF2P9XBG	0425174271	51899905	Certain Prey	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Certainly Entertaining	What's certain in the story is who the killers are and how they do it (in detail), right upfront. The story begins with a very rational contract killer at work, but Sandborn soon stirs the plot with an off the wall criminal defense lawyer who has hired her! What's not certain is whether Chief Detective Lucas Davenport can ever prove it. You have all the clues and can anticipate Lucas: but are the sloppy clues too obvious (especially for a &quot;pro&quot; killer!)--and cut the suspense for me--or did I just happen to click with Sandford's plot? You be the judge; it's still a sorta fun read, but I wouldn't recommend this as the first Prey novel you open (start with Rules of Prey).<br />Sandborn has a marvelous way of smoothly shifting between police and killer viewpoints. You watch the eagerness of pursuit build in Lucas as the cops catch and develop the scent, and then the anxiety of the killers as they in turn are stalked. There's a new kind of gaming here (quite different from the intrinsic computer simulations of the early Davenport novels), an almost light, fun!, and self-consciously fictional tone to Sandborn's writing. There are a couple more &quot;a guy walks into a bar...&quot; jokes to entertain us. I feel he's gaming with us rather than seriously driving an involving plot, as in previous stories. Therefore an horrendously blatant coincidence midway of the story is excusable, when supplemented by a very nice plot device whereby both Lucas and the killer ask the wrong questions but get right answers, with the result they accidentally circle in tighter on each other. For the first time in the Prey series I think you'll LIKE the killer! How can Sandford ever satisfactorily end a case like this? Two ways: first, you already learn all the details and get the villain. For the second...you'll have to read the final pages.<br />As always Sandborn exhibits the virtues of clear and evocative writing, a good sense of place, and the sense of ongoing frisson between themain series characters (although here strongly emphasizing ordinary banter).	2000-10-30
US	52618134	R2G5XY9UZDGVLN	0425174271	51899905	Certain Prey	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Certainly Entertaining	What's certain in the story is who the killers are and how they do it (in detail), right upfront. The story begins with a very rational contract killer at work, but Sandborn soon stirs the plot with an off the wall criminal defense lawyer who has hired her! What's not certain is whether Chief Detective Lucas Davenport can ever prove it. You have all the clues and can anticipate Lucas: but are the sloppy clues too obvious (especially for a &quot;pro&quot; killer!)--and cut the suspense for me--or did I just happen to click with Sandford's plot? You be the judge; it's still a sorta fun read, but I wouldn't recommend this as the first Prey novel you open (start with Rules of Prey).<br />Sandborn has a marvelous way of smoothly shifting between police and killer viewpoints. You watch the eagerness of pursuit build in Lucas as the cops catch and develop the scent, and then the anxiety of the killers as they in turn are stalked. There's a new kind of gaming here (quite different from the intrinsic computer simulations of the early Davenport novels), an almost light, fun!, and self-consciously fictional tone to Sandborn's writing. There are a couple more &quot;a guy walks into a bar...&quot; jokes to entertain us. I feel he's gaming with us rather than seriously driving an involving plot, as in previous stories. Therefore an horrendously blatant coincidence midway of the story is excusable, when supplemented by a very nice plot device whereby both Lucas and the killer ask the wrong questions but get right answers, with the result they accidentally circle in tighter on each other. For the first time in the Prey series I think you'll LIKE the killer! How can Sandford ever satisfactorily end a case like this? Two ways: first, you already learn all the details and get the villain. For the second...you'll have to read the final pages.<br />As always Sandborn exhibits the virtues of clear and evocative writing, a good sense of place, and the sense of ongoing frisson between themain series characters (although here strongly emphasizing ordinary banter).	2000-10-30
US	52618134	R2WPVH0HTD60S5	0892966939	113806068	Two for the Lions (The Tenth Marcus Didius Falco Novel)	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Another good one	Davis has found more fascinating facets of ancient Rome for the informer Falco to explore: the emperor Vespasian's tax census, gladiatorial games, and a family adventure to the wild North African provinces. Her very well written stories feature character as much as mystery (see especially her exceptional The Course of Honour, a Roman love story). An odd twist is that for a long time here the only murder victim is a lion--quite beneath a Roman's notice--as Falco takes the thankless, and dangerous, job of screwing money out of rich animal suppliers. (See Editorial Reviews, above, for the plot.) <br />Davis' deep knowledge of ancient Rome in the first century of the Empire is expressed off-handedly; the Roman customs are so well painted, pertinent, and integrated to the plot they are almost throw aways. This quality of immersion may account for readers having difficulty on first acquaintance if they know nothing of Roman mores (Davis supplies no historical notes a la Steven Saylor). For example, types of gladiators are mentioned early, but the critical differences only become clear (or important) when you see them in the arena later. Some of the confusion, suspense, and mysterious clues in fact depend on the reader's ignorance, but the depth of the characters is greatly enhanced if you already know their backgrounds from previous books. I strongly recommend starting from the first volume, Silver Pigs, also because there is a strong biographical (and cross-referential) element to the ever-changing relationship of plebian Falco and his spirited patrician love Helena, their family members, and continuing minor characters, each book spanning about a half a year in their collective lives. Readers new to Davis may gain from reading the amazing new novel, Household Gods, by Tarr and Turtledove, because it makes gut-wrenchingly understandable (right down to the absence of toilet paper) the life of ordinary Romans through the eyes of a 20th century woman (although it is not a mystery).<br />Few of the incidents in Davis' story are extraneous, all digressions ingeniously contributing to the plot and eventually  resolving through action. Davis' ability to explain plot elements through actions rather than prattle is one of her outstanding accomplishments and keeps an intricate book moving along. Her language is more ribald than usual and the climax is quite bloody. I find her stories are best when tightly focused in the city of Rome, becoming diffuse whenever Falco goes overseas as here to North Africa (or Last Act in Palmyra), due perhaps to limited development of wide-open foreign atmospheres. Her jocular tone and cynicism about bureaucracy (herself a former British government servant) may diminish the sense of environment, but impart wry elements of lightness to the stories that are missing from serious Saylor's equally superb Roma Sub Rosa series. Surely it is curious that all the most popular Roman historical mystery novels feature private spys (rather than lawyers, police, or Imperial spys).	2000-10-11
US	52618134	RFIMIQ5I2986Z	0425176681	525851591	The Tentmaker (Lily Connor)	Books	2	6	12	N	N	Mild-mannered Mystery	The Tentmaker is not a happy read. Oddly bleak and oblique, the clues are well-hidden--too well hidden to make this a suspenseful or gripping story. The story develops slowly through the eyes of a mildly feminist priest, Lily Connor, serving as interim rector in a strait-laced Boston church following her predecessor's death (which turns out might not be wholly accidental). Although it includes a whodunit and several love stories, the book also makes an introspective examination of the challenges confronted by a modern priest. <br />While the Boston locations are right--the tony corner of Beacon Hill--there's little atmosphere beyond a pervading gloom, best expressed by Lily herself: &quot;her whole life looked dismal and forbidding&quot; (the story, weather, and parishioners in a nutshell). No joy in this Beantown! I found myself more puzzled than puzzling, wondering why Lily was finding fearful omens in ordinary events, ones that might be expected in a new parish posting. There's lots of talking and comings-to-realize among the characters rather than any active sleuthing, especially by Lily who is also wrapped up in soul searching over degrees of guilt and points of doctrine. I was confused about the issues in the story (or was that part of the author's intention, her way to make the story more mysterious?).<br />The focus is on Lily's thoughts rather than the workings, or machinations, of an active parish. Resolution and Confession finally just happen and then Lily explains the loose ends. The prose is competent and occasionally intense, but there's not the least hint of vibrant Bostonian accents in the dialogue, adding to the depressing sameness of tone. This is the first in a series (Earth Has No Sorrow is next).	2000-10-04
US	52618134	R1TTEYVOECT0KR	0451202112	249904333	Wake of the Perdido Star	Books	3	3	6	N	N	No Lost Star	This is a credible first novel and cranks up a rousing tale. Perdido Star is strong on plot detail, incident, and excitement, but weak on psychological coherence and development or skilled writing. Nevertheless, it gains momentum and overcame my incredulity. <br />Ostensibly a tale of two young men coming of age in 1806, Black Jack changes too quickly and wiseacre Paul LeMaire not at all, on a round-the-world voyage to commit a murder. Murder and teenage revenge is nearly the sole motive in a story full of combat, shipwreck, diving, battle, natives, ships, piracy, diver's bends, and unfulfilled longing. The story is weak on the slang, lore, and events of actual seaboard life (as seen in the well-written sailing fictions of Lambdin, Llewellyn, O'Brian, or Woodman), but has numerous episodes of underwater action from the junior author (in an age when hardly a sailor was able to swim). <br />A light read most suitable for younger readers who want action and &quot;clean living&quot; from old sea dogs, not nuance and ambiance or anything off-color. First of a series. If a collector, avoid the poor paper of the PB. See Dana's Two Years Before the Mast, for a young man's real life at sea under merchant sail, off the coast of 1837 California.	2000-09-29
US	52618134	R1IJS7UZ2TPYRH	0399146601	927649912	Shattered	Books	2	13	18	N	N	Sadly Sub-stellar	We have some interesting premises here, a largely innocent glassblowing bystander subjected to vicious attacks for unknown reasons due to  friendship with a jockey, suddenly deceased. Discovering the reasons is a  real puzzle for much of the book, thanks to a more bull-headed protagonist  than usual for a Dick Francis tale. <br />Oddly, I didn't enjoy this outing as  much as most, perhaps because the Francis formula is here too transparent,  forced, and manipulative. Mr. Logan the glassmaker has an archly parodistic  self-awareness of the virtues of a Francis Hero: thirtysomething lone man  diffidently glorying in his talent, tiresomely reticient, touchy but  sensitive, fit and steadfastly tough when the villains press hardest. The  episodes are &quot;quick&quot;: convenient friendships, the love interest,  the multiple brutal beatings, recovery, along with the blundering hero's  comments on this. The final two pages of reconciliation with death didn't  ring psychologically true. It all felt just a little artificial and choppy,  a bit of a Francis pastiche (though who better to write it!)--and there's  very little of the special horeseracing ambiance he did so well. All in all  a long story about very little, yielding small pleasure. <br />As always the  hardback's typography is generous and easy to speed through. If you're a  Francis fan who is going to buy this book--because you've already read the  better early and middle ones--buy this at discount (Amazon or paper).	2000-09-20
US	52618134	RP4TGKBDHW6SG	0786865636	783765194	Middle of Nowhere	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Unsettling	Middle of Nowhere can refer to the tiring limbo of a police strike, a  villain's lair, or the state of Lt. Boldt's marriage. However, it doesn't  refer to a Pearson book, even if I didn't find this one as involving and  suspenseful as some others: I was actually able to put a Ridley Pearson  book down for a few days! <br />Although it starts as a simple series of  burglaries (with a few twists, as of a neck), intriguingly discordant facts  begin to pop up as the story veers into labor problems, feelings around  overwork, marital discord, prison enterprises, hard feelings, and the  suspicion of police moles. Seemingly disconnected, these episodes  eventually contribute something (even if that's not necessary in the real  world). Pearson increases tension and moves the story along by outrageously  violating police procedure to have Lt. Boldt, or his partner forensic  psychologist Mathews, hare off alone with virtually no support, not once,  but three (3) times, and contriving they receive merely peripheral wounds  for mortal mistakes. This is not the first time that Mathews has paid for  psychologizing rather than tending to police work. Other details seem  convincing, and the Seattle atmospherics are good. As always, the stories  are enjoyable, even provoking thought, because of characters with a human  depth to them, this time even a villain.<br />The slip cover art of a power  tower has nothing to do with the plot for the longest time, and is neither  ominous nor attractive.	2000-09-14
US	52618134	R3HY7K0YNLO8LJ	0425168298	190244664	Secret Prey (Lucas Davenport, No 9)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Slow boiling	Sandford does not write the same thriller over and over, merely varying  the scenery. No, while Secret Prey starts with the usual bang, it then just  ambles through seemingly disconnected bits--a new twist. Sandford's  masterful plotting is only revealed as finally a prime suspect emerges from  frustratingly patient police interrogation and backgrounding. Then, bang,  we're running again to somehow trap the long secret perpetrator. What's  creepy is the ramifying evil, which here oozes from dusty records and  memories of old cases, unpredictably revealing shocking new lights on one  innocuous event after another, without foreboding. Wonderful!<br />I don't  think this is necessarily &quot;by far the best Prey&quot; (AP), for the  previous two grabbed me faster and deeper initially, and the endless active  snow of Winter Prey still earlier keeps popping back into mind. This story  is not the usual heart-pounding chase around Minneapolis, if that is what  you seek, but instead evokes new aspects and psychological facets of  several familiar team characters: depression, laughter, injury, love.  Sandford constructs psychologically coherent characters and plot  development, including progressively unhinged villains, while retaining  faith in goodness and cops. As always, some events and dialogue mean more  if you've read the previous novels. (The peek-thru covers on recent novels  are either misaligned or pointless, but cannot detract from the excellence  within.)	2000-09-06
US	52618134	R1G7UV6AD7F50O	0553561928	661721213	Indiana Jones and the Sky Pirates	Books	1	6	7	N	N	Poison in the candy	Martin Caidin has written much better elsewhere, and knows about aircraft,  the subject which attracted me to this particular book in the Indiana Jones  novelization series. Incidentally, there's no resemblance to real  archaeologists here--even in their dreams--but, then, this time around Indy  is not very central either. <br />I am disappointed of my expectation of a  pleasant summer confection. The souless characters seem dropped in when  convenient, rather than developed (maybe because this IS part of a series,  but that leaves a newcomer in the lurch). Dialogue is stilted, even  abusive, with numerous disconcerting gaps in conversational flow, and word  choices off the mark, like &quot;toothy(?) profanity&quot; or  &quot;errant(sic) nonsense.&quot; The tone is flat, so you can't tell  peoples' feelings unless the author spells it out. Atmosphere is lacking  because scenes are skimpily described and undeveloped, passing too rapidly  in favor of nastily expressed action, despite some intriguingly precocious  technology. I felt mechanically manipulated, uninvolved in the characters  or their artificial situations. This book feels like just some product  cranked out; the editing is shoddy, lacking in respect for the reader's  time. The Indy movies are soaring escapes; this is pedestrian.	2000-08-30
US	52618134	R10PWG6ETHNKQP	0812564669	596423105	Household Gods	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An historically real novel!	Household Gods is a superb example of mainstream historical fiction, avoiding overt sentimentality, rather than anything to do with the author's  backgrounds in science fiction (okay, a touch of time travel, and  encounters with &quot;alien&quot; Romans). Turtledove probably provided the  historical sweep and minute detail from his professional studies of the  Byzantine empire, but I'd credit Tarr with the genuine dialogue, woman's  interest, and convincing development of character. This is the best  realization of the actual feel (let alone smell) of life in classical,  pre-Christian times (or right down to the Industrial Revolution!) that I  know.<br />Nicole is a kvetchy liberal woman utterly lacking in historical  perspective, who thinks her busy professional life in L.A. would be better  in a less male-oppressive and hateful world, such as ...keeping a tavern in  a provincial town in the Roman Empire. Ah, yes, a time of peace, equality,  sisterhood, and justice. Right. That's the one-trick situation concocted by  Tarr and Turtledove: set-pieces of culture shock of feminist values crushed  by ancient &quot;alien&quot; customs.<br />The story is tightly focused, to  impressive effect, on Nicole in her experiences with inexorably worsening  aspects of daily Roman life in her neighborhood. While her thoughts and  attitudes remain modern, indeed strait-jacketed, her behavior is beaten  into growing acceptance rather than any &quot;heroic&quot; struggle for  active change (as would be expected if this had been SF). Although the plot  is slow-moving, often feels aimless, and lacks &quot;action,&quot; that is  exactly what the authors must intend as a reasonable facsimile of genuine  ancient life, and I found myself becoming engrossed and moved. Nicole and  the story work inexorably deeper into the fabric of ordinary Roman lives,  its terrors and small joys (most apparent only to modern Nicole), and the  multifarious uses of wine! The authors write interesting characters engaged  in convincing dialogue in fully realized scenes. I'd like to revisit  Nicole-Umma's life, but maybe she's already experienced all the trials  possible, including sexism, superstition, brutality, patriarchy,   pestilence, war...and no chocolate or coffee, no heat or sanitation, no  tomatoes or tampons. <br />The &quot;point&quot; of this story is, I think,  not the story, which in a linear sense doesn't much &quot;go&quot;  anywhere, and leaves ancient Umma in limbo, but is rather the gripping  illustration, even explanation, of the immense and quite logical resistance  to change of an entire ancient &quot;system&quot; (barely integrated, in  fact); less how different it was than how far we have come. Although, come  to think of it, the setting of this story in the Balkans reminds us some  societies are still stuck with relations an awful lot like those of two  millenia ago. I suspect that the authors' intricate, great, and  thought-provoking success accounts for the length seen in many of these  reviews.	2000-08-25
US	52618134	R1KEOGYIX9ZZ9A	034542316X	522364299	The Queen's Man: A Medieval Mystery (Medieval Mysteries)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	OK	First of a trilogy, here is a decent story, with characters to care for, despite (or because of) their often modern sensibilities in medieval dress  (a tack the author says was deliberate, in her informative interview  included along with study questions? ). The ambiance of 12th century  England is well-constructed, although the period lore does not really shape  the plot, and the characters are awfully genteel for the hard life  described for the times. The story is not &quot;full of swordplay, bawdy  byplay, and derring-do&quot;--as a cover blurb has it--but is rather  slow-moving and polite, its characters heroes,  damsels, or dark villains.  There is little of language, scenes, or gore to ruffle or offend the  reader. The admirable queen Eleanor, a favorite personnage of Penman, has a  central role. The story passes at a languid pace for a case of murder and  secrets allegedly vital to the kingship of England (between Eleanor's sons  Richard the Lionhearted, missing on a crusade, and his ambitious brother  John), where the reader's feelings, puzzlement, anxiety, and fear are not  raised very high. The unexpected ending can be seen as clever, ironic, or a  let-down, depending on how high your hopes grew. Two plot strands are left  loose for the next book, Cruel as the Grave.	2000-08-16
US	52618134	R3L0N1OHQ3T1XL	0374517940	877558672	In Suspect Terrain	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Superb naturalist	McPhee writes elegantly plain English. He finds awesome beauty under foot,  in vistas, and in words. His fine and pleasing writing deftly evokes the  prodigious forces that shaped the landscape along Interstate 80 from  Brooklyn to Chicago. McPhee is a magician: he makes deep geological time  come so alive you can almost feel the earth move under your feet as it  responds to the titanic forces of shifting continents, water, and  ice.<br />McPhee writes epitomes of geological processes: here glacial forms  (and diamonds!) in Indiana, there the Delaware Water Gap, or fossil  thermometry by his &quot;tour guide&quot; Anita Harris, frank  embarrassments to plate tectonics, Appalachian mountain making, petroleum  cooking, or again the Ice Ages. This paean to nature, without mysticism, is  printed in an old fashioned typeface on quality paper. It has no maps,  sections, or illustrations. If you indexed the somewhat non-linear text  yourself, this would be an instructive companion to take along on your next  trip on eastern Route 80 (or an entire traverse of America if you add the  other three books in McPhee's impressive &quot;cross-section&quot; of North  America: Rising from the Plain, Basin &amp; Range, Assembling California).	2000-08-11
US	52618134	R15NT2ON3ER8T6	0812524829	316891420	Slant: A Novel	Books	4	5	7	N	N	complex start and scrambled conclusion	Greg Bear is often a great writer, with wondrous concepts and sweeping  societal themes that only science fiction seems able to handle so well.  Bear extrapolates a good story of near future psychological manipulation  from certain liberal tendencies and delusions of today, but Slant is not  his best. The story drew me in--from many vantage points, with shifting  main characters--via seemingly unconnected but temporally parallel stories:  the plot design is dendritic and slowly coalesces into a frightening whole  at mid-story. <br />I was disconcerted by some rough plot holes, the lack of  more coherent background on the political factions that apparently motivate  the plot, and an ending that lost momentum, despite spots of brilliant nano  and organic invention. Perhaps they would have been clearer if I'd known  first to read the earlier book, Queen of Angels (but the publisher's blurbs  utterly failed to warn); however, I might then have overlooked the  wonderful way in which the plot structure comes together and mysterious  happenings suddenly make sense, one of the delights of the best speculative  fiction. <br />The story is more intellectually suspenseful then it is  emotionally involving or convincing. The characters feel real and their  situations are interesting, the dialogue is smooth, and the virtual reality  episodes are seamless. For no clear reason, the woman characters are more  interesting than the simple or befuddled men, perhaps as one aspect of the  &quot;/&quot; relationships permeating this story (e.g., male/female,  real/virtual, rich/good, machine/organ).<br />For another story based on  Tourette syndrome, read Donald Hecht's Skull Session, a mystery with SF  elements.	2000-08-09
US	52618134	R1M7LO3G761ZK4	0425163865	303545082	Detective	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Detective procedural	Much as in James Michener's more sweeping novels, Arthur Hailey always lards his text with systematic insider research, here seldom seen details about police crime solving. That is good or bad depending on how much  uplifting instruction and provocative thought, or immersion in suspense,  you seek in a mystery. Actually, we learn all about the crimes long before  the ending, so one has to focus on the working out of the many personal  relationships and betrayals in this long story. The crimes are  old-fashioned but the detection methods are up to date. The story is  engrossing, the crimes shocking and convoluted, the killers are fully  developed, and the details informative of police lives and outlooks. We  shall never see the complex and sympathetic Detective Ainslie  again--because Hailey doesn't write series--but, as always in his books,  you come away knowing more of how things are run &quot;behind the  scenes&quot; and of the attitudes of the team specialists involved.<br />The  plot is a little too pat and the prose flat and distant, but is  cumulatively moving. Hailey indulges in flashback tricks, and one can  almost see the author's notecards on police procedures, execution, Church  history(!), and the failings of the juvenile justice and grand jury  systems.	2000-07-31
US	52618134	R1P88Q0F8IFPK2	0345423631	308559103	Night of the Wolf (Legends of the Wolves, Book 2)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Fantastical history	An inverted were-wolf story--a wolf's troubles and joys when he first turns human for love of women--Borchardt mixes in the stories of other characters living on the margins. As in The Silver Wolf, set some 700 years  later, we get a view of what life must have been like at the wrong end of  the stick (human/wolf or Roman/Kelt), this time earlier during Caesar's  conquest of Gaul and the lethal transition from Roman Republic to Empire.  Sisters Borchardt and Anne Rice have an uncanny empathy and affinity for  liminal creatures like were-wolves (or vampires) on the fantastic edge of  hard reality. Whether it contains real wolf-thoughts or not, this  engrossing story feels right, expressed in often shimmering prose. For the  diverse characters--shape-shifter, amazon, honorable, or cruel--among whose  parallel stories the plot shifts, their roads lead to Rome at the fell Ides  of March, to a soaring and fantastical consumation. These books are an  engaging mix of historical settings, suspense, nature description, graphic  romance, animal insight, gore, adventure, and fantasy--a sometimes  unsettling category-breaker.	2000-07-28
US	52618134	R2U06GQ7O24DMT	0374520658	79386705	Rising from the Plains	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A towering achievement	In stirring prose McPhee turns the imperceptible pace of geological change exposed in High Plains road cuts into sublime and awesome cataclysms. He incorporates the struggle to survive and prosper of a pioneering ranch  family, from whom came an outstanding geologist, John Love. He deciphers  the complex story lying behind modern Wyoming, including the soaring Teton  Range, evocative Wind River, and Yellowstone. Far more than a guide (with  it's helpful time charts and map), McPhee's sensitive writing makes you  feel the prodigious forces of the landscape lurking underfoot--almost as  unsettling as experiencing an earthquake yourself. <br />A fun complement to  this book is the Wyoming oil geologist mystery Tensleep by Sarah Andrews,  or Margaret Coel's Arapaho mystery series.	2000-07-27
US	52618134	R1451595OLLPBU	0380731622	479178648	Loot	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Puzzler	Well crafted story of art historical sleuthing among treasures stolen during the Holocaust, with good bits of East European travelogue and flashes of convincing art appreciation. There's a clever puzzle here, and  the clues are artfully concealed through a slow first two-thirds, where I  thought I was ahead of the diffident hero, until the rapid conclusion  showed it was the author way out in front. <br />Elkins' stories feel  sanitized, rational and distanced, despite the macabre subjects and  multiple corpses; perhaps he's hiding behind his scientist training. Here  suspense and thrills are muted by an introspective, insistently aimless  hero, whose angst is undercut by flippant lines, and discordant asides to  the reader. There is no real fear--the hero seems unengaged in his own  story. Murders happen, to stir the plot and occasion talk about it, the  unprofessionally garrulous polizei joining in with our sleuth. The shy  hero's character development to self-realization is unconvincing; it needs  pointing out by his girlfriend. This is light reading on sad subjects,  highlighted by the author's provocative presentation of the  &quot;ethics&quot; of looting.	2000-07-25
US	52618134	R27EW7L8VF2L9Z	044021632X	253802911	The Angel Maker	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Morbidly fascinating	Macabre in its details, this story has everything: subtle madness, dogged police procedures under DEADline pressure, forensic clues, psychological gaming, disgusting crimes, filth, action, desperation, and screaming  tension. The pellmell pace is far greater than you'll find in, say, Agatha  Christie, and the criminal is known to the reader even as the police grope  in the wrong direction (contributing to the reader's tense apprehension).  Appropriately for a wet place like Seattle, hydrological science has a  critical role in this story, and even more so in its predecessor  UNDERCURRENTS. (The third story in the Lou Boldt/Daphne Matthews series is:  No Witnesses.) Pearson gives us characters with palpable depth, skillful  writing to draw us into the story, and a good sense of place. The villain  vet is creepy because he is so rational; you also feel his befuddlement  when his humanitarian plans go awry. The moral of the story is that the  maxim &quot;the greatest good for the greatest number&quot; is indefensible  when a minority are forced to give something up for it.	2000-07-22
US	52618134	R122VZZ00MWOD	1574090976	960736723	Baltic Mission: #7 A Nathaniel Drinkwater Novel (Mariners Library Fiction Classic)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Good episodes	7th in the series, Capt. Drinkwater's action takes place in the Baltic as Napoleon rolls up the Russians in 1807. Ostensibly carrying gold to the British ally, the Tsar, Drinkwater's cruise is episodic and nearly aimless  at first, but concludes with an exciting rush under the eye of an ancient  nemesis and the guns of the French. I get less of a sense of adventure and  curiosity than with O'Brian's Aubrey/Maturin series, whereas the larger  political context of alliance building against Napoleon is clearer here.  However, the shipboard world of H.M.S Antigone thereby becomes less central  and important. Except for some pro forma sail handling, unfamiliar terms  are rare, even the regular cursing. This Sheridan House book has lesser  art, better paper, and double the price of Warner's series.	2000-07-18
US	52618134	R5Y3WHRVBDOPV	0671016709	374701981	A Darker Shade Of Crimson (Ivy League Mysteries)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Disappointed expectations	I picked this book up thinking I'd find nostalgic Cambridge ambiance, but it seemed more name-dropping than evocations of the real locales. Authors' credibility regarding academics also suffers because, among others, I've  never heard of tenured faculty telling juniors to write papers for them  (the more usual practice may be to get the prof's name ADDED as another  author if research was done in her project/lab/funding). Author has a good  diversity of characters and good sense of the oppressive academic politics  they face while fighting over pennies, at an allegedly liberal university.  Maybe that's a reason for the writing to be a bit thick, too. I find rather  too much hasty action and happy coincidence than reflective deduction in  this story. There's another mystery book I did like--oops, I can't recall  its name--where the featured Harvard professor's degree in economics  actually helps solve the crime. Author Thomas-Graham may learn that  lovingly listing proud academic, etc., credits in her dj bio is the kiss of  death for an aspiring popular writer in America (Aaron Elkins no longer  does), perhaps by threatening the reader all sorts of -isms rather than  skillful writing? or that the story is PC and you'd better like it?	2000-07-17
US	52618134	R3OW8LUF0OTFSD	0688159281	381529543	Skeleton Dance: A Novel (Gideon Oliver Mysteries)	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Palaeolithic puzzler	Despite a nonsensical title, another well-crafted mystery from Dr. Elkins: full of clues and red herrings that give you a chance to anticipate plot twists. Atmospheric bits of real sight-seeing and eating in the southwest  of France. More than usual attention to anatomy and skeletal forensics to  reveal the surprise biography of the victim, laced with accurate and  amusing presentations of current physical anthropological, and Palaeolithic  archaeological, debates, with Gideon back in the European setting of two of  Elkins' best early novels. Humor enlivens a potentially dry focus on bones:  &quot;'How wonderful it must be to live in America,' [French coroner]  Roussillot said. 'So many murders, so much to be learned.'&quot; Touche.  Light summer reading; a puzzler rather than gripping terror.<br />The Gideon  book series could be read starting anywhere; oddly, there's no list of  previous titles in this book. Aaron and Charlotte Elkins also write mystery  series featuring golfers or art historians, if skeletons are too macabre  for you.	2000-07-17
US	52618134	R3FPQTXADY31SA	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Oh, my...	To date these stories have been amusing, full of clever wordplay, and elegantly composed, but this long fourth story unexpectedly breaks into ferocious seriousness. It scared the bejeebers out of me. After a leisurely  buildup &quot;...this isn't Kansas anymore,&quot; wrapped in stunning  Technicolor glory and fear. This is far more terrifying than old fairy tale  violence, for we've come to love these people. I suspect it will be  hellishly difficult for readers to find wonderful humour in the next couple  of books. Meanwhile, the wait for #5 will be excruciating.	2000-07-14
US	52618134	R2FD9Q3HF14C39	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Amazing artistry	You all know the story by now, so I want to add that a most enjoyable, if subtle, attraction of Rowling's books is the ensemble artistry of the writing, graphics, and typography. Kudos then to artist Mary GrandPre and  art director David Saylor. I also love the way each new book &quot;peels  back&quot; the earlier stories, exposing new layers under old events and  interpretations, and radically altering the seeming resolution of each  story. It will be fun to read these books down the generations, but they  should probably be doled out at two year intervals in keeping with Harry  and children's development (hah, just you try to hold off!)	2000-07-14
US	52618134	R1ODGBTM0EZQA5	0439064864	667539744	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Even better	What makes this a &quot;child's book&quot; is that I, a stupid Muggle (read &quot;adult&quot;), can anticipate some of the story's events and twists. Nevertheless, this sequel is not so lightly &quot;charming&quot;  and &quot;innocent&quot; as the Sorcerer's Stone. Harry Potter is taking on  unsuspected depths and powers. Ron is everyperson's magician; Hermione the  know-it-all pain.<br />What keeps me reading is the wonder-full story; the  fast pace; the endlessly amusing wordplay;  the ingenious bits of domestic  magic so casually tossed off; the palpable characters; Rowling's amazing  depth of forethought (story #1 was NOT so straightforward as she led us to  believe!); shocking new revelations about Potter's parents, and others, we  thought were already settled; the bottomless layers of secrets; and the  whole artistic package (have you noticed how wonderfully integrated is the  design of these books?). Definitely buy the hardbacks: these are keepers.	2000-07-14
US	52618134	R22KPPHDW18OS3	0812551389	705935030	The Skystone (The Camulod Chronicles, Book 1)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Gritty story	What I like is the way Whyte triangulates Arthurian Britain in the &quot;Dark Ages&quot; by combining the Romanized antecedents with the High Medieval descendants. I particularly like the first two books with their  strong Roman grounding and the no-nonsense gritty view of life as Things  Fall Apart: very convincingly done even if not wholly historical. It's  great to see such carefully developed ancestors to the emergence of Arthur;  that Arthur doesn't really emerge until Book 6 tells you something. It's  cool to see the development, in a plausible context of clashing cultures,  of archaeological things like the round table, long bow, stirrup, lance,  and heavy cavalry, even if probably anachronistic in the 5th century.  Whyte's writing style is a bit leaden and the plot occasionally plods  (e.g., most of the Bk. 5 Fort at River Bend adolescence interlude, when  everything in Britain also seems to pause). Somehow I manage to overlook  the tiresome parts while awaiting the author's flashes of insight in  constructing how the legend of Arthur might have formed.	2000-07-13
US	52618134	R2J92CD13P95B3	0399214240	294268861	Redwall	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Charming	This is an adult's review of Redwall, a medieval monastic fantasy world that omits humans entirely in favour of wild-animal characters: Food and some habits are animal (well...mice drinking cow milk?), all the rest is  &quot;human,&quot; but less biting than Orwell's Animal Farm (I don't  detect a political subtext, although the initial stereotyping will attract  the gender police unless they read the whole book). This is childrens'  stories in animal form, rather than Aesop's boring fables or something more  gut-animal like Adams' Watership Down (where the conflict is also between  individuals rather than whole species, as here). Jacques writing is lovely,  incorporating ground-level animal perspectives and a child's view of  humans; fun to read aloud in &quot;animal voices&quot; (particularly if you  can do Cockney and plummy English). The story is exciting and rapid, the  characters wholly good or evil but well-differentiated among themselves.  The violence in this first story is almost light-hearted, in the heroic  vein, and the evil rats almost incompetent in their rabid hostility, but  that snake Asmodeusssss is a true nightmare (shiver). I only wish Gary  Chalk had done more drawings. (It takes a while to figure out in what order  to read the many books in this series, newly released in paperback with new  illustrations.)	2000-07-11
US	52618134	R2L6MZO1P15LKB	0553581058	237994876	O Jerusalem (Mary Russell Novels)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Mysterious travelogue	This story is full of Romantic lore and incidents, and fascinating history from the British conquest of Palestine, but lacks sustained and clever Sherlockian deduction a la Conan Doyle. But then, King is not writing in  the Holmes pastiche genre but in her own style. We don't get the  traditional explanations of Sherlock's brilliant ratiocination (which is a  bit thin and sparse here), because Holmes' assistant, young Mary Russell,  is no befuddled Dr. Watson (although still usually a step behind). Old  Holmes himself has lost much of his original icy insight and arrogance.  This is bad or good, depending on how much you seek a difficult mystery  with clues, or an exotic setting and budding romance. Actually, Russell  seems a bit of a supernumerary-with-attitude, rather than an intellectual  counterpoise to Sherlock here, and the tension between them is not  particularly romantic. The final unmasking of the master villain is almost  an afterthought.	2000-07-10
US	52618134	R2X3LG94LFOZ1N	0525945474	192801376	The Judas Judge (Kevin Kerney Novels)	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	Another great one	Chief Kerney--an honorable, determined, empathetic New Mexican rancher-trooper--is here up against one of the craziest passels of suspects imaginable, in a return to his natal area of the debut novel, Tularosa. The  spree crimes are initially rural and simple, but the detection of the  connections is not. Rather than lots of action, ex-cop author McGarrity  focuses here on dogged police interviews, a skill rarely presented  &quot;on-stage&quot; in thrillers. We  see a new hard-nosed Kerney who  persistently intimidates female witnesses--key to solving the crimes but  somewhat unexplained. Conversely, Kerney's unusually well-developed  personal history continues to grow, with surprising new family strains for  this sensitive guy. The author spins compelling storiees with great pacing  and always an enveloping sense of empty desert places and transient people.  Kerney seems real, he has a life apart from his cases; I hope he doesn't  retire!	2000-07-05
US	52618134	R3HOUZMA86V7YK	1888952539	551603673	Questionable Remains (Lindsay Chamberlain Mysteries)	Books	4	4	7	N	Y	Multi-level murder	This is the best of the three Connor/Chamberlain books I've read. It is a pleasurable tour-de-force of multiple story lines always clearly related to the main mystery (ah, but which one is that?). There's harassment against  expert witness Chamberlain in one murder case, archaeological digs finding  inappropriate bodies, Chamberlain's lightly treated forensic investigations  of discovered bones and teeth, a terrifying spelunking adventure after  uncovery of more suspicious skeletons, and what seem incidental accusations  of financial hanky-panky. Finally, an anthropological story of ancient  Spanish perfidy among Georgia and Tennessee Indians is a wonderfully  oblique commentary on the other mysteries and worth reading alone. Connor  keeps all these threads intertwining to press the story(s) forward and drop  clues along the way. The forensics, archaeology, and history are  convincingly authentic. Her writing is marred only by wooden romantic  interest, some bland subsidiary characters (including the villains), and a  final outrageous coincidence to wrap up the hunt.	2000-07-05
US	52618134	R1RE0DDYFR3BI6	0425152898	596059317	Mind Prey	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The best yet?	We immediately know who the villain of this story is (in Winter Prey we had no idea), so the focus is on an intense series of police procedural moves--eventually reckless ones--in a desperate full court press to pin  down the kidnapper. He really is a smart fellow, who glides invisibly  around the police traps, much as his chapters slide past the cops'. One of  the scariest things about Sandford's stories is how often the victims  aren't doing anything stupid, just what you or I'd do, like picking up your  kids after school. Unusually, there are three views of the crime in this  story: the kidnapper's, Chief Davenport's, and, for once, the victims'--who  aren't immediately killed off. Too, the story ranges all over the  Minneapolis-St. Paul area, with lots of fresh air chases of the elusive  madman. Sandford misses a rare trick by not pushing, after setting up, the  babbling psychotherapist, Dr. Girdler, as another suspect in collusion with  the kidnapper. Davenport's romantic entaglements are much subdued: he's  finally gotten serious with one woman. The use of lucky coincidences, or  intuitions on Davenport's part, is more obvious than usual, but powers the  bombshell twists and revelations that mean it's awfully hard to put this  story down before it's time to get up for work again. I don't usually read  a series without taking a break for something different, but that's less  the case with Sandford; glad I didn't discover him until he already had  several books out: it's so hard waiting a year for the next.	2000-06-28
US	52618134	R19ATW8B3GYEEI	0380974185	795875416	The Mozart Effect: Tapping the Power of Music to Heal the Body, Strengthen the Mind and Unlock the Creative Spirit	Books	2	17	22	N	N	Really?	This is a readable, amiable book. Music certainly is fascinating, and enjoyable, a human universal in one form or another, as the author's examples show. But the dumb as well as the smart listen to it, the warlike  as well as the peaceful. In other words, not a convincing thesis. It may be  the physical activity that music accompanies (playing, singing, dancing)  that is effective, instead. One also wonders why it is Mozart (rather than,  say, the religious musical tapestries of Bach) that is featured and favored  here. To his contemporaries Mozart was a  controversial genius and full of  jokes, human rather than devine and worshipful. One of these years we can  hope for studies of the real effects of the experiment whereby the State of  Georgia provides a Classical music disk to all newborns: does their rate of  acceptance to college go up, the number enrolling in the Army go down,  etc.? <br /> I recommend Music, the Brain, and Ecstasy, by Robert  Jourdain, instead (equally well-written, but far more systematic).	2000-06-24
US	52618134	R3AYPEFBAOA603	0451195922	913109414	Skull Session	Books	5	3	5	N	N	schicka-schicka-schicka	This is half a psychological thriller, and half science fiction (I hope). I think Hecht convincingly and empathetically describes the symptoms of Tourette's syndrome (behavoral tics) in the hero--a seemingly unfocused and  mild guy who has inexplicably attracted an exciting woman--but Hecht seems  to forget those habits through the midparts of the story. Meanwhile, as the  police find dismembered bodies, the hero's relatives become increasingly  strange and ominous, ending in a fascinating neurological nightmare of the  Terminator ilk. I don't usually read horror stories, but a supernatural  undertone gradually emerges and certainly tingled my spine. And the  explanation for those &quot;schicka&quot; sounds that recur: horrifyingly  clever, and completely logical (as is the villain), but it surprised me.  Wow! Tremendously effective story, although the prose of this first novel  is somewhat thick and sometimes wooden. I'll look for his next book.	2000-06-23
US	52618134	R1JK4VSW9QKR6D	0684850788	316856658	Hermit's Peak: A Kevin Kerney Novel (Kevin Kerney Novels)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	another terrific novel	McGarrity's low-key Kerney character is a friendly sort in a hard profession. This is a story of place and people, rather than precise timing. The mystery gradually widens and draws interesting characters into  the building story. Having lived in New Mexico for a few years a while  back, I like how well McGarrity takes me into the dusty rural corners, the  many empty places, the immense vistas. He evokes the Southwest as well as  Hillerman, but mostly in the eastern ranching rather than western desert  half of the state. He writes as clearly as the mountain air.	2000-06-22
US	52618134	R1LSA1RCL8DXFL	068480106X	385176349	The CODE OF KINGS: THE LANGUAGE OF SEVEN SACRED MAYA TEMPLES AND TOMBS	Books	5	65	66	N	N	Extraordinarily insightful	As a professional archaeologist I found this one of the most insightful books on the Maya I've ever read--and what a pleasure it is. You really catch the excitement of the hunt for the soul of the Maya, from two  terrific key scholars. No one has ever tried this approach before, delving  the &quot;Maya mysteries&quot; by deeply (and clearly) illustrating the  finds and exploring the meanings associated with one outstanding building  from each of several well known Maya sites. Each building selected also  represents a distinctive TYPE of Maya structure as well: funerary or ritual  pyramids, the Chichen ball court, broad plazas (&quot;oceans!&quot;), and  great palaces, among others. The reader may not realize how new and  innovative their proposed discoveries are, so smoothly and convincingly  presented are they. They pull together many recent research advances, and  push beyond. They reconstruct history and ritual, right down to the dance  steps. Of course this type of analysis only works where one has  extraordinary preservation, and texts still directly associated with their  original buildings (rather than lost to some foreign collector). The  thousands of typical ruined buildings could supply little of the rare  information they use here; hopefully their insightful analyses will apply  to the aggregate types as well. This is a really fascinating book, one that  reads like a novel or good mystery. Even better, the text is organized in  layers so you can pick the level of detail you want to follow, from a  tourist summary to intricate details of textual exegesis and webs of  inferences in the endnotes. This would make a wonderful second book on the  Maya (after a general introduction, as by Mike Coe, Norman Hammond, or John  Henderson, q.v.).	2000-05-20
US	52618134	R2NNSXCXN8716Z	0809315602	787284950	Down to Earth: An Insider's View of Frank Lloyd Wright's Tomek House	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Making Wright right again.	This is the personal story of the author's architectural discoveries and insights after buying a spacious old house that turned out to be one of Frank Lloyd Wright's most liveable Prairie houses. She evokes the amazing  ever-shifting quality of light and reflections, how its architectural forms  guide furniture placement, the functions (and dusting) of woodwork and its  thorough patterning throughout, why an overhanging roof is great, the  eternally surprising views, the role of landscaping, and even explains how  one lives in a bedroom without curtains. She does not reveal as much  construction detail exposed during the restoration process as I had hoped,  like electrical upgrading, the use of steel in the cantilevers, or exactly  why Wright's roofs always leak. She discusses adapting the kitchen, and  shows how her Tomek House is the prototype for the famous Robie house, and  friendlier to boot by being less insistently exaggerated. The many  illustrations emphasize the outcomes rather than the process of  restoration. Moran is not a professional writer, and the text wanders a  little, but she truly gave me a feel for how wonderfully right it would be  to live in a house by Wright, or one designed by his modular procedure. Yet  one also needs an artistic streak of one's own, lots of energy (and money),  and patience for all the avid visitors who treat you as an unpaid guide and  caterer. For building a Wright house, see Jacobs' Building With Wright; for  living with one today, get Moran.	2000-05-20
US	52618134	R3C8SWRUZTPYST	0875802451	816140808	Frank Lloyd Wright's Living Space: Architecture's Fourth Dimension	Books	3	16	19	N	N	Still trying	Although &quot;unique&quot;--as one professional reviewer put it--that doesn't necessarily mean a brilliantly conceived book will be enjoyable. I started, but didn't get very far, so far. The style is opaque with trendy  deconstructionist jargon that must first be deciphered into plain English  (this is serious sociology, after all). Understanding Wright's own words  can be difficult, true, but fun. This is not, so far. (Contrast the fresh  air quality of the opening Wright passage with Satler's ponderous text.)  Although the book title speaks of &quot;Living Space,&quot; note that this  book focuses on Wright's early WORK spaces (Larkin and Unity Temple) rather  than his houses. Nor are the tiny B/W pictures of those buildings either  plentiful or good. I hope to come back to this book after enjoying some  others (e.g., G. Hildebrand's The Wright Space [Univ. Washington], or Susan  Bandes' Affordable Dreams: The Goetsch-Winckler House [Kresge Art Museum,  Michigan State Univ]).	1999-12-23
US	52618134	R1E6R60PW7SC5O	0553580531	409245980	Gates of Fire: An Epic Novel of the Battle of Thermopylae	Books	2	7	24	N	N	Pedestrian	Author has researched and imagined his topic well. I could have learned a lot. The situations are interesting, but characterization is regretfully superficial and the writing dull rather than vibrant or evocative. I gave  up after a few chapters and donated the book to my local library. Young  people might still enjoy it.	1999-12-11
US	52618134	R37FIR46SD5POE	0804118558	621196503	A Breach of Promise (William Monk Novels)	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Good Victorian Novel, Mediocre Mystery	This is the first &quot;Monk&quot; mystery-novel I've read, and if I return to them it will be as novels. The psychological introspection of the two main characters is harrowing. The confining social atmosphere is  terrifically realized, although Monk and Rathbone are perhaps too modern in  their PC attitudes. The author so convincingly evokes Victorian  conventional morality that neither I nor the blinkered protagonists ever  guessed the surprise that is so appropriately at the core of this novel. In  an artfully constructed plot, the &quot;real&quot; mystery arrives late in  a rather tedious trial, when least expected. This is a memorable novel of  interior mystery rather than action. I would have understood the  characters' romancing more if I had started earlier in the series. If  there's a flaw in the book, it may be an excess of feeling, of emotional  flagellation--particularly in comparison to Bruce Alexander's similar Sir  John Fielding series--and what seems a criminal dearth of legal preparation  on the part of Rathbone (or is that typical of Vic. lawyers, Ms. Perry?).  The agonizing sleuthing actually wins too easily, then romance triumphs,  and the book ends with no satisfyingly clever resolution. Maybe Perry  couldn't figure out proof of the villain's legal culpability?<br />(Did  anyone else think the architecture of Melville was modelled on Frank Lloyd  Wright's? I actually thought Perry might have Melville escape to America  and somehow, ah, influence his mother!)	1999-09-29
US	52618134	R3K60BPKJXOQBA	0679779116	753359416	Cosi Fan Tutti: An Aurelio Zen Mystery	Books	2	11	20	N	N	Disappointing	Mystery fans will be disappointed. Dibdin writes in an artsy rather than tensely suspenseful style, yielding self-consciously amusing ironies and operatic coincidences. For example, he blatantly repeats one gory scene  verbatim. The frivolous confections and literary stylings quite canceled  the mysteries for me.  Throughout the author is clearly &quot;playing  with&quot; his characters (and you) in three parallel, increasingly  coincident, story lines. There is some amusing word play, but if you want  that then Mozart's operatic version sounds better. Dibdin's characters are  more interesting than the plot, but not much. I imagine committed PC people  will really hate the stereotypes, and the impolitic disparagement of Naples  (a stand-in for humanity). The conclusion is too much of a rush (but with  wonderful inversions of character). This is quite an amusing book, but not  the involving mystery I expected.	1999-09-24
US	52618134	RFJ0XHHOAHCZV	0345423615	279350331	The Silver Wolf (Legends of the Wolves, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wow!	A tour-de-force. What a talent. Why haven't I discovered this author before? A skillful writer with an intriguing tale. I've never before read a novel from Charlemagne's time (A.D. 800s)--shown as a depressing world of  constant urban strife with no peace in the emptied countryside. This is a  convincing tale of desperate changlings (Roma mater?) told as from the  inside. A remarkably gritty tale with intensely palpable scenes and  emotions, a cross between a Roman orgy and cynical Medieval piety. I didn't  feel it was a &quot;fantasy&quot; novel but realistic, sensual but not  erotic. Remarkably, the word &quot;werewolf&quot; is never used, and its  absence makes the story so much better, less trite, more empathetic.  Strangely, the next book in this new &quot;series&quot; will be set a  thousand years earlier.	1999-08-06
US	52618134	R4UVMTSYB7THX	0399143947	739795031	Point of Origin (Kay Scarpetta) (A Scarpetta Novel)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	oh, oh	Cornwell outdoes herself. Carrie Grethen is back and the horrible tension is gut-wrenching. The psychological terror has been ratched up by tightly focusing on threats to Scarpetta, but that is becoming tiresomely  predictable. I AM disappointed how ME Scarpetta has become the terrorized  center of the plots, with her intelligent sleuthing receding into the  background, and horror stories coming to the fore. I'm afraid how far  crazed she'll go in the next book (both Scarpetta and Cornwell--they both  need to take a break!). A new co-heroine is introduced, and a hero knocked  off (wholly unexpected, that): Is Scarpetta being set up to become still  another unhappy lesbian character in these novels? The ending is  wonderfully set up: Cornwell had me beginning to mentally wonder off,  thinking the story was to be continued later, when the twist hit like a  fist in the kidneys.  Wonderful effect, if a bit too abrupt.	1999-08-06
US	52618134	R35BHQD08GDPE9	039559510X	933025723	On Mozart: A Paean for Wolfgang	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Got to read it to believe it!	If you can get through this confusing leviathan of a slim book, I guarantee you will know more abut the meaning of music. But not only is this full of the familiar verbal pyrotechnics of Anthony Burgess, but an  amazingly diverse conflation of genres - all those announced in the baroque  title, and yes, even word music to Symphony 40! Intellectually involving  and challenging, rather than an emotional or historical novel. The more you  know of classical music the more you'll enjoy this sly book. It repays  required rereading.	1999-07-29
US	52618134	R3SMVSDITSOUJB	0445406518	721002787	Crocodile on the Sandbank (Amelia Peabody)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Enjoyable archaeology	This is the first in a series of entertaining suspense novels about a feminist-archaeologist adventuring through Egypt in the dawn of modern Egyptology, at the end of the nineteenth century during the transition from  amateur collectors of looted objects to the professional investigation of  ruins in their original context. The stories are crisply written by an  expert on Egyptology (as well as an accomplished author of many  romance-suspense novels under other pseudonyms). Protagonists Emerson and  Amelia incorporate as their own the original scientific advances of Sir  Flinders Petrie who first developed a chronology of everyday pottery  (written dates are never found on everything one might wish to date,  whereas potsherds are pretty much ubiquitous). Effervescent Amelia can be  tiresomely obstreperous, very prickly concerning her opinionated  independence, but the fascination of authentic locale and plot win out.  Only if you believe in curses, ghosts, and zombies could this story scare  you, and lead you to miss the villain. This story is also marred slightly  by that cliche of romance novels, the WILLFUL ignorance  (&quot;misunderstanding&quot;) of the heroine's own feelings (arrrgh!),  blind to the two faces of a single overwhelming emotion: hate and love.  This should not be the case for an enlightened heroine, unless feminism  systematically represses emotion in favour of intellectual competition?  These Amelia Peabody confections really should be read in chronological  order, as they are of a &quot;biographical&quot; nature (but the publisher  shamefully fails to provide any hint of their sequence).	1999-07-26
US	52618134	RU6ELUWYKX03	0451456750	739185427	Island in the Sea of Time	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Frighteningly real	I simply could not put this book down (sorry boss)! S. M. Stirling's ongoing series--of Nantucket Yankees ingeniously evolving the future while &quot;cast away&quot; into the Bronze Age three thousand years past--is a  fascinating twist on the &quot;alternate futures&quot; genre of science  fiction. Island in the Sea of Time is a wonderfully realized story of a  modern peoples' struggle to adjust and survive in a time of great  dislocation and desperate adversity. Transporting an entire group of modern  Americans back in time means Stirling can legitimately give them modern  politically correct personalities, and most effectively contrast these with  Bronze Age mores. Thus understanding our heroes' modern motivations is  &quot;simpler&quot; than in the &quot;Byzantine&quot; Videssos Cycle of  Harry Turtledove, Stirling's model. The characters are very well drawn and  differentiated, nor are we stuck only with laconic New Englanders as this  colony in time expands. Only one person is a caricature, a New Age  Environmentalist &quot;Nazi&quot; who is set up for a very bad end. I had  real empathy for the desperate straits of the Nantucket Islanders isolated  from everything familiar, and for the tension and anxiety regarding  survival as the dire implications of their limited supplies unfolds. The  tight focus on a small group of (once-fellow) Americans is highly  involving: my god, what would I do if totally totally cut off from the 20th  century? As an archaeologist I found Stirling's fleshing out of bare Beaker  and Wessex Culture artifacts (like Stonehenge) to be marvelous, if  incidental, fun.	1999-07-26
US	52618134	R1X5P6U58B3EYT	0451457439	791568967	Against the Tide of Years	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Engrossing	Against the Tide of Years is S. M. Stirling's second novel in an ongoing series whose core is a group of modern Nantucket Yankees learning to cope with the Bronze Age. Compared to the first volume (Island in the Sea of  Time) there is less tension, less anxiety over their survival, and thus a  less involving read. In part this is because a much longer period of time  is covered (hence the story becomes episodic, and laced with flashbacks to  a parallel story), the stage expands to the Mediterranean and Near Eastern  world, and the many new players are more civilized (fundamentally less  exotic) than in the first story. The revival of near-modern skills happens  a little too easily now, usually off-stage, with little dissension, and  excessively focused on (19th century) military technology to wow the enemy  (and us). Fascinating new characters appear, but the crucial women receive  only flesh wounds. Here the renegade Yankee deserter, Walker, who was such  a threat in the first novel seems actually a rather decent chap while he is  enslaving Agamemnon and the world of Homeric pre-Classical Greece (and his  first wife's now-comical Sadism proves that sin is ultimately boring)! In  some ways this volume is just marking time, setting up the initial  situation for the climactic battles with Walker and his Iberian ally. (Then  of course there is Africa and China, if Stirling would only continue his  intriguing world.) This is definitely a series to be read only from the  start.	1999-07-26
US	52618134	RPII0ZJ5REUMH	0671749595	68612159	The Wright Style: Re-Creating the Spirit of Frank Lloyd Wright	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Wonderful introduction to Wright's Art	This is a wonderful book: gorgeous color pictures with an informative and most insightful text. Far beyond a coffee table collection, this is a real contribution to understanding Wright, and American housing. Lind discusses  the design ideas of a number of Wright's most famous or typical extant  buildings. You get a good idea of the exhilarating play of light and space  in his houses, and the real significance of such modern cliches as  ranch-style, strip and corner windows, patio doors, and built-ins. Besides  real insight into Wright's aesthetic, the book is notable for its unique  coverage of 12 houses by Wright disciples, and appendices on interior arts  and sources of reproductions. (Wright would be appalled, since he saw  furnishings as uniquely integral and scaled to particular houses!) A  &quot;dangerous&quot; book, it singlehandedly reawakened my interest in  Wright's architecture. It may draw you, too, into learning more of Wright,  and influencing your choice of home.	1999-07-08
US	52618134	R3J86HU29W0TJ4	0823071782	628494004	Frank Lloyd Wright's Usonian Houses: Designs for Moderate Cost One-Family Homes	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Affordable Wright houses	This is a great book for anyone who is considering an architect for a new home, or is a Wright fan. This book comprehensively discusses and illustrates a type of house design that is actually affordable in this day,  unlike many of Wright's more famous Prairie designs (which preceded the  buildings examined here). This is the only book on Usonians I know that  deeply analyzes and lets you see how Wright's magic was worked, although  that can become rather technical in nature. But if you are planning a home,  and want it to be an exhilarating work of art, I think you need these  details badly. About the only thing I didn't learn of Usonians here was the  importance of the diagonal, or oblique, in developing Wright's floor plans,  generating their &quot;overlapping&quot; spaces and spatial flow despite  the rigid basic module.	1999-07-08
US	52618134	R24S5X4K6NKS45	1566409985	517614276	Frank Lloyd Wright's Usonian Houses (Wright at a Glance Series)	Books	5	57	61	N	N	The Wright house for the rest of us!	This is a beautiful short introduction to the late and often smaller houses built by Wright after 1935, appropriately published in a purse-size book (part of a series). While less well known than his Prairie houses,  these Usonians are the houses that YOU and I could afford! (Well...the  smallest gem, Goetsch--built for $7,137.23--just sold for c.$225,000.) You  will see here the beginning of many cliches of &quot;modern houses:&quot;  single storys, open plans, lots of glass, dinettes, carports, etc. Only,  these look beautiful! Why? Some idea of the awesome power of integrated  design, inside and out, even at a tiny scale, is given in the small  pictures of rich color. No &quot;interior decoration&quot; for Wright!  Carla Lind is an extraordinarily evocative writer on Wright, and distills  deep aesthetic insights into a brief focused text. If you like the magic  you see here, then be sure to get Sargeant's book (Frank Lloyd Wright's  Usonian Houses) to understand how these are designed and built (or seek  Susan J. Bandes,  Affordable Dreams. Kresge Art Museum Bulletin 6. Michigan  State University. 1991). Enjoy.	1999-07-08
US	52618134	R2L471ZFAICEKR	0425169634	553785642	Sins of Betrayal (Sailing Mystery Series, 1)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A Sensitive Mystery	This second story in a series focuses on the mystery and family relations of heroine and victims rather than overt romance.    While it does invoke the &quot;romantic misunderstanding&quot; cliche of straight romance  novels, that is not a central plot device, but merely keeps Kellie's  erstwhile boyfriend out of the story.  Best in its exploration and handling  of personal relationships (and there are quite a range of ones here), the  sense of place, the building of suspense, the frisson of terror, or the  dropping of (mis)clues a la Agatha are underplayed.  Although sub-titled A  Sailing Mystery, sailors will be disappointed. While her marina locale is  intrinsic to the story, Kellie's maritime skills or time on the water are,  really, irrelevant to the plot; as are the police who should have been  doing the sleuthing.  Just another pleasant and well-crafted mystery  fiction.	1999-06-25
US	52618134	R24I4HGS6USM6G	0805055673	200436263	Mr. Midshipman Easy (Heart of Oak Sea Classics)	Books	2	1	7	N	N	A Classic? for boys	Marryat is a bit disappointing to me, after O'Brien, Lambden, Woodman, et al., but no doubt true to its time, when this story was a great favorite of young men who wanted to escape to sea.  Mr. Easy has an entirely too easy  time of life for a real midshipman under sail, full of successful  derring-do without any visible training or sail-handling to it, but thanks  really to his practical and experienced Negro servant!  I can see how young  boys might have enjoyed this fast-moving story of endless adventures when  it was written 140 years ago, but for me it lacks grit, sweat, and tears  (perhaps the very reason it successfully recruited boys into the navy, as  Parascandola avers).  Maybe this is a valuable historical document from a  real sea captain, moralizing from an outlook lacking in the more  &quot;politically correct, sensitive, and sexual&quot; attitudes of modern  authors, but as the &quot;best&quot; of Marryat's novels, I'll pass on the  others.	1999-06-25
US	52618134	R178H5MR93QEDP	0802732984	285736729	Murder in Perspective: An Architectural Mystery (Merlin Richards Mystery)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Intriguing concept with so-so execution	Here's an intriguing pseudo-historical mystery involving the irrepressible character and speech of Frank Lloyd Wright, &quot;America's Greatest Architect&quot; (although, typically, he would dispute the necessity for  &quot;America&quot; in the sobriquet--and may have been right!). FLLW  doesn't appear often enough, more's the pity, because he struts through his  scenes in all his arrogant super-perceptive glory, putting Our Hero,  Merlin--a randomly wimpish/aggressive budding architect come to worship  Wright--quite in the shade. Wright seems authentic in speech and attitude,  the architectural passages are perceptive and accurate (although I missed  having a good picture of the innovative and glamorous Biltmore Hotel [an  actual resort]). The characters are fairly well-differentiated,  particularly Tom Vernon, Wright's unctuous chief apprentice, and mysterious  Rosa of the ambiguous virtue who befriends Merlin. Merlin's character  wanders a bit, his motivation is clear but not psychologically convincing;  maybe the intended point is he's just a confused young man. Then again,  this author makes more attempt at humor than at profundity. Setting a  mystery among architects is fascinating, but how a greenhorn foreigner  (Merlin) can do better policing than a pair of veteran Arizona cops is not  made believable. The plot is well-constructed, and vital coincidences are  not glaring, although Merlin's oft-mentioned (but absent) Welsh harp seems  to be a loose end, set up for the second novel in this new, quick-reading  series by an average author. I'll read the next one, too.	1999-05-27
US	52618134	R2INP95W8K2GOP	0295971088	63130280	The Wright Space: Pattern and Meaning in Frank Lloyd Wright's Houses	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Wright's Space Rightly Revealed	Hildebrand really puts you into a selection of Wright's built spaces; you can imagine what it is like to move through and experience the changing spaces (height, length, turns) in several of Wright's famous houses, even  if you've not visited in person. Hildebrand's extended discussion --and  demonstration through stunning &quot;3D&quot; exploded diagrams-- of the  primordial concepts of Refuge/shelter (those dark fireplace cores and  inglenooks) and Prospect/outlook (distant elevated windows) applied to  buildings dating to different stages of Wright's practice is most original  and convincing. Author's scholarly prose is serviceable rather than equally  soaring. Highly useful small plans (newly corrected and with compass  indications!) and evocative B/W photographs supplement those amazing  diagrams by Wm. Hook.	1999-05-20
