US	52624195	R2YU20H7AZWSOE	0375705171	330040046	Trans-Sister Radio	Books	5	14	14	N	N	a beautiful and compelling page turner	Once again Chris Bohjalian has been able to write a compelling, disturbing and heartwarming novel - from a unique point of view - and has taken what could have become a tawdry subject and written a beautiful, intriguing novel.<br />Trans-sister Radio is a novel in five parts - as it is told from four points of view and it also uses excerpts of an NPR radio interview.  Like the other novels by Bohjalian that I have read - this novel takes place in a small town in Vermont - which makes the topic that much more interesting .  Dana Stevens, a college professor meets and falls in love with Allie - the divorced mother of Carly - who is about to leave for college.  The romance is going smoothly for both Dana and Allie until he tells her that he is planning on having a sex change at the end of the summer.  <br />This is the story of Dana and Allie's relationship - from falling in love through Dana's operation and how they handle the small mindedness of their neighbors as well as how Allie's ex-husband Will, who is still in love with Allie, and her daughter Carly deal with the situation.<br />To say that this is an unusual book with a unique topic is an understatement but the reader will find much to enjoy in Trans-Sister Radio.  Chris allows each character to develop individually as well as through each of the other characters experiences.  As we can \\"hear\\" each person's thoughts as well as see how their actions (or in-actions in some cases) effect one another. <br />I can't say enough about this book - I could not put it down.  While the topic may seem hard to swallow - it is well worth reading, whether you would agree or disagree with Dana and Allie's choices.  In a lesser author's hands this book would not amount to much, but in Chris's deft and able hands - it is a beautiful book and a fabulous read.	2002-06-27
US	52624195	R1L6HUWX68WH3F	0553582208	101057597	Uncatalogued (Booklover's Mysteries)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A welcome addition to the Plumtree series	Once again Julie Kaewert brings us back to the world of Bibliomysteries and to the world of publisher Alex Plumtree.  Readers of the series who have followed Alex's rise in the world of publishing as well as his blossoming love affair with Sarah will be delighted to see both his career and his personal life on the rise.<br />Uncatalogued  begins with Alex and Sarah deciding to elope and get married in America right before their college reunion at Dartmouth.  To make things more interesting, Alex's college sweetheart calls to ask him for some advice on some historical papers she may have found in the newly acquired archives.  For Alex, the invitation to look for lost and possibly found papers written by Samuel Pepys, 17th-century diarist and friend of the royal family, is too good to pass up as he is one of a select few Pepys scholars.  He is also asked by the publishing society he belongs to in England to get these possibly incriminating papers back as they are rumored to contain some not-so-nice royal gossip that could do serious harm to England if it came to light.<br />Fans of this series will not be surprised to read all of the twists and turns that this book contains - Alex and Sarah's near death experiences as well as the fun, historical references - even if the action is somewhat over the top - readers will find it all in good fun. <br />If you pick this or any of Julie Kaewert's \\"Plumtree\\" books up and you won't be disappointed, more likely you will be hooked.  Alex Plumtree is a bibliophile's dream come true.  This is the sixth book in her series and I certainly hope there are many more to come.	2002-06-26
US	52624195	R2CRYPPUFHHI30	0142000221	256403279	Cause Celeb	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Not Bridget but Rosie is still riveting!	Fans of Helen Field's Bridget Jones series will be surprised to learn that Cause Celeb was actually published in England prior to the Jones series but they will certainly not be disappointed by the book.  While written in the traditional style of a novel (unlike Bridget Jones) - readers will still find a place in their hearts for Cause Celeb's leading lady - Rosie Richardson.<br />After an unsuccessful relationship with a hotshot newscaster, Oliver, and a life filled with his celebrity friends and enemies, Rosie is sick of her life - sick physically and emotionally and takes a leap of faith to Africa to work in a refugee camp.  Rosie realizes that her past life in London might actually help her cause in Nambula and help the refugees get the attention, money and aid that they need - with a little chutzpah and ingenuity Rosie calls on her old friends to help with a TV benefit - along the way she realizes that her heart has mended and her life is more full and rewarding than she could have ever imagined.<br />Readers will revel in the writing style and situations that Helen Fielding has made famous in her Bridget series but will be delighted to discover a much more grounded and resourceful heroine - one that we could aspire to be.  All in all, Cause Celeb is a great read and will keep fans busy while waiting for the next Bridget installment.	2002-06-26
US	52624195	RVSVH271A4X0V	0743203305	419693603	A Trip To The Stars: A Novel	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Could not put this book down	Although I had to wait several (ok, more than several) years for Nicholas Christopher to write A Trip to the Stars, the wait was well worth it.  Christopher obviously spent the time wisely, researching numerous topics, ideas and folklore. He let his fabulous imagination run wild.<BR> <BR>A Trip to the Stars is the fantastic (and fantasy) journey of Loren (who is renamed Enzo) and his aunt Alma (who renames herself Mala). As Amazon has done a wonderful job trying to encapsulate the beauty, wonder and joy of this book in their description above, I won't waste my time trying to do the<BR>same. <br />Christopher has a melodic voice and an imagination that does not quit.  Readers will find themselves transported from New York, to the desert outside of the Las Vegas, to New Orleans and Vietmam and to the mysteries of the extraordinary Hotel Canopus and somewhere in between they will fall in love with Enzo and the unique characters that inhabit his world, a world<BR>that the reader will not want to return from.<BR> <BR>Much like Neil Gaiman, Christopher is unique with his novels, not an easy feat in this day and age where a good idea gets reproduced in a hundred different ways. I highly recommend this book - it can be read over and over again and the reader will still feel the excitement and wonderment that they felt the first time they discovered A Trip to the Stars. If you purchase<BR>this book - I promise that you will not regret it.	2002-06-25
US	52624195	R16LJWCLIT0DQB	0743227441	512398584	The Other Boleyn Girl	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Perfect for a vacation or a book club read	I could not put this book down.  I found myself making excuses at work to steal off somewhere and read this book - even if I only had a chance to read one page.  Based on the real life of Anne, Mary and George Boleyn as well as the court of King Henry the VIII - The Other Boleyn Girl is a MUST read.<br />Mary, Anne's younger sister, is the main character in this novel and Philippa Gregory does an incredible job of bringing her to life and transporting the reader back to England in the 1500's.  This fictional book is based on the true fact of Mary's affair with King Henry and the subsequent marriage of Henry and Anne as well as the beheadings of both Anne, George and half of Henry's court - The Other Boleyn girl is well written and fast paced and gives a credible and interesting back story to one of the most celebrated and notorious marriages England's history as well as bringing to light several individuals who have been relegated to the back pages of history - if they are mentioned at all.<br />From life at the court to life in the fields, The Other Boleyn girl has it all, love, adventure and intrigue.  This is by far, one of the best books I have read in ages.	2002-06-20
US	52624195	RJRAY4HLVFGKT	0743418174	780559593	Good in Bed	Books	4	13	14	N	N	You will immediately develop a kinship with Cannie Shapiro	Good In Bed is every woman's nightmare and reality!  Readers will completely identify with the topics that range from - the fear of being judged for the way you look (too fat, too thin, not pretty enough...) to the never ending questions of \\"why didn't my last relationship work\\" and \\"will I EVER find someone else\\" and \\"did I make a huge mistake, was he supposed to be The One?\\"  Cannie, the book's main character could easily be your best friend or even you.   <br />At the start of Good In Bed (The name of the column, Cannie's ex Bruce is now writing for hotter than hot Moxie magazine), the reader is introduced to Cannie (Candace) Shapiro - an overweight, entertainment reporter for the Philadelphia Examiner.  Cannie, who has recently told her boyfriend of 3 years Bruce that she wants to \\"take a break\\" discovers that he has used their love life as a basis for his new sex column - the first column is called \\"Loving a Larger Woman\\" - Cannie is humiliated and enraged. <br />Cannie turns to her newly out lesbian mother, best friend and a weight loss support group for help.  Along the way she meets Dr. K, Maxie Ryder (Hollywood's hottest new \\"it\\" girl) and many others - including Bruce's new \\"petite\\" girlfriend.  Bruce has let her down just like her father - a plastic surgeon who left his wife and family with no forwarding address - an issue that Cannie must face in order to make peace with herself.<br />This book must be partially autobiographical - at least it feels that way to this reader.  Many of the references to people, places and events are just a tad too real (and thinly veiled) but it does not detract from the great read that Jennifer Weiner provides in Good In Bed.<br />Not to sound too clichéd but I laughed and cried and cheered Cannie throughout the book - as if she were one of my girlfriends.  I really enjoyed reading this and I eagerly look forward to Jennifer's next book.  While this isn't \\"Great Literature\\" it makes for a great, light read.	2002-06-20
US	52624195	R24U8VG86B6HPL	0385335482	841557271	Confessions of a Shopaholic (Shopaholic, No 1)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Bridgett Jones Who?	Move over Bridgett Jones - we have a new &quot;it&quot; girl from England. Sophie Kinsella's Confessions of a Shopaholic is a MUST read for anyone who likes to shop or knows someone who does. <BR>Becky Bloomwood, financial journalist and shopper extraordinaire, has a big problem. A BIG line of credit and a very small paycheck. In addition, she can't seem to stop shopping. Told thru Becky's point of view as well as letters from the bank - Confessions is a can put it down kind of book. <BR>The reader, who instantly wants to take Becky under their wing and offer words of advice, is transported to Becky's dull day job as a financial reporter - copying press releases and going to one press conference after another, especially the ones run by the largest financial PR firm in London, Brandon Communications, run by the dashing Luke Brandon and his bitchy side-kicks. <BR>Becky tries to heed the advice of experts and friends and cut down on her unending spending, but falls victim to her own desires. Her uncontrollable shopping and creative responses to the debit collectors bring her nothing but trouble. Who hasn't had this problem? <BR>Just as Becky thinks her world is ending - she unsuccessfully tries to date her roommate's millionaire cousin, things turn around for Becky - but to find out how, you'll have to read the book! <BR>Confessions of a Shopaholic is great fun and a good beach or plane read. I can't wait for Sophie Kinsella to write more about Becky Bloomwood's adventures.	2002-06-20
US	52624195	R3MME0P3Y1QVV8	0385335881	796714451	Shopaholic Takes Manhattan	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Becky Bloomwood takes on New York Shopping	Becky Bloomwood's life finally seems to be on the upswing. She is the financial expert on London's top rated morning show, she has finally worked things out with her credit line at the bank and has her finances under control and is happily dating Luke Brandon, head of Brandon Communications and a millionaire to boot. <br />Fans of Sophie Kinsella's first book - Confessions of a Shopaholic - will really enjoy following Becky's exploits overseas in the Big Apple. Life is perfect for Becky when she discovers, thru secondhand news, that Luke is moving to New York to open a new office for Brandon Communications. <br />After fearing the worst, Luke invites Becky to join him and helps her arrange numerous interviews in New York. Life could not be more perfect, or could it? Becky discovers Madison and Fifth Avenue paradise, sample sales galore and in the midst of it ends up on the covers of tabloids back in London. As Becky struggles to get her finances back in order her relationship with Luke seems irreparably damaged - so she must fly home to London alone and back in debt. How will Becky manage to get out of this jam? <br />Once again, Sophie Kinsella has written a fast paced, fun beach read. This book is a must read for anyone that has ever hit their limit on a credit card or walked past a store and bought something that caught their eye. I look forward to hearing more about Becky soon!	2002-06-20
US	52624195	R1ZXOP38VYZ8LN	0385335458	866159809	Franklin Flyer	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A unique story about an average man	Nicholas Christopher has done it again.  He has created an intriguing tale, well drawn characters and a wonderful vacation from reality - all of which make for a fabulous, can't put it down kind of read.<br />This book follows Franklin Flyer, named after the train he was on that crashed when he was a newborn, from 1939 through to the later years in his life.  From New York City to Europe and back.  Each chapter is a year in Franklin's life and each year brings new and interesting characters and exploits.<br />The first chapter introduces you to Franklin and quickly sucks you in, giving you some enigmatic thoughts to keep in mind while reading the book.  Christopher once again delves into the topics of fate, destiny and luck and manages to wrap up each and every question and plot line that he introduces Franklin and the reader to.  While not as spellbinding as his previous novels, Veronica and A Trip to the Stars, Franklin Flyer is certainly worth reading and enjoying.	2002-06-20
US	52624195	R3DSBBHP84FSS0	0380978407	737838666	Lamb: The Gospel According to Biff, Christ's Childhood Pal	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Hilarious , educational and a good read	Christopher Moore, humorist and author, must have some sort-of death wish - writing about Jesus' first 30 years - the years after his miraculous birth but before the Bible picks up again through to his untimely death.  Either way, this book was well worth the damnation of his eternal soul.<br />The central character, Levi, but his friends call him Biff, is raised from the dead by the not-so swift Angel Raziel, in order to write a new testament to the bible discussing Joshua's, or Jesus as he is known to most, early years.  Biff meets and consequently becomes the \\"messiah's\\" best friend when Biff comes across Josh \\"resurrecting\\" a frog that his little brother keeps bashing in the head with a rock.<br />Lamb covers the many trials and tribulations of Biff and Josh's escapades - they meet (and subsequently fall in love with) Mary Magdalene (or Maggie), they go on a quest to find the three magi who came to see Jesus' birth and learn some interesting and different things from these wise men and the reader learns how Josh recruits his disciples all while flashing back to Biff in current times trying to sneak a look at the bible (to learn what has happened to his friends) hidden in the hotel's bedside table without arousing the arch-angel Raziel's wrath.<br />Moore takes pleasure in relating the \\"human-ness\\" of Josh - he acts like a boy not a savior while trying to accept his fate as the savior of mankind and teach others \\"the way\\".  The interesting thing that Moore does with this book is show the boys learning about other religions such as Buddhism, Hinduism, Judaism and yoga and to see how these fit into Christianity as it is taught today - it is interesting to see that the religion is made up of parts of each of the other main religions at the time of Jesus.<br />This book is very well written - in a style that only Moore could get away with - his trademark wit and wisdom can be found sprinkled throughout Lamb.  After reading this book, one wonders why no one thought towrite something like this before.	2002-06-20
US	52624195	R2AOQL1M7GCNC	0743213831	235209378	America the Beautiful: A Novel	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Lighthearted and fun	This book was recommended to me as something that would be fun to read but not very deep - take it for what is worth, just that.  While the plot revolves around America Throne, professional dilettante daughter of world famous painter Boris Throne, it is not too difficult for the reader to make the leap that this is a thinly veiled \\"auto-biography\\" of sorts as Moon Unit's father is the famous/infamous musician and personality Frank Zappa.<br />Beyond the obvious, America The Beautiful is fun - she could be one of your girlfriends trying to get over being unceremoniously dumped.  While the reader alternately laughs and feels sorry for America as she goes back and forth between calling her neer-do-well ex Jasper and begging him to come back to her and telling him off.  She reads self-help books and tries to move on.<br />America's family, her half-there mother and brother Spoonie, is just as entertaining as she is.  The reader watches as America learns to move on and meet other men and who knows, maybe the man she is meant to be with after all.  <br />With tons of fun pop-culture references, musical lyrics and witty commentary, America The Beautiful is a good, fun, quick read that would be perfect for a vacation.	2002-06-20
US	52624195	R1GWVC2G0FS7NA	0380804557	26552478	Stardust	Books	5	15	17	N	N	A lyrical fantasy with pixie dust woven throughout	Neil Gaiman is a brilliant writer and he certainly shows some of his best stuff in Stardust.  Fans of Gaiman's Sandman series as well as Neverwhere will fall in love with Tristan and Star and the myriad of well drawn characters.<br />The plot is a mix of fantasy, romance and adventure - it has something for everyone.  Stardust is destined to become a classic - sitting amongst the Narnia Chronicles, The Little Prince and others.<br />Beyond building a fantastical plot, the alternate world of Faeirie (beyond the Wall) that the reader can actually feel a part of and solid characters - Gaiman weaves these elements together to create a beautiful memory tinged with comic genius.<br />Tristan undertakes a quest for a fallen star to give to his love Victoria.  She has promised to marry him if he can obtain one for her.  Despite the impossibility of this request - Tristan sets out from his home in Wall to the land of Faeirie, across the enchanted meadow to seek true love.  Along the way Tristan meets many friends and foes, witches, fairies, talking trees and much much more and in the process he learns a thing or two about life, love, his heritage and friendship.<br />Stardust is a unique blend and has something to appeal to every reader.  He melds several plot lines together to form an intricate tale that I could not put down and can't wait to read again.  This is a book to enjoy over and over again.  If you liked Stardust you should try Neverwhere as well as Nicholas Christopher's Veronica and A Trip to the Stars.	2001-02-07
US	52624195	R2JT7C8S6B758K	0449225437	638548983	The Greenway	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Intriguing and mysterious	The Greenway by Jane Adams jumped out at me due to author Minette Walters comments on the book.  While The Greenway is far from the fabulous writings of Ms. Walters, it does have it's own blend of suspense and some interesting twists and turns.<br />The plot kept me reading past my stop on the bus but I never really fully felt the characters, they were not fully formed nor very sympathetic.  They seemed very wooden to me but I really wanted to know what happened to Suzie!  The novel opens with Cassie Malthams perpetual nightmare of the day her cousin Suzie disappeared.  They were young children playing on the greenway - one moment Suzie was there and the next she had vanished.<br />Cassie and her husband decide to return to the sleepy village many years later so that Cassie can face her fears and move on with her life - only as Cassie returns another young girl vanishes from the greenway.  The police see the connection as does the press and Cassie must face her worst nightmares to help save a child's life as well as save her sanity.<br />While I felt the ending lacked a bit - I did enjoy the read.  The writing was light and moved quickly and the plot stayed very intriguing from start to finish.  I only wish Jane Adams had drawn stronger characters.	2001-01-29
US	52624195	R3NIIURA02WLHW	0595090818	473442025	The Opening	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A great book club read	I really enjoyed The Opening By Susannah Ellis Wilds.  The story line was one that got me hooked really early on as I know I could easily have been one of the characters in the book.<br />The Opening has a dual meaning - the reader first learns that the novel is about a fun prediction written about a group of friends during their pre-teen years and hidden away until accidentally discovered many years later.  The group has lost touch and the writer of the note, Lucy decides it is high time for a reunion.  The book floats between each girl's life - then and now.<br />While the revelations made when the girls finally unite are not that out of the ordinary nor surprising it is the sweet journey that brings us to the gathering.  Each woman's life will touch the reader in a multitude of ways.  Whether it reminds the reader of themselves or friends they have known at different stages of their life The Opening will certainly tug the heart strings and make you want to pick up the phone to find long lost friends.	2001-01-29
US	52624195	R19LVWC8KTNLU	0345351452	835814619	More of the Straight Dope	Books	5	8	8	N	N	You Won't Regret Buying This Book	Cecil Adams Straight Dope books are some of the best trivia books out there bar none. While you may not get the answers to the specific questions you are asking you will find answers to things you always wanted to know but never really thought to ask about.<br />Cecil Adams has been writing his column for the Chicago Reader since 1973 and has been asked every random trivia questions under the sun and rarely is he unable to find the answer. Cecil Adams has a wicked sense of humor that makes his books so much fun to read over and over again.<br />More Of The Straight Dope is the second book in his series and while it is hard to find, is certainly one of the best of the lot.  He answers questions like - what exactly is Mojo?  Why does your skin wrinkle in the tub? and so forth.<br />No one has ever seen the real Cecil Adams and as long as he keeps answering questions and putting out books like this - no one will ever really care (well.... it is probably the last mystery that he will ever solve.)	2001-01-03
US	52624195	R30JUPY3HHE8ND	0345381114	54671238	Return of the Straight Dope: Still More from the Popular Newspaper Column	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Trivia Addicts Beware - No One Knows More than Uncle Cece!	The Straight Dope books are some of the best trivia books out there today - they cover everything from pop culture to religion questions with all sorts of weirdness in between.<br />Uncle Cece, as he is known to his friends, started a column at the Chicago Reader in 1973 and his been answering bizzare trivia questions ever since. Cecil has a very wacky and irrevrant sense of humor and is willing to answer just about anything the public can throw his way. His column now appears in more than 30 newspapers throughout the United States and Canada but his books are must haves!<br />Return Of The Straight Dope helps readers to solve the mysteries behind things like what was Barney Rubble's Job or how do those astronauts go the bathroom in space?  Or Is there really a place called Podunk? <br />You get the idea.  This book is a must have for trivia lovers everywhere!	2001-01-03
US	52624195	R2DCSVNBEI2P4F	0345333152	156455287	The Straight Dope	Books	5	12	12	N	N	For Trivia Addicts everywhere!	The Straight Dope books are some of the best trivia books out there today - they cover all sorts of odds and ends from animals, media, sports to other abnormal oddities.<br />Cecil Adams began his quest for truth in 1973 by accepting letters from the Teeming Millions (as he calls his readers) at the Chicago Reader and his been answering bizzare trivia questions ever since.  Cecil has stuck around due to his irrevrant sense of humor and willingness to answer just about anything the public can throw his way.  His column is currently seen in more than 30 newspapers throughout the United States and Canada but his books are must haves!<br />The Straight Dope is the first in the grouping and covers all sorts of inane topics such as: What does the 'H' stand for in Jesus H. Christ?  Why do pigeons bob their heads?  Is it true what they say about Catherine the Great and the horse?  Why is there no Channel One?<br />and so on...  buy this book and you will be the envy of all your friends - or at least you will be on your way to becoming King or Queen of all useless knowledge.  This book makes a great gift (I would know as I tend to buy it for friends) or can be useful for great party chatter!	2001-01-03
US	52624195	R13GLS6O1SXMUL	0345417186	522364299	The Queen's Man: A Medieval Mystery (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	An enjoyable way to discover history	Sharon Kay Penman's The Queens Man was the first of her books that I have read and I will certainly read more of her novels.  I enjoyed this book and was impressed with the ammount of research put into this book.<br />Penman mixes mystery, murder, romance and history in The Queen's Man. Justin, the main character of the book, leaves his home, an abbey, to seek his fortune in the world.  During his trip he comes upon some men who are robbing a man and Justin tries to save him only to make the dying man a promise to deliver a secret letter to the Queen.<br />Justin is able to gain an audience with Queen Elanor who is mourning the sure death of her favorite son, Richard and trying to save the throne from her other scheming son John.  She pulls Justing into her service to discover who murdered the man that was to deliver her the letter.<br />As Justin is hunting for a killer he must learn who to trust and how to solve the case.  While this is not your traditional mystery, Penman has done a wonderful job of trying to transport the reader to ye old England.  Aside from a few annoying colloquialisms, she does a fine job.  I was pulled along trhough the book and will certainly read more of Penman's novels as her writing is strong as are her characters and plots.<br />This is the perfect novel for those who enjoy historical mysteries and even for those readers that tend to get bogged down with too much historcal information as the plot is trong enough without having to know too much.  A Fun and interesting read!	2000-12-28
US	52624195	R36IIUNOUEYVSH	0060196122	622943913	Veronika Decides to Die	Books	5	71	73	N	N	Herein lies the meaning of life	Paulo Coelho's new novel is beautful - both in the writing and the story being told.  I first read Coelho's Alchemist and was blown away by the simplicity of his writing style and the beauty that he elicited through the weaving his tale.  His novels always leave a wonderful glow behind and Veronika Decides To Die is no different.<br />Veronica suffers from malaise and decides that she would be better off dead.  Veronika commits suicide and is shocked to awaken in Villete, a well known mental hospital,  only to be told that while she was not successful in dying she has committed herself to death as her attempt at suicide has damaged her heart and she now has a few days left to live.<br />During this week, Veronika gets to know the other patients at Villete, from the Dr. Igor to Zedka, Mari, Eduard and the Fraternity.  Each person has something to share with Veronkia - who in time comes to learn the joy pain of life and all of the emotions in between.  <br />Readers will enjoy this trip of self discovery as it speaks to all of us.  I certainly left this book with more than I went into it with.  It really moved me and has made me think - about life, love, happiness, despair and so much more.  I look forward to more beautfully provocative and thought provoking work from Paulo Coelho.	2000-12-28
US	52624195	R1NHW192GUZBYP	1570062463	795290273	Zagatsurvey 2001 New York City Restaurants (Zagatsurvey : New York City Restaurants, 2001)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Do Not Leave Home Without This Book	This book has a permanent place on every book shelf I own.  A true New Yorker will live and die by this book.  Tim and Nina Zagat began their restaurant reviews as a hobby for friends but it grew into a monster and now they reach out to diners around the world to rate and review any and all eating establishments in New York and around the world.<br />They have also branched out into rating hotels around the world.  The reviews found in these books are very accurate as they are rated by real eaters (include this particular diner). <br />The book is arranged alphabetically however diners can locate restaurants divided by location, type of food, top ratings, most popular as well as by any special features.  Always helpful and handy, I highly recommend this book for a fabulous meal in New York.	2000-12-28
US	52624195	R2QJD9IY6KHRAP	0743410513	605962018	The Unburied	Books	3	6	7	N	N	I could not finish this book	The plot of Unburied sounded so intriguing that I picked it up and started reading it immediately.  The writing was very imaginative, Charles Palliser really colored my imagination - I felt as tho I was scurrying through the pits of the catacombs with Courtine.<br />Unfortunately, the beautiful writing could not make up for the confusing lack of plot.  There were so many dead ends and unimportant pieces of information that I felt lost.  While I do not normally have problems with miscellaneous information, here is just felt like it was thrown in for no reason other that to lengthen the book.<br />This style of writing may not be for everyone but many do enjoy it, I however, am not one that does.  The kiss of death for me was putting the book down and not having any interest in picking it back up while on my Thanksgiving holiday - when I kept passing the book up for whatever was on TV I knew that had to give up on Unburied.  This has only ever happened to me with one other book.<br />Hopefully others will be able to muddle through and discover who dunnit and will let me know.	2000-11-28
US	52624195	R120JOGSYOHIK2	0425177440	350734037	Death Never Takes a Holiday (Ghostwriter Mystery)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Another fun romp through Manhattan with Jake	Noreen Wald's Ghost Writer series is full of fun, witty and imaginative characters as well as simple but twisted plots.  All in all, these books are great fun for series mystery readers looking to take a holiday.<br />Death Never Takes a Holiday plunges Jake O'Hara, a ghost writer of mysteries, back into crime solving along with her fellow Ghost Writers.  When attending the Crime Writer's Conference with her mother, Maura, and Gypsy Rose as well as her on again off again paramour Dennis Kim, Jake witnesses two murders.<br />Former movie star Holly Halligan and Senator Charles Fiure's deaths cast suspicion on everyone especially the third panelist, cat burglar turned bestseller, Rickie Romero.  Jake must discover who killed the Senator and the Star and if and how their lives were linked.  Once again the reader gets to follow Jake's pals Modesty, Too Tall Tom and the always intriguing Ben Rubin (Jake's other love interest).<br />As they search the streets of Manhattan and the alley-ways of the past - Jake discovers more than she has bargained for.  Jake also learns to deal with her mother's upcoming wedding, her feelings for both Dennis and Ben as well as the possibility that Modesty may have met the love of her life.  Will Jake succeed in unmasking the murderer before meeting an untimely end?	2000-11-28
US	52624195	R2BVQFKB45NKUQ	0553579991	669135791	The Raven and the Nightingale	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Great fun	This was the first book in Joanne Dobson's series that I had read and it did not disappoint at all.  I did not feel as though I were thrown in the middle of a series nor did I feel as though Joanne had to repeat everything for her first time readers - her writing skills are deft and strong as are her characters.<br />I love bibliomysteries and there is nothing better than one that focuses on EA Poe!  The plot was very interesting, Karen Pelletier, an English professor at a small college in Mass. with a knack for solving literary crimes, is in the midst of a tough semester.  She is battling the nasty weather, whiny students and other professors who would like to take over a large grant that she was bequeathed for a new study center when she receives a box filled with papers on an important and yet mostly forgotten poet, Emmeline Foster, who had an important link to Poe.  <br />When some of the papers go missing and one of the college's most disliked professors is murdered - Karen is called in to help.  Emmeline Foster's death in the 1840's was never really put to rest and Joanne manages to weave both deaths into an interesting and intriguing tale.  Can Karen solve a murder, find the lost papers, find a missing student and still enjoy the holiday break?<br />I most enjoyed Karen's relationship with Lt. Piotrowski, a Detective that she has crossed paths with in Dobson's past two novels.  I can't wait to see what develops between them.  All in all, I was engrossed in the plot and could not put this book down.  The story had me so fascinated - I could not wait to start researching Emmeline Foster and her work - but was amazed to discover that she was a fictitious character - that is how well written this book is.	2000-11-15
US	52624195	R3FKJVVKORPJ2Y	0316825646	152903978	Evening News	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Heartwrenchingly good	No matter what stage of life you are at when reading Evening News - this book will affect you.  Marly Swick looks at the death of a child from every angle and speaks in all the right voices so that the reader can truly feel everyone's emotions - no one is right, no one is wrong but they are all learning to live with death in their own way.<br />Evening News begins with on eof the most memorable opening chapters I have read in a long time.  9 Year old Teddy and his best friend Eric are playing with Eric's father's gun.  In an instant, Teddy's beloved baby sister Trina is gone and his whole world has turned upside down and inside out.<br />Teddy must deal with his mother, Giselle's and step-father, Dan's devestation as well as his own.  He must live with the guilt and fear, Giselle must learn to grieve for Trinia and protect her son and Dan must learn to live and forgive.  To make matters worse, Teddy's father wants Teddy to move back to Nebraska to live with him and heal.<br />Marly Swick handles all of these emotions like an artist and the reader feels equally as confused as the charaters - The novel takes the reader through the first few months and years after the accident so that the reader learns what toll the devestation takes on this family.  Will they learn to surivive this together or will they have to fight their battles on their own.  She is so deft at creating the feelings of these characters through words that every reader, no matter whether they have suffered a loss in their lives or not, will grieve for Trina and her family.<br />This is a fabulous novel - I can not wait to see aht Marly will write next.  I highly recommend this book.	2000-11-12
US	52624195	R3BKBEM0F0P1HR	0671047485	629121134	Shallow Graves (John Pellam #1)	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Deaver's first is also one of his best	Shallow Graves was first published under Jeffery Deaver's pseudonym, William Jefferies.  While he may have been writing as someone else, fans of Mr. Deavers will instantly recognize the unique and wonderful writing style, imaginative and fully sketched characters and locations and the twisted plot lines of Jeffrey Deaver lurking throughout Shallow Graves.<br />This is the first of the location scout mysteries, as they are called, and readers are lucky that Deaver's popularity has grown so much that they have chosen to re-print his first novels.  WE are instantly thrown into the world of mysterious John Pellam and his partner Marty as they are looking throughout upstate New York for a location for a new Hollywood Film.<br />While half the town is out parading in front of John for an unofficial audition the other half of town is trying to get rid of him.  When John's partner Marty dies under strange circumstances, all eyes are focused on Pellam.  He must quickly learn who he can trust and who is out to get him.  The reader begins to suspect, along with Pellam, that not all is at it would seem in this sleeply little town in the middle of nowhere.<br />Deaver does what he does best in this novel, he creates a believable and likeable set of characters, creates a seedy and dark unbelly in the most unlikely of places and brings the reader on a rollercoaster ride that you wish would never end.  But end it must and readers will be running back to well for more when they are finished.<br />This is one mystery that I wished would go on - Deaver is a master and this novel continues to prove his talent.	2000-11-12
US	52624195	R3MS8N1FU7V6DX	0449006395	360350805	Dying to Remember (Jennifer Marsh Mystery)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Jennifer Marsh is back at it again	This is the fourth Jennifer Marsh mystery and will entertain readers who have enjoyed the first three.  Jennifer is an amatuer mystery novelist who has yet to get a publisher interested in any of her books. However, this does not keep Jennifer from getting involved in a local murder.<br />Jennifer is conned into going to her high school reunion by her good friend and fellow writer, Leigh Ann.  At the reunion, Jennifer sees her high school sweet heart and his wife Sheena, the girl who won Danny back from Jennifer and who she has never quite gotten over.<br />After Danny is murdered at the reunion, Sheena must ask Jennifer for help and she is plunged into another murder that took place twenty years earlier on prom night.  With Sam, her long time beau, at her side as well as the aide of her friends Jennifer must uncover the truth behind both murders if she is be able to move past this long time love.<br />The Jennifer Marsh series may not be the most in depth or thriling mystery series out there but the characters tend to grow on readers.  How could resist wanting to curl up with a cute mystery about Jennifer and her greyhound Fluffy!  This is a great series to read in between the hard boiler, intense thrillers.	2000-10-31
US	52624195	R3U6NR8UUJ1G1O	0395981328	714615069	The Obituary Writer	Books	3	4	8	N	N	A quick and easy read	Porter Shreve's first novel, The Obituary Writer, is a good start.  The  plot was easy to follow, interesting enough but the twists and turns were  easy to see miles ahead and many of the interesting characters wee simply  shadows.<br />The Obituary Writer follows Gordie Hatch, a budding newspaper  man who wants nothing more than to follow in his deceased father's  footsteps and be a big time reporter.  Unfortunately for Gordie, he must  earn that coveted spot by starting as the obituary writer.  He tries  everything he can think of to move up but is thwarted at each turn.  It is  not until a call from a widow. Alicia Whiting,  comes in that peaks  Gordie's intrust does the tide begin to turn no tjust at work but in his  personal life.<br />Gordie's high school love, Thea moves to St. Louis but can  not seem to catch Gordie's eye nor discover what went wrong between them  and Gordie's mother wants nothing more than to live with the ghost of his  father and see Gordie achieve fame of his own.<br />This book took me two  evenings to read and kept me relatively entertained.  I read it as it was  our book club pick for this month but did not think it was one of our best  picks.  I guess I was disapointed because I thought it would be a deeper  read but was very surface level - it is a good light read and good for  vacation.	2000-09-11
US	52624195	RYN4BSJKSYZC0	0553578200	183251768	Instruments of Night	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Cook can write!!!!!	To those initiates lucky enough to have discovered Thomas H. Cook, it is  no surprise that he has won an Edgar, it is more of a surprise that he has  not won more. Cook tends to write novels that focus on the inner workings  of characters (and the demons they face) as they work on solving a mystery,  the original crimes have usually taken place in the past and are still  somehow linked to the present. <br />Cook weaves his narratives so well that  you never know what is coming - he leads you where he wants and suddenly  the twists and turns set in and by the end of the book, you never know what  hit you! Instruments of Night is much like his other novels in that the  main character, Paul Graves, is helping to discover the truth about a  mystery of the past. Graves is an author who writes a series about a killer  named Kessler, his lackey Sykes and the detective that is always in pursuit  Slovak, which is set in old New York. Graves is invited up to Riverwood, an  artist's retreat, by the owner Alison Davies to look into a murder that  happened 30 years earlier. <br />Davies is looking for closure and as Graves,  with the help of the other summer guest Eleanor Stern, delves deeper into  murder of young Faye he also must look deep within himself to keep his own  demons at bay. Graves must face his past, the death of his parents and the  gruesome murder of his sister Gwen, in order to create a plausible story  about Faye's death and complete the task that Davies has put before him.  <br />Cook does what he does best in Instruments - he keeps the reader on the  edge of their seat and keeps them guessing. I thought I had it all figured  out and then WHAMO!!!! A new twist and turn, then I thought I had it  wrapped up again and BLAM!!!! Out of no where - I was stunned! <br />This is  what makes Thomas Cook one of the best writers out there. You always know  that there are twists and turns but the endings never cease to amaze - and  they are always so realistic. He also hasGraves imagine different stories  throughout the book - and even tho most of them are short - they are so  well drawn that the reader can't imagine another possibility. I highly  recommend Cook and Instruments of Night.	2000-09-07
US	52624195	R2T8K51X4AEDMV	0789414511	284726620	Eyewitness Travel Guide to California	Books	5	4	5	N	N	This should be the first thing you pack	Dorling Kindersley makes the best travel guides hands down. They are  extremely well illustrated, have extensive and detailed maps up to date  information on hotels (rates, rooms etc), restaurants (costs and  reservation policies), and sites to see. <br />The travel guides have  wonderful pictures, well researched histories and facts about California  (the cities and the sites), what wines to look for and taste (not just by  region and vineyard but also by year), detailed walking tours, information  on famous sites (The lore behind Man''s Theater in LA, the La Brea Tar Pits  as well as Alcatraz and some of the top wineries to visit in Napa and  Sonoma).<br />The guide covers travel information, driving directions, the  best places to shop and see celebrities in LA, where to get good deals and  SOOO much more. The book give you wonderful ideas on how to best see each  area in a limited time or really enjoy it if you are there for more than a  few days. <br />The book also covers things to do that many tourists might  over look as well as telling you what is worth your while and what to skip.  <br />This is one of the best guides available on the market. It is perfect if  you are planning to go to a few cities in a limited time or for more in  depth information when planning a longer trip.	2000-09-06
US	52624195	R31ITQQ8W17SWA	1564586456	831752947	San Francisco & Northern California (EYEWITNESS TRAVEL GUIDE)	Books	4	17	18	N	N	A good guide to have	Dorling Kindersley makes the best travel guides hands down. They are  extremely well illustrated, have extensive and detailed maps up to date  information on hotels (rates, rooms etc), restaurants (costs and  reservation policies), and sites to see.  <br />The travel guides have  wonderful pictures, well researched histories and facts about San  Francisco(about Lombard street, Cable Cars, Angel's Flight....), what wines  to look for and taste (not just divided between Napa and Sonoma but also by  vineyard but also by year), detailed walking tours, information on famous  sites (Alcatraz, the sea lions at Pier 39 and some of the top wineries to  visit in Napa and Sonoma).  DK also makes a guide that covers all of  California and I own both - unless you are simply going to San Francisco, I  suggest buying the California guide over this one - they have almost the  same information.  The European guides for each city have more detail than  this guide but it is still a good buy.<br />The guide covers travel  information, driving directions, the best places to shop and eat, where to  get good deals and SOOO much more. The book give you wonderful ideas on how  to best see each area in a limited time or really enjoy it if you are there  for more than a few days.  The book also covers things to do that many  tourists might over look as well as telling you what is worth your while  and what to skip. <br />This is one of the best guides available on the  market. It is perfect if you are planning to go to a few cities in a  limited time or for more in depth information when planning a longer trip.	2000-09-06
US	52624195	R16V0PWEF8Z7WK	0789404257	321625811	Italy (Eyewitness Travel Guides)	Books	5	73	76	N	N	You can't buy a better travel guide	Dorling Kindersley makes the best travel guides hands down.  They are  extremely well illustrated, have extensive and detailed maps (thank god,  because I tend to get lost very easily), up to date information on hotels  (rates, rooms etc), restaurants (costs and reservation policies), and sites  to see.<br />The travel guides have wonderful pictures, well researched  histories and facts about Italy, what wines to look for and taste (not just  by region and vineyard but also by year), sample dishes that one should  try, detailed walking tours, information on famous art (there is a great  section on the Sistine Chapel and all of the figures you will find in each  panel).<br />The book also covers customs, money changing, travel information  - you name it!<br />This is one of the best guides available on the market.   It is perfect if you are planning to go to a few cities in a limited time  or for more in depth information when planning a longer trip.  We always  lend this out to people before they plan a trip and everyone else has  agreed it is top of the line.	2000-09-06
US	52624195	R2BR1TYFXM06U	0789449773	266933115	Eyewitness Travel Guide Deluxe Gift Edition to Paris	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The best guide book on the market - hands down	Dorling Kindersley makes the best travel guides hands down. They are  extremely well illustrated, have extensive and detailed maps (thank god,  because I tend to get lost very easily), up to date information on hotels  (rates, rooms etc), restaurants (costs and reservation policies), and sites  to see. <br />The travel guides have wonderful pictures, well researched  histories and facts about France and more specifically Paris, what wines to  look for and taste (not just by region and vineyard but also by year),  sample dishes that one should try, detailed walking tours, information on  famous art (there is a great section on the Louvre and all how to speed  thru if you only have a limited amount of time). <br />The guide covers  customs, money changing, travel information - you name it! Most  importantly, it shares with you the best places to shop (and there are SO  many in Paris), where to get good deals and SOOO much more. The book give  you wonderful ideas on how to see the city in a limited time or really  enjoy it if you are there for more than a few days. The book also covers  things to do that many tourists might over look as well as telling you what  is worth your while and what to skip.  The guide also has great ideas for  day trips beyond the city itself.<br />This is one of the best guides  available on the market. It is perfect if you are planning to go to a few  cities in a limited time or for more in depth information when planning a  longer trip. We always lend this out to people before they plan a trip and  everyone else has agreed it is top of the line.	2000-09-06
US	52624195	R1TCF9H6G4U1JZ	0789449781	976580093	Eyewitness Travel Guide Deluxe Gift Edition to Rome	Books	5	55	55	N	N	Don't leave home with out this guide	Dorling Kindersley makes the best travel guides hands down. They are  extremely well illustrated, have extensive and detailed maps (thank god,  because I tend to get lost very easily and it is even easier to get lost in  Rome), up to date information on hotels (rates, rooms etc), restaurants  (costs and reservation policies), and sites to see.  This is a more  detailed look at Rome than their Italy book, which is also fabulous.   The  travel guides have wonderful pictures, well researched histories and facts  about Rome (not just about the city as it stands today but a whole history  of Rome from it's glory days), what wines and foods that one should try,  detailed walking tours, information on famous art (there is a great section  on the Sistine Chapel and all of the figures you will find in each panel).   <br />The book also covers the best places to shop (and there are SO many in  Rome), where to get good deals on leather and other wonderful things.  The  book give you wonderful ideas on how to see the city in a limited time or  really enjoy it if you are there for more than a few days.  The book also  covers things to do that many tourists might over look as well as telling  you what is worth your while and what to skip. <br />The book also covers  customs, money changing, travel information - you name it! This is one of  the best guides available on the market.	2000-09-06
US	52624195	R205SL7CSSIM2F	0671011375	466385534	Death du Jour (Temperance Brennan Novels)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	It's in the bones....	Once again, Kathy Reichs has brought us a great novel. Her strong writing  and knowledge of procedure have helped to make her novels very realistic.  Tempe Brennan is back in Kathy's second thriller. Tempe is a forensic  anthropologist, which means she studies bones to determine characteristics  of the individual and sometimes their cause of death.<br />For Tempe, who  lives both down south in Charlotte and way up North in Montreal - her lives  cross during, what seems to be a simple excavation and vacation with her  daughter. Tempe is asked to unearth the skeleton of a nun and study it so  that the former nun can be submitted for possible sainthood. During this  investigation, Tempe's sister arrives to take a spiritual class and things  seem to heat up between the sister's and Detective Ryan, Tempe's buddy on  the force.<br />Once Tempe returns home to her classroom and her daughter  things begin to go awry. Ryan's investigation takes him to Charlotte while  Tempe's life as well as that of her sister's may be in very real danger.  <br />One of the things that makes Ms. Reichs' books so interesting is the  detail that she provides not only when discussing a dig but when writing  the interaction between characters. You almost want to reach into the book  and offer Tempe some advice. The other thing that makes her novels so fun  are the twists and turns and the unexpected. I highly suggest beginning  with Deja Dead as this is the second in the series but first time readers  won't feel left out if they choose to start with Death Du Jour.	2000-09-06
US	52624195	R3PWHT5STWLEG1	0553582097	588527292	Unsolicited: A Booklover's Mystery (Booklover's Mysteries)	Books	5	27	27	N	N	The first is back in print!	Readers of Julie Kaewert's bibliomysteries (mysteries that revolve around  other books, book sellers, authors or otherwise) will be pleased to read  the first in the Alex Plumtree series.  Unsolicited, first published in  1994, is back in print and really helps to set the scene for the next three  in the series that are currently available - Unbound, Untitled and  Unprintable.<br />Unsolicited introduces the reader to Alex Plumtree, the  dashing and somewhat bumbling owner of Plumtree Press, one of the oldest  publishing houses in London, his brother Max who seems to be underfoot at  every step, fellow publishers and the love of his life Sarah Townsend (he  is smitten from a far which makes the tale of unrequited love a delicious  diversion from the mystery at hand).  Alex has gone out on a limb and  broken with tradition - he has published a fictional novel that has proven  to be a smash hit for Plumtree Press.<br />With all of the additional media  coverage surrounding the sequel, can Plumtree Press survive?  Alex  discovers that his smash hit might not be so fictional and the culprits  behind the novel want him and anyone to do with the book dead.  Who can he  trust?  Is Sarah, his one true love, in on the plot?  What about his  brother Max?  Alex must unravel the mystery behind the novel and help to  save the anonymous author's life - if he can just figure out who the author  really is!<br />While this isn't an edge of your seat thriller, Ms. Kaewert  certainly can and does do a fabulous job of keeping the reader interested.   Her characters are well formed, the plot is all in good fun but still  captivating.  Unsolicited certainly leaves the reader wanting more and  lucky for us - she has given it to us in the next three books in the  series!	2000-08-28
US	52624195	R19QEDHZMJI54V	0380800683	392967528	The Black Maria (Mystery of Old Philadelphia)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Philadelphia in the late 1800's	Black Maria pulled me in when reading the back of the book and the descriptions of Philadelphia in the midst of the Centennial kept me going  however, the plot waxed and waned. I went from being engrossed in the  mystery to skimming pages at a time.  I would have given the plot around 3  stars but the research involved was excellent and the book really made you  feel as though you were wandering around the streets of the Centennial with  Detective Wilton McCleary and his pal Tad. Det. <br />McCleary has had it  rough, apparently in the first two novels the reader learns this. As I had  not read either it took me a few pages to learn his past but Mark Graham  does a good job summarizing for us without making it feel as though that is  what he is doing as he scatters the past throughout the novel.  McCleary is  relegated to the task of policing Shantytown, the run down slum area of  Philly and bringing the swells in for a good time. It is on one of these  runs that McCleary discovers the body of a dead girl and is drawn in as the  police quickly try to dismiss the death. McCleary is not satisfied with the  reasons they are giving him for trying to cover the brutal murder up so he  starts his own investigation. <br />Through his search, McCleary meets the  King family, Hiram is a wealthy man that no one likes to cross, his son  David, a cub reporter who accompanies McCleary on a run through Shantytown  and his daughter Elsie, the unhinged beauty. <br />The reader follow McCleary  through the opium dens and freak shows to the Centennial to try to discover  a killer. While this book did not keep me entirely enthralled it will be  enjoyable to many fans of Graham or readers who like historical mysteries.  Personally, I would recommend The Alienist and Scarlet Women to readers who  want a good historical mystery.	2000-08-28
US	52624195	R3JLWSEH7GQA11	0449211770	493438367	The Tightrope Walker	Books	4	27	27	N	N	A great story....	Dorothy Gilman has done it again.  She is most well known for her Mrs.  Pollifax series which I have never read but her stand alone mysteries are  excellent.  The Tightrope Walker is a wonderful novel - the characters are  well drawn and the plot really pulls you in.<br />This is the story of an  introverted young woman, Amelia Jones, who finds a terrifying and  mysterious note about a possible murder in a hurdy gurdy (those stand up  music boxes that you usually see a monkey with a hat attached to...).  This  note intrigues her enough to try to find out who wrote it as well as  the  well being of the writer.<br />This leads Amelia on a journey through time as  well as place.  Through this search Amelia meets many interesting people -  from a stage actor in New York to a handwriting analyst in her home town of  Trafton - Amelia sees it all and learns to love in the process.  Tightrope  Walker is also a story within a story as Amelia constantly refers back to  her favorite childhood book, &quot;The Maze in the Heart of the  Castle&quot; which I would love to read (much as dlch3@juno.com  would).<br />Will Amelia find out who the mysterious author of the note is   and what ever became of her?  You will have to read this wonderful book to  find out and if you are lucky - you will discover a great writer along the  way.<br />If you like Tightrope Walker - you should also Read Gilman's  &quot;Thale's Folly&quot; and &quot;The Clairvoyant Countess&quot; - they  all show the same wonderful traits - fully drawn and intriguing characters  who you want to get to know better and an interesting and well written plot  that you wish would never end.	2000-08-21
US	52624195	R1K6SMH8N10V73	0380731614	431800571	Link	Books	5	16	21	N	N	Crichton meets Indiana Jones and Mulder.	I absolutely loved this novel.  Link is fast paced, action packed and  filled to the brim with interesting bits of history.  Who knew that  learning about ancient civilizations could be so much fun.<br />While digging  deep in the desert Samantha uncovers something incredible.  Something that  could rock the way we view humanity's origins.  With the help of her  colleague Ricardo she brings her old flame, Jack back to help with the dig.   The situation becomes heated when Jack and Samantha's current flame, Dorn  go head to head.<br />The dig leads them to the jungles of South America and  to another ancient relic that might uncover something so fantastic and  devastating that the world may never be the same.  <br />Link is simply an  excuse to let your imagination run wild.  Walt Becker also based his plot  on many tales of old, research and respected figures findings in the world  of astronomy, archaeology, math and history.  Link is eye and mind opening  for those who are willing to look beyond it's premise as a thriller and see  it for the amazing amount of research involved in the writing of it.<br />This  book is a good read for those who enjoy thrillers, archaeology and ancient  civilizations, outer space, Indiana Jones or the X-Files.  Link kept me on  the edge of my seat and I could not put it down.  I can't wait to read more  of Becker's work.	2000-08-21
US	52624195	R2GEEQU78BK60G	0380800683	392967528	The Black Maria (Mystery of Old Philadelphia)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Philadelphia in the late 1800's	Black Maria pulled me in when reading the back of the book and the descriptions of Philadelphia in the midst of the Centennial kept me going  however, the plot waxed and waned.  I went from being engrossed in the  mystery to skimming pages at a time.<br />I would have given the plot around 3  stars but the research involved was excellent and the book really made you  feel as though you were wandering around the streets of the Centennial with  Detective Wilton McCleary and his pal Tad.  Det. McCleary has had it rough,  apparently in the first two novels the reader learns this.  As I had not  read either it took me a few pages to learn his past but Mark Graham does a  good job summarizing for us without making it feel as though that is what  he is doing as he scatters the past throughout the novel.<br />McCleary is  relegated to the task of policing Shantytown, the run down slum area of  Philly and bringing the swells in for a good time.  It is on one of these  runs that McCleary discovers the body of a dead girl and is drawn in as the  police quickly try to dismiss the death.  McCleary is not satisfied with  the reasons they are giving him for trying to cover the brutal murder up so  he starts his own investigation.<br />Through his search, McCleary meets the  King family, Hiram is a wealthy man that no one likes to cross, his son  David, a cub reporter who accompanies McCleary on a run through Shantytown  and his daughter Elsie, the unhinged beauty.<br />The reader follow McCleary  through the opium dens and freak shows to the Centennial to try to discover  a killer.  While this book did not keep me entirely enthralled it will be  enjoyable to many fans of Graham or readers who like historical mysteries.   Personally, I would recommend The Alienist and Scarlet Women to readers who  want a good historical mystery.	2000-08-21
US	52624195	R30YST5A3Y5AA9	0375708049	87286252	Joe Gould's Secret	Books	4	10	13	N	N	I fell in love with Joe Gould	It is rare to find a book such as Joe Gould's Secret and even rarer still  that through reading it, one would fall in love with such a irritating,  grubby, vile little man as Gould.  But love it was - certainly not at first  sight but as I began to learn his history and then finally his secret, my  heart just gave way.<br />Joe Gould was a well known &quot;vagrant&quot; in  New York's Greenwhich Village during the early and mid 1900's.  During his  years as a bohemian in New York he met many people, some famous (such as ee  cummings and Ezra Pound) and many more equally interesting yet unknown  people.  Through his many friends and detractors he drew the attention of a  young reporter, Joseph Mitchell, who interviewed him for a piece in the New  Yorker.<br />The book contains the two pieces that Joseph Mitchell wrote for  the New Yorker about Joe Gould and his unpublished work, rumored to be ten  times larger than the bible (over 10 million words), The Oral History.  The  more I read the more I craved to know more about Joe Gould and his  life.<br />I highly recommend this book as it is a true snapshot into the life  of someone who deserves to be known.  Joseph Mitchell truly captured the  feel of New York and inner workings of Joe Gould and his crazy  life.<br />Apparently, 11 dime-store composition books that make up a nearly  150,000-word diary (part of his Oral History)are quietly tucked away within  NYU's archives in NYC - I can't wait to get a look at them as well!<br />Live  on Joe Gould!	2000-08-07
US	52624195	R3TASBO83L8IWE	0425174654	773388141	By Hook or by Book (Prime Crime Mysteries)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Not much of a hook in this book	I had the exact same reaction to this book as sires.  I truly wanted to  like this book.  The premise seemed to be unique and fun but D.R. Meredith  got caught in her own string.<br />This is book is the second in a series,  which I had not known when I began reading it, and I definitly felt as tho  I was two steps behind.  Most authors will re-cap things for the reader and  it can certainly be frustrating for avid readers but now I see why it can  be necessary.<br />D.R. Meredith also tried to work a special twist into this  series - string figures, which is actually a rather cool idea except that  the instructions are very hard to follow (each chapter begins with  instructions to a pivital design that is highlighted in that chapter).   <br />What I did enjoy, along with sires, were the quirky and fun characters.   The two main characters, Megan Clark and Ryan Stevens, have a unique and  heart warming relationship.  Megan's book group is also rather fun to read  along with as they discuss well known mystery authors and the reader feels  as tho they are part of the conversation.  Unfortunately, the mystery  itself did not really hold up.<br />If you are a fan of D.R. Meredith's work  or are looking for a light and fun mystery then this book will delight you,  if you are looking for a real mystery then skip By Hook or By Book.  As I  did enjoy the characters I will certainly try some of D.R. Meredith's other  books.	2000-08-06
US	52624195	R3KX1GI6DX8TOR	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Fabulous Fantasy for ALL ages	While this book has certainly garnered it's fair share of reviews - I felt that I had to add one more. I have read all of the Harry Potter books and I simply loved number four. I have also never been stopped by so many  strangers on the street to be asked about a book. It seems as tho everyone  wanted to know how the book was and if I had read the previous three. I  told everyone that still has an inner child to run out and buy this book  (as well as the first three).<br />JK Rowling seems to be getting better with  age and experience as does Harry. She has really expanded her wings in this  installment of the Harry Potter series.<br />While the book begins exactly  the same as the past three books - with Harry stuck at the Dursley's for  the summer and his friends the Weasley's must rescue him so that he can go  to the Quidditch world cup finals.<br />But this is where the similarities  stop and the real imagination begins. Without saying too much - this novel  is (obviously) longer than the previous three and while most people were  stunned at the start of the book - I think I can safely say no one wanted  it to end. I would have been happy with another hundred pages.<br />Things  turn for Harry in number four - as he reaches adolescences he has to deal  with all the ups and downs it brings with it, a first crush and a painful  loss as well as taunting and trying to discover who he really is.<br />This  book is once again a triumph for readers of all ages. So sit down and enjoy  the ride.	2000-07-31
US	52624195	RIZQCA8C21LER	0425166139	687527436	The Raphael Affair (Art History Mystery)	Books	3	24	27	N	N	Mystery Steeped in History	While I was not a fan of Iain  Pears' most popular work &quot;The Instance of Fingerposts&quot; I still enjoyed this earlier work &quot;The Raphael Affair&quot;.  This was not your average mystery - it was also a lesson in  art history which I thought was excellent.<br />I gave this book three stars  because I thought the mystery part of this book was lacking a bit while the  premise and the characters were much more in depth.  The reader is first  introduced to the Italian detective, General Bottando, and his assistant,  Flavia di Stefano as they are called on the scene to investigate a supposed  break-in at a local church.  While talking to the vagrant we discover that  Jonathan Argyll is not who we are lead to believe.  He is in fact an art  historian from England who is in pursuit of the holy grail of the art world  - an undiscovered Raphael hidden behind the work of a lesser Italian artist  Mantini.<br />While learning about the history of Italian art we discover how  it affects each character in the book - we watch as Flavia and Argyll begin  to learn from one another and go in search of the real Raphael.<br />Amazingly  enough, the reader can't help but be intrigued and to absorb some knowledge  along the way as Flavia and Argyll put their reputations and their lives on  the line for a woman who has been dead for a few hundred years.<br />I think  this book is more interesting for the lessons learned than the actual  mystery itself.  I will certainly pick up another of Pears' Art History  Mysteries as I did really enjoy 'The Raphael Affair' and I have grown to  like to characters in it.	2000-07-25
US	52624195	R3M6NHHNXUFCJF	0439139597	517423309	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Fabulous Fantasy for ALL ages	While this book has certainly garnered it's fair share of reviews - I felt that I had to add one more.  I have read all of the Harry Potter books and I simply loved number four.  I have also never been stopped by so many strangers on the street to be asked about a book.  It seems as tho everyone  wanted to know how the book was and if I had read the previous three.  I  told everyone that still has an inner child to run out and buy this book  (as well as the first three).<br />JK Rowling seems to be getting better with  age and experience as does Harry.  She has really expanded her wings in  this installment of the Harry Potter series.<br />While the book begins  exactly the same as the past three books - with Harry stuck at the  Dursley's for the summer and his friends the Weasley's must rescue him so  that he can go to the Quidditch world cup finals - readers will be happily  pleased with the rest of the book.<br />But this is where the similarities  stop and the real imagination begins.  Without saying too much - this novel  is (obviously) longer than the previous three and while most people were  stunned at the start of the book - I think I can safely say no one wanted  it to end.  I would have been happy with another hundred pages.<br />Things  turn for Harry in number four - as he reaches adolescences he has to deal  with all the ups and downs it brings with it, a first crush and a painful  loss as well as taunting and trying to discover who he really is.<br />This  book is once again a triumph for readers of all ages.  So sit down and  enjoy the ride.	2000-07-24
US	52624195	R2CIM9J2RJQMV4	0062502182	472619578	The Alchemist: A Fable About Following Your Dream	Books	4	3	4	N	N	a fable about the meaning of life	I originally picked up The Alchemist because I thought the story looked interesting and while I found that it was, I also discovered that this novel was more than a quick read - it was a reminder of what life is all  about.<br />The novel begins with a shepherd who dreams of traveling and  finding his fortune.  He can not ignore his dreams and he seeks out someone  who may be able to help him discover the true meaning of these dreams.   Along the way Santiago, the shepherd meets with disappointment as well as  enlightenment at the oddest of places.<br />He learns that one must see the  world with truly open eyes, one must see the signs that are all around him  and are simply waiting to guide you to the truth that is inherent in all  things.  It is along his journey that Santiago begins to realize what his  life's journey is all about.<br />Santiago meets with a king, a crook, an  Englishman, a true love and of course, the alchemist along his way.  He  learns, as does the reader that not everything is as it seems on the  surface and that to find true happiness one must look beyond the obvious  and must learn to see the good in all of life's disappointments.<br />While I  wished the book was a bit longer, I did find that it made me look at life  in a new way.  This book can be read as a story, a fable or a guide to  life.  Which ever way the reader chooses to look at this book, he or she  will hopefully gain a new perspective on life.	2000-07-24
US	52624195	R3UDEJ0WIME9EE	0449213188	4218935	The Clairvoyant Countess (Madame Karitska)	Books	4	29	29	N	N	More like an novel steeped in mystery than a regular mystery	I adored this book.  This was the first book of Ms. Gilman's that I have read and I can't wait to get my hands on some others soon.  I thought that The Clairvoyant Countess was truly well written and wonderfully  entertaining.<br />While this is not your average mystery as the book is more  about the interaction between Madame Karitska and Detective Pruden than it  is about the mysteries that they solve - it is still a great read for  mystery lovers.  <br />At the start of the book the readers are introduced to  the clairvoyant Countess Madame Kartiska.  We learn about her gift and how  she uses it, we meet some of her clients and through this we learn of their  fates.  The reader becomes intimately involved with some of her clients as  through one of them, we also meet Detective Pruden who comes across the  countess' name during an investigation.<br />She helps him in several  different ways, she aids him in solving several crimes and she introduces  him to a side of himself that he never knew.  We also have the opportunity  to meet several other clients that she introduces to one another and we can  watch their relationships grow.<br />There are several mysteries woven in  through the plot and the reader discovers that who dunnit isn't always the  reason to read on.  <br />The Clairvoyant Countess won't appeal to every  mystery lover but for those who take the plunge it is very refreshing and  highly enjoyable.  IT is really a shame that Ms. Gilman has not made this  into a series as well as her Mrs. Polifax series as I would love to  continue to watch these characters grow.	2000-07-12
US	52624195	R1MPMRX3NA7BR2	0380796104	122477335	Lucy Sullivan Is Getting Married	Books	4	13	17	N	N	Bridget Jones meets Sex in the City	I had such fun reading this book. The title alone made me laugh and once I opened the book I was not disappointed one bit. This is the first of Marian Keyes books that I have read and I will certainly pick up the rest. She has  a wonderful witty style that comes across to the reader in abundance yet  she can also write about the hard times in life that we must all go through  with a sense of dolefullness and a softness that keeps the reader involved.  <br />Lucy Sullivan is single, desperately so, works at a dull, dead end job  and lives with two flatmates - Karen, the egotistical and ruthless one and  Charlotte, the sweet and somewhat ditzy other one. The reader can't help  but take Lucy's view of these characters. <br />Her office workers convince  her to go to a fortune teller who announces, among other things, that Lucy  will be married within the year. Lucy, like the reader, laughs this  prediction off but as her officemates' predictions begin to come true one  can't help but think that Lucy has a chance. <br />Through the book we meet  her best friend Daniel, who Karen has the hots for, Meridia, her over  weight and fabulous co-worker, Gus, the man of Lucy's dreams as well as her  parents. Lucy tries to keep her head about her while her flighty boyfriend  comes and goes, her job becomes duller and her family begins to fall apart.  <br />But will Lucy find the man of her dreams? Will she be able to hold it  all together? Only time will tell (as will readers of this book). While  Marian Keyes seems to follow a bit of a pattern in the book, it doesn't  seem to hold her back one bit. <br />I laughed along with Lucy and felt sorrow  along with her. With lines like, 'If I had left then, that second, I would  have missed the arrival of my anger. But no, I met it me at the door as it  staggered in, gasping and panting, worn out from the crosstown journey.  &quot;Sorry I am late,&quot; it wheezed, cluthing it's chest. &quot;Awful  traffic...&quot;' one can't help but totally know what Lucy feels like. Her  struggles are very true to life as are the situations she finds herself in.  If female readers don't see a bit of themselves in her I'd be surprised.  <br />Anyone that enjoys watch 'Sex in the City' or has read and enjoyed  Bridget Jones or Girls Guide to Hunting and fishing will certainly enjoy  this book.	2000-07-11
US	52624195	R3F9KUJZ2XXS2O	0380796104	122477335	Lucy Sullivan Is Getting Married	Books	4	40	46	N	N	Bridget Jones meets Sex in the City	I had such fun reading this book.  The title alone made me laugh and once I opened the book I was not disappointed one bit.  This is the first of Marian Keyes books that I have read and I will certainly pick up the rest.   She has a wonderful witty style that comes across to the reader in  abundance yet she can also write about the hard times in life that we must  all go through with a sense of dolefullness and a softness that keeps the  reader involved.<br />Lucy Sullivan is single, desperately so, works at a  dull, dead end job and lives with two flatmates - Karen, the egotistical  and ruthless one and Charlotte, the sweet and somewhat ditzy other one.   The reader can't help but take Lucy's view of these characters. <br />Her  office workers convince her to go to a fortune teller who announces, among  other things, that Lucy will be married within the year.  Lucy, like the  reader, laughs this prediction off but as her officemates' predictions  begin to come true one can't help but think that Lucy has a  chance.<br />Through the book we meet her best friend Daniel, who Karen has  the hots for, Meridia, her over weight and fabulous co-worker, Gus, the man  of Lucy's dreams as well as her parents.  Lucy tries to keep her head about  her while her flighty boyfriend comes and goes, her job becomes duller and  her family begins to fall apart.<br />But will Lucy find the man of her  dreams?  Will she be able to hold it all together?  Only time will tell (as  will readers of this book).  While Marian Keyes seems to follow a bit of a  pattern in the book, it doesn't seem to hold her back one bit.<br />I laughed  along with Lucy and felt sorrow along with her.  With lines like, 'If I had  left then, that second, I would have missed the arrival of my anger.  But  no, I met it me at the door as it staggered in, gasping and panting, worn  out from the crosstown journey. &quot;Sorry I am late,&quot; it wheezed,  cluthing it's chest.  &quot;Awful traffic...&quot;'  one can't help but  totally know what Lucy feels like.  Her struggles are very true to life as  are the situations she finds herself in.  If female readers don't see a bit  of themselves in her I'd be surprised.<br />Anyone that enjoys watch 'Sex in  the City' or has read and enjoyed Bridget Jones or Girls Guide to Hunting  and fishing will certainly enjoy this book.	2000-07-07
US	52624195	R1LBZ29Z4NFTKA	0140293248	221101137	The Girls' Guide to Hunting and Fishing	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A quick and fun read tht also touches your heart	I finished this book in record time and must say I was disappointed to see it end.  A Girls Guide to Hunting and Fishing was released last year during the &quot;Bridget Jones&quot; phenom and was highly lauded as being a  Bridget spin-off which I don't think it is.  While it deals with similar  topics this book is different than Bridget and just a good.<br />Girls Guide  is written as short stories that link together.  The central character is  Jane Rosenal who we see as a tender pre-teen in the first chapter/story and  then get to follow through much of her young adult life (until her thirties  I believe).  <br />It is well written and each chapter takes a different tone,  or as some people have said a different voice - I think this is wonderful  as it shows the reader how Jane is growing up and maturing.<br />We watch as  Jane learns about love by watching her brother date an older woman and then  we watch as she falls in and out of love herself and we pine with her over  falling in love and losing love and desperately wanting to meet the person  of our dreams.  We also watch her struggle with her career goals and  choices, we watch her relationships with her family grow and change over  the years and we learn a little something about friendships as well.<br />I  think it is safe to say that most female readers will see something of  themselves in Jane at one stage in her life or another.  This book is  funny, touching, warm and truly wonderful.  <br />I don't want to say too much  for fear of giving something away.  I will say that when this book first  came out I fought reading it as I thought it would be just a knock off of  some of the other popular books that came out last summer and when I  finally picked this book up I realized a few things - first, that this book  got fabulous reviews for a very good reason and second, that I was really  glad that I finally read it.<br />I can't wait to see what Melissa Banks  writes next - maybe she'll write sequel!	2000-06-29
US	52624195	R2NGXSA874BI1Q	0811825558	979162178	The Worst-Case Scenario Survival Handbook	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Makes a great coffee table book AND it's educational	The plane is quickly losing altitude and the pilot has passed out, your car ends up in a lake and is filling up fast, a shark has latched onto your leg and just won't let go - what would you do?<br />These are all topics  covered in The Worst-Case Scenario Survival Handbook and the answers are  not only witty but well researched.  When I first picked the book up I  laughed so hard just looking at the topics that I thought it was a joke and  bought it.  Then I actually read some of the book.<br />While I hope to NEVER  be in any of the situations described in this book, I do know that I will  be somewhat more prepared to act logically in a life threatening  situation.<br />The motto of this book is Be Prepared and I feel a little more  prepared just by having read it.  While I bought it and still read it for a  good laugh I highly recommend this book.  <br />I wonder why it doesn't cover  - how to save yourself from getting a stomach ache from laughing too hard?	2000-06-29
US	52624195	R2F3R98RGMJSGN	0312202989	529002976	Pisces Rising	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fourth Time Is A Charm	Once again Martha C. Lawrence delights her readers with a good, solid mystery. Elizabeth Chase returns in this fourth installment of the psychic detective series. After losing her fiancé at the end of the last book -  Elizabeth is unsure as to her feelings on returning to the life of a  private detective. <br />She is summoned from her slump by a fellow PI and  asked to help out on a particularly odd and gruesome case. A murder and  scalping has taken place out on the Temecu reservation at the casino being  run there. The body belongs to casino owner Dan Aquillo and the supposed  murderer is locked in jail and her lawyer needs Elizabeth's help as the  case does not look as simple as it seems. <br />Elizabeth uses her psychic  abilities to aide her in the case but as always, it is her fine detecting  skills that really do the job. Thanks to the help of her newfound friend  Sequoia, Elizabeth not only learns more about the case but she is also able  to do some serious soul searching of her own. <br />Who killed the casino  owner? Could it really have been the accused Bill Hurston, a former doctor  and gambling addict who was in way over his head, or was it his ex-wife?  What about Dan's nephew Wolf who has strong feelings against the casino? Or  someone from the political group that is fighting against the casino? Only  Elizabeth can find out and the reader enjoys every minute of the plot.  <br />This is a great addition to the Chase series as not only does the reader  get what they are used to when it comes to great plots and writing, but we  get to see some major character development here. This series looks to be a  good bet for the long run. I can't wait to see what trouble Chase gets  herself into next!	2000-06-28
US	52624195	R2EISRTYJRDNVD	0312202989	529002976	Pisces Rising	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fourth Time Is A Charm	Once again Martha C. Lawrence delights her readers with a good, solid mystery.  Elizabeth Chase returns in this fourth installment of the psychic detective series.  After losing her fiancé at the end of the last book -  Elizabeth is unsure as to her feelings on returning to the life of a  private detective.<br />She is summoned from her slump by a fellow PI and  asked to help out on a particularly odd and gruesome case.  A murder and  scalping has taken place out on the Temecu reservation at the casino being  run there.  The body belongs to casino owner Dan Aquillo and the supposed  murderer is locked in jail and her lawyer needs Elizabeth's help as the  case does not look as simple as it seems.<br />Elizabeth uses her psychic  abilities to aide her in the case but as always, it is her fine detecting  skills that really do the job.  Thanks to the help of her newfound friend  Sequoia, Elizabeth not only learns more about the case but she is also able  to do some serious soul searching of her own.<br />Who killed the casino  owner?  Could it really have been the accused Bill Hurston, a former doctor  and gambling addict who was in way over his head, or was it his ex-wife?   What about Dan's nephew Wolf who has strong feelings against the casino?   Or someone from the political group that is fighting against the casino?   Only Elizabeth can find out and the reader enjoys every minute of the  plot.<br />This is a great addition to the Chase series as not only does the  reader get what they are used to when it comes to great plots and writing,  but we get to see some major character development here.  This series looks  to be a good bet for the long run.  I can't wait to see what trouble Chase  gets herself into next!	2000-06-26
US	52624195	R1UVJH433YMTID	0679733973	697417133	The Killer Inside Me	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Bland by today's standards	While I read &quot;Killer Inside of Me&quot; a few months ago I can barely remember much about it.  This novel was originally released in the 1950's when it was probably a very shocking book.<br />At that time very few, if any,  writers were writing about sociopaths (except maybe Truman Capote's  &quot;In Cold Blood&quot; - which by the way, is STILL an excellent novel)  so maybe Jim Thompson struck a  nerve however in today's society where  sociopath is a common word and to see violence all we need do is turn on  the local news - this novel seems bland and outdated.<br />While Thompson used  some amazing techniques to talk about the killer inside deputy Lou Ford,  the inner monologue can sometimes be tedious.  Like Hitchcock, Thompson  used the first person narrative to show how normal Lou seems to the world  and how rational he is about the killing.  He makes the reader take Lou's  side instead of seeing him as a monster.<br />This novel is certainly a good  read if you remember when it was written and that it is probably the basis  for many of the popular murder mystery novels today and Thompson is one of  a few writers that paved the way for today's popular authors.<br />I read a  bunch of the other reviews here and was surprised to see people raving  about how amazing the book is.  I must say I don't agree.  This book is a  decent read, less interesting in the sense of the plot but more interesting  when looked at in the context of it's place within the &quot;History of  Mystery&quot;.	2000-06-26
US	52624195	RMDMTQ3LYXW9Q	0679733973	697417133	The Killer Inside Me	Books	3	13	30	N	N	Bland by today's standards	While I read &quot;Killer Inside of Me&quot; a few months ago I can barely remember much about it.  This novel was originally released in the 1950's when it was probably a very shocking book.<br />At that time very few, if any,  writers were writing about sociopaths (except maybe Truman Capote's  &quot;In Cold Blood&quot; - which by the way, is STILL an excellent novel)  so maybe Jim Thompson struck a  nerve however in today's society where  sociopath is a common word and to see violence all we need do is turn on  the local news - this novel seems bland and outdated.<br />While Thompson used  some amazing techniques to talk about the killer inside deputy Lou Ford,  the inner monologue can sometimes be tedious.  Like Hitchcock, Thompson  used the first person narrative to show how normal Lou seems to the world  and how rational he is about the killing.  He makes the reader take Lou's  side instead of seeing him as a monster.<br />This novel is certainly a good  read if you remember when it was written and that it is probably the basis  for many of the popular murder mystery novels today and Thompson is one of  a few writers that paved the way for today's popular authors.<br />I read a  bunch of the other reviews here and was surprised to see people raving  about how amazing the book is.  I must say I don't agree.  This book is a  decent read, less interesting in the sense of the plot but more interesting  when looked at in the context of it's place within the &quot;History of  Mystery&quot;.	2000-06-20
US	52624195	R3BYG2IMU9DHJW	0804111359	207158162	The Secret History	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Have you wanted to be part of the in-crowd?	If so, then this book will speak to you.  Donna Tartt creates a novel that at once seems so simple on the surface and yet is so steeped in psychology and Greek myth that you can read this novel on more than one level - it  just depends on how involved the reader wants to get.<br />Hopefully, no one  has read the Kirkus review above as it give much of the plot away and the  reviewer quite plainly missed the entire point of this book.  While most  reviewers here seem to focus on the psychological aspects of the book - I  am hoping to give a simple summary and a reason to read it.<br />To begin,  this is a novel about Richard Papen, poor college student from California  who is so desperate to get out that he applies to Hampden College in  Vermont sight unseen - because the catalog looks inviting.  It is with this  first lack of forethought that the reader learns what drives  Richard.<br />Once accepted, Richard makes the trip to the East and begins his  second life.  Before the first semester begins Richard thinks about taking  Greek as it was something he excelled at in California only to be told that  the professor, Julian, that teaches Greek only accepts a small number of  students and that his classes are full.<br />Richard moves on only to become  fascinated with Julian's class of five - the twins, Charles and Camilla,  Bunny, Henry (the group's obvious leader) and Francis.  What is it about  this select group of students that makes them so mysterious and enthralling  all at the same time?<br />After offering some advice to the group they invite  him to join them and get him a spot in the Greek classes - he is so  enthralled with entering the inner circle that he does not think twice  about his decisions.  <br />This leads him to close friendships and bitter  discord within the group.  As Richard (and the reader) learns their secrets  he becomes enmeshed in their wild lives of booze, good food and close  company.  What makes this interesting is the way Richard isaccepted so  quickly and the fact that even tho he is part of the crowd - he is still an  outsider, an exact opposite of everything the group is - he is from the  West coast and the rest of the group has money whereas he does not.  <br />The  reader watches relationships develop and then wax and wane throughout the  book.  Halfway through the reader thinks that nothing else can possibly  happen when the book takes another turn and draws the reader in anew.  With  an unplanned death and the animosity it causes within the group - who will  be left standing?  Can this tight group of friends come out unharmed or is  wealth, privilege and popularity not all it is cracked up to be?<br />It is a  shame that Donna Tartt has not written a follow up book as The Secret  History, while seemingly simple, is one in a million.  It is also a shame  that reviewers such as Kirkus  feel the need to put down a book and in the  process give away half of it's mystery - lucky for us they did not give it  all away.<br />A truly enjoyable read - I highly recommend it.	2000-06-14
US	52624195	RLW2RAN68K50Z	0688177743	280607679	Keeping Faith: A Novel	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Grabs your heart at the word go!	Once again, Jodi Picoult has written a masterpiece.  One that not only keeps the reader enthralled but gets you thinking as well.<br />Mariah White and her daugheter Faith have been through a lot but it is when they return  home early one afternoon to find Mariah's husband in the bedroom with  another woman that things really start to happen.<br />This is not the first  time that Mariah has gone through this with her husband but it is the first  time that Faith has had to witness it.  Mariah once again goes into a  depression and Faith finds an imaginary friend to help her through the  tough times.  While imaginary friends are not unique, Mariah's Guard seems  to be something entirely different.  Shortly after the Guard comes to  visit, Faith begins quoting the bible and is able to spontaneously heal  people.  <br />This turn of events brings proclaimed aethist and  anti-televangalist Ian Fletcher to the scene determined to discredit Faith  and her supposed conversations with God.<br />Along the way, Mariah, Ian and  Faith must learn to trust one another, love one another and learn from one  another as not only is Faith's health in question but Mariah's right to  keep her child is questioned as her ex-husband takes her to court.<br />All in  all, there is more than one story written into Keeping Faith and how  wonderful they all are.  Jodi Picoult can write like very authors can - she  keeps you on the edge of your seat while you fall in love with the  characters and she makes then jump off the page as if you have known them  for years.<br />Her titles are always creative and have a double meaning which  I simply love.  If you enjoy Keeping Faith you should try The Pact and  Harvesting the Heart - two of her other excellent offereings.<br />Jodi is one  of the most talented writers to hit the scene in ages - make sure to savor  every last word!	2000-06-14
US	52624195	R2WBQXYWGF555C	0553571931	707466458	The Chatham School Affair	Books	4	15	19	N	N	Pure Cook Thriller - Haunting and suspenseful	If you liked Breakheart Hill you will love The Chatham School Affair.  This novel is the reason readers love Cook's well crafted thrillers.   These mysteries are written more like novels with well timed twists and  turns to keep the reader on their feet.  Cook never allows the reader to be  lulled into a sense of comfort for too long and his formula works  well.<br />Chatham School Affair is the story of a young boy, Henry Griswald,  the son of the head master of Chatham School.  He is asked by his father to  welcome the new art teacher and settle her into her new and desolate home  on Black Pond.  So far away from the town of Chatham, Elizabeth Channing  must turn to her only neighbor for company, it is a shame that her neighbor  is married.  But that is only the beginning...<br />What occurs next could  only be a product of Cook's wild imagination and again, only young Henry  knows the truth.  What happened out on Black Pond that would not only shake  the school but the whole town of Chatham to it's core?<br />Pure suspense and  thrills - Chatham School Affair is s great read and one that will certainly  remain a favorite recommendation to all.	2000-05-29
US	52624195	R3C9SZX63U4B9H	0553571923	536473441	Breakheart Hill	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Edge of your seat suspense	As with all of Thomas Cook's novels they are filled to the brim with suspense and stunning twists in the tale that the reader would never suspect but once revealed the reader can't imagine it any other way.<br />I  usually select fast paced, psychological suspense mysteries - but this book  kept me on the edge of my seat. Just as Cook was about to reveal a thread  of the story he would pull you back into the present - it had twists and  turns and was well written. <br />Cook did a great job of keeping me guessing  until the very end. It is a haunting story of lost love and remorse that  lives in the heart for over thirty years.  Dr. Ben Wade, the town  physician, has lives in Choctaw, AL most of his life.  In high school he  was in love with Kelli Troy, but his affections were not returned.  Her  badly beaten body was discovered on Breakheart Hill and few knew what to  make of this brutal murder.  Who committed this crime and why?  Was the  right man convicted of this crime?  Only Ben Wade knows the truth and for  thirty years he has kept watch over Kelli's legacy...<br />This novel truly  brings you back to those days of yearning in high school and shows you how  one small event effects so many lives. A great read and a moving tale.	2000-05-29
US	52624195	R3G22WILXK0XDS	055356532X	430729660	Mortal Memory	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Plan to spend th wwhole day reading this one....	Because you will NOT want to put it down!  I can't think of anything to say about this amazing, edge of your seat, desperately want to read ahead for clues novel by Thomas Cook without giving anything away.<br />This story  is typical a Cook novel in the fact that is takes place in the present and  the past - the adult and the child must look back in the past to truly live  life in the present.  Mortal Memory focuses on Stephen Farris, a happily  married man and successful architect with a gruesome past that he has  successfully buried for many years until author Rebecca Soltero contacts  him about his father.<br />As a child Stephen's father murdered his siblings  and his mother - then cleaned his mother's body, ate a ham sandwich and  left.  He waited two hours alone in his house with the bodies of his family  - all except for Stephen.  What was he waiting for?<br />Stephen must dredge  up his past for author Rebecca to make peace for himself.  This a  stunningly well crafted thriller as well as an amazingly unique story.  One  that continues to make you think long after you have finished the book.  A  plot that the reader will mostly likely remember for some time to come.   One of the best thrillers I have read in ages.	2000-05-29
US	52624195	R1TDXJ42R1UD0O	0449004082	995637714	Freeze Frame	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A novel for mystery and movie lovers alike	Once again Gilda Liberty is up to her ears in hot water thanks to her wacky family.  As readers of Fade to Black know - Gilda is a descendant of a Hollywood family who has made their home in the small town of Eden, Ohio  where Gilda recently inherited the Paradise Theater.  Gilda's niece Faye  asks her for a summer job to help pay the bills while she shoots her  documentary on women in sports.<br />Somehow Gilda gets talked into helping  Faye with her project and gets them involved in theft (not just of the  original videos but of a slice of cheesecake), a fire, death threats and  worse - could this be more than a simple documentary or did they capture  something they shouldn't have on video?<br />Once again, we get to take a trip  into the wild, wacky and wonderful mind of Della Borton and her characters.   Again, this is not the most suspenseful or heart pounding mystery but the  bizarre world of the Liberties more than makes up for it.  It is the little  touches that make Della's books really stand out (such as the wonderful  private eye that Gilda teams up with - a female Bogart), the missing  cheesecake as well as the wonderful movie references.  This book will be  sure to appeal to mystery and movie lovers everywhere.	2000-05-25
US	52624195	RXV7SLRY9PY2Y	0373262310	290250637	A Love To Die For	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Quirky and fun	This is the first book in the Stella the Stargazer series and it hooks you from the word go.  Plain Jane Smith decides to overhaul her life - ditch her dull name and job as an accountant and go out on the limb and become a  columnist at a local weekly rag.<br />Jane adopts the name Stella and  immediately gets in over her head.  Stella begins receiving letters from  the lovelorn - and one letter in particular touches her heart (as well as  her psychic senses).  Looking for Lochinvar wants to find a love to die for  - something that Stella would like to find as well.  Stella (and Jane for  that matter) also has a penchant for sexy lingerie and goes to her favorite  shop Little Nothings to celebrate her new job.  Then she has a vision of  death and the next day her favorite designer goes missing.<br />Not only does  sexy Detective Stokowski think she did it but the list of suspects contains  way too many of her friends and neighbors.  Did Stella do it during one of  her &quot;fits&quot; or is someone trying to frame her?<br />Not only is  Christine's writing style quick, playful and fun (as are the characters)  but the plot moves well and is enjoyable.  I must say I simply LOVE  Stella's pet chameleon Fluffy.  These books certainly won't change your  life but they will make it a bit more enjoyable.	2000-05-24
US	52624195	RC90CYXHVX3QP	0061097152	141733480	Circles of Confusion: A Claire Montrose Mystery (Claire Montrose Mysteries)	Books	4	31	31	N	N	GR8 Book!	I bought this book because Amazon recommended it to me and boy am I glad I did.  I thoroughly enjoyed April Henry's first Claire Montrose novel and eagerly await the arrival of her second in my mail box!  I love  bibliomysteries and that love drew me to this book.<br />Claire works at the  DMV in the specialty plates division - making sure that no offensive  license plates get made and April Henry sprinkles fun brain teaser plates  throughout the book which is just one reason this novel is so delectable.   Everything in Claire's life changes when she learns that her great Aunt  Cady has died and left her everything.  Claire and her dull as dirt  boyfriend Evan go to the trailer park to see just what Claire has  inherited.  Amongst the trash Claire discovers a suitcase full of nazi  memorabilia and a lovely painting which she decides to keep.<br />Claire  decides to discover just who painted the beautiful, intriguing woman and  who she was.  Despite what the auction house in New York says, that it is  simply a cheap copy of a master's work, Claire believes that it is  something more.  While in New York she meets Troy, the valuator at the  auction house and Dante, an art enthusiast at the MET.  Both offer her  their ideas on the paintings origins (plus something more....) and Claire  finds out that this painting is more than meets the eye.<br />With her life  and the painting in danger Claire does not know who to trust or where to  turn.  Circles of Confusion is well written and has a fabulous ending.  I  could not put this gem down.  Claire is a complex character and I can't  wait to see what she will do next in Square in the Face.  Brava April Henry  for allowing us to share in your wonderful novel.	2000-05-20
US	52624195	R1IT8LOWII2DQ5	0425173593	169718102	Murder on the Astral Plane (Kate Jasper Mystery)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Bland at Best	It must be said that I thought Murder on the Astral Plane had a great premise but it just did not keep my interest while I was reading the book itself nor was the killer a big surprise.  This was the first book in the  Kate Jasper series that I have read so I may have missed something from her  previous novels but I just felt that the plot was not really fleshed out  much.<br />The premise is that Kate Jasper's paramour, Wayne,  is home  bedridden with a severe case of the flu.  Her friend and fellow psychic  Barbara Chu drags her out to a psychic soiree to get her mind off of  Wayne's illness, her ex-husband Craig who keeps professing his love for her  and the nagging sense that she is a walking harbinger of death.  During  this soiree, Silk Sokoloff, an outlandish writer who loves to stir up  controversy and anger wherever she goes, is strangled and none of the  psychics can figure out who the culprit is so of course Kate and Barbara  must put on their sleuth hats and uncover the murderer (as if the police  are REALLY as oblivious and stupid as they are made out to be in this  book).<br />While Kate is nosing around another murder occurs and of course  the police think Kate is the killer (and who wouldn't because she is always  at the death scene and can't even figure out not to leave finger prints...)  so to save her good name she must discover who is really behind these  deaths.  <br />All in all, this could have been a very good novel but as it  was - I felt it was bland and the writing was unimaginative and formulaic.   The characters were all stereotypes and most of them were not even filled  out enough to make them stand out of the &quot;wacky&quot; cast of  characters.  Halfway through the book, I realized that I did not even  really care who did it - I just thought that the book would possibly have  an interesting twist to it, but it disappointed me all around.  Let's put  it this way, I finished it a day or two ago and when I sat down to write my  reviewof it - I could not even remember the title - to me that says  something.  If you want to read a really fun psychic mystery series try  Martha C. Lawrence's Elizabeth Chase series - it is well rounded and  exciting.	2000-05-19
US	52624195	R21G98MXQKC5TR	0375702733	414359390	Reservation Road (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Depressing yet eye opening	I suggested that my book group read Reservation Road as I thought it would make for an interesting discussion.  The book itself was very well written and the plot was a difficult one to read but John Burnham Schwarz handled  it well.<br />This is the story of two father's and their sons.  One father,  Dwight, is a big disappointment not only to himself but to his family as  well.  His relationship with his young son is tenuous at best and his  actions throughout the book do nothing to further this.<br />On the other end  of the spectrum is Ethan.  Everything a father should be.  In one instant  when these two men meet on the side of a dark road both of their lives are  changed forever.  Ethan watches as his son Josh is hit by the car that  Dwight is driving.<br />The novel bounces between the two men and their  families.  It looks at how they deal with their tragedy and how they try to  move on in their lives as the two move closer and closer.<br />Dwight is  racked with guilt and wavers between wanting to get caught and not for his  crime while Ethan does everything within his power to hunt the killer  down.<br />Their are many moments where the reader wants to reach into the  book and give advice or soothe these two families which is what makes this  novel so good.  Both men are truly drawn as humans - faults and all.<br />This  book may be too painful for anyone who has lost a child to read however it  is also a beautiful reminder of how important children are to their parents  and how important those little decisions can sometimes be.	2000-05-08
US	52624195	R3PUSWZTKYV4NJ	0345424719	685444613	A Widow for One Year	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Wonderful Change for Irving	I am a huge John Irving fan and I always look forward to his latest book. I was pleasantly surprised by Widow as he has never had a female main character in any of his well crafted novels. Ruth was a wonderfully drawn  woman, so much depth and richness to her character and the world around  her. <br />This is the story of Ruth Cole, from her childhood thru her life as  an adult and all the people that fill her life from start to finish. When  Ruth is a young child she discovers her mother, Marion, having an affair  with Eddie, the teenager hired to drive her father, a drunk and wildly  popular children's author, around for the summer. <br />After this her mother  disappears from her life. Both Eddie and Ruth become authors as well.  Eddie, not quite a popular author, never quite got over his affiar with  Ruth's mother and thus writes about it in every one of his novels. Ruth, on  the other hand, is well known and loved.  The book begins to take off when  they meet again, after Eddie is asked to open a reading for Ruth. Their  lives once again become entertwined as they both search for answer about  Marion's disappearance and life. The novel also centers around Ruth's  relationship with her father. The plot is engrossing and well rounded.  <br />This novel is full of the things that Irving fan's have come to expect  and love. Widow has become one of my favorite Irving novels - sitting next  to Garp, Owen Meany and Cider House Rules. This book deserves to be savored  like a fine wine.	2000-05-04
US	52624195	R33KYRACAKAV6J	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A Must Have For Anyone Who Wants To Really Live Their Life	I laughed, I cried, then I cried some more and most of all I was touched.  I don't mean that this book simply hit a raw nerve - it truly touched my soul and made me look at my life anew.  Trust me, I  made a few changes.   That is what kind of book Tuesday's With Morrie is.<br />Pick this book up and  treasure it - give it to your loved ones.  Tuesday's With Morrie is a true  story written by Mitch Albom, one of the top sports writers in the country  (he writes for the Detroit Free Press and has a radio show).  Morrie was a  professor and Mitch one of his students and friends.  Over the years they  lost touch but when Mitch heard that Morrie was terminally ill with Lou  Gerhig's disease he rushed to reconnect with his mentor.<br />This book is the  result of the Tuesday afternoons that they spent together before Morrie  passed away.  Within these pages, the reader gets to know Morrie and to  love him.  The reader learns what a person really looks back on at the end  of their life and what is really important - love, laughter, family and  friendships. <br />Mitch speaks in a very clear and comfortable voice.  He is  never afraid to really open up, admit his weaknesses and his faults.  It is  this openness and honesty that really draws the reader in - without this  the book would not have been the smash hit that it is.   <br />This book  should be required reading for the course of Life 101.   I have never been  so moved by a book and never has one made such an impact on my life.	2000-04-27
US	52624195	R1ZHXTUHTQQ7G1	0679751521	523621984	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil: A Savannah Story	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A wonderful guilty pleasure	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil is just that. A snap shot into the lives of the wealthy and privileged of the South captured in the pages of this novel by the more than skilled and nimble fingers of John Berendet. I  almost did not want to reach the end. I fell in love with Savanah, with the  wild, wacky and wonderful people that fill this book to the brim with a  richness that could only be true. There is a reason that Midnight was the  longest running hardback on the New York Times Bestsellers list. It was  only recently made into a paperback so that it could reach another  audience.<br />This is the story of wealthy and eccectric Jim Williams, who  throws lavish parties, is the envy of all of Savannah and equally despised  by the same people. During a wild party, one of many, the readers begin to  glimpse the underbelly of Jim's world and then suddenly a shot rings out  and a man is dead. Accident or murder?<br />How does a transvestite, a vodoo  priestess and UGA fit into the picture? You will have to read this  fantastically crafted book to discover the truth. If you love the book as  much as everyone else - you should rent the movie (which does not hold a  candle to the book) just to see the REAL Lady Chablis as she plays herself  in the movie.<br />Enjoy this one - it is really worth the read!	2000-04-27
US	52624195	R31I74WYDOSP38	0449003655	140156191	Thale's Folly	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Charming and Warm	This wonderful book by Dorothy Gilman was my introduction to her world and I can't wait to get back in.  Her 'Mrs. Pollifax' series is well known but this book is a gem to savored as well.<br />Thale's Folly center's on Andrew  Thale, a young, frustrated writer and son of a very ambitious and driven  company man (who does not take NO for an answer)who asks his son to look  into some family property they inherited several years prior.  Andrew  reluctantly agrees to view the 25 acres of land that his aunt Harriet left  to the family only to find the run down house inhabited by a rag-tag group  of people.<br />He learns that his aunt used to take people in and care for  them and the people living at Thale's Folly (not just the name of the  property but also the way the Thale's view this excursion) are the people  carrying on her legacy, living in fear that they will be  discovered.<br />During his stay at Thale's Folly Andrew learns the true  meaning of life as well as helps to solve a mystery or two.  Along the way  he meets some wonderful people including the enchanting Gussie, the  beautiful Tarragon, the enigmatic and proper Miss L'Hommedieu amongst  many.<br />The pace is quick, fun and riveting.  I finished this book in a day  and I greedily want more!  A book to be savored, full of rich characters -  I highly suggest brewing a cup of tea and reading this on a rainy day.	2000-04-26
US	52624195	R23Y15DXQ717PR	0425173445	266176244	Death Comes for the Critic (Ghostwriter Mystery)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A plot to DIE for	Noreen Wald's second entry in the Ghostwriter series is even better than the first.  The wacky band of characters that the readers met in the first installment are back and better than ever.  Feisty Jake O'hara, Too Tall  Tom and Modesty (Jake's fellow Ghosts)and Gypsy Rose, her mother's best  friend and occultist are back as well as the sexy Dennis Kim and sultry Ben  Rubin.<br />Just as Jake O'Hara is asked to ghost a mystery book for the book  reviewer, Dick Peter,  that everyone loves to hate she discovers him dead.   Thrust once again into a mystery that begs to be solved, if not by her  sometime paramour and NYC homicide dectective Ben, then by her group of  Ghosts who join forces to save Jake from either being murdered herself or  for being arrested for the crime.<br />Was it the gossip colmnists Alison  Carr, who had more dirt on Dick than the local cemetery?  What about his  outrageous ex-wife, Glory Flagg, a former stripper with a heart of gold?   His soon to be ex-wife romance novelist Mila Macovitch?  Could it be Jake  herself or her friend Jennifer Moran?  The list of suspesects is as long as  it is entertaining.  Who will be the next victim? <br />This plot never stops  and the reader almost wishes it would never end but end it does and it  certainly leaves the reader waiting for the next installment in this fun  and fabulous series!	2000-04-22
US	52624195	R3E5CV4HY3Z1TB	0446670251	437057713	The Virgin Suicides	Books	4	28	31	N	N	Leaves more questions than answers	I first read this book when it came out in 1993 and then reread it for my book group and found that I enjoyed this book just as much on the second go around.<br />The novel is written in the voice of a nameless adolescent boy -  a neighbor who has watched the Lisbon girls grow up and who is fascinated  with them even years after they are gone.  He speculates about their lives,  their loves, their reasons for taking their own lives and yet he has no  real answers.<br />This book focuses on a year in the lives of the Lisbon  girls and their families.  A dark comedy about adolescent life in the  suburbs and the years where girls become women and boys become men The  Virgin Suicides is a beautifully written novel with many different  undertones - some dark, some sweet and some richly filled with lust,  melancholy, and the sweetness that is childhood that the reader feels as  though he or she is there behind a dark window peering out across the  street and wondering what the girls are thinking about each night as they  get ready for bed.<br />This is a wonderful book about life and it is a shame  that the author has not written another book.  It is also a shame that this  beautifully written story will be translated to film since so much of the  beauty is captured in the prose itself - it is very hard to see how this  could be translated to the screen so enjoy it before you see the film.	2000-04-12
US	52624195	R1HG0XTCQKMJN0	0373263082	545393551	Death of a Dustbunny (A Stella the Stargazer Mystery) (Worldwide Library Mysteries)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A cosy to curl up with under the covers...	Death of a Dustbunny was the first book I have read by Christine Jorgensen but it certainly won't be the last!  Witty, whimsical and a bit of &quot;woo-woo&quot; (as Stella calls her psychic abilities) woven together to make a wonderful mystery.<br />While this is not the first book in the  Stella the Stargazer series it certainly allows you to read it first and  not feel like a stranger.  Unlike other series it also doesn't reiterate  everything from the pervious novels which I found refreshing.<br />At the  start Stella, who writes a column at her local paper, is upset because her  friend and student Elena has not shown up after leaving a particularly  disturbing message for Stella.  Once Stella begins to worry and have a few  psychic interludes she realizes that Elena is not merely late but in  trouble and she sets off to find her.<br />She calls the Holman house where  Elena is a housekeeper and nanny to a disturbed little boy Steven, whose  mother has died and will only reach out to Elena.  Steven is also obsessed  with the idea that a vampire has taken Elena and is equally terrified that  one will get him as well.  Then Stella calls the Dustbunnies, the service  that Holman has hired Elena through to no avail.<br />The owner of the  Dustbunnies begs Stella to look after Steven until Elena or a replacement  can be found as Steven likes her.  She accepts the position to look into  Elena's disappearance. Little does she know that no one will help her.   Holman and the Dustbunnies refuse to place a missing person's report, the  police can't do anything because Elena supposedly left a note and Holman  and his friends refuse to answer any questions.  <br />Is this the end for  Elena?  Can Stella sniff out where she has gone?  You can be sure that this  book will have a satisfying ending.  This was a very quick read but a good  one.  I guess it is true - good things do come in small packages!	2000-03-24
US	52624195	R22EG85T3C1DEJ	0140230270	725977597	Harvesting the Heart	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Another gem from Jodi Picoult	Harvesting the Heart is a beautiful novel on so many levels.  The title itself refers not only to the main character Paige, who must discover her past to begin to live her future but also to her husband Nicholas who is a  heart surgeon and who must also learn to love.<br />This book really touched  my heart so much so that I could not put it down.  The story begins in the  present and travels back to the past for both Paige and Nicholas.  Paige's  mother left her and her father when Paige was very young and it has  continually plagued her and eventually catches up to her as she runs away  from her father right after high school.<br />Paige's leaves Boston and ends  up as a waitress in Cambridge where she meets Nicholas, her opposite in  every way, on her first day.  Nicholas is well bred, wealthy, handsome and  so sure of himself in everything he does that Paige can not help but fall  in love with him and he with her because she can see wonder in everything  around her.<br />Paige draws portraits of people, hidden within the folds of  their hair, skin or clothing are their deepest secrets or desires - this is  another thing that draws Nicholas in.  But can their marriage survive?  Can  Paige survive?<br />Nicholas's parents are against their marriage, Paige must  give up everything to help Nicholas through medical school and then she  gets pregnant.<br />This pregnancy, like the title of the book, is  the mirror  image of an abortion she had in high school.  It also brings up her fears  about motherhood and reminds Paige of her mother.  <br />Paige must learn  about and accept her past if she hopes to live her future but can Nicholas  learn to accept Paige?<br />This book flowed from page to page, with beautiful  and moving descriptions of Paige's drawings, May's ranch, Nicholas's life  at the hospital and their lives together.  All in all - the only thing I  didn't like about the book is that there is no sequel!<br />Hurrah for Jodi  Picoult - an imaginative and  wonderful storyteller that will touch your  life.	2000-03-23
US	52624195	R15JWPFJ502WYM	0425169472	289552780	Ghostwriter (Jake O'Hara Mystery)	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Who is Killing Ghosts?	Noreen Wald answers that question in her book Ghostwriter and she answers it well.  This is a great first in a series.  <br />A witty, quick read, Ghostwriter tells the story of Jake O'Hara, ghostwriter extraordinare.  She  lives in New York with her mother and belongs to GA (ghostwriters  anonymous).  All is fine until she is asked to ghost for the Queen of  Murder Most Cozy and her fellow ghosts start turning up dead.  Will Jake be  next?  Who is killing off her friends by the book?  Could it be the  handsome and wealthy Dennis Kim, a successful agent and a childhood enemy  of Jake's?  Could it be Too Tall Tom or the Mob?  What about Gypsy Rose,  her mother's best friend and occultist?  Or the sensual therapist who seems  to have a connection to everyone and anyone?<br />With the help of her family  and friends Jake teams up with the police detective assigned to the case  but can she find the killer before he finds her?<br />While this was not the  most suspenseful mystery I have read it certainly was fun - mostly because  of the wacky characters that Noreen Wald has so expertly drawn.  I can't  wait to read more of the series.	2000-03-13
US	52624195	R2PT7LJ33H6OD4	0670892963	787771217	Bridget Jones : The Edge of Reason	Books	4	25	31	N	N	Book- vg, number of times laughed - too many to count	Bridget Jones is at it again in Helen Fielding's fabulous follow-up to Bridget Jones' Diary.  Edge of Reason follows the same humorous format - each diary entry headed by her caloric intake, number of boyfriends,  cigarettes, drinks and minutes since she last had sex.<br />While the second  book is a little out there in the sense of reality (some of Bridget's  predicaments are just a tad too over the top and one wonders how she can be  SO dense some of the time in life and in love) one still feels for Bridget  and the book is a fun read.<br />Year in Life of Bridget: Pages - not that  many, number of calories burned from laughing ?, number of people who  begged to borrow book upon completion - at least 100...<br />The book begins  with Bridget's budding relationship with Mark Darcy (sigh), and her  neurotic friends Shaz, Jude and Tom are back with a vengeance.  She has  read EVERY self help book available but still must figure out how to keep  her man (gahhh!), her career and her figure while fighting mad hair, scary  pants, money issues, crazy boss (fwaw) and monster-woman Rebecca (who is  after Mark Darcy).  Bridget must also learn to live the life as a Singleton  and not hate the Smug Married's (her conversations with married pal Magda  are quite funny), while also dealing with her wacky mother and her friends.   <br />The book takes place over a year or so in Bridget's life - once she has  her man, can she keep him and her sanity?  Once again, Bridget's exploits  will make you laugh and make you realize that you don't have it that bad.   All in all - the wait was certainly worth it.	2000-03-01
US	52624195	R3EZG9AV6X2VOM	0671798561	628570269	Nevermore	Books	2	5	10	N	N	Never again.......	I wanted to like this book - I really did.  I love the work of EA Poe and loved the premise of Nevermore but the book did not live up to my expectations.  As one can tell by reading the other reviews posted here -  many readers seem to have felt this way.<br />While Harold Schechter has a  wonderful background in history that made this book very believable he  chose to write the book from Poe's perspective and in his &quot;voice&quot;  which only made the book difficult to read.  The constant use of italics  (about two or three words were italicized per page) and the repetition of  certain adjectives such as angelic (which Poe uses every time he describes  his beloved Niece Virginia) and devoted (which he uses to describe his own  dear aunt Muddy) only get in the way of what could be an exceptional  narrative.<br />While the premise is creative the author weaves many of Poe's  own plot lines throughout Nevermore which sort-of detracts from the  brilliance of Poe, suggesting that he took his plot lines from real  events.<br />The plot line is thus - in 1834, Davy Crocket publishes his  autobiography and Poe roasts it.  Crocket shows up and demands an apology  or a duel - neither of which take place as a murder occurs which the two  join forces to help solve.  At the first murder site Poe notices a word  scrawled in blood upon the wall which he twice mistakes for the wrong word  (which is odd since he supposedly mentally gifted) and both times the word  he mistakes still figures into the plot.  Once the duo is finally on the  right track Poe must look into himself to help solve the  murders.<br />Schechter made Poe out to be an arrogant, self important,  condescending wimp, who faints at every murder scene - which only made me  dislike Poe.  I completely agree with harstan@ix.netcom's review - I think  Schecter has a brilliant and creative mind and I will consider reading him  again in the future.	2000-02-25
US	52624195	R2CFG08Q326O0G	0451193946	582723746	The Bone Collector (Lincoln Rhyme Novels)	Books	5	46	51	N	N	This book will Blow You Away!	Jeffery Deaver is one the great writers of today -his thrillers are wonderfully twisted, intelligent and fast paced.<br />This was recently made into a movie which did not do the book justice.  Lincoln Rhyme, the NYPD's  best and considered to be the world's foremost criminalist - is paralyzed  in an accident and seeks solace in silence yet the police desperately need  him.<br />Walking the beat, Amelia Sachs discovers a body buried beneath an  overpass (all but his ring finger) and she seals the area off in hopes of  salvaging what clues might be left.  This action brings her to the  attention of Lincoln.  The NYPD teams them up to hunt down what might be  the cities most deranged killer.<br />This book was fabulous - but it had a  major flaw -it ended! I fell in love with Lincoln Rhyme and Amelia Sachs  and I couldn't put the book down. It was thriller through and through - and  as a bonus it was well written and the characters were so real that you  almost felt like you were there with them.<br />I can't wait to see where  Jeffery Deaver takes us next	2000-02-15
US	52624195	R3HHRM3J56K7B8	0380789019	511174865	Neverwhere	Books	5	72	91	N	N	Down the rabbit hole into London Underground	Alice meets the Wizard of Oz - and you'll never want to leave the underground.<br />This was an amazing book! Living in NYC it made me really think about those random &quot;dead ends&quot; and the gap between the  subway and the platform. (an idea that I am sure JK Rowling got from  Neil...)<br />I really wanted to visit the London Underground (and I don't  mean the subway) after reading this delightful and absorbing novel. The  characters were well written and memorable.<br />This was one of the best  books I have read in ages. I could not put it down and began to re-read it  the moment I finished! Neil Gaiman not only has a fantastic imagination, he  also has a great sense of humor and we are just so lucky that he has  decided to share them and his amazing talent with us. I can't wait to read  Stardust!<br />If you read one book this year - read this one. A magical,  mysterious romp in a world you can only hope really exists. My next  vacation is going to be to London Underground. <br />Pick this book up and I  promise you will not want to put it down.	2000-02-15
US	52624195	R179RT4GDJ82JR	0449004074	615734384	Fade to Black	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Wacky, Comical Mystery With A Heart	The writing is simple but the plot is full of imagination.  Star of the silver Screen, Mae Liberty abandons Hollywood for small town life yet when she dies the whole family (all of whom are some how involved in the  &quot;industry&quot;) come rushing home.<br />Quirky and entertaining, Mae has  planned out her death scene yet all goes awry and her last word uttered is  &quot;Rosebud&quot; - her funeral hits the papers and reporters from around  the country show up but not before a murder and arson are committed. <br />Now  her beloved niece Gilda must figure out how to keep her great-aunt's movie  theater open while she tries to solve a mystery.  The book is filled with  flamboyant, colorful and crazy characters - all of whom you will fall in  love with.<br />This was a funny and easy read that I highly recommend for a  quick beach read or a rainy Sunday.	2000-02-15
US	52624195	R2K3273CARUB64	059035342X	400589274	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Buy all three now because you won't want to stop reading....	Since I am semi-adult (actually 28) I knew ahead of time that these books were aimed at younger readers but I could not resist and thank goodness for that! These are some of the best books I have read in a long time.<br />J.K.  Rowling obviously wrote these to entertain a younger audience but I found  that the writing and the plot kept me involved as well. I read the whole  thing in one day and had to wait for the other two books to arrive. I then  polished those off in a few days and can't wait for 4-7!<br />I highly  recommend these books - it has been a long time since my imagination has  been fed such a good meal!	2000-02-14
US	52624195	R1B7MDOJ8GIDEP	0385323638	337263488	Pink Slip	Books	4	0	0	N	N	heartwarming and funny	When I first began Pink Slip by Rita Ciresi I thought I was going to never get through it but the pace picked up after the first 40 pages.  I really got into the book until the last hundred pages where I admit to scanning  thru until I got the interesting parts.  While I thought the writing was a  bit sophomoric - the topic was anything but.<br />Lisa is a young in age (25)  but old in experience, having lived enough life for someone twice her age  yet she still seemed a bit immature in her relationship with her sort-of  Boss Eben Strauss who is quite a few years older than her.  <br />The story  centers on Lisa's career move from her tiny rat infested apartment in  Brooklyn and crummy job in publishing to a decent apartment in the 'burbs  and a  decent job at Boorman Pharmaceuticals in their editing department.   There she meets a man who is her complete opposite and falls for him hard -  the main problem?  He is her boss...  That can only lead to trouble and it  does yet the reader still roots for love to win and corporate policy to  look the other way.<br />Lisa is a well drawn character with flaws like the  rest of us and her relationships with her cousin Dodie, her boss Peg and of  course Strauss are very realistic.  <br />While I wished that more time was  spent on their relationship towards the end of the book instead of on Lisa  and her family - the book was very enjoyable.  Hopefully Rita will write a  sequel so we can find out what happens for all of the above!	2000-02-13
US	52624195	R3R36D7USWL2JW	0671881612	249435806	Isabel'S Bed	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Not as good as The Inn at Lake Devine	While I really enjoyed Elinor Lipman's Inn at Lake Devine - I felt that Isabel's Bed did not quite live up to my expectations.  It got rave reviews so I was looking forward to reading it but it was slow going and once I got  into it the book ended.<br />Isabel's Bed is the story of Harriet Mahoney, a  middle aged, recently jilted, unpublished writer who finds a job and a home  with Isabel Krug - the &quot;other woman&quot; in a scandoulous murder.   Isabel hires Harriet to ghost write her story.<br />The novel is about their  friendship and how it helps Harriet (and Isabel) put her life back on  track.<br />The book meandered for a while and finally got rolling about 100  pages or so before it ended.  I guess if I am still interested in knowing  what happens with these character's (which I definitely am) then I really  did enjoy the book - I just wish that it had a bit more depth or about 50  more pages...	2000-02-07
US	52624195	RY9D0V39OVB8H	059035342X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Buy all three now because you won't want to stop reading...	Since I am a semi-adult (actually 28) I knew ahead of time that these books were aimed at younger readers but I could not resist and thank goodness for that! These are some of the best books I have read in a long  time. Certainly the most fun books I have read in ages...  J.K. Rowling  obviously wrote these to entertain a younger audience but I found that the  writing and the plot kept me involved as well. I read the whole thing in  one day and had to wait for the other two books to arrive. I then polished  those off in a few days and can't wait for 4-7!  I highly recommend these  books - it has been a long time since my imagination has been fed such a  good meal!	2000-02-04
US	52624195	R1K78AL8GGBNED	014028009X	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Quirky, fun and funny	Damn those Fruit Smoothies! <br />A cry heard throughout Bridget Jones's Diary is sure to ring true for every woman, married or single.  <br />This book kept me awake and entertained on a flight home from Asia. I could not put it down and finished it in one straight read. Bridget is every woman's  insecure side. Yet she is still someone who you would want as a friend. It  is well written and easily readable. This is one great beach book.    <br />Bridget Jones's Diary - is a look inside an insecure and quirky young  woman's life - her daily intake of cigarette's, alcohol and calorie's  consumed as well as her never dull love life...<br />A hilarious ride along a  journey you won't want to end!	2000-02-04
US	52624195	RQUR58LZET3L8	0312972849	999447608	Aquarius Descending (Elizabeth Chase Mysteries)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Highly suspenseful	I loved Martha Lawrence's first two books so I eagerly awaited her third and was not disapointed.  In Aquarius Decending, Elizabeth Chase, main character and psychic investigator (yeah, she's a bit embarassed about the  hoakiness her title inspires too) is sent to find her boyfriend, Tom  McGowan's ex-girlfriend who has gone missing in a cult (the Bliss  Project).<br />While she is reluctant to investigate a cult or have anything  to do with her sweetie's ex - she finally agrees against her better  judgement. <br />What was so great about this book was the way Martha handled  the cult aspect.  She wrote about a very believeable cult and from  Elizabeth's eye -showed the way that they lure you in.  <br />Beyond, being  glad to hear what her friends have been up to since the last book - I found  Aquarius entertaining and a fast-paced read.	2000-02-03
US	52624195	R11UIDOAV8BJJH	0684801051	607441444	Time and Again	Books	4	20	21	N	N	An interesting and unique look at New York	Jack Finney's 1970 masterpiece is a great look at old New York.  Hasn't anyone that has ever been to New York wished they could take a step back in time and see what it was like when the Dakota was considered the suburbs?   When horse and buggies roamed the streets and Central Park?<br />Time and  Again is the story of Si Morley who agrees to do just that - try to take a  step back in time.  While the book does not focus on the scientific - it  certainly is descriptive.  I felt that I was walking along side Si as he  strolled the streets of yesteryear.<br />While reading this book - the reader  must realize that this was originally penned in 1970 and has gained  something akin to cult status so if some plot lines seem a bit familiar  they were copied from Time and Again.<br />While I liked The Alientist better  for it's plot - Time and Again certainly recreated New York in the 1800's  more vividly for me.  It is certainly a worthwhile read.	2000-02-03
US	52624195	R2S3BN9BIV14O3	0688170528	990695172	The Pact: A Love Story	Books	5	228	243	N	N	WOW!	I was unable to put this book down.  What an amazing book.  Jodi Picoult has perfectly described the feelings of love, loss, grief and devastation in The Pact.  I think I must have begun weeping several times while reading  this book (on the bus, in line at the drug store...).<br />Not only is the  book gripping while you are reading it but it stays with you afterwards - I  can't stop thinking about it.  <br />The Pact is the story of two teenagers  who grow up next door to one another from birth, their parents are the best  of friends and have always expected that their children's friendship will  blossom into love which it does.<br />The book jumps from both Chris and  Emily's perspective as well as both sets of parents - it deals with a  suicide pact gone wrong and the aftermath (as well as what has lead up to  the central moment).  If anyone has ever learned devastating news or lost a  loved one then they know what it can do to a person as well as a family and  I thought that The Pact was unbelievably realistic.<br />This was one of the  most moving, touching and important books I have read - it certainly leaves  you thinking about it and your own life as well as the lives of those  around you.<br />Read this one but make sure to keep a box of tissues and a  loved one near by (for a hug if you need one).	2000-01-18
US	52624195	RF4ACAF13YINV	0439064864	398109329	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Even better than the first!	How could a reader not fall in love with Harry Potter? He is a part of all of us. The universal feelings of wanting to be accepted, to be liked and to be able to achieve great things are things that we can all relate to. <br />I am an adult and I have read all three of the books that are out thus far  and my imagination is soaring!<br />J.K. Rowling keeps getting better and  better as she writes. I only wish that Hogwarts would accept me for next  years class!<br />This series is destined to sit on the shelf along with other  well read classics as The Lion, The Witch and the Wardrobe, The Phantom  Tollbooth and The Wizard of Oz. A wonderful way to teach kids that it is  okay to dream.	2000-01-18
US	52624195	R34G9B8SCQJ8TF	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Buy all three now because you won't want to stop reading....	Since I am a semi-adult (actually 28) I knew ahead of time that these books were aimed at younger readers but I could not resist and thank goodness for that! These are some of the best books I have read in a long time.  Certainly the most fun books I have read in ages...<br />J.K. Rowling  obviously wrote these to entertain a younger audience but I found that the  writing and the plot kept me involved as well. I read the whole thing in  one day and had to wait for the other two books to arrive. I then polished  those off in a few days and can't wait for 4-7!<br />I highly recommend these  books - it has been a long time since my imagination has been fed such a  good meal!	2000-01-18
US	52624195	R13ZSE4M6RHT55	0345423135	113408571	The Magic Circle	Books	4	31	37	N	N	Needs a second read....	While The Eight is by far my favorite book I waited to read The Magic Circle until I had the time to devote to it.  Good thing I did as the plot is even more tricky than The Eight.  <br />While the general plot is set up in  a similar way to The Eight the topic is vastly different and somewhat  confusing.  The dual story is set in and around the time of Jesus and then  interwoven with modern day.  I would suggest keeping a pad and paper handy  when reading this book as the myriad of characters can sometime be  difficult to keep up with (as are the family relations of some of the  characters).<br />Beyond the fact that it helps if you have a basic education  in the birth of Christianity, the plot was interesting and the writing was  excellent.  It was interesting to see what the world might have been like  during the life of Jesus as well as to see what he and his disciples and  enemies might have thought about him (just know that this is not an overly  religious book nor is Katherine making any judgments on any religion or  religious person in The Magic Circle).<br />While some things seemed a little  far fetched, I had to remind myself that The Magic Circle is fiction and  that the author has artistic license.  Katherine tends to write grand,  vivid, sweeping descriptions and full bodied, interesting characters and  she did not disappoint on that level.<br />All in all, I will read this book  again but The Eight still remains her masterpiece - I doubt that The Magic  Circle will ever have a following the way The Eight does - I guess that  trying to re-use a magical idea rarely works twice. <br />I did like The Magic  Circle, I guess I just need to remember that it is not The Eight and that I  should not compare the two as much as I did the first time through this  book.  A definitely good read.	2000-01-10
US	52624195	R31Z1583M4O0FJ	0671024094	974831720	The Coffin Dancer (A Lincoln Rhyme Novel)	Books	5	29	32	N	N	Mr. Deaver is the Master of Suspense!	And he certainly proves it with The Coffin Dancer, a follow up to his immensely popular book The Bone Collector.<br />Rarely is one really affected by characters in a book but Lincoln and Amelia are different as is The  Coffin Dancer. Expect the unexpected and enjoy the plot twists and turns  because rarely do you find thriller that is so well written and so  absorbing. <br />Jeffery Deaver is creative and unique with his plot, the  situations he creates for Ameila and Lincoln are realistic and highly  intense.  I was on the edge of my seat through out the book.<br />Plus- this  is one ending that will blow you away. can't wait for the next installment  featuring Lincoln and Amelia.	2000-01-10
US	52624195	R11H5ZM0K1VZLU	055358037X	308074031	Everything and a Kite	Books	4	8	9	N	N	If you love Raymond - you'll love this book	Like most comedians that have made the move from stand-up to small screen, Everything and a Kite rehashes some of the topics and story lines from Ray Romano's show but I must say that it is still funny.<br />Ray mixes up his  feelings of inadequacy with the joys and pains of being alternately a  child, single, married and a parent.  I laughed aloud several times while  reading the book and had to repeat several stories to those around me while  I was chuckling.<br />My only gripe is that I wish the book were longer, Ray  Romano spent much of the book changing the fonts and joking about having to  write filler (which served a dual purpose) as well as hemming and hawing  and apologizing for things until he finally spit the joke out.  I did love  the footnotes through out the book.<br />All in all, a very quick but very  funny read!	2000-01-10
US	52624195	RWPSZRVHUJ6Z2	0380729180	827347608	Veronica: A Novel	Books	5	5	7	N	N	When will Nicholas Christopher write a new one?	I simply adored this book. What a wonderful blend of mystery, fantasy and fun. While I read this book some time ago - I recommend it often and keep checking to see if the author has written another book (non-poetry that  is).<br />Nicholas Christopher's prose is lyrical and it flows like silk  through the readers imagination.  Creating unforgettable tableau's upon our  imagination - Veronica is one novel that will alter the way you look at New  York City.<br />I highly recommend this book if you are looking to have some  fun and don't care about living in reality. Also, this is a great read for  a New Yorker like me - it gives you a whole new perspective on NYC. <br />If  you liked Veronica I suggest reading Neverwhere by Neil Gaiman - it is  another twist on what lies beneath the face of a city and it's inhabitants.   The Harry Potter series also reminds me of Veronica in a way - so you  might want to check those out as well.	2000-01-10
US	52624195	R1JKVCWXOKTTFN	0553568604	742627866	The Grass Widow	Books	4	4	4	N	N	moving and entertaining - a great mystery	I originally wrote this review on August 14, 1998 but I am re-submitting it for my member page....    This was a book that I selected through Amazon's recommendation and boy am I glad. It was nice to not read a serial  killer, slasher fast paced big city detective novel for a change.<br />Terri  Holbrook's book kept me interested right up to the last page. I liked the  characters and it was nice to read a mystery that felt like a cosy novel  for a change. While this book definitely had great twists and turns and  kept me guessing all the way through it was a book that was not just about  &quot;who done it&quot;.<br />The Grass Harp shows what can happen to a family  and how a suicide can affect a family generations down the line. I hope to  see the characters again soon.	2000-01-10
US	52624195	R1L6ITF17O6NPN	0553560204	54491990	The Lesson of Her Death	Books	5	65	71	N	N	another smash hit for Deaver	Jeffery Deaver is the master of suspense. I have yet to read one of his books that has not kept me up all night reading by flashlight.  <br />pucksau@earthling.net  is wrong, by the way, Jeffery Wilds Deaver is the  same author who wrote The Bone Collector and The Coffin Dancer.  I must  also whole heartedly agree with dglavelle@hotmail.com. It is a shame that  many of Jeffery Deaver's books are no longer in print but I keep scouring  the used book stores in hopes of finding a treasure - namingly an out of  print Deaver book. <br />Lessons of Her Death is a perfect example of Deaver's  work - smart, engrossing and well written (plot line and characters). He  also makes you feel for both the victim as well as the villain - Deaver  shows you what is behind the eyes of a mad man.  This was another Deaver  book with plot twists and turns that will keep you on the edge of your  seat. <br />I highly recommend getting into Mr. Deaver's world	2000-01-10
US	52624195	R561QXSFG5YLO	0060928336	859404350	Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	warm, funny and wonderful	You can almost smell the home cookin' in this novel about family and the bonds a girl has with her mother. Sidda, the central character learns of her mothers childhood and her bond with the Ya-Ya's (her group of friends).  <br />It is a wonderful and touching look back at all that we forgot or never  knew. While Sidda did not always have a perfect childhood we laugh with her  and cry with her.<br />I usually read mysteries but this was a great change. I  ran out to buy Little Altars Everywhere and I devoured that as well. I am  eagerly awaiting Ms. Wells next book. <br />I originally wrote this review on  September 14, 1998 but I just re-read it and still love the Ya-Ya's!	2000-01-10
US	52624195	RV2U6J4UQOWZR	0553571729	37218598	The Red Scream	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Creepy Thriller	Mary Willis Walker really knows how to write 'em.  I have read all three of her books and they are all well written and engrossing.  Molly Cates is someone that I could relate to - she is extremely driven and haunted by  what she has seen in her past.<br />Bronk was chilling as the possible serial  killer.  This was one book that I kept saying to myself - okay just one  more page until I was up to the wee hours of the morning and I just had to  finish it.	2000-01-07
US	52624195	R1YC59S8REFCQZ	0312955006	396820452	The Concrete Blonde (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Fantabulous!	Concrete Blonde drew me in right from the start and I could not put it down. I guess it is true that you can judge a book by it's cover. <br />I have read all of Michael Connelly's books and enjoyed them all - this one was  wonderful. Harry Bosch is a great character and Connelly really expands him  and draws us further into his world with each book.  He draws the reader in  and really allows you to get to know the characters (and not just Harry but  the peripheral ones as well). <br />Concrete Blonde was well written and  totally addictive - once you open it you can't put it down!	2000-01-07
US	52624195	RSL5O8K6E16FE	0345366239	16404674	The Eight	Books	5	64	76	N	N	The Best Book Out On The Market - Hands Down!	This is by far the best book I ever read. I ALWAYS recommend this book to anyone looking for a good read. It not only teaches you a little about history but you don't even realize that you are learning while enjoying the  amazing plot! <br />Katherine Neville is brilliant as is her story in The  Eight.  The book combines two interwoven plots and keeps you interested in  both of them! This is one book that I never wanted to finish. I fell in  love with the characters and felt that this book could go on and on and not  bore me one bit. <br />This is the story of the Montglane Chess set,  supposedly a gift to Charlemagne that held unimaginable power within, when  he played he became obsessed to the point of near destruction.  Upon his  death his sons fought over the set which ends up getting built into the  walls of an abbey to protect it as well as the world from it's power.  The  story takes place in two eras.  One where they many historical figures are  after the set which is being split up across the world and then in the  1970's when the set is being searched for (again).<br />Catherine Neville  deftly weaves these two stories together, along with historical facts and  wonderful characters.  <br />I could read it over and over again (and I have -  I think I just finished it for my 7th time)and still enjoy it. The writing  was superb and the plot was original!	2000-01-07
US	52624195	R3HNT4PDHJTCQ8	0553575058	500523640	Zero at the Bone	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Suspenseful	I really enjoyed Zero at the Bone. You never knew where the plot turns were going to take you. It is rare to find a mystery novel that leaves you guessing until the end. I found it a great read along with Mary Willis  Walker's other books.  I just wish she would write another one soon.	2000-01-07
US	52624195	R3QO7QZ9OCL4IT	0451188489	745541196	A Maiden's Grave	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Absorbing and heart wrenching	While there have been many novels written using a bus load of kidnapped children as their central story line - A Maiden's Grave certainly leads the pack and stands out as a gut wrenching thriller.<br />This is an interesting  take on hostage negotiations and Deaver really makes it work - you can feel  what it is like to be one of the hostages and you can feel the pressure  place on the negotiator - it is so wonderfully well written that the plot  seems as if it is so new.<br />You can feel the terror and bravery of the  characters. I hope that Mr. Deaver writes more like this one. All of his  books are wonderful so if you liked this one read them all!	2000-01-07
US	52624195	R3TN5L6Y055VM9	0553571737	752077276	Under the Beetle's Cellar	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Not Your Average Thriller	Under the Beetle's Cellar could have been so run of the mill but with Mary Willis Walker behind the wheel (no pun intended) it was eerie.  She was really able to write from the mind set of someone in a cult.  <br />Walker  writes of a fanatical cult leader so real that it could have been a story  ripped from the headlines of any paper in the USA.  Molly Cates is back and  better than ever.<br />Hopefully, Walker will write another one soon!	2000-01-07
US	52624195	R29Z4G036X5VFG	0451176731	456069417	Trick of the Eye (Signet)	Books	4	20	20	N	N	A Fabulous First Book	Jane Stanton Hitchcock's first mystery Trick of the Eye was a wonderful discovery.  Her writing is fresh and descriptive and in the imagination department her cup runeth over.<br />The plot, while seemly simple, is filled  with elegant twists and turns.  This is the story about an artist who  paint's trompe l'oeils (paintings that are made to look as if they are real  - a 3-d image that tricks the idea into believing it exists)and is called  upon by a wealthy, eccentric woman to recreate her now deceased daughter's  coming out ball upon the walls of the ballroom where the party was  held.<br />She brings her up to her estate and keeps her there while she is  working on the piece and entertains her with stories from the past.  The  artist becomes enmeshed when she discovers she is the spitting image of the  woman's dead daughter and tries to discover who killed her.<br />All in all a  wonderfully woven tapestry of characters, writing, plot and images.	2000-01-06
US	52624195	R2LRDB9W4GBDA4	0451185080	788960269	The Witches' Hammer	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Can't wait for her next book	I enjoyed Hitchcock's first novel &quot;Trick of the Eye&quot; because it was different from your average mystery novel. Her second novel did not disappoint. It was interesting and kind-of quirky. The novel did reach a  point where it became somewhat over-the-top but none the less it was fun  and it kept me entertained. <br />The story focuses on Beatrice O'Connell who  has recently moved back in with her father who collects rare books.  He  receives a grimoire from a patient. A grimoire is a rare black magic book -  usually from the 1300-1600's (or so).  Intent on discovering the secret  behind the book (after her father is murdered and the book disappears)  Beatrice is lured into a bizarre world filled with interesting people,  people who would do anything to harness the power held within the  mysterious grimoire.	2000-01-06
US	52624195	R2Z3IWPYWF3FLK	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	One of the most awaited sequels sinks	For years many readers have awaited this book and most of us rushed out to purchase it the second it hit the bookshelves and most of those readers have been somewhat disenchanted. <br />While the plot still holds some twists  and turns it could not stand up to Harris' two previous Hannibal books. It  seemed as though Harris did not really know what to do with Lecter this  time around. The other two books were intricately woven stories this book  seemed to be more of a psychological profile of Hannibal - Starling is not  really a central character and Mason Verger who was touted to be even more  frightening than Lecter was at total disappointment.<br />Harris seems to  confuse thriller with sheer violence in Hannibal. Readers do not get that  intense, edge of your seat, check to make sure the doors are all locked  fear - instead they find a bland story line with more grotesque than gory.   It also seemed as tho Harris rushed the ending and manipulated the  characters to do something that was way out of character for them  (especially Startling).<br />While I still found this book to be enjoyable I  was not quite sure if the real disappointment was from the anticipation  that the long lag between books created or because the book seemed so  unimaginative in comparison with Harris' other Hannibal works.<br />Read this  book but don't go in with expectations based on Harris' two previous  Hannibal works - you will be disappointed.	2000-01-06
US	52624195	R1G4VXVS3UQLK7	0449002942	672396758	Dying to Get Published (Jennifer Marsh Mysteries)	Books	4	49	54	N	N	A fast, fun read	Dying to get Published is not a heavy duty mystery it is light hearted and takes a poke at the mystery genre (Jennifer is a pre-published mystery writer who creates wacky heroines and plots that are woven throughout the  book).  Judy Fitzwater has accurately described every hopeful writer's  feelings in Dying to Get Published.<br />I could totally relate to Jennifer  Marsh, the main character, and her wacky cast of friends.  She is devoted  to her writing and does catering parties to help make ends meet - it is at  a party she and her friend Dee Dee are working where she meets Sam, a great  dream guy and picks up her first &quot;case&quot;.<br />As I said, the plot  intricacies might leave a bit to be desired for those looking for a hard  core mystery but for me this was a fun read.  I like Jennifer, her  wonderful dog Muffy and her unborn (and unconceived ) child Jaimie (could  be a girl or a boy).<br />As whole - this was a great premise and a fun book.	2000-01-05
US	52624195	R10X5MOFSH1FNV	0380730375	83189557	Practical Demonkeeping	Books	4	1	2	N	N	creative and funny	Practical Demonkeeping was a very funny and unique book. While this book is not for everyone -I certainly laughed aloud on several occasions. I liked the characters and thought that it was great for a beach or  bus/airplane read. <br />This is the story of Travis and his pal Catch - the  only thing wrong with this traveling duo is that they have been on the road  together for 70 years - that and Catch is a demon who can't help but eat  people he finds along the way.  <br />Wild and wacky and just plain funny,  Practical Demonkeeping is a great read.  Enjoy this book - it is a guilty  pleasure.	2000-01-05
US	52624195	R1PZA2IG3U0G44	0449004260	161488113	Dying for a Clue (Jennifer Marsh Mysteries)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Another goodie from Judy	In Judy Fitzwater's third Jennifer Marsh installment we get more of the same wackiness that readers have come to expect from her first two books.<br />This time Jennifer is working with P.I. Johnny Z. (a Bogart  wanna-be) who gets Jennifer caught in the middle of yet another murder that  to make matters worse forces her to move-in with her (sort-of) boyfriend  Sam and baby-sit her client.<br />While the plot is somewhat predictable the  characters make it all worthwhile.  I think I read these simply to find out  if Jennifer will ever actually admit to loving Sam and whether she will  ever have Jaimie (her unborn and not yet conceived child).  <br />Judy has  great character development from the first thru the third book and as  always, I love listening in on her writers group discuss their plots (the  newest being A children's mystery featuring a Squirrel, entitled  &quot;Where have all the nuts gone?&quot; or something as witty as  that).<br />These books are a great vacation from the hard boiled and  psychologically intense mysteries - and are just a whole lot of fu	2000-01-05
US	52624195	R33G2FWZ3D1KDO	0449003868	495068551	Dying to Get Even (Jennifer Marsh Mysteries)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A great follow-up	Judy Fitzwater's second Jennifer Marsh book hits a home run.  The writing is as solid as her first book and she has added more depth to the characters - including Jennifer, her boyfriend (sort-of) Sam, Jaimie (her  unborn and not yet conceived child) even her dog Muffy.<br />Once again, Judy  creates a wonderfully woven, light hearted mystery - full of angst and  who-dunnit's.  These characters just grow on you - I swear!<br />Once again,  we also get to enjoy the half baked plots and character's that Jennifer's  writers group discusses at their weekly meetings. <br />This time Jennifer  gets woken up in the middle of the night to go &quot;rescue&quot; her  eldery friend Emma Walker who is at her ex-husband's house playing pranks  but has not returned home when she is supposed to.  Jennifer arrives to  find Emma's ex face down in the pool and Emma unconscious and holding the  murder weapon - to make matters worse the current wife arrives with a gun  and the police!  Now Jennifer is their (unwilling) star witness - what can  she do but go undercover to ferret out the truth.<br />This series is a fun  one.  Just kick back, relax and enjoy.	2000-01-05
US	52624195	RV9I2QRU91N4Y	0802135358	821287206	Fool on the Hill: A Novel	Books	5	45	55	N	N	A wild ride of fun and fantasy!	I wrote a review of this book last year and I just re-read it again and wanted to remind people how fabulous this book is.<br />I discovered this book just after it was published and just before I got into Cornell and I have  read it at least ten times since (I am just four years out of good 'ole  Cornell). It it one of my favorite books as it combines true life in Ithaca  with a world that you always hoped existed somewhere. It has something for  everyone - as it combines several full lentgh stories, which could easily  be read independently of one another, into an exciting and fun adventure.  The Fool On The Hill was Ruff's senior thesis (if I am to believe a  professor of his that supposedly helped get it published) - I felt that his  book was so fabulous I went out and signed up for a course with his mentor.  <br />If you buy this book, I guarantee that you will loan it out and have to  re-purchase it as I know that I have gone through about 7 or 8 copies  already.  This book will touch the child in all of you.<br />The book focuses  on S.T. George, a writer who finds his muse and loses her, a group of  bohemian college students with some magic up their sleeves and a cat and  dog on a journey to find &quot;heaven&quot; and rid the animal world of  castes (pure-breds vs. mutts) and you kind kind-of get the idea behind  Fool....  but it is really SO much more.<br />I highly recommend this book to  anyone and everyone that likes to daydream!	1999-12-23
US	52624195	RZS46ZOJ2I2J4	0440225108	7077895	The Plague Tales	Books	4	31	35	N	N	Interwoven tale from the past and the future	I loved the way The Plague Tales alternated between two time periods: the fourteenth century and a near-police state in the early twenty-first century. <br />I wrote a research paper on the black death and found this book  to be very accurate in it's descriptions of the disease and the time  period.  I also liked that Ms. Benson was able to weave these two plots  together so seamlessly and create a believable future London.<br />Her  characters are very strong and I liked how Benson was able to show cause  and effect relationships not just in one time period but between the  centuries.<br />It reminded me very much of my favorite book The Eight by  Katherine Neville.  Ms. Benson was really able to capture the feeling of  both a historical novel and a medical thriller without alienating fans of  either genre.<br />This was a great read.	1999-12-22
US	52624195	R3GBEHBGXSYTWH	0451404823	381854866	Fan Mail	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Is Big Brother Watching?	In Fan Mail he is.  This book was so unique in the fact that the story was told purely thru e-mails, faxes and phone messages.  <br />The plot touches on a stalker called The Watcher, something that every personality fears but  what made this book so chilling was the fact that the reader, along with  the stalked, had no clue as to what the stalker was thinking.<br />The reader  is kept in suspense by not being allowed to view what is going on inside  either the stalker's head or the vicitim's.  While this is not the best  mystery I have ever read, it certainly wins points for creativity.	1999-12-22
US	52624195	RFC4ZNCRGS7WB	0140178406	968675587	Aunt Dimity's Death (Aunt Dimity Mystery)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A cozy mystery for people who are not fans of cozy mysteries	What a fun, wonderful book! Althought this was Atherton's first book in the Dimity series I suggest reading Aunt Dimity and the Duke first.  The characters are warm and inviting and while this isn't the kind of book that surprises you at the end it is a wonderful trip to getting there.<br />If you read this one you'll want to read them all.	1999-12-21
US	52624195	R244WNTVN5A2T4	014027569X	14017004	Aunt Dimity Digs In	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Please read this book on a rainy afternoon	The beauty of the Dimity series is watching the characters development from book to book.  Reading this books feels like a visit with your dearest friend that you only get to see once a year. You can pick right up where you left off without skipping a beat.<br />If you read this one first the earlier books will loose a little something but please do read them all!	1999-12-21
US	52624195	R3718Q1HHA253X	0316781010	155429542	Fortune's Rocks: A Novel	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Another Smash Hit from Anita	I have read all of Anita Shreve's books and loved each one of them and Fortune's Rocks does not disappoint. While different than most of her past books simply because it is set in the 1800's, the theme is similar to much of her past work. Once again, Anita pulls us in and mesmerizes the reader with beautiful imagery and wonderful character development. This book in unique in that it is not a quick snapshot into a character's life but it encompasses many year's in the young central figure's life.<br />One quickly feels Olympia's wonderment, naiveté, rapture and longing thru Anita's words. The reader also begins to despise, to pity and to long for certain characters but none of these feelings are simply spelled out by Anita, the reader actually develops these feeling from the start of the novel.<br />This is a book that I could not put down. Promise me - you won't want to either. Anita, congratulations on another wonderful novel.	1999-12-21
US	52624195	R2U8ONAA5BS5CQ	0156006219	488195014	The Magician's Assistant	Books	5	22	30	N	N	Touching, funny and inviting	If you read The Pilot's Wife by Anita Shreve (and if you haven't you should) and enjoyed it this book is an interesting book to compare it to.  Although one of the main characters is never seen in the flesh by the reader - you get a full sense of who Parsifal was.<br />The book is endearing and hard to put down. I could totally understand why Sabine feel in love with Parsifal and was going to miss him - I never met him (in a reader's sense of the word) and I missed him (and Phan) as well.<br />The book is true to the way the world works which makes it all the more enjoyable. I hope that Ms. Patchett decides to write a sequel because I am already trying to imagine where they are now and what they are doing.	1999-12-21
US	52624195	R2GN0XH9JFSWQB	0312959974	768479968	Watch Me: They Said She Couldn't Catch A Serial Killer. She Said... (Jay Fletcher Thrillers)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	A techno-thriller  for the age of computers	I read this book sometime ago and while I don't really remember all the specifics of the plot, writing style or character development, what I do remember was how inventive the plot was.<br />This book was writen several  years ago and what I found the most interesting about it, while for all  intents and purposes it is a mystery, were the issues it brought up about  privacy on the net.   <br />FBI special agent Jay Fletcher has made a living  by tracking down serial killers by using the net. She has violated several  federal laws and has allowed a killer to go free due to her actions.   She  is sent to Santa Fe to a one cop town as punishment but trouble follows her  and she is up to her old tricks again.<br />I really enjoyed reading this book  and have recommended it to other internet junkies.	1999-12-21
US	52624195	R3GUY228PUOMLW	1576730670	230712702	Publish and Perish (Ben Reese Mystery)	Books	4	34	34	N	N	A fun turn in Academia	Ben Reese is my kind of character and Sally Wright is my kind of author.  This book was a true mystery - you know the kind, the one that actually relies on the plot and clues to keep it going as opposed to the ones that  try to thrill and scare you simply with blood and then all of the sudden  they discover the murderer and it's someone you never heard of before?   <br />Publish and Perish was a good book.  Ms. Wright introduced us to a  character that we could like and investigate the clues with and we knew was  going to be back to visit (hey, the author was the one who sub-titled the  book Ben Reese Series - book 1).  <br />All in all, the plot was solid as was  the writing and there were enough twists and turns to keep me intrigued.   The only reason I gave it four stars was the ending - it did just that -  end.  It seemed as tho my book was missing a few pages because it seemed to  end mid-sentence which was the only thing I found wrong with this book.	1999-12-17
US	52624195	R2DEM989X6UYBY	094407278X	165140116	Murder in the Museum of Man	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Great Plot falls flat	while I loved the idea of this book I just did not enjoy reading it.<br />It was not the dry humor that turned me off but the dry writing style.  The plot was clever but it did not move along quickly enough to keep my interest. It moved in quick jerks interspersed with long winded passages about nothing.  I found it repetitive (as some &quot;journal style&quot; novels can be) but most of all I felt that it was a bit on the pretentious side.<br />The writing was very stuffy and verbose which is too bad because the creative plot would really attract more readers if the writing style was a bit more available to readers of all backgrounds.	1999-12-06
US	52624195	R28A546BFMN7BF	0441003257	624269601	Good Omens	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Fabulous Twist on the End of the World	I can't wait for Neil Gaiman and Terry Pratchett to team up again - I do not normally read books in this genre but after reading Neverwhere by Neil Gaiman and Good Omens, I have started to.  Unfortunately, nothing else  lives up the wit and sheer brilliance of Good Omens.<br />The characters are  well drawn, the writing is excellent and the plot is a riot - what else can  a reader ask for?<br />I found myself laughing aloud while reading this and  sharing certain sentences with others within hearing range.  I also tried  to give myself a limit on how much I could read each day to make this book  last.  It did not work so I am patiently waiting for Neil and Terry to team  up again.<br />This book is worth every penny and then some!	1999-12-03
US	52624195	RCX77H995IKTB	0553377868	735890843	The Flanders Panel	Books	5	34	38	N	N	Intelligent and Intriguing Mystery	Arturo Perez-Reverte is an amazing writer, truly gifted not only in the art of spinning a creative and sophisticated mystery but also in jumping the cultural and historical boundaries.<br />This book (as is The Club Dumas)  is a bibliomystery fan's dream come true.  Julia, a woman who restores  paintings for a living, is asked to help restore a fifteenth-century  masterpiece, the painting depicts a chess game between the Duke of Flanders  and his knight - but within it is a hidden message - Who Killed The Knight  and thus the novel begins.<br />This book is filled to the brim with  fascinating information about art, history and chess.  If you liked this  book you should run out and get The Eight by Katherine Neville- is another  stunner!	1999-12-03
US	52624195	R1VU6BVQZ3AGTW	0156006391	937190844	The Seville Communion	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Half Baked at Best	While I am a BIG fan of Perez-Reverte's work, The Seville Communion was a big let down.  I have come to expect more from this literary master.<br />I found the plot and the characters stilted and i could not even finish it.   The plot could not hold my attention and I found myself more intruiged with  doing the laundry than finding out who dunnit.<br />I hope that  Perez-Reverte's next book picks up the pace and is more akin to his first  two books.  My best advice for this book is don't bother.	1999-12-03
US	52624195	R1YY6I7CN24717	0679777547	582743995	The Club Dumas	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Bibliophiles Dream Come True!	Arturo Perez-Reverte strikes gold again with The Club Dumas.  Based on Dumas' masterpiece The Three Musketeers, Perez-Reverte weaves his own tale of rare book collecting and the history of the Muskeeteers.<br />While I  definitely suggest reading The Three Musketeers first, (I did not and every  so often lost track of the plot) the novel was still interesting without  any knowledge of Dumas' work.<br />All in all, this book is definitely worth  reading!	1999-12-03
US	52624195	R2K5D2NVCPMGVF	0553577174	151906149	Untitled: A Booklover's Mystery (Booklover's Mysteries)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Fast, wicked and fun	While I enjoyed Julie's first two books more than I did Untitled - this one is still fast-paced and fun (maybe a little to much action in this one).<br />Alex Plumtree is at it again and in up to his neck - this book is  about incunable's (a book printed in the cradle method before 1500 - I  think). <br />Murder, mystery, intrigue and terrorists?  Sounds a little crazy  but Julie Kaewert makes them work.  Strap yourself in - this one takes  off  at breakneck speed!	1999-12-02
US	52624195	R1Q105QT3YPUEP	0515120456	999582911	The Dark Room	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Minette is a Master	I have read all of Minette Walter's books and I am constantly surprised.  With each book her writing gets stronger and the plots get even more interesting.<br />She truly is a master of suspense.  I find that I can't put  her books down.  Walters was able to take the amnesia plot and weave it in  a way that makes it seem as if it were a new plot twist.<br />While Minette  does not use repeating characters in her novels she never seems to have a  problem getting her reader immediately feeling involved with the characters  or the story.  I highly recommend reading all of her books.	1999-12-02
US	52624195	RO988NENE06RK	0515122564	963249302	The Echo	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Another gem From Minette Walters	Rarely can an author put a face to a homeless person, especially a deceased one, such as Ms. walters has.<br />Not only is The Echo a fabulous mystery but it also teaches the reader to look beyond a person's appearance  and to see what is really in their heart.<br />Billy Blake is written as such  a real person even though he is already dead when we first meet him in The  Echo.  Once you discover how Billy got to where he was when he died you too  will fall in love with him.<br />Another fabulous find from Minette Walters.	1999-12-02
US	52624195	R1O451LFPVG3BI	0312951426	621198908	The Ice House: A Novel	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Minette Walter's gives us a gift with every book she writes	and The Ice House is no exception.  Yet another fabulous offering from Minette Walters with all the plot twists and turns that we have come to expect from her.<br />The Ice House is a cozy mystery with a bite.  Read this  one - you won't regret it!	1999-12-02
US	52624195	R20JM2NXW0JDRP	0316152196	515249324	Angels Flight (Harry Bosch)	Books	3	23	33	N	N	Has Connelly Lost His Edge?	While I eagerly awaited Bosch's return in Angels Flight I was somewhat disappointed in what I found between the covers.  I hate to have to give this book a mediocre review.<br />Where did the Harry that I had grown to love  go?  It seemed as though his gritty, hard edged character has softened and  in doing so become a bit bland.<br />I honestly, had to skim through several  parts of this book because I just couldn't get into it.  I am a huge fan of  Connelly's and I just hope that Void Moon will take us back to the Connelly  we know and love - hey, everyone is allowed to make a mistake, right?<br />If  you are a Bosch fan then you should read Angels Flight but if not go back a  read some of Connelly's older books first.	1999-12-02
US	52624195	RDXNOF27OF9DE	0312958455	628100476	The Last Coyote (Harry Bosch #4)	Books	5	43	47	N	N	Good To The Last Drop!	Michael Connelly does not disappoint his faithful with this one.  It was a great chance to learn a little bit more about a character that is close to my heart.<br />During a leave from duty Bosch delves deep into his past to  make sense of his mother's murder (and hopefully find the killer).<br />While  the action is quick and the writing is strong what really makes this  Connelly book stand out is that we really learn what makes Bosch tick.  The  title is also great - it has a double meaning, it signifies how Harry sees  himself as well as the earthquake ravaged LA neighborhood in which Bosch  resides - he has a coyote that visits his hillside home from time to  time.<br />A very enjoyable read.	1999-12-02
US	52624195	RIM144ZH7RQSH	0312953615	342638275	The Sculptress: A Novel	Books	5	4	6	N	N	There is a Reason She Won the Edgar Award	Minette Walters is one of few writers who can take the reader by the hand and lead them wherever she chooses to go - no questions asked.  She deftly spins a tale that keeps the reader engrossed from the first to the very  last page.<br />Olive is an amazing character, Ms. Walters writes her so well  that you can almost see her sitting in your room, sculpting her wax  creations.  As soon as I finished this book I ran out and bought every book  Minette has written and I was not disappointed in any of them!<br />Ms.  Walter's is a literary legend in the making.	1999-12-02
US	52624195	R10I8WCJ9BC5XY	0312963297	20675667	Trunk Music (Harry Bosch)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Harry's Back and Still on Top	While I agree with Chad's review about liking the early Bosch books better - Trunk Music was still a great read.<br />Reading the Connelly's Bosch books feels like a visit with an old and dear friend.  The writing is still  strong as are the characters and the plot.<br />A good addition to the Bosch  series.	1999-12-02
US	52624195	R225XDUCHQRW4M	0312956126	936643050	The Scold's Bridle: A Novel	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Cat Got your Tounge?  Not When It Comes To Minette Walters!	The Scold's Bridle is one of Minette's best!  When the old lady that everyone in Fontwell hates dies a myesterious death in her bathtub - people breathe a sigh of relief.<br />Not so for her doctor Sarah Blakeney, she sees  more to the death than meets the eye and takes it upon herself to discover  the truth behind Mathilda Gillespie's gruesome death.<br />What the reader  finds beyond the main plot is ingenious writing, rich characters and  wonderful story telling.  This is one page turner that I tried desperately  not to read in one sitting - I really wanted to savor it.<br />All in all a  fabulous book!	1999-12-02
US	52624195	R3P00XBPAAJA84	0446602612	243715630	The Poet	Books	5	11	11	N	N	What Does A Really Creative Plot + Great Writing Equal?	The Poet!  This book was  really fun.  While I am a fan of Connelly's Harry Bosch series, I was still able to fall for Jack McEvoy.  I thought that Connelly's premise was very creative and great for bibliophiles.<br />The  killer uses Poe's literary works as a basis for his murders.  What a  fabulous way for Connelly to merge his genius with the brilliance of Poe -  one of the genre's greats.<br />I just could not put this one down.  I found  myself reading under the covers with my book light.  A fun vacation from  reality.	1999-12-02
US	52624195	R1DI4UCFZ42N66	0399144927	842485314	The Breaker	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Great Read	I am a big fan of Minette Walters and her latest book does not disappoint.  From the opening scene in the novel I was hooked.<br />The title - The Breaker comes from one of the opening scenes - where a woman is murdered  and the killer breaks her fingers.  Her body then washes up on shore and I  just can't stop imagining her broken fingers waving in the surf.  I still  get chills.<br />I just can't wait to see what Minette brings us next!	1999-12-02
US	52624195	R1EWEIJN8SF39X	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	5	11	12	N	N	By Far The Best Book I Have Ever Read!	And I read a book a week!  Memoirs of a Geisha is destined to be one of the greatest books of this century (or any other for that matter).  Arthur Golden writes with such an amazing eye for detail and feeling that the  reader forgets that this book is fiction and that the author is a man.<br />I  fell in love with the characters, with their world and having been to Japan  it made me want to return - tomorrow!  This book is beautifully written and  the topic is unique.<br />I could not put this book down and when I finished  it I felt as though I had lost a good friend.  I have read it several times  since I first picked it up in April and I always enjoy it.<br />The most  interesting thing about this book is that the author wrote it three times -  this is the third version.  I believe that the first two were written from  different points of view (third person as well as in another character's  voice).<br />I can not wait to see what Spielberg does with this moving story  on film.	1999-12-01
US	52624195	R13P61D9AXKOZG	0451190963	931321608	Scarlet Women	Books	5	2	2	N	N	If you like Carr's Alienist, then you MUST read this book.	I wrote this review awhile back but never left me e-mail address on it.  It should say something that I am still thinking about this book and I am still waiting for J. D. Christilian to write another.  This book was  fantastic.<br />After reading Carr's Alienist and Prince of Darkness, I went  on a hunt for similar content in books. The bookstore employee recommended  this book and I can't thank her enough.  In many ways, this book is more  captivating than the Alienist and as another reviewer put it, much shorter  and yet just as exciting.<br />If you like period writings about New York  City, want the excitment of your imagination going back to the 1800's and  getting into the story as if you were tagging along with the characters,  then this is a must read.	1999-12-01
US	52624195	R39UQVOSBQYNAY	0440226430	902500282	Summer Sisters	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A must read for anyone who grew up reading Judy Blume	Another fun read from Judy Blume.  A wonderful story about friendship, love and loss.  A perfect book to read on the beach, on a rainy sunday or when you are stuck on the bus.	1999-12-01
US	52624195	RSFW04XZEN18J	0380729288	304946647	Heat Lightning	Books	1	2	4	N	N	Painful  from Start to Finish	We read this book for my book group and out of ten people - not one of us liked this book.<br />The plot seemed so overdone and the characters seemed very hollow. If you want a good book written from a child's perspective  read Midwives - it was much better.	1999-12-01
US	52624195	R98LVANVMVEDA	037570485X	610660223	The Inn at Lake Devine	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A True to Life Treasure	I really enjoyed reading The Inn at Lake Devine.  I could really relate to Natalie as both a child and a young adult.<br />Who hasn't felt like an outsider without really understanding why.  This novel touched on so many  different feelings - anti-Semitism, love, grief and so much more.<br />From  Natalie re-uniting with her childhood friend from camp to her relationship  with the family at the inn (I don't want to ruin anything for those who  haven't the book yet) - let's just say that her relationships are  complicated.<br />This was a fun read from start to finish and I definitely  plan to read more of Ms. Lipman's work.	1999-12-01
US	52624195	RLT1W4IXEAMB4	0553275976	678579754	The Bonfire of the Vanities	Books	1	10	36	N	N	Maybe it was Hip in the 80's .....	But it falls flat in the 90's.  I grew up in NYC during the 80's and I remember the fear and the bizarre crimes that took place then so I understood the climate that the book was written in but Tom Wolfe just  dragged everything out to the point that I had to simply  skim it to get  through it.<br />I know many people loved this book but I really felt it was  dated and the writing was bland.	1999-12-01
US	52624195	ROAH0PI0JPBBT	0553572997	501395694	The Alienist	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Not Just A Great Story -	But an educational one as well.  I wrote this review: :Scarlet Women, by J.D. Christilian is just as captivating and similar in style to the Alienist. I would highly recommend this book for fans of The Alienist&quot;  - a while back but decided that further must be said since I just re-read  it - again.<br />The Alienist was much better than the follow-up to this  stunner but it is still a must read for ever mystery lover, New Yorker or  history buff. <br />Caleb Carr weaves real life historical figures into his  brilliant fictional novel - it is so well done that it is scary.<br />If you  liked it read Scarlet Women and Time and Again by Jack Finney.	1999-12-01
US	52624195	R2BC0QH3E8YJTC	0375706771	930468436	Midwives (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	I Still Can't Believe That An Adult Male Wrote This!	Midwives was a wonderful book any way you look at it.  The subject matter was definitely hard to swallow but I gained a lot of insight into the birthing process (maybe a little too much info).<br />The characters are very  well written - so much so that I found it hard to believe that a man was  able to write from a young girl's perspective and be so dead on.<br />This is  a great book about love and family.  The plot is also filled with twists  that really keep the reader on his or her feet.	1999-12-01
US	52624195	R1KFXLFLXORYI3	0316601950	760222125	The Pilot's Wife (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Gut Wrenching but Impossible To Put Down	Anita Shreve is an artist when it comes to writing novels.  This was the first book of Anita's that I read and after finishing it I ran out bought every single book she has writen.<br />Not than I am a big fan of Oprah but  she certainly does pick great books.  This was one of the most paralyzing  books I have ever read.  It made me truly appreciate my husband and the  importance of marriage.<br />This books takes you to places that are  unimaginable but still the reader can't put the book down.  While the  subject matter may be difficult for some it is really an amazing novel and  worth reading.	1999-11-30
US	52624195	R357PC165Y9SUD	0553577166	180825230	Unprintable	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Addictive and exciting	Pick this or any of Julie Kaewert'sPlumtree books up and you will be hooked.  Julie has a wonderful knack for writing even if some of her stories are a bit fantastical - but isn't that why we read these books  anyway?  To take a break from real life for a few minutes?<br />Alex Plumtree  is a bibliophile's dream come true as is Julie's series.  These books not  only keep you on the edge of your seat but teach you a bit about the  history behind printing and rare books (as well as about different types of  fonts).<br />This book is highly enjoyable - I promise!	1999-11-30
US	52624195	R2KUAYEX9SGK3A	0553577158	398938077	Unbound (Booklover's Mysteries)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Unbelievably fun!	If you are a fan of bibliomysteries as I am - then read this fabulous mystery - even if you simply enjoy a good read you will enjoy Julie  Kaewert's series featuring Alex Plumtree.<br />While some of his expolits are  admittedly over the top -they are still fun and well written.  This books  plot is fabulous - weaving history (real and fictional), legend and  laughter together for an unforgetable ride!<br />Enjoy all of the twists and  turns in this and her other Alex Plumtree books - Unprintable and Untitled  (Unsolicited is going to be reissued). Also, if you are a fan of	1999-11-30
US	52624195	R2LVS9CHT4ZNQ6	0316780375	480327121	The Weight of Water	Books	5	25	28	N	N	Another Masterpiece from the Master	Anita Shreve writes hauntingly beautiful books about important moments in our lives.  The Weight of Water is a bewitching tale that most probably rings a bell in every woman's life.<br />Hasn't every woman imagined her loved  one having an affiar - seen the signs and been absolutely sure but been  wrong (we hope)?  Anita weaves these feelings in amidst a haunting tale of  murder and intrigue from the 1800's.<br />I have read all of Anita's books but  this was definitely one of my favorites.  I found it hard to put down and I  also responded to many of the main characters emotions - many times I  wished I could reach into the book and shake her.<br />Shreve is destined to  be one of this generations best novelists!	1999-11-30
US	52624195	RT6KSCLD37TMB	0446604437	88046951	Becker's Ring	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Bizzare and knee knocking	This was one book that I could not put down.  Although I read it several months ago I can not stop thinking about it.<br />Steve Martin Cohen has an excellent imagination, along with his ability to write and create unique  characters that means one heck of a book.<br />If you liked Silence of the  Lambs then you will love this over the edge thriller.  Just remind me not  to bumb into Mr. Cohen in a dark alley at night!	1999-11-30
US	52624195	R22P5WXBFP4O1C	0670884537	130329222	Aunt Dimity's Christmas	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Aunt Dimity Does it Again	Nancy Atherton's cozy mystery series is wonderful and Aunt Dimity's Christmas proves it all the more.  While I am not a big fan of cozy mysteries this series touches the heart but is also fun.  You really get to  know Lori and her extended family of friends and creatures.<br />Dimity  teaches Lori the true meaning of Christmas and the reader learns the lesson  as well.  The only gripe I have with this book is that we did not get to  see enough of the other characters that populate the Dimity series such as  Emma and Derek and their daughter Nell (with her lovable bear Bertie).<br />I  highly recommend this book for it's warm and wonderful story!  Once you  start reading this series you won't want to stop.	1999-11-03
US	52624195	R17NWEP29FST0L	0140178414	968675587	Aunt Dimity and the Duke (Aunt Dimity Mystery)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Wonderful book in a wonderful series	Although this is the second book of the Dimity series I would recommend reading this one first as it is sort-of an off shoot from the character in the first book Lori - if you read Atherton's first book Aunt Dimity's Death  first you sort-of loose some of the excitement of this book but it is still  fabulous and fun.<br />Read them all!	1999-11-03
US	52624195	RB3F7UBZ7WUCL	0439064864	667539744	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Even better than the first!	How could a reader not fall in love with Harry Potter?  He is a part of all of us.  The universal feelings of wanting to be accepted, to be liked and to be able to achieve great things are things that we can all relate  to.  I am an adult and I have read all three of the books that are out thus  far and my imagination is soaring!<br />J.K. Rowling keeps getting better and  better as she writes.  I only wish that Hogwarts would accept me for next  years class!<br />This series is destined to sit on the shelf along with other  well read classics as The Lion, The Witch and the Wardrobe, The Phantom  Tollbooth and The Wizard of Oz.  A wonderful way to teach kids that it is  okay to dream.	1999-10-04
US	52624195	R1LSWV3INT392Z	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	5	0	0	N	N	an instant classic	The third Harry Potter book does not disappoint.  It seems that J.K. Rowling just gets better with practice.  As an adult, I felt that this book (and the whole series) was very imaginative and witty.<br />I fell in love  with Harry Potter all over again and I can't wait for the 4th-7th books to  be written.<br />It is just rare that a book (let alone a series) can capture  the imagination of several generations and be thoroughly enjoyed by all who  read it.  These books are instant classics that I can't wait to share with  my children when I have them!	1999-10-04
US	52624195	RY1K5NAUZVESI	0380730375	83189557	Practical Demonkeeping	Books	4	0	0	N	N	creative and funny	Practical Demonkeeping was a very funny and unique book.  While this book is not for everyone - I certainly laughed aloud on several occasions.<br />I liked the characters and thought that it was great for a beach or  bus/airplane read.  Enjoy this book - it is a guilty pleasure.	1999-09-23
US	52624195	R153QBMXMHTJMQ	0312147015	253392869	The Persian Pickle Club	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Warm and wonderful	This book was a touching story about friendship between women.  Much like the Ya-Ya's The Pickle (as they call themselves) is a long standing group of women friends that get together to quilt and gossip. While they always  invite new members to join they must learn the ways of the group.<br />The  story is honest and homey.  I really enjoyed the characters and the  simplicity of the writing really worked with the novel as it was about this  group of women in the early 1900's.<br />While short, the story will pull you  in and make you wish you knew how to quilt!	1999-09-23
US	52624195	R1MJBHTXCBRTQQ	0380789019	511174865	Neverwhere	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Down the rabbit hole into London	This was an amazing book!  Living in NYC it made me really think about those random &quot;dead ends&quot; and the gap between the subway and the platform.<br />I really wanted to visit the London Underground (and I don't  mean the subway) after reading this delightful and absorbing novel.  The  characters were well written and memorable.<br />Pick this book up and I  promise you will not want to put it down.	1999-09-12
US	52624195	R1GDKL218AP8GO	0156005891	865843112	Eden Close	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Could not put this one down	Like all of Anita Shreve's works that I have read thus far Eden Close has kept me on the edge of my seat.  It was a thoroughly entertaining and engrossing novel, Eden Close was a story that really pulled me in.<br />While  I guessed what the &quot;Secret&quot; was early on, it did not matter at  all to the enjoyment of the novel.  Full of twists and turns, what really  makes this novel incredible, as well as all of Anita's other works, is her  character development and her unique style of writing.  She really makes  you feel as though you know these people and you begin to care what happens  to them.<br />If you pick this one up - you won't want to put it down.  Also  try Pilot's Wife and The Weight of Water.	1999-08-24
US	52624195	R683YUDYK2VE	0966512707	14346332	The Lizard and the Fly	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Wihtout the typos it would have gotten 4 stars	Like everyone else that has reviewed this book I received an e-mail urging  me to purchase this book based on another review I wrote.  I personally  thought that this marketing ploy was quite brilliant.<br />The book itself was  good.  The plot was interesting, the characters memorable and Levin really  has a way with words.  Many of his descriptions are unique and very  effective.  His charcter development is amazing (even if some of them were  only around for a few pages) but I could not, in all good conscience, give  this book a higher rating due to the MANY typos.<br />As a PR person who works  with many authors I found these errors highly disturbing.  For instance  calling a glock a gluck and constantly changing tense in mid-sentence.  The  continuity problems also bothered me - in the beginning of the book they  headed chapters that take place in the past by saying &quot;five years  earlier&quot; but forgo this later in the book which made the read VERY  confusing.  Since Levin jumps back and forth so often it is hard to keep  track.<br />Besides the basics of editing - this book was enjoyable and I  would recommend it to others as long as you can overlook the proofing  problems.  If Levin could get &quot;Lizard&quot; or his next book picked up  by a bigger publishing house or if Voyage Books put a little more money  into the marketing (and editing) of this book it could have been a big hit.   Reviewers like nothing more than a talented, creative new writer.  Let's  hope Levin makes the most of it and pushes for a second run with more PR	1999-07-16
US	52624195	REKFFQNOQ17PI	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	One of the most awaited sequels sinks	For years many readers have awaited this book and most of us rushed out to purchase it the second it hit the bookshelves and most of those readers have been somewhat disenchanted.  <br />While the plot still holds some twists  and turns it could not stand up to Harris' two previous Hannibal books.  It  seemed as though Harris did not really know what to do with Lecter this  time around.  The other two books were intricately woven stories this book  seemed to be more of a psychological profile of Hannibal - Starling is not  really a central character and Mason Verger who was touted to be even more  frightening than Lecter was at total disappointment.<br />Harris seems to  confuse thriller with sheer violence in Hannibal.  Readers do not get that  intense, edge of your seat, check to make sure the doors are all locked  fear - instead they find a bland story line with more grotesque than  gory.<br />While I still found this book to be enjoyable I was not quite sure  if the real disappointment was from the anticipation that the long lag  between books created or because the book seemed so unimaginative in  comparison with Harris' other Hannibal works.<br />Read this book but don't go  in with expectations based on Harris' two previous Hannibal works - you  will be disappointed.	1999-06-25
US	52624195	R1UT31CIU9F3DS	0451181468	281774869	Praying for Sleep	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Read this on a dark and stormy night (but not alone).	Another fabulous thriller by Jeffery Deaver. All of his novels are based on a single premise - keep the reader entertained and involved and Praying for Sleep does just that. Deaver's novels stand out from the pack for many  reasons - the well drawn plot lines and characters and the plot twists and  turns. This one has an ending that you will never forget. Praying for Sleep  will do for dark and stormy nights what Jaws did for the ocean and psycho  did for showers. Don't read this one alone....	1999-06-14
US	52624195	R37K4URF5U6NJQ	0425143333	323390701	The Edge of Sleep	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An excellent page turner	After reading Edge of Sleep I rushed out to buy all of his available titles.  This book takes the serial killer to the next level- and there is something extra creepy in the fact that it is a woman.  I can't drive down  the highway without thinking about this book.  Becker is a fabulous  character that you can really feel for.  Read this book now.	1999-06-14
US	52624195	R3OYZ93WR6I9H5	0425133982	315311966	Prayer for the Dead	Books	5	1	2	N	N	This one'll make you sleep with the lights on	Wiltse is at his best in Prayer for the dead.  If you like Hannibal Lechter - you'll love This book.	1999-06-14
US	52624195	R3H6QDJFGRKQX9	0553560204	54491990	The Lesson of Her Death	Books	5	3	4	N	N	another smash hit for Deaver	I must whole heartedly agree with dglavelle@hotmail.com.  It is a shame that many of Jeffery Deavers books are no longer in print but I keep scouring the used book stores in hopes of finding a treasure - namingly an  out of print Deaver book.  Lessons of Her Death is a perfect example of  Deaver's work - smart, engrossing and well written (plot line and  charcters).  This was another book with plot twists and turns that will  keep you on the edge of your seat.	1999-06-14
US	52624195	R9ML20F2NDP6K	0451188454	582723746	The Bone Collector: The First Lincoln Rhyme Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	engrossing and realistic	This book was fabulous and I can't wait for more featuring Amelia and Lincoln Rhyme.  The Bone Collector is by far my favorite Deaver book and the follow-up was also wonderful.  The story has it's quirks and they all  work.  The story is realistic and well written.  The characters are well  formed and likeable.  Deaver gives you just enought background info to keep  you wanting more but not too much so that it takes away fromt he plot.  I  highly recommend this one - it will keep you up all night reading because  you just can't put it down.	1999-06-14
US	52624195	R13QJ68JXMYB30	0425150127	570849864	Into the Fire	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Read this book NOW!	Wiltse is a master of suspense and Into The Fire is proof.  Another Becker book - they just keep getting better and better.	1999-06-14
US	52624195	R3AJY9ILKO8NT7	0451188489	745541196	A Maiden's Grave	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Absorbing and heart wrenching	While there have been many novels written using a bus load of kidnapped children as their scentral story line - A Maiden's Grave certainly leads the pack and stands out as a gut wrenching thriller.  You can feel the  terror and bravery of the characters.  I hope the Mr. Deaver writes more  like this one.  All o fhis books are wonderful so if you liked this one  read them all!	1999-06-14
US	52624195	RE1DM9PJRFSWO	0380729180	827347608	Veronica: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	When will Nicholas Christopher write a new one?	I simply adored this book.  What a wonderful blend of mystery, fantasy and fun.  While I read this book some time ago - I recommend it often and keep checking to see if the author has written another book (non-poems that  is).<br />I highly recommend this book if you are looking to have some fun and  don't care about living in reality.  Also a great read for a New Yorker  like me - it gives you a whole new perspective on NYC.	1999-05-21
US	52624195	R1LL3MWE2E4LF5	0380789019	511174865	Neverwhere	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Alice meets the Wizard of Oz	This was one of the best books I have read in ages.  I could not put it down and began to re-read it the moment I finished!  Neil Gaiman not only has a fantastic imagination, he has a great sense of humor and we are just  so lucky that he has decided to share both that and his amazing talent with  us.  I can't wait to read Stardust!<br />If you read one book this year - read  this one.  A magical, mysterious romp in a world you can only hope really  exists.  My next vacation is going to be to London Underground.	1999-02-08
US	52624195	R3QY4FV8ELV9NM	1573220825	89472327	An Instance of the Fingerpost	Books	1	6	15	N	N	Why is this book getting such great reviews?	I was so excited to read Fingerpost that when I was traveling in Asia I bought it there (they print first editions in paperback)and I have been saving it to read when I had the time. What a waste. I read the first of  the four &quot;stories&quot; and I am halfway through the second point of  view. I feel very misled - from all of the reviews this book was touted as  a mystery which I think is untrue. This book is more of a historical novel  with a touch of intrigue.<br />I found Pears often rambling prose overburdened  with unimportant descriptions which made it very difficult to  follow.<br />After reading all of the great reviews here I feel like I should  take another stab at it (especially since I have already read 300 pages)  but I know when I can consider a book not that good - I would rather read  over other people's shoulders on the subway than read Fingerpost.<br />If I do  finish reading it and I change my opinion I will certainly let you know.  But in the meantime beware - this book is not all it is cracked up to be  (y'know like the movies that have reviewers comments taken out of context  so that it looks like they are praising the movie instead of panning  it?)<br />Sorry - it just looked so good - I wish it was.	1998-12-17
US	52624195	R1RJV9WJCBPVRW	0060928336	859404350	Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	warm, funny and wonderful -	You can almost smell the home cookin' in this novel about family and the  bonds a girl has with her mother.  Sidda, the central character learns of  her mothers childhood and her bond with the Ya-Ya's (her group of friends).   <br />It is a wonderful and touching look back at all that  we forgot or  never knew.  While Sidda did not always have a perfect childhood we laugh  with her and cry with her.<br />I usually read mysteries but this was a great  change.  I ran out to buy Little Altars Everywhere and I devoured that as  well.  I am eagerly awaiting Ms. Wells next book.	1998-09-14
US	52624195	R3EG238TELNKRT	0553568604	742627866	The Grass Widow	Books	4	3	4	N	N	moving and entertaining - a great mystery	This was a book that I selected through Amazon's recommendation and boy am  I glad.  It was nice to not read a serial killer, slasher fast paced big  city detective novel for a change.<br />Terri Holbrook's book kept me  interested right up to the last page.  I liked the characters and it was  nice to read a mystery that felt like a cosy novel for a change.  While  this book definitely had great twists and turns and kept me guessing all  the way through it was a book that was not just about &quot;who done  it&quot;.<br />The Grass Harp shows what can happen to a family and how a  suicide can affect a family generations down the line.  I hope to see the  characters again soon.	1998-08-14
US	52624195	R1X8HR1P6E624H	1885173458	951944652	Just Bones: A Mystery	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Quirky and fun - this book really hooks you	Denhart's &quot;Just Bones&quot; began as do most mysteries but I was  hooked pretty quickly.  I truly fell in love with Bill Mullins - the main  character.  He seemed like someone that we all know - not some detective  (actually he is the medical examiner) who knows all of the answers but  someone who is just as mystified by the discovery of skeleton's in an  abondoned hotel as we the readers are.<br />While the book takes a few  interesting twists and turns - what really drew me in was the wonderful  writing - it was a book that made me want to read really slowly and left me  wanting more.<br />I truly hope that Jeffrey Denhart comes out with more books  soon.  I could easily be persuaded to become a big fan of his.	1998-08-14
US	52624195	RLJXWWY1QEBQM	0446604437	88046951	Becker's Ring	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Unique and entertaining	While the author has a wild and wonderful imagination he still needs to work on his prose.  The characters were fun and the plot was unusual.  It shows how crazy the world can be and how the media can effectively create a star.   This book is a fun and interesting read - I look forward to seeing where Steve Martin Cohen's career goes from here.	1998-07-17
US	52624195	R2J42JIA1MO3RT	0380718839	418692542	Booked to Die	Books	5	2	4	N	N	a really different mystery that will have you hooked	I read this book when it first came out and have since read all of John's books.  I thought this book was fabulous and it got me really interested in collecting first editions.  The characters are really well written and it is one of those few books that you rush through because you can't wait to find out what will happen next but then you really try to stretch it out because you just do not want it to end.  This is a first class mystery!	1998-07-14
US	52624195	R1PUO2RUEY2NTI	0553571923	536473441	Breakheart Hill	Books	4	7	8	N	N	moving and mysterious until the very end	As much as I generally choose fast paced, psychological suspense mysteries - this book kept me on the edge of my seat.  Just as Cook was about to reveal a thread of the story he would pull you back into the present - it had twists and turns and was well written.  Cook did a great job of keeping me guessing until the very end.  It is a haunting story of lost love and remorse.  It truly brings you back to those days of yearning in high school and shows you how one small event effets so many lives. A great read and a moving tale.	1998-07-07
US	52624195	RXB3VKAGL3ZRY	0670880728	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Quirky, fun and funny	This book kept me awake and entertained on a flight home from Asia.  I could not put it down and finished it in one straight read.  Bridget is every woman's insecure side.  Yet she is still someone who you would want as a friend.  It is well writen and easily readable.  This is one great beach book.	1998-07-07
US	52624195	R33823HR2U62RC	067086871X	582723746	The Bone Collector (A Lincoln Rhyme Novel)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great book with one major flaw....	This book was fabulous - but it had a major flaw - it ended!  I fell in love with Lincoln Rhyme and Amelia Sachs and I couldn't put the book down.  It was thriller through and through - and as a bonus it was well written and the characters were so real that you almost felt like you were there with them.<br />I can't wait to see where Jeffery Deaver takes us next.	1998-05-22
US	52624195	R3DIAAMSSLKSKZ	0802135358	821287206	Fool on the Hill: A Novel	Books	5	4	7	N	N	A wild ride of fun and fantasy!	I discovered this book just after it was published and just before I got into Cornell and I have read it at least ten times since (I am just four years out of good 'ole Cornell).  It it one of my favorite books as it combines true life in Ithaca with a world that you always hoped existed somewhere.  It has something for everyone - as it combines several full lentgh stories, which could easily be read independently of one another, into an exciting and fun adventure.  I have been patiently waiting for Matt's next book and I am looking forward to reading it - as The Fool On The Hill - was his senior thesis (if I am to believe a professor of his that supposedly helped get it published) - I felt that his book was so fabulous I went out and signed up for a course with his mentor.  <br /> <BR>  I highly recommend this book to anyone and everyone that likes to daydream!	1998-04-24
US	52624195	R225Q8PIS5W7HB	0451174240	205414189	Shiver	Books	5	5	5	N	N	edge of your seat action	this book was a lot of fun to read.  It took you inside the mind of killer and victim.  The book follows a serial killer from his first kill to his more calculated kills.  It also follows his final victim from the days before through the days after his first attempt.  It gives you a great sense of &quot;being there&quot;.  I felt that this book was interesting in the fact that it gave you two killers in one - a serial killer with a wide-spread objective to a single minded killer with only one goal/target in his sights.  Definitely a good read.	1997-10-05
US	52624195	R3H8MBFC0MP3L9	0312956959	477681428	Nevermore	Books	5	2	3	N	N	If you liked &quot;The Alienist&quot; read this now!	I found this book facinating!  It intertwined one of the genre's greats (Poe) with another author (Hjortsberg) who is destined to join the ranks of great authors.  It mixed the occult with intrigue and kept me up all night reading.  It was impossbile to put down.	1997-10-04
US	52624195	R3GVL9WOVTEDIK	0553575058	500523640	Zero at the Bone	Books	4	0	0	N	N	suspenseful	I really enjoyed this book.  You never knew where the plot turns were going to take you.  It is rare to find a mystery novel that leaves you guessing until the end.  I found it a great read along with the authors other books.	1997-10-04
US	52624195	R3F9KMUL90D1UZ	0451185080	788960269	The Witches' Hammer	Books	4	2	2	N	N	can't wait for her next book	I enjoyed her first novel &quot;Trick of the Eye&quot; because it was different from your average mystery novel.  Her second novel did not disappoint.  It was interesting and kind-of quirky. The novel did reach a point where it became somewhat over-the-top but none the less it was fun and it kept me entertained.	1997-10-04
US	52624195	R3NAJPOK1470RZ	0345419081	16404674	The Eight	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Oh please write a new book soon!	This is by far the best book I ever read.  I ALWAYS recommend this book.  It not only teaches you a little about history but you don't even realize that you are learning while enjoying the amazing plot!   The book combines two interwoven plots and keeps you interested in both of them!  This is a book that I never wanted to finish.  I fell in love with the characters and felt that this book could go on and on and not bore me one bit.  I could read it over and over again and still enjoy it.  The writing was superb and the plot was original!	1997-10-04
US	52624195	R3SFATD1CF7MSW	0312955006	396820452	The Concrete Blonde (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	fantabulous!	this book drew me in right from the start and I could not put it down.  I guess it is true that you can judge a book by it's cover.  I have read all of Michael Connelly's books and enjoyed them all - this one was wonderful.  It drew the reader in and really allowed you to get to know the characters.  It was well written and totally addictive - once you opend it you couldn't put it down!	1997-10-04
