US	52626870	R1HE8OEH5JQWWJ	037572737X	200347372	American Tabloid	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Dig it: One little slip	Here's the thing. I tried to read the book years ago and couldn't get through it. I picked it up again last month and now all I want is more, more, more. <br />However, Mr. Ellroy and his editors should consult a dictionary about the use of the word &quot;insure&quot; because they're incorrectly using that word throughout the book. He should be using the word &quot;ensure.&quot; Insure means to buy insurance for something or someone; ensure means to make certain of something. Since there are no insurance salesmen in this book, ensure ought to have been used but wasn't. Someone this bright shouldn't be tripped up by a small thing but there you go. Happens to the best of us.	2001-07-30
US	52626870	R3OJ7EHFQEGUMA	0684853914	247231538	Joe DiMaggio: The Hero's Life	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Joe is God spelled backward	I finished this book at 2 a.m. last night. It is a penetrating page-turner with a cinematic scope and a shake you by the collar immediacy. It is not, on the other hand, a hatchet job. Joe was an incredible player, maybe the best to ever live, but he was just a baseball player. That is all. Just a man. And the public used him and he, in turn, used the public. Quid pro quo. If the fact that we need heroes and that people in turn give their lives to walk as gods among us doesn't bother anyone then you aren't paying attention.<br />For the record, Cramer does list his sources--he's got six pages of sources.	2001-03-05
US	52626870	R2HJ5KOT4TFEQF	0688174566	992211330	After Lucy: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A fine, small book that's right on the mark	I disagree in the strongest possible way to the reader from St. Louis Park, MN and anyone else for that matter who would slam this book. Mr.  Jones has written a terrific book that's sweet, sad and tender. As a recent  widower I bought this book with the express purpose of ripping it  apart...but I was happily disappointed to see that the author gets  &quot;it&quot; right--it being the torturous time of starting over. I don't  know if the author is basing this book on his own personal experiences or  if he's like Alex, Porter's writer brother, who's a voyeur to Porter's  grief and keeps turning real life into fiction. My point is that he's on  the money in so many ways that I couldn't help but be compelled.<br />My only  complaint would be with the art director at Wm. Morrow who decided the  godawful blue and that heinous photo of some guy's feet was a good idea for  a cover. Why not a photo of a bus or something that did a service to the  great novel inside?	2000-09-20
US	52626870	R1YFEXOHTMRC6Z	1878448919	503862002	The Long Home	Books	2	11	19	N	N	Starts with a bang, ends with a fizzle	I first read a William Gay story in Harper's magazine. What a great story, I thought. Who is this guy? What else has he written? He's a fiftysomething  ex-carpenter. And he's written &quot;The Long Home.&quot;<br />The first 100  pages or so immediately hooked me, making me think I had found the next  Cormac McCarthy. And at times, when the prose was clicking, it didn't feel  as if I was reading a book as walking in someone else's dream. In a fit of  joy I almost posted a review without finishing the book. I'm glad I  finished it, though, because the last half doesn't fufill the first half's  promise.<br />The last read like a primer on how to construct a formulaic  Southern goth romance. It's very pedestrian, very planned. Will Winer side  with the forces of good with Oliver or will Hardin infect him with his  evil? Will he get Amber Rose? It's all very melodramatic and conventional  in the end. Cormac McCarthy did it better with &quot;All The Pretty  Horses&quot;, mixing melodrama and lyricism to a potent affecting mix.  &quot;The Long Home&quot; has moments where the prose doesn't seem to be  written as it is handed down from God himself. And then it collapses into a  &quot;Cold Mountain&quot; mush. And I truly and deeply dispised &quot;Cold  Mountain.&quot;<br />All in all, the man has talent and I will read his stuff.  But I'll be wary.	2000-08-03
US	52626870	RSZ81F993PAA8	0440224675	313045692	Hannibal	Books	5	14	18	N	N	A five-star novel. A five-star writer.	This book is a romance disguised as a fever dream. It's smart, well-paced, over-the-top, horrifying and well written.<br />The carping from the peanut gallery about &quot;Hannibal&quot; is disappointing but shouldn't be  unexpected.  When you have the misfortune to create one of the best-loved  novels of the last ten years, everyone suddenly knows how to do your job  for you and do it better.  The characters become &quot;theirs&quot; and the  choices an author makes are to be forever second guessed. <br />I believe,  unlike most of the reviewers, that Mr. Harris made some interesting, valid  choices and kept the integrity of the characters from the previous novel,  spinning out their story in the only way it could go. (I'm trying to not  give away the ending but it's darn hard.) If you'll pay attention to  &quot;Red Dragon&quot; and &quot;Silence...&quot; you''ll see that Harris  constantly blurs the line between good and evil, playing with the  conventions of the genre.  So it's logical that Clarice and Hannibal would  connect as they did in &quot;Silence&quot; and again in  &quot;Hannibal&quot; because they are so very much alike--in much the same  way that our manhunter from &quot;Red Dragon&quot; connected to Hannibal.  <br />Having said that, the book is always interesting, creepy as all get-out,  the Florence section in particular, the evil of Verger is unmentionable and  vile. And for the reader who suggested Hannibal had become Frasier Crane, I  would say Hannibal's more like a flesh-eating James Bond.    Finally, I  loved the fact that Harris could wrankle all you devout Christians into  such a froth. Absolutely loved it. And this book.	2000-06-16
US	52626870	ROJTPV4LLA6HQ	0679762051	963527230	My Dark Places	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Intense. Creepy. Personal. Brave. Ellroy.	The only question I have about this book is one I can't answer: Is Ellroy's &quot;Bad Man Act&quot; just an act or is he just pretending that it's an act and he is, in fact, the Hitler-loving racist bad man? Where  does his heart lie? This book attempts to answer that question, I think, in  its own confusing way.<br />In the end, I think Ellroy is a truly weird,  gifted, obsessed, slightly over-rated, over-the-top evil genius. Any man  who would confess to the things he's done, who would desecrate his mother's  memory while worshipping it at the same time, is someone to watch. I don't  think I'd want to be him or meet him, but I can read his books.	2000-06-16
US	52626870	R3UQ3FIYREXYDI	0374102058	97032133	Afterburn: A Novel	Books	5	2	7	N	N	Things that make the world 'round: Blood, cash and sperm	...<br />&quot;Afterburn&quot; concerns itself with what peoplecare about now, here on the eve of the 21st century. That is, money,death and life in all of its wiggling, messy weirdness.  Life, asCharlie tells us, is your plane getting shot down, your wife going crazy. And if your life isn't like that--hang on, it's coming for you, trust me.  <br />I finished &quot;Afterburn&quot; yesterday and was mesmerized if not outright floored as I raced to its conclusion...Having been there and worked with folks who are New Yorkers, I can say that Harrison captures the place and people admirably, pinning it up in all of its cruelty for everyone to see...The bad dudes in this book feel like bad dudes albeit very smart ones, and the gruesomeness of this novel adds to its power and doesn't detract.  <br />Mr. Harrison captures life on the edge: the edge of sanity, the edge of life, the edge of the 21st century, the edge of death, the edge of madness.  This book is an unflinching, unwavering heart-pounding, head-knocking, white-knuckle inducing (insert your own overused adjective of praise) thriller of the first order.  It's a thriller for smart people who read big books with big words.  It's a thriller for lonely people who want to hold onto to the passion in their lives.  It's a thriller for people who know death, who know sex and are smart enough to be afraid of both. <br />(And the sex scenes are sexy and wild and over-the-top but, my People-magazine reading friends in Iowa and Florida, the sex depicted herein feels and seems about right--not just &quot;right&quot; for a thriller but for the passionate lives of real people in desperate situations...I would say that if you liked David Foster Wallace's &quot;Infinite Jest&quot; and admired its big, baggy dose of energy, information and capturing life as it's being lived right now in America; if you added the testosterone of Thom Jones in his &quot;Pugilist at Rest&quot; phase; and if you think that James Ellroy's L.A. Quartet books are the cat's meow, baby, then &quot;Afterburn&quot; is for you.  It's an urban, information-ized, know-everything, be-everything, do-everything novel with focus, energy and gusto. As someone who did not like Harrison's last book &quot;Manhatten Nocture&quot; I was wary of this one, but after finishing it, I was glad I did. Rock on.	2000-04-27
US	52626870	RTBPDVE02DHOH	0670887315	929204920	Disgrace	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A heartbreaking book	I echo all of the other reviewers' positive things. This book, though lean, is not small. It tackles enormous issues with a minimum of wasted motion. I was compelled and repelled and drawn into the story and the  characters' lives. Mr. Coetzee deserves all the accolades he receives for  his novel.	2000-04-17
US	52626870	R1ZY17KUAP03VK	038549694X	504517515	Birdman: A Novel	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Fly away Birdman.	Yipes. What an ugly little book this is. Not that the gruesomeness affected me so much but the fact that someone has not only tried to stake out Thomas Harris' territory but also his terse, diamond-like prose.  And  not done it very well either.  That is the core of my complaint: It's a  been-there, done-that situation told in a manner that is not entirely  original. Sorry.	2000-04-10
US	52626870	RK2ZBKF3A1CWU	0871137380	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	4	0	6	N	N	Enjoyed it--with reservations	There's quite a bit to admire about Mr. Bowden's work--his attention to details, his willingness to Get It Right, the pacing of the book.  All of these things make reading this book a not unenjoyable process except for  one nagging thing: IT'S A WAR! People are dying and suffering.   The  Sammies--might I add that this is not a bit dehumanizing--the Rangers, the  Rangers' families. They're all in the middle of life and death struggles  and no one seems to want to stop it. These are, in fact, what our men are  trained to do in fact.  They want to bring the long arm of the U.S.  military down on whoever gets in their way because they've been conditioned  to want this.  Despite what we know about Third World diplomacy and the  futility of dealing with conditions like Mogadishu, Bosnia, etc. our  response is to blow everything to bits, most of the time.  &quot;We're just  soldiers and just doing out jobs,&quot; seems to be the rationalization  that propels men into battle and which they throw over their conduct while  in battle and yes, thank God so many have done this, but when is it going  to stop?  The answer, I know, is never.  But the fact that the movie rights  for this book have been optioned by a man who's reponsible for the most  successful military agit-prop ever (&quot;Top Gun&quot;) bothers me even  more. People will make war with or without &quot;Top Gun&quot; but must  they look forward to it?  While in the middle of battle must they feel as  if they've stepped into a movie? Because their real lives feel like movies  are they more inclined to continue wars and thus keep the movie going  indefinitely? I hope we never find out.	2000-04-10
US	52626870	R374WIECBVDTTN	0151004897	580854397	Scar Vegas: And Other Stories	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Paine-ful	I respected these stories and Paine's geopolitical stance more than I embraced the stories themselves. He's a talented, hard-working writer. But I found myself not connecting nor loving these stories as much as I knew I  ought to. They weren't hair-raising as Denis Johnson nor beautiful and  inspiring as Alice Munro or wicked little slices of life like a William  Trevor or Updike. I found them to be rather dry as a matter of fact.  Perhaps I'll pick it up again, later, but for now, it's on to other things.	2000-04-10
US	52626870	RFOIF9MSEFA2A	1878448854	561865904	The Oxygen Man	Books	1	1	5	N	N	Gasping for air	After all the glowing reviews of this novel, I was prepared to be blown away.  I think I made it 20 pages before the tight-lipped, Larry Brown impersonation that Mr. Yarbrough pulls off wore on my last nerve.   Everything felt so been-there, done-that in the wake of Brown's work.  I  may pick this book up again, but probably not until I after I finish  reading &quot;Fay&quot;, Brown's newest.  But probably not.	2000-04-08
US	52626870	RDZM8P4Y3AABN	0684864967	389232995	Slab Rat: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	One Heller-uva Book!	I found it an hilarious, compulsively readable and wickedly funny take on corporate America.  If I had to describe this book it would be a hybrid between the movie THE SWEET SMELL OF SUCCESS, the Kingsley Amis book LUCKY  JIM with a dash of Martin Amis' MONEY thrown in with a shake of Hornby's  HIGH FIDELITY and a side order of Robert Altman's THE PLAYER. If those  movies and books are to your liking, then this book will be to your liking  too.<br />Having worked in advertising and been around people just like this  (self-important hoo-ha's hellbent on destroying each other while clawing  their way to the top) I can say that Heller's pitch-perfect descriptions  and hair-trigger style fits the hairpin turns of most people's workaday  existences.  Everyone is bored or pretending to be busy or worried about  who's going to be promoted or fired.  The machinations of who has the power  and what they're doing with it are the important things in their lives  while the product itself (in the book's case IT magazine, in my case  advertising) are mere by-products, also-rans--Miss Congeniality as it were  to the really important issues like who gets you coffee or do you fetch  someone else's coffee for them.<br />There were lots of scenes where I was  frantic with laughter--because the scenario I'd just read was either so  implausible as to be true or because I'd done something or thought  something like Zach had done myself at some other time. (Liz's goodbye  party was perfect. Dead-on, perfect. I have lived that moment as a matter  of fact and when she tells the people she worked with how she thought they  were all &quot;really, really mean&quot; I was bowled over.)  Corporate  Americans are heinous, ugly creatures and Mr. Heller's acidic, depiction of  them felt accurate, real and true.  <br />When the quote from ON THE  WATERFRONT is used (&quot;I think a man can live longer without  ambition&quot;) I cheered. No more ambition.  More niceness.  And three  cheers for Ted Heller!	2000-04-07
US	52626870	RMAPCDWH8W7HE	0684852934	653269772	Remote Feed: Stories	Books	2	5	8	N	N	2 stars for two good stories and the rest is boilerplate	I found Mr. Gilbert's work, when it's working, to be reminiscent of past masters--I'm thinking Salinger, Frederick Bartheleme, Denis Johnson, Ray Carver, T.C. Boyle, David Foster Wallace--and when his stuff is not working, well, it reads like impersonations of great short stories instead  of GREAT short stories. Even the stories I &quot;liked&quot; I found myself  saying, &quot;Well, didn't so-and-so do this first? And better?&quot; Maybe  if there was some attention paid to the heart of the stories (a complaint  lodged by an earlier reviewer) and not just the sentence by sentence  carpentery--perhaps then his stories would have affected me and left me  gasping for air. Instead I found myself casually amused and wanting The  Real Thing and not A Bad Imitation of The Real Thing. <br />For example, the  story &quot;Cool Moss&quot; was well written in a cold, ennui-filled  Mississippi Review sort of way, and while it wasn't my cup of tea exactly I  could admire the construction of the art if not the art itself.  But I'd  read stories like this before, I thought, and, in fact, I felt as if I'd  read a lot of those stories before.  That feeling of having been here  before--deja vu--only grew the more i read.  &quot;Graffiti&quot; (my least  favorite story in the collection) was like a sock puppet theater version of  a Denis Johnson play as told to Thom Jones as performed by the Raymond  Carver Players.  That is to say, not only wasn't it very original, it  wasn't very affecting--not in the slightest--in the end all I thought the  writer was interested in was dropping references to earlier works and not  his own. In the end, &quot;Graffiti&quot; was blunted and hollow like most  of the stories here.  <br />Perhaps, I thought, the writer is trying to  capture the blunted, hollow disaffected lives that he feels we all live by  creating characters that are likewise?  How cute. If so, perhaps the author  should not count on me to ever buy one of his books again.	2000-04-06
US	52626870	R2BRM10NIRVMDN	0316681237	746903369	Andy Kaufman Revealed!: Best Friend Tells All	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Complusively readable, hilarious--and self serving	&quot;~I read this book in little over two days. Zmuda's writing, peppered with references to his famous friends, isn't particularly wonderful, but it's effective in communicating the jokes, wit and weirdness of  Kaufman.&quot;~ found them to be--stories. Part fact, part fiction, all  muddled up and served out like anyone else's work. Enjoy what he's given  you.&quot;~ better than someone else's?  His ponytail, being real, is  better than some faker with a weave? In a town created on disingenuity, to  decry fakery is another form of fakery. to say that Zmuda hasn't become in  recording all this a lighter weight version of Mr. X--recording tragedy to  turn a dollar for himself.) If anything, his response to his best friend's  death, the account of Kaufman's final hours and his guilt over it all made  me feel not so alone. Whether it's truth or not didn't matter, finally.   It's entertainment. It took me outside of myself for a time and that made a  difference.	2000-03-13
US	52626870	R2Z70CS0XKN782	0440224748	89587634	Four Corners of Night	Books	4	0	0	N	N	I enjoyed 3/4ths of this book...	...alas, the ending's lame and rushed as compared to the spare and wonderful prose that dominates the earlier sections. I truly enjoyed this book until the last 2 chapters when it digresses into a malaise and the  author's sure-handed ways fail him. It's a shame because this guy can  write. He's a cross between Richard Ford and James Ellroy. His next book, I  think, will be the one that pushes him into those guys' stratosphere.	2000-03-13
US	52626870	RL0WLK9DUCZA5	0395954290	900920530	Double Down: Reflections on Gambling and Loss	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Rambling, Gambling Men	Perhaps if Mssrs. Barthelme dedicated as much of their energies to writing as they do to gambling then perhaps their book wouldn't be as repetitive as it is, no? <br />&quot;Double Down&quot; meanders and stumbles and needs to be  about 50-60 pages shorter. (If you read the excerpt in &quot;The New  Yorker&quot; then you've experienced the highs and lows of this book  without spending the ca$h.) Their moments of pain and clarity and insight  are like gems in an otherwise boring story about two lonely, unlikeable  guys whose message from all of this strum und drang is as follows:  &quot;Wasting $250,000 isn't a problem unless we say it is.&quot;  <br />For  as much insight as they claim to have, they could use a little less  arrogance, and do with a little more humility.	2000-02-29
US	52626870	RVOVFQ3CLGK0X	0385491832	352044771	Motherless Brooklyn	Books	3	14	17	N	N	I'm missing something (Eggnog! Essrog! Leapfrog! Woof!)	I, too, was drawn in to the story immediately, charmed by Lionel, impressed with Lethem's wordplay, intrigued by the mystery itself and enjoyed myself for 2/3 of the book. <br />It bogs down when Lethem's homage to  Chandler/Hammett/Ross MacDonald becomes more like a Chandler novel and less  like life.   The dichotomy between the world of this novel and the world of  Chanlder give the book its &quot;omph&quot; but when the novel apes the  noir masters (updating them, of course, for the PC nineties i.e. instead of  the detective being an alcoholic, he has Tourette's; instead of say, a  gypsty fortune teller as a front for an opium ring,it's a Buddhist temple  as a front for a hifalutin NYC building) it becomes more like a book you've  read before.<br />When this book is at it's best, it's funny and sadall at  once because it feels true and messy and life-like and very  &quot;un-Chandler&quot;. Whenever it crosses the line into the grim world  of the Hardboiled, it falters.	2000-02-10
US	52626870	R3CUSBKAPVBH1U	1571310290	207470435	PU-239 and Other Russian Fantasies: A Novella and Stories	Books	2	4	8	N	N	Does my review count if I couldn't finish the book?	Having read (and loved) &quot;Thirst&quot; let me say that I do think Kalfus is a fine writer, a brave guy (for going to godforsaken Russia) and an all-around Smart Guy if not a card-carrying Nabokov/D.F.Wallace  Brainiac. Having said that, I hated this book and couldn't wait to put it  down. <br />Where the stories in &quot;Thirst&quot; were like little bright  pieces of glass that unexpectedly turn out to be diamonds, these stories  seem stolid and uptight and very, very proper. <br />Anyway, I'd skimmed the  title story in &quot;Harper's&quot; when it appeared and it seemed like a  &quot;Harper's&quot; short story--inaccessible, bleak, sad.  When I read it  here, I got the unfortunate joy of being proven right. It's a Harper's  story.<br />Look, I'll read and check out anything Kalfus writes, but this  book feels very English-teachery to me and not something I'd recommend.  Meaning: It's scolding, bitter, sad, depressing. Like someone standing over  your shoulder telling you how WRONG you are about everything. Ugh.<br />Read  &quot;Thirst&quot; instead.	2000-01-22
US	52626870	R347CYPP4ZWIFK	0151004080	598278386	A Stranger in the Earth: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	It's quite good--until the ending.	Unlike the reader from Philly I found Marcel Theroux to be a gifted young writer with a flair for comic setups, perfect descriptions and an ear for dialogue. This book, be warned, has quite a lot going on in it and to  Theroux's credit (not his uncle) he manages to wrap things up--or attempt  to wrap things up--while keeping the other balls in the air. Therein was my  problem with the book: It was too short, abbreviated. A better book could  be had if a few of the plot threads were dismissed.  Of course, half the  fun was watching the author spin the threads out.  And like one of the  other reviewers said, you never know what's going to come next. It's a  close stab at &quot;Lucky Jim&quot; in my opinion, but ultimately not The  Greatest Book of All Time because of the inability of the author to  successfully finish the book.  Would I buy another of his books? Maybe.  Would I give a new book of his consideration? Definitely.	2000-01-15
US	52626870	R2NEXYNQ6W0B1D	0385486650	817877166	The Man Who Tried to Save the World: The Dangerous Life & Mysterious Disappearance of Fred Cuny	Books	5	1	2	N	N	a wonderful book	wow. i was floored by this book. the world is a smaller place to have lost fred cuny, but his story is an important one and scott anderson is a fine writer. anderson treads the fine line between a straight-on biography,  chechenya history primer, and mystery. his book is a combination of all  three and a powerful, moving story. i loved it.	2000-01-04
US	52626870	RAAX4PVHL7VT	0679736379	385024829	Sophie's Choice	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Book For The Ages	I began reading this book on the final week of my wife's life.  It was her all-time favorite book and luckily she lived long enough to see me start it and tell her how much I loved this book.  My wife spoke to me through  Sophie and made me glad that I knew and loved my wife and &quot;knew&quot;  and &quot;loved&quot; Sophie. <br />I loved the purple language, I loved the  sadness, I loved the history lesson about the Holocaust, I loved Stingo,  Nathan and, of course, poor Sophie.  This book finds a way to  &quot;top&quot; any tragedy that might occur. &quot;Sure, things are bad  for you now,&quot; this book says, &quot;but it was nothing like what  happened to poor Sophie.&quot; Stingo's search for sex was hilarious, his  conversations with Nathan were dead-on (the knee-jerk New York liberal vs.  the populist, genteel Southern boy) and the sex scenes were astounding,  erotic and vibrant. <br />I've read everything Styron wrote, by the way, and  this is his best book. If he ever writes another novel, and I doubt he  will, this makes as awesome a swan song as can be imagined.	1999-12-22
US	52626870	RNFYBHZNN51	0679740422	26221367	Where the Suckers Moon: The Life and Death of an Advertising Campaign	Books	5	14	16	N	N	&quot;Where The Suckers Moon&quot; Is At The Front of The Class	&quot;The Nerd from the Back of the Class&quot;'s criticisms of Rothenberg's excellent, meticulously researched &quot;client's eye-view&quot; book seem to be focused on three areas: Subaru isn't  &quot;sexy&quot; enough, the book is four years old, and that Rothenberg's  cool refuses to crack in order to glamorize the ad game or its  participants. In fact, one can infer from &quot;Nerd At the Back of the  Class&quot;'s review that Rothenberg's writerly sang-froid is a deterrent  from a reader's enjoyment or even basic understanding of the book.  <br />A  question: What word in the English language didn't you understand, Nerd?    This is as fine a primer on the processes and pressures relating to  advertising as I have ever read. And I'm not a Joe Blow--and I doubt that  &quot;Nerd At the Back Of The Class&quot; is either-- but, in fact, have  made my living as an advertising copywriter for five years now.  Rothenberg's cool detachment, his knowledge of his subject (ostensibly  modern advertising agencies but, in fact, the history of advertising  agencies themselves, and, in fact, Subaru and its parent company in Japan)  his patience, his eye for detail, his recording of the filming of the  Subaru commercials and the organized chaos that is The Creative Process,  his willingness to hang around legendary hothead Joe Pytka for crying out  loud--these things make the book what it is: a treatise that modern  consumer culture and in fact modern corporate America are neither godlike,  infallible or perfect. Rothenberg is Toto, pulling away the curtain to  reveal the Wizard for who he is--a little fat guy with a lot of smoke and  mirrors at his disposal, a man who loves power and flattery.  (Think of the  original owners of Subaru and their covered motorcycles, or the divisonal  Subaru car salesman or Wieden &amp; Kennedy for heaven's sake.)  <br />And by  the way, if anyone doubts Rothenberg's street creds please see his weekly  column in Advertising Age, one of the industry's leading publications.<br />If  &quot;Where the Suckers Moon&quot; strikes anyone as being recondite, then  perhaps you need to eschew this book for something a little less thorough.  Perhaps an ad for Apple with its sexy lines and pretty colors...pretty  colors good...and sleight of hand. Me, I prefer to know that I'm not being  suckered. And that Rothenberg isn't suckered either.<br />And as for the  complaint that this book is four years old and out of touch...As someone in  the book says, advertising is all about people and relationships and they  don't change. This book is as much about the people as it is about their  business.<br />If you're looking for sexy, they have plenty of Web sites for  that sort of thing...sorry. Rothenberg can't help the fact that Subaru, try  as they might, ain't sexy nor will they ever be. And frankly I'm glad he  doesn't see the manufacturing nor selling of a car as sexy or feel that he  ought to dress it up for the bored people at the back of the class. But,  however, the auto industry is quite important to the U.S. economy, and so  is the ad business.  However, if you're looking for history, knowledge and  detail--things that seem to be lacking in most advertising agencies--then  this book has it in abundance.	1999-12-07
US	52626870	RYW0ABBSNV1AN	0688164412	282861788	The Desperate Season	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Taut. Poetic. Gripping. And over too soon.	I echo all the complements due Mr. Blaine. If his book was longer by another 100 pages I would say it would be among the best books I've read  all year. His choices are interesting, sexy, sad, finely-tuned. At times  while reading this book I thought &quot;There's nothing this guy can't  write about.&quot; Do yourself a favor: Read it.	1999-10-28
US	52626870	R180DL7N2HSII5	0451168089	165977133	Salem's Lot	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Does it matter what one has to say about King's work? Yes.	In fact, the man, I was surprised to find, can really write. His prose doesn't have William Styron's polish or Kurt Vonnegut humor, but it ain't half bad.   In fact, this book is quite good. But let's not confuse this  with, say, &quot;Madame Bovary.&quot; It's not the highest order of capital  'F' Fiction--but that isn't a bad thing necessarily.  I mean, if everyone  wrote like Flaubert, the world would be a boring place, right? There needs  to be other voices, other stories and King seems capable enough to tell  these kinds of stories. His stories are different than Styron's or  Vonnegut's (needless to say) and should be judged in and of themselves, not  against other, different writers with different aims.<br />Having said that,  does &quot;'Salem's Lot&quot; chill? Is it compulsively readable? Does King  make interesting choices to stir up a been-there, done-that story? Does the  reader get instant gratification for his/her efforts at reading this novel?  Yes to all the above. <br />The man obviously possesses talent, vision,  knowledge, gusto--all of which are evdident here in his second published  book. There's also a dash of O. Henry, EC Comics, Hammer horror films, pop  pschoanalysis and Sherwood Anderson thrown in to boot. But, again, these  aren't bad things. For what it is, it's terrific. (In fact, I think some of  the &quot;better&quot; capital F fiction writers like Don Delillo could  take a lesson or three from King in warming up their characters.) <br />But  remember one caveat: &quot;It's good for what it is&quot;. It's a book  about vampires, OK? Can you really care about vampires? I can't. But I can  care about these characters and their situation to a degree more than I  might if the story were told by a lesser writer than King because of the  elemental human fear that he taps into seemingly at his leisure. <br />What I  would beg, nay, implore the rabid King fans (some of whom I've met and  fear) to do is to read other things every now and then.There are other  ways to tell stories and other stories to tell besides the ones King tells.  (Well, duh, you say.) I only mention this because I've always been gun-shy  about reading King because I didn't want to be thought of or associated  with Stephen King fans whom I would categorize, from my experience, as  being sheltered, overly dramatic, boring, TV-loving, Goth hounds.  And they  all seemed not a little cracked, like those sad sacks who camped out for  the last &quot;Star Wars&quot; movie.  Sure, it's all mostly harmless, but  these people are living in a vaccum. I mean, chocolate ice cream is good,  but do you want it every single meal? (Think about that first scene in the  movie &quot;Seven&quot; before you answer that.)<br />Stephen King's work is  chocolate ice cream. Good for what it is, but don't expect to add much  protein to your diet.	1999-10-15
US	52626870	R3N0P529FAH2DF	0679756434	518666677	PRESTON FALLS: A Novel	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Do yourself and Mr. Gates a favor: Read this book	I utterly agree with the most recent poster's assessment of this book--it is dark, funny and ruthless--and the decline of reading skills in America. In some regards, people's lack of knowledge of the stories in the books  that Willis reads helps matters in some way--for me at least. While I can't  pretend to have known about all the books Willis reads, I do know that Mr.  Gates has probably read them and is putting them in the story for a reason.  But, because I haven't read them, I can't draw the an ironic connection  between Willis reading these books--and maybe that's a good thing.  Because  I don't know about these books then I'm not thinking about how I'm reading  a book about a man who's on a quest who's reading books about going on a  quest (follow me?) and thus I'm not distracted by this fact or the author's  reading list.  To me, knowing the books' histories is the secret prize at  the bottom of the Crackerjack box. If you know those books, fine. If not,  admire the witty repartee and other things throughout. <br />And you should  read this book because it is funny, wise, dead-on, imaginative, inventive,  up-to-the-minute, hip, ironic, tragic, sexy, goofy, and sad.  It is a book  that has Public Enemy and Charles Dickens.  Illicit drugs and making fun of  NPR. It is a book that explains the secrets Keith Richards' guitar.  And it  features a cameo by the Land O' Lakes Indian woman and the wonderful knee  trick that you can do on your very own box of butter. (If you haven't seen  this or know about this, well, it is truly as Willis says, about the  funniest thing, ever.) Any book, any modern book, that has all of these  things plus some of the best dialogue around and, to boot, tackles the  weighty subject of what modern man is to do now that we're so smart yet  still so human thus doomed by our knowledge that we will always and forever  be human--deep breath--well, this book deserves wide admiration and  adulation. Act now, supplies limited! Plus, it's a Guy Book. So men should  read this and will probably love this more than women. (And one thing is  not mutually exclusive to the other.)<br />Plus, his short story collection  &quot;The Wonders of the Invisible World&quot; ain't bad either. In fact,  it's great too. But &quot;Preston Falls&quot; is the Big Important Book  that everyone should read. And remember.	1999-09-22
US	52626870	R2Q1PE6LFQMGYC	0679436685	233345331	The Wonders of the Invisible World: Stories	Books	5	10	13	N	N	This is a capital A Awesome collection	This is the best collection of stories I've read this year, hands down and I've read quite a few. The characters, dialogue and stories are gripping, believeable, horrific and funny--most of the time, all of those things at  once. I liked some of the stories more than others but I liked them all,  particulary &quot;Vigil&quot; and the title story. Gates' characters are  the type who've read Raymond Carver yet Carver's characters would never  come near a David Gates book--much less any book. Anyway, this guy's the  real deal and a pleasure to read. I hope he takes a good long time between  this and the next thing he writes so that he keeps the level of quality  that's in these stories in everything else he does. They're excellent.	1999-09-07
US	52626870	RHWR0YKA5F14P	1573221260	102919966	The Funnies	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Read &quot;High Fidelity&quot; first	This book (IMHO) apes a lot of the things that &quot;High Fidelity&quot; did and did better--a thirtysomething loser on the outs with his girlfriend trying to make something of himself and get his head together and learn  &quot;who he is and what's important in life.&quot;  That book, also by  Riverside, is a terrific, funny, excellent book--as good as a brilliant pop  song.  Pardon the vernacular, but &quot;The Funnies&quot; ain't no  &quot;High Fidelity.&quot;<br />The father's absence is a big problem. Sure  he's dead, but Lennon hints around about what makes Carl Mix such a bad  dad. The father's presence and his terror lacks weight, then, in the story.   The writer TALKS about what a bad dad poor dead Carl was, but never SHOWS  us this.  Unlike, say, the movie &quot;Crumb&quot; which has a similar  situation (cartoonists, crazy brothers, struggling artist, horrible father)  that's tense and awful and you can see for yourself what a loon the Senior  Crumb was, there isn't any pain on the page here between the father and  son.  I didn't believe the distance between the father and son was anything  so horrible as say in &quot;Nobody's Fool&quot; where the tense father and  son relationship is still very real even though the father's long dead.   &quot;The Funnies&quot; is all rather tidy and has a happy ending that  seemed unlife-like, made-for-TV.  <br />I think, then, in the absence of the  awful father,  Lennon tries to over-compensate by having a lot of  characters in the mix.  Not that I was confused or that I couldn't keep up,  but what I really wanted wasn't there like, say, in the movie  &quot;Crumb&quot;.  There was no pain, just somebody telling me there was  pain.  <br />The prose is well done, competent, but nothing spectacular.  I  wasn't cribbing notes from him on excellent word choices.  (The author has  a fetish for describing things as blobs, gobs, and goo.  I counted at least  10-15 times those words appeared in this book.)   <br />I guess my last  problem, and a bigger problem, is that this novel felt like pure content,  potential fodder for a movie or a TV show or something that a laterally  organized company could turn out in a few months.  It didn't  &quot;feel&quot; like the best novels felt or like something that would  make me say &quot;Gosh, my life is enriched by this experience&quot;, not  like Don Delillo's &quot;Underworld&quot; or even &quot;High  Fidelity&quot;.  I saw this as a nucleus of an idea hatched by an author to  turn a buck (sure, like Delillo and Hornby) but nothing passionate, crazy,  inspired as those.  It's very tame and agreeable and when it's over, well,  you forget about it later.  (When I call it &quot;content&quot; that's what  I mean.  A competent book but nothing more.)	1999-08-24
US	52626870	R2JUE9E88DNP0K	0609602357	868561953	The Night Inspector	Books	1	24	34	N	N	Good night to &quot;The Night Inspector&quot;	The only other Frederick Busch book I own is &quot;Girls&quot; and I can't recommend it highly enough. That's why &quot;The Night Inspector&quot; gauls me so much and has prompted me to write. This book is a HUGE letdown,  a clumsy read, and about as engaging as a trip to the dentist's office.  Before anyone writes &quot;Well, you should compare apples to apples&quot;  or anything when comparing &quot;Girls&quot; with this book, there are  quite a few similarities between this book and &quot;Girls.&quot; (A  haunted narrator with a violent past trying to save the innocents of the  world.)<br />Yes, Busch's descriptions of exploding heads are quite clever but  not jaw-dropping, not tension-packed, nor anything much except, well, dull.  I did not care one smidge for the narrator not on his terms, my terms or  Busch's terms. I thought the mask was silly (yes, sure, people wear masks)  but this is a mask worn by a character in a book, OK?  It's heavy-handed,  it's old, it's clunky, it's a Big Fat Overdone Symbol like a dove or a  rainbow.  (You know, check me if I'm wrong, but he's saying that people  wear metaphorical masks, right? Whoa, man, heavy....) On the heels of  reading &quot;Girls&quot; this story felt programmatic, calculating and a  rehash of his previous book in several ways only without the wife, the dog,  the wonderful nature descriptions and the slowly building sense of doom.   He's taken away those wonderful, subtle things and plugged in a Civil War  hero (to catch that post-&quot;Cold Mountain&quot; craze) and a Brush With  A Celebrity (in this case Herman Melville to tie into the celebrity fiction  craze--see &quot;I Was Amelia Earhart&quot; and &quot;Underworld&quot; and  &quot;Dewey vs. Truman&quot; and &quot;The Hours&quot; to name but a  few.)<br />I got really sick of this book early on what with the fact that  there's only a cursory attempt at a plot (maybe I didn't tease the plot out  enough) but more so during one moment when Melville and thenarrator are  talking about books and Melville, speaking for the author of course,  dismisses the popularity of the memoir--a trend popular then and now and  forever more it seems.  I took this as an authorial swipe at a very valid  art form, albeit an overdone one sure, but for Busch to criticize (through  Melville, of course) the authors and/or publishers wanting to produce books  that tap into a craze is puzzling. After all, isn't he tapping into popular  forms as well, the historical fiction craze, the civil war craze, and  giving us, basically, a retread of his last book in the process, only  dressed up in this year's finest colors?  People do horrible things in the  name of capitalism as this book points out with a leaden thunk, but what of  it?  There are worse things to do something for than money.  Yes, of  course, there are better reasons too, but money and capitalism are here to  stay.  Anyway, I wish I had my money back for the purchase of this book.   It's an ice-pack of a book that chills and drizzles and puts you right to  sleep.	1999-08-23
US	52626870	R2K8II7SALSX5C	0312199368	459610148	The Next Step in the Dance: A Novel	Books	1	8	14	N	N	Before dismissing the reader from VA...	I thought I was the only one who hated this book, and I suppose I'm glad that I'm not.  Anyway, I read this book (or tried anyway) a few months back, and hated it.  I hated it for several reasons, but foremost because  it seems such a waste.  Mr. Gautreaux seems like a fine fellow, a smart  guy, a writer of some talent and with something to say.  Unfortunately,  this ain't the book he's saying anything with.  But let's figure out what  he is saying.  That love and life are like dances?  Ah, and my, how those  Cajuns love to dance.  (Oui, cher!) That everyone needs to grow up?  (Oui,  cher!)  Thanks, Tim for that memo.  I've been living in a cave for a number  of years and hadn't caught up with those recent developments in the human  condition.  <br />There are moments and descriptions that feel right, are very  bright in fact, but everything else seems as if it were written by someone  who sees the world through the gauzy eyes of a romantic.  I don't think  that's necessarily bad; it's just not the reality I see when I visit  Louisiana or when I think about love.  Louisiana to me is a  poverty-blighted, backward place rife with crooks, crime and rot.  But  that's from someone who doesn't romanticize poverty for the sake of  assuaging the middle class book buyers' sensibilities and making sure the  status quo stays status quo. (And as for love--well, yes, it's like a  dance. At times a mosh pit, at others a Cajun waltz.  Jeez, that's ALL you  have to say about love?)<br />Which leads me to my next point.  This book is  very, very commercial.  No hard edges.  No rough spots.  No shaking any  cages.  All through this book I could feel the clammy hands of Grisham (who  endowed the fellowship Gautreaux had to finish this book) and Oprah (whose  readers this book seems intended for) wrapped around the smart satire  Gautreaux exhibits in other things of his I've read.  This is his first  real break, I think, and to me I got the impression that he sacrificed  accuracy in order to make this a more commercial book.  &quot;Make it more  romantic,&quot; says Oprah.  &quot;No cussin', no killin' and by all means,  keep us Baptists happy,&quot; says Grisham. Mr. Gautreaux's done both, and  his book is all the worse for it.<br />With only four reviews here, I figured  I'd leave well enough alone, but I don't want anyone to spend their $12 on  a book that's pretty but not pretty good.	1999-08-13
US	52626870	R20YN5CZFXLSQ0	0930289234	777411096	Watchmen	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Excellent	As noted by almost all the reviewers of this book, &quot;Watchmen&quot; is a comic experience unparalleled by almost everything before or, sadly, since its creation. The highest complement that can be paid it, I think, is  that it crosses the boundaries between comic art and &quot;real&quot; art,  proving that a grand story is not exclusive to novelists and short story  writers.  The &quot;lesser arts&quot; can hold their own when inspiration  and craftsmanship work hand in hand. This is a wonderful comic that  disturbed me as a teen and enthralls me as an adult.	1999-06-18
US	52626870	R1A6WBZBP5AEWC	0684857081	86280798	Easy Riders, Raging Bulls: How the Sex-Drugs-and-Rock 'N' Roll Generation Saved Hollywood	Books	5	7	10	N	N	&quot;A book you can sink your teeth into!&quot; Bruce, the shark	Biskind presents us, in typical Hollywood fashion, with two, boiled-down, over-the-top stereotypical faces of movie-makers, a fork in the road as it were for the coming years of American cinema: Dennis Hopper, who I'm  convinced after reading this book is as a vile a sack of flesh to ever walk  the earth--save for Robert Altman--and the Godfearing, uptight, clean-cut,  corporate guy like Spielberg.  Frankly, neither offer me very much reason  to ever want to see a movie again, much less one of theirs.  (Anyone who  saw &quot;Saving Private Ryan&quot; and didn't think it was as facist,  flag-waving, propagandaist a piece of movie-making as there ever was is  fooling themselves) <br />Distaste, awe, and feeling like a rubbernecker at a  traffic accident is the culmative effect that book creates.  Biskind shows  the reader warts and all and spends most of the time showing how the warts  are some of the most fascinating parts of this rather indistinguishable  crew.  (All of whom, except for, like, Mr. Love Machine Warren Beatty, come  from quite similar backgrounds: outcasts, scrawny, imaginative, no good  with women, went to movies a lot, wanted to make their own films, couldn't  deal with human beings the way the rest of us Joe Schmoes do, and instead  of learning people skills that might make them better humans, they only  threw themselves further into the maw of the Hollywood machine.)  Why else,  then, does Biskind mention, for example, that Polly Platt didn't wear  underwear or that Bogdonavich carried reviews of his movies around with  him, except to provide the salacious details that together work to tear  down the gods of the 70's? That is his intention.  And after he's done  tearing them down, what's left in their place...what? <br />Some would argue  that these people's behavior served a means to an ends.  Disgraceful,  harmful, destructive behavior should never be rewarded, encouraged, or  condoned no matter how much money a movie made or how exciting the car  chase in &quot;The French Connection&quot; was.  But that is not the case  in Hollywood as Biskind's text demonstrates.  These people are lauded, and  perversely, are still talked about to this day for their over-the-top  excesses. In fact their excesses far outshone their talent.  (For some  reason, Dennis Hopper's name comes to mind.) Tragically, or fortunately,  everyone gets his or her comeuppance in some way, thanks by in large to  their own breakdowns and to the cut-throat 'win at all costs' world they  live in.  These men who would be king were just men, who burned bridges and  ruined lives and behaved like apes.  No, wait, that's an insult to apes.   <br />Sadder, still to me, is the success bestowed on the ones sober enough,  willing to massage the system enough to turn out the pap the movie machine  needs to keep feeding the masses. (See also &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot;)   As we learn, some of the rebels shot themselves in the foot, (in some of  their cases, they should have aimed a lot higher) while the others  accumulated power so that the system commodified their talents and made  them the bar by which other films are, I think, unfairly judged.  (In  Hopper's case, he just lived long enough so that everyone forgot what he'd  done and by then his whole &quot;crazy guy from the sixties&quot; act was  his shtick and landed him &quot;Speed&quot; et al.)       <br />What seemed  neglected in all of Biskind's wart exploration was the new way the  distribution channels and release schedules were discovered with the  success of &quot;The Godfather&quot; and &quot;Jaws&quot;.  Suddenly the  studios have a new way of getting more money.  That, to me, seems to be as  much of the cause for the blockbuster mindset of these men (and, yes,  they're mostly men, I'm afraid) that run the movie business.  By today,  movies, the end product, is basically just product, no more personal than a  can of soup.  Much the way it was before the 70's began.      <br />To those  critics of this book who think &quot;Easy Riders'...&quot; is confusing or  hard to read, I would say that they should think of this book as a book  version of &quot;Nashville&quot;--Lots of different people, all talking at  once, all moving in different directions intersecting, occasionally, long  enough to hate one another's guts--or make a good movie.  Like Altman's  movies, this book, then, is the hero, or as Biskind is quick to point out,  the director become the star.  In this way, Biskind is emulating the form  that was to be so popular during this heyday.<br />On a final note, the person  whom I was most disappointed in was Pauline Kael.  I once thought of her as  the be-all end-all, untouchable of critics.  Pauline, we learn, is more or  less another tool.  Pauline, if you're reading this (yeah, right) count one  of your fans heartbroken.  Read this book and weep.	1999-06-09
US	52626870	R226BR7SLSROSY	0316925411	200852558	Brief Interviews with Hideous Men: Stories	Books	2	5	8	N	N	not his best, keep out, don't go there,Danger, Will Robinson	i agree with the most recent poster: this collection is awfully thin in the &quot;Why I, a beleagured reader, should care&quot; department. In fact, at times, it was just awful.  (And don't you DFW apologists start  peddling that &quot;You have to be as smart as DFW to love him&quot;  malarky--that's an elitist James Joyce argument best left for the cold,  holier-than-thou Joyceans who've picked through his work. I mean, for  crying out loud, the author needn't stand over my shoulder and explain  himself to me. I'm someone who subscribes to the belief that a writer's  work should not be so occluded in the first place.  The point isn't to hide  a message like so much Led Zeppelin backmasking; rather, to illuminate.  (I  have no problem stretching myself as a reader. I'll use a thesaurus, but I  must be able to understand the language the author is speaking in to first  use a thesaurus.<br />Why is it that when DFW is mentioned I can't shut  up?<br />Having read most of these stories when they first appeared in other  publications, my inclination was to avoid this collection. I should have  stuck with that inclination. These stories are just as every bit  infuriating, irritating, and over written as they were in Harper's,  Esquire, The Paris Review, etc.  <br />So, as someone who loved/appreciated  &quot;Infinite Jest&quot; and most of &quot;Supposedly Fun Thing&quot; let  me say that all of you who want to read the best DFW has to offer, read  anything other than these.  And let's hold our breaths about his next one,  shall we?	1999-05-25
US	52626870	R2LA8U5Q5H9NZM	0316472239	860970260	Sonny Liston Was a Friend of Mine: Stories	Books	1	2	3	N	N	ground control to major tom: don't buy this book	it's dreck. it reeked. these stories are poorly written, filled with so much couch stuffing and not the whipcrack aphorisms of jones' previous works.  where is the boom boom of 'cold snap' and 'pugilist'? where is the  empathy for these lonely, crazy people like in 'rocket man' or 'cold snap'?  it's not here. it's not that i have a problem with jones using the same  themes, settings, etc. as his earlier books. that's fine. i have a problem  with these bad stories! they're not funny, not human, worse, for those fans  of jones who love his work these are impersonations of thom jones.  warning  for all you first time jones wanna be buyers: beware. read his earlier  stuff, when he was lean and mean. not this.	1999-04-26
US	52626870	R20RT0VVH0YJ0U	0375404929	785389269	For the Relief of Unbearable Urges: Stories	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Feh on overhyping this book	i endorse the earlier reader who said there are 3 good stories in this book and 6 mediocre/ middling ones. amen, brother.  the great three stories are the first two (&quot;27th man&quot; and &quot;the tumblers&quot;) and  &quot;The last one way.&quot; (&quot;The Wig&quot; left me cold.) they are  masterful, as if written by a superbeing from beyond the stars. the rest  seem as if they're written by just another young bright sensitive chump  from a writing program with a good agent. (meaning: not so special.) for  this we pay so much money? feh on the money and feh on the marketing  departments for overhyping this book. do yourselves a favor: go to the  library and read the three good ones, savor them, and then save yourself  the time and money. nathan englander has a lot of talent but the collection  is spotty, not earthshaking but better than most. it's sad, i guess, that  to make waves in the publishing world one must be billed as &quot;the great  white hope&quot; to make a dent and then spend the rest of one's career  living in the shadow of what the marketing department says about you.	1999-04-20
US	52626870	R222WYXGQGJXUZ	0140250964	406498751	Snow Angels: A Novel	Books	2	3	30	N	N	recipe for disaster	take one wet firecracker ending wrapped in a raymond carver impersonation with a dose of rick moody's &quot;ice storm&quot; thrown in. puree, flambee, mince, serve. you'll only want one helping. i did.	1999-04-20
US	52626870	RVTA1HL6WCWWC	0375402632	414359390	Reservation Road	Books	2	7	9	N	N	less than enthusiastic	everything about this book felt &quot;written.&quot; I never felt as if i'd lost track of time and where i was or who i was while i read this book. everything felt like a scene as opposed to life. it felt like i had the  author standing in my face telling me over and over again &quot;these  people are sad! do you hear me, sad!&quot; but the sadness wasn't palpable  to me. it was a hollywood producer's version of what sadness does (see:  emma breaking the violin, dwight's guilt and descent into violence). the  way schwarz draws the plot together was too neat, too tidy (again, a  hollywood producer's version of solving a crime) for my taste.  and was i  the only one who knew the moment that grace's father's pistol was mentioned  way, way back at the front of the book that it was going to be central to  the resolution? judging from all the 5 star reviews, i was. i don't think  that schwarz is a bad craftsman which should not be confused with being a  good writer. in the end, i didn't care about the characters as much as i  cared about the resolution which, ultimately, was a wet firecracker.  if  anyone's interested in what i would call great writing and great writing  about a child's death please read frederick busch's &quot;girls.&quot; the  sadness is on every page but busch doesn't resort to easy, emotional  &quot;scenes&quot; .	1999-04-05
US	52626870	R35HSI8GCFIWPT	0375403957	916255888	The Love of a Good Woman	Books	2	17	20	N	N	not her best	First, let me say that I'm a huge fan of Munro. Let me say that &quot;Open Secrets&quot; is THE book (okay, one of the books) I recommend to people for books that I love.  And most of her early stuff ain't bad either. Let  me say that as a way to lighten my negative opinion about this book. I  think this book can be summed up by one of the characters in the first  story (I'm paraphrasing) who's thinking about how as she got older she  realized that life took more than she had and left her with less.  (Something to that effect.) These stories read as if this were Munro's  problem too, as if she's given her best and now she's still got to give  more and she's out of gas. The stories seem tired.  Case in point: she  replaces the brilliant connections and observations she used to make in a  paragraph with ten-fifteen pages of incidentals. So much seems like  padding.  Anyone has a hard time topping themselves as they get older,  granted.  And I think it would be hard for any mortal to write a book like  &quot;Open Secrets&quot;  in the first place, and I think it's doubly tough  to try and top that. Frankly,  I think she didn't top it this time or get  very close.  And I don't know if she's trying so hard.  Since &quot;Open  Secrets&quot; she's had a &quot;Best of&quot;, this collection and the  National Book Award. After reading these stories I think the award was  given for the body of work she's created and not for the book itself.  &quot;The Love of..&quot; feels like a book written to capitalize on  someone's reputation and not to capitalize on what lies ahead.  And who  knows? Maybe she has another &quot;Open Secrets&quot; in her to share. I  hope so.	1999-03-31
US	52626870	R1WT9W17HIGTUU	0679445978	626514957	Birds of America: Stories	Books	1	15	31	N	N	tried, again, to like this book. failed again.	after the scolding those of us who didn't &quot;get&quot; birds of america took from the reader from cleveland I dutifully (nay, cheerfully) went back to reread this collection.  i hated this book even more than i did the  first time. smug Yuppie lives by a smug Yuppie writer to be read by smug  Yuppies with New Yorker subscriptions (who I might add fit the magazine's  demographic.) ugh.	1999-03-29
US	52626870	R1QINC6OI35O17	080505104X	675868129	The Church of Dead Girls: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	i agree with everyone	all the reviewers who hated this book have vaild points: there are DULL sections of this book that are only made even duller by the narrator's arm's length presence.  but all the reviewers who were captivated are  dead-on, too: certain parts are riveting and creepy as all get-out.  it's a  balance of the two.	1999-03-23
US	52626870	R2ZKV54KW020X7	1571310185	369277977	Thirst	Books	5	0	2	N	N	super duper	the stories were well written, insightful and well told. all in all, a fine collection.	1999-03-23
US	52626870	R1RE0W0NTPXC2B	080505104X	675868129	The Church of Dead Girls: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	i agree with everyone	All the people who gave this book one star (or less) make valid arguments for this book being a stinker. While, strangely enough, I was compelled by this book, entranced at times, downright spooked at others, so much so that  I have to say the 5 star people aren't totally out of their trees.  Suffice  it to say, there are boring, sequences with characters who mean little and  then there are moments that win the reader's heart and mind and captivate.   Dobyns is a &quot;pure&quot; literary type guy (he's a teacher for crying  out loud) who slums in the ghetto of mysterys and such for a few extra  dimes. If he were more one than the other (meaning more Agatha Christie  than Raymond Carver) this book would be more consistent perhaps instead of  somewhere in middle.	1999-03-16
US	52626870	R2S7SW0U63O75L	0805053581	959828132	Stay Here with Me: A Memoir	Books	5	5	6	N	N	years later, great memories	i read this book when it first came out and still can't say enough nice things about it. i'm glad it's in the world when i'm in the world so i could read it. it's funny, powerful, poetic, sad, pitch-perfect. a great  book forever.	1999-03-07
US	52626870	R2PN3UQBM2KNIK	0679740422	26221367	Where the Suckers Moon: The Life and Death of an Advertising Campaign	Books	5	1	1	N	N	funny, moving, scary	this is the best book on advertising i've ever read. it's more in-depth and wiser than the tub-thumping books by luke sullivan, etc. because it boils advertising down to its core ingredients: relationships. terrific.  highest praise.	1999-03-02
US	52626870	RYVXA6QJQ024P	0679445978	626514957	Birds of America: Stories	Books	1	13	26	N	N	Look! I'm! Writing! Like! Lorrie! Moore!	The author seems to think exclamation points add something to the story, but they only draw attention to the writer (who seemed hellbent on trying out her Paula Poundstone impersonation and she's not even close to being as  funny as Paula Poundstone) and seem emblematic of what's wrong here: too  much style and attention to the crafting of the sentences and not enough  attention to the substance of the story.  I would call this whole book  typical of the Tina Brown New Yorker fiction school.  (That is to say  heavily hyped, shallow,  melodramatic, and underwritten.)  I didn't care  about the characters, I was stunned that the author has such a wonderful  pedigree, and I was left thinking, I spent my hard-earned money on this?  If you see a hardback 1st Edition of this book at your local remainders  shop, you'll know that's mine.	1999-01-25
US	52626870	R368PFRY1QYEAS	0609601059	305326859	God of the Rodeo: The Search for Hope, Faith, and a Six-Second Ride in Louisiana's Angola Prison	Books	3	5	6	N	N	It's not that much of a letdown	Bergner's prose isn't the greatest thing going, true, but it's not &quot;creative writing class&quot; level--he's better-groomed than that. I liked the fact that he wrote this book and talked to these people more than  I liked Bergner.  Which brings up this point: if Bergner can criticize  Cain for using the prison and the prisoners for his own benefit, is Bergner  guilty of doing the same thing himself by writing this book?  How much  difference is there between the warden's get-rich-quick can relabeling  program and writing a book about such? This crossed my mind more than a few  times--not that I'm endorsing either man's behavior--or that I would  discount this book's points on punishment.  If I have any other complaint  it is how easy it was for the author to get emotion from this subject  matter.  It's prison--it's horrible and awful and mind-bendingly  wretched--and full of people on both sides of the bars who are that way too  and we all know this.  Ten minutes in a jail has enough emotive power to  light a thousand cities (IMHO) so I don't think it's all that revealing/  unique/special w/r/t what he's done.  But it's not a bad book--the inmates'  lives and Burl Cain esp. are interesting--even though it's an easy book, a  'sure-fire' bookseller.  Bergner, however, struck me as being  opportunistic.  It's not that I think prison should be swept away and never  written about and the prisoners to be mistreated or whatever, it's just  that I wanted Bergner to acknowledge that he had more in common with Cain  than he might want to acknowledge.  To me, being self-conscious in this  situation would be a good thing and would lend an even greater authority of  truth to the goings-on.	1999-01-25
US	52626870	R4GUJ4PUM1WCC	0471293393	353403041	"Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This": A Guide to Creating Great Ads (Adweek Magazine Series)	Books	1	3	24	N	N	Cisco from &quot;Brain Candy&quot; would love this book...	..but anyone with a heart/brain/soul won't.  True, no business is perfect but some aren't founded on puffery, illusion and the creation of unneccessary wants either.  Garbage in, garbage out as they say.  If you  want to know why unemployed fathers of four will spend $135 dollars on Air  Jordans then thank an advertising person today! Luke Sullivan is a man who  says, and I quote, &quot;Pablo Picasso's paintings never made me want to  buy anything.&quot; As if buying something were the true test of  success--and of course to him it is.  Thanks Luke for keeping the wheels of  capitalism grinding along! God bless America...now get back to work!  Jonathan Dee describes advertising people as artists with nothing to say  and I wholeheartedly agree--yet that might explain why most don't know when  to shut up about themselves.  In absence of soul/wit/etc. they fill up the  silence with &quot;talk&quot; about their products.	1999-01-22
US	52626870	R11WK66EI2KWSX	0679737138	631946426	Jernigan	Books	5	2	3	N	N	flawless, pitch perfect	fantastic. brilliant, witty, sad, accurate without being cruel yet funny  without being sentimental. one wishes that gates would write more books, i  suppoe i'll have to be content to read this one. a tragicomedy in every  sense of the word.	1998-09-28
US	52626870	R34SKHEV1C1V5M	0805054928	274911634	This Time Last Year	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Top-notch fiction: harrowing, funny and real	This is a brave book, full of sensous delights, well-made sentences, and  sadness. The author seems to be very knowing, very mature, and very  sad--all traits that popular culture refuses to admit exist. (thank god for  good, honest books!)  reading this book is bracing, enlightening and, at  times, frightening.	1998-09-16
US	52626870	R1KBYDLZBZ6RLO	0445408324	280119482	The Big Nowhere (L. A. Quartet, Book 2)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A ripping yarn--lots of ripping in fact.	I agree with the reader who felt that the violence was a bit numbing in the &quot;TBN&quot;.  If there had been just one horrible, wretched murder and a few less dark, twisted chapters from the characters' past then there might have been more (for lack of a better word) AIR for the reader.  As it stands, TBN doesn't let anyone off the hook, including the audience;  it's all so dense, so teeming with ugliness that the violence no longer &quot;thrills&quot; the reader but just overwhelms--which may in fact be part of Ellroy's art of drawing the reader into the heads of these people he's created.  By creating a sensory and information overload in his book, he wills the reader into the book. It's unsettling and disturbing to read these horrible things and feel immune to the awfulness, but it works on some levels.  Eventually you find yourself a little removed from the gore--and as he keeps reaching for more and more black dealings, things get further and further away from t! he reader somehow-- sometimes yes, sometimes no. Maybe a little less dirt/mayhem/blood would be fine, but Ellroy, I think, is a writer who believes less is less.  So he gives more.  Lots more. (&quot;LA Confidential&quot; brims with even more weirdness, believe it or not.  I'd rate both that novel and TBN as equals, a step above &quot;The Black Dahlia&quot;) The fact is that all the characters have their shady pasts and, on occasion, rise above their pasts and discover better selves--or at least discover the truth about themselves and the crimes in this book.	1998-08-11
US	52626870	R3OXZQO5N0THJU	0671890859	494447916	The Liberty Campaign	Books	5	4	6	N	N	a must for advertising people	an excellent book. sad, funny, always interesting. just enough elements of cinema to draw a reader in, seduce them into thinking they're getting nothing more than a well-written drama--which it is, only with depths that movies don't bother to ever aspire to find.  the subtle, sad undertones floating throughout the story make this book a humane but dark book.  i wish all adpeople would read it and recoil at how shallow most of our lives are.	1998-07-23
US	52626870	R3GPDPCNQLBC00	0679734058	365281145	Killing Mister Watson	Books	5	4	4	N	N	a splendid book	a superb book--watson, like all of us, is both sinner and saint, an outsized figure blessed with ambition and ego and willfulness.  there's a lot of america in ed watson and a lot of ed watson in us.	1998-07-13
US	52626870	RMKOFGDF64J8A	0471293393	353403041	"Hey, Whipple, Squeeze This": A Guide to Creating Great Ads (Adweek Magazine Series)	Books	2	14	27	N	N	A lone voice of dissent	After reading all the gushing reviews of this book let me be the first to lob a raspberry into the mix.<br />First, Sullivan's a snob.  In his mind, there are cool ads and not cool ads.  In the real world it does not matter.  Whipple made a lot of money. So did Volkswagen's &quot;Lemon.&quot; One was dopey and had a huge media buy. One was chic and very brainy.  One beat people into submission.  The other charmed them. They both worked.  And a lot of people got rich. My point is: so what?  The bottom line, finally, is the only thing that counts. Not taste. Not morals. Not the effects an ad might have on generations of people. Or the fact that it is not a little insane to give inanimate objects like laundry detergent or cars personality.  Money is what makes people smile. And Whipple earned. Volkswagen too. So why fool yourself thinking there are standards to advertising? Or that your standards will sell? If it sells we eat. If it don't, we starve. Why be an elitist about it?<br />Second, this book is for ninnies like me who couldn't make more of their talents and are making advertising b'c it's a means to an ends. ( And don't worry folks, when and if I get out, I'm going to stay gone!)  Frankly, if all advertising was as fun, snappy, and cool as Sullivan paints it,  then it would be great to get up every morning.  Alas, it isn't.  It's Whipple. And I'm making it. And the people who buy this book will get to make a little Whipple too. And I can keep the lights on and pay my car mortgage and hope that I can get out of advertising and away from all these other people like me who have sacrificed lives, health and family for the sake of ...well...Whipple. <br />Look, Sullivan's gifted, smart and has a slew of awards to prove it. And after reading the book, I think I know a thing or two more than when I started.  Amen.  But let's not fool anyone: this is a book, not real world application. And its best use, I think, will be as PR for the ad world (and Fallon MacElliot) soit can keep another generation of talented!  folk jumping into the hamburger grinder of advertising, dreaming up the next &quot;Yo Quiero Taco Bell&quot; ad.  How pathetic is that? Giving a corporation a voice instead of your own? I disgust myself, frankly when I think about it. (And I know I disgust a few people who'll read this. Good.) Using your talents to sell tacos as opposed to trying to make the next &quot;Death of a Salesman&quot; or even a really good short story makes me sick. <br />And as for all the copies of this book which adpeople are going to bestow on each other, well, that's another little self-delusion--weasel words as we call it.  Ad people aren't going to read this book.  They aren't going to be humbled by its ads.  They're not going to say, &quot;Hey, let's be nice and original.&quot;  Yeah, which adpeople are these?  The ones with the drinking problems or without?  They're not  going to care a smidgen.  This book will sit on a shelf on a creative director's shelf and rot.  Occasionally he/she might look at it and sniff, &quot;Oh yeah, good stuff in there, good stuff.&quot; And then it's back to work on Whipple. Or Volkswagen.	1998-06-26
US	52626870	R35FZLFKZLPN5E	0679439781	289325498	Confederates in the Attic : Dispatches from the Unfinished Civil War	Books	5	4	8	N	N	This book made me so angry	I swore that if I wrote a review of this book I wouldn't start it by saying &quot;As a Southerner...&quot; as if my being from Mississippi gives me more of an understanding of the Civil War &quot;farb&quot;-arianism that Mr. Horowitz discloses in his book than someone from, say, the Bronx. (See the book to understand what a &quot;farb&quot; is.)  But reading this book gave me Southern flashbacks--hot, muggy nights, spiteful rednecks, depressing, apathetic little towns.  Just pick any chapter and find Mr. Horowitz almost nearly dead-on with his descriptions and observations.  He's got the whole South--Old and proudly un P.C. and the New proudly P.C.-- exactly right. It's a flea-pit, as boring a right-wing sinkhole as you could imagine.  Yet charming.  And friendly.  And horrible. As far as bias goes, I found the whole depressing, Rebel-loving cadre of fools and menaces that Mr. Horowitz uncovers is given plenty of rope to hang themselves with, and they do a fine job choking the life out of one another as any third-party observer ever could.  Most of all, I think the things he discovers among the Civil War philes is that their condition is not something that's endemic just to bored, white middle-class Americans.  Fanaticism and predjudice wears many faces. MORAL: When Americans love one other more than winning then the lessons of the Civil War will finally be learned.	1998-06-26
US	52626870	RBMOZ6F77DMM2	0679735186	167686037	Independence Day: Bascombe Trilogy (2)	Books	1	8	15	N	N	I'd rather walk than drive this Ford	&quot;Independence Day&quot; is the worst. Just atrocious. And here's the reason why: Ford is a phony.  His work, as a whole, is a boring, New Age post-Hemingway dress-up party thrown by a host who's more interested in retreading better, more original writers' ideas than in being a wayfarer himself.  And for his fans who feel they're getting a more  &quot;authentic&quot; writer over the &quot;fast food fiction&quot; of today should read their Kurt Vonnegut and Donald Barthelme again to see that you can indeed write a text that moves quickly without sacrificing any depth or lack of big ideas.  <br />So I totally concur with the other readers who don't &quot;get&quot; Richard Ford.  Here's the thing: they're getting him just fine.  And there's nothing there. &quot;The Sportswriter&quot; was as humorless as they come, and &quot;Independence Day&quot; falls right into line.	1998-06-02
US	52626870	R3BVXZ6MIFJXME	068815090X	452420027	Dead Even	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Stop the bullet train I want to get off	Why bother spending your hard earned money on this brain-dead &quot;bullet-train&quot; fiction? Why not just set fire to the $25.00 in your wallet? The flames would be prettier than the prose, the feeling afterwards would last longer than the story, and it would be over a lot faster. Hackneyed, lackluster, sold-it-to-the- movie-producers-before-I-typed-a-word Brad Meltzer is in it for the dough.  And his work gives me more reason to HATE all lawyers-turned-writers. Slimy, contrived, and bogus to the core, &quot;Dead Even&quot; should be dead last.	1998-06-02
US	52626870	RASO992LKN1E9	1573226521	117734468	The Beach	Books	1	2	4	N	N	A Cliff's Notes version of &quot;Lord of the Flies.&quot;	It's a book version ofa computer game--one dimensional characters, emotional distance from the action, and--don't worry--all the violence is &quot;cartoon violence&quot; so nobody really gets hurt.  An unimaginative, lowbrow book disguised as a middlebrow book. The worst insult I can find:  It deserves to be made into a  movie.	1998-05-21
US	52626870	R35NUKQ9UKTGUV	0820319589	358734560	Winter Money: Stories (Flannery O'Connor Award for Short Fiction Ser.)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Bet on the long shot.	Most likely you've never heard of this author or his stories--he's been published in a lot of smaller, literary journals. (A fact proving that a lot of good authors slip through the cracks at the bigger, more important magazines.)  And if you're not a gambler or someone who frequents horse tracks or OTB parlors, you probably don't know firsthand about the pain and dazzling success that come from winning and losing--experiences that happen sometimes all at once.  But Plattner and his characters have seen all of this.  And whether you're a horse person or not, the dignity and grace that his characters achieve in a lifestyle that's dying around them is compelling.  And hopefully, Andy Plattner will be a name you here about later.	1998-05-21
