US	52625903	R1D2NTJ3Y46S5H	0375725059	408763793	The PowerBook	Books	2	6	11	N	N	Type 11 Error	Sadly, I found this book to be mostly tedious, with irritating \\"literary\\" tendencies and repetition. Using the PowerBook theme, naming the chapters after recognizable phrases from the Macintosh user interface, is cute, but seems mostly to be a gimmick. <br /> <br />He found the shifting perspectives to be an aggravation, especially when executed for the apparent purpose of re-exploring the same events. As he got off the plane, he was not terribly disappointed to find that he had left the book in the seat pocket, despite the occasionally witty or thought-provoking ideas that could be found scattered throughout the text.	2005-01-18
US	52625903	R3OQZWBFQAXCUU	1896597637	566735703	Louis Riel: A Comic-Strip Biography	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The Riel Deal!	Chester Brown's drawings are stark and sparse. The six-panel format used consistently throughout the biography is an excellent frame for telling history. The evenness of the presentation suggests that a flat and neutral point-of-view is used to tell the story of an apparently controversial figure. Not that you should necessarily trust such an assertion about Brown's telling, but it is highly effective.  <br />  <br />It strikes me as highly unfortunate and typical that I have to come to this fascinating bit of Canadian frontier history this late in life and in such a format. Still, this is what I find myself looking for in comic books these days. Interesting stories  about unusual topics.	2004-12-23
US	52625903	RZCZV2P330ZU7	0743255453	937109510	The Price of Loyalty: George W. Bush, the White House, and the Education of Paul O'Neill	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Paying the price for four more years	This is the first political kiss-and-tell book that I've read. I have to admit, it was gripping, even though, as a political blog junkie, I had heard about most of the juicy parts secondhand. I'm not naive enough to believe that all books of this type are going to be of this same quality. Collaborating with Suskind, an author with a clear purpose in his mind, probably did wonders for making sure that the theme -- conflicts between styles of \\"loyalty\\" -- was communicated precisely.  <br />  <br />What Suskind brings to the table, a thriller author's sensibility for ratcheting up suspense, even though the conclusion is known. The months leading up to O'Neill's firing are gutburners. Suskind conveys the devastating implications of a presidential nickname change.  <br />  <br />I finished this book about three days before the election. I didn't need my mind changed, and I don't think it was going to alter the political landscape in any serious way. But it sure opened up an interesting view into internal White House political machinations. Watching the post-election cabinet reshuffling has been breathtaking. To think that George Will suggested that Greenspan would be willing to replace John Snow in his buddy O'Neill's old job. Right ...	2004-12-11
US	52625903	R2DVYHVAC2NMWV	1840460865	754641407	Introducing Foucault, 2nd Edition	Books	4	9	14	N	N	The many heads of Foucault	Let's dispense with the niceties. This is Foucault for Dummies. I think it says a lot about Foucault that his greatest work and ideas can be distilled into the most readable, digestible nuggets of information possible, supplemented with witty and incisive cartoons, and the man's work is still incomprehensible.<br />This is probably not fair, but I am beginning to become of the mind that there are Those Who Understand, and The Rest Of Us. Quite frankly, if you are one of TWU, then you don't really need INTRODUCING FOUCAULT. On the other hand, the thicket of reasoning that encompasses Foucault's ideas don't really suit themselves well for encapsulation and \\"nuggetizing\\" -- so that the captions to the cartoons often seem like intense bursts of Foucault-speak.<br />Still, if you are asking, \\"How do I expose myself to that wacky Foucault without actually having to read one of his gnarly texts?\\" INTRODUCING FOUCAULT is about as well as you can do for your cause. Wittier than Cliff's Notes, Horrocks does summarize the principal points behind what are perceived to be his major texts while placing each of these concepts within Foucault's biography. Once you get over the fact that artist Jevtic uses the same five bald-head icons to represent Foucault throughout the book, the coordination of the cartoons and the text is exceptional. Seeing Foucault's head as a rat may be one of the more base pleasures of this book, but Jevtic uses some interesting image manipulations to communicate Horrocks' interpretations in as lucid a manner as possible. This book needs its pictures.	2003-03-14
US	52625903	R3HQMS3PL71O5G	0449983676	289885381	October 1964	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Yo! Gi!	Despite the 15-year gap between the two stories, it seems like OCTOBER 1964 picks up right where SUMMER OF '49 leaves off. Despite the suggestion of the title, OCTOBER, like it's predecessor, examines a lot of What Went Before -- the grind of the season, spring training, and the trends in baseball leading up to the might clash.<br />Here, those trends are the result of what began with the first book. Years of New York Yankee domination are beginning to wind down, and more importantly, the racial integration of the baseball leagues was beginning to provide advantages to those teams willing to adapt.<br />The players that Halberstam describes are the ones that created the baseball of today. These players brought free agency and a strong Players Association that experienced uninterrupted negotiating success until this last summer.<br />Essentially, what we have here has to be one of the most fascinating collection of baseball players ever. For the Yankees, you have Mantle and Maris, uncomfortable and declining slugging kings, along with wacky Jim Bouton (see BALL FOUR). The Cardinals have Curt Flood, Bob Uecker, and Bob Gibson, whose made his reputation against all of baseball in this one World Series.<br />This book suffers some of the same flaws as SUMMER OF '49. Just like its predecessor, it relies heavily on the potentially-flawed and biased memories of the participants, though, to my knowledge, this volume did not draw nearly so many attacks against its veracity. It doesn't have the rosters at the beginning of the book (tsk).<br />But what it doesn't have, fortunately, is the sense that something is missing. Here, it truly feels like baseball's best are playing the game, and nobody but the untalented are excluded. Well, except for Uecker.	2003-03-12
US	52625903	R3SGKI8GHXVCI	0395411599	891499220	The Beacon at Alexandria	Books	5	9	9	N	N	&quot;I'm not an actual doctor ...&quot;	Historical fiction and gender bending go hand-in-hand. It can almost seem like a hoary cliche, but this is an exceptional play on the usual idea. In this novel, Gillian Bradshaw's protagonist dons the garb of a eunuch with dual hopes. An impending marriage to a loutish Roman governor prompts Charis to take the alternate path in life that will allow her to pursue her dreams of healing.<br />No historical novel is any good unless it is delivering all sorts of period detail. Bradshaw wraps Charis' tale in fine paper, depicting early Hippocratic techniques, fourth-century political and religious struggles, and life on the Roman frontier. Slavery gets off with a light slap, but attitudes towards it are probably portrayed accurately.<br />Charis is a great creation. In fulfilling her dreams of healing for a living, she endangers her hopes for, ahem, true love. She can be a little saintly, but she makes mistakes and suffers the consequences, putting her career and romantic pangs in jeopardy. She makes a great narrator, and you'll wish your own doctor had her sense and compassion.	2003-03-12
US	52625903	REHDEGVBY39R2	0425152251	380749586	Sophie's World: A Novel about the History of Philosophy	Books	2	4	9	N	N	Model UN	SOPHIE'S WORLD comes with one of those &quot;discussion guides&quot; with all sorts of thought-provoking or nausea-inducing questions in the back. The first question asks &quot;Is Sophie special or unusual, or can anyone become a good philosopher?&quot;<br />I hated that question when I first read it, but it does open up further questions. What is Sophie? Is she a character in Gaarder's novel? Or is she an object, a projection, not even worthy of the few considerations that we grant a character? She certainly acts like an automaton.<br />Gaarder's book alleges itself to be a novel of the history of philosophy. Unfortunately, it barely stands up to the critical examination due a novel. The plot is non-existent. The characters are flimsy playthings. Sophie and should-be-creepy mentor Alberto Knox become philosophy salad-shooters, taking the ingredients that are the basis of Western Philosophy, and spouting them out in slightly tasty but good-for-you servings.<br />I am in no way qualified to judge the History of Philosophy aspect of this book, but I suspect that Eastern philosophies are given short shrift. I also share some other reviewers' regret that Sartre marks the end into the exploration into the 20th century. The novel's &quot;twist&quot; coincides with the discussion of the philosopher that is the publisher's namesake, and this twist serves to both reduce whatever miniscule investment the reader may have placed on the paper-thin characters, while distracting from the object of relating the last sequence of philosophers.<br />One thing about SOPHIE'S WORLD is that it is a very international book. My Chinese classmates tell me they read the book. The author and the characters are Norwegian, and one of the characters serves as a UN Peacekeeper. The UN is an interesting representation of global ideals, and it is interesting to see in current events how much weight it carries. SOPHIE'S WORLD wears its hopes for the UN on its sleeves, and it just underscores how depressing it is that so many in the United States would just as soon see the UN rendered irrelevant.	2003-03-10
US	52625903	R2DSPGQYKN3VJ2	0312863551	562507215	The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Like Mike	In many ways, this book has something for everybody. My wife assigned HARSH MISTRESS as the final reading to a class studying American revolutions. She finds the connections to American history interesting. Some are explicit, such as the Professor's own lectures on the importance of timing and foreign distraction in creating your own revolution.  She also liked the historically appropriate \\"complainant pays\\" criminal justice system, and the penal colony environment.<br />For me, there was Mike. Mike represented the ahistorical link. American revolutionaries never really had their own Mike, the intelligent computer. Though depicted largely as a cobbled-together mainframe that just happened to stumble on the necessary capacity for sentience, Mike provides the means for looking at more contemporary revolution issues. For instance, his interference represents the imperfect communications monitoring that allows cell-structured groups to operate today. He also brings to mind the financing required to operate a disbursed and secretive group. It's cheaper to run than the US Military, but it still requires some seed money.<br />I'll assume that, >whoah!<, thinking computers were not even that amazing an idea back when Heinlein envisioned this book, though apparently personal computing was. That is kind of the quaint charm of the story, the sense that computers were this awe-inspiring thing that only a handful of technicians could understand. Eventually, interesting as Mike's initial explorations into human interaction are, he and the Professor jointly morph into the Heinleinian sidekick, while Manuel is your basic Heinlein First Person, albeit with neat-o changing arms and funky accent (this guy needs an action-figure toy). There's no point in remembering the name of The Blonde, because, well, the other \\"quaint\\" aspect of this book is how much of a non-entity she is. <br />Basically, MISTRESS is a book of ideas. That the ideas are so interesting is what makes it seem like the author had a fun time writing it. The plot is uneven, the characters so-so, and the conflict rigged with pushover antagonists. This book has become part of the libertarian freak flag because it has interesting things to say about justice, coercion, and economy, many of which today's would-be libertarians would do well to remember.	2003-02-25
US	52625903	R23TR6F8A9BB3C	0312284683	347731978	Faking It	Books	5	2	2	N	N	"She Lived With Her Mother ..."	Meet Tilda Goodnight, Columbus, Ohio's famous painter. Except that it is her forgeries that are famous. Tilda's been working like mad to keep her life afloat, along with the gallery that her family is running.  The Goodnights have an even longer family history as forgers, but, after her brief stint in that wing of the business, Tilda would much rather go the legitimate route.<br />Even if she's not exactly living with the torments of Christ, Tilda is living with her mother, her sister, and a few other off-kilter sorts. A mix-up threatens to expose her past, and when she mixes it up with con-man Davey Dempsey, well, you get more mix-ups.<br />Crusie plays this out like a classic farce. Juggling an insane amount of oddball characters (and a dog with a romance-hero name), author Crusie manages to hold it all together, only letting the whole thing slip a few times. Still, the confusion is worth it as Crusie continues her crusade to subvert the romance genre from within. Her target this time: the fabulous sex that protagonists often within minutes after they first set eyes on each other.<br />Davey and Tilda are both wary individuals well-practiced in arts of deception. \\"Faking It\\" maybe be the obvious meta-metaphor for the emotional problems of the characters in this book, but if Crusie hits you over the head with an idea, at least she uses a pillow instead of Jayne Anne Krentz' aluminum baseball bat. <br />Crusie makes this all work with little dreams of donuts, muffins, drinks with little umbrellas, Aruba, and Poor Babies. These little bits give the sprawling cast enough to flesh out the farce. The only thing missing is German Village, an apparently interesting community that is, here, reduced to just another urban neighborhood.	2003-01-31
US	52625903	R2GERQOQJ2JSUI	1888963077	773500945	Castle Waiting: The Lucky Road	Books	3	6	9	N	N	The Lucky Reader	CASTLE WAITING was one of those books that I always looked at suspiciously. Try as I might, it seemed like one of those well-meaning independent comics that was a labor of love that would be so embedded in fantasy traditions, or so hellbent on smashing those traditions, that, in my mind, I granted the books the appeal of cod liver oil.<br />Instead, CASTLE WAITING is quiet. Linda Medley's linework is a touch too well-defined for my tastes, but it suits her characters and setting. Here, she creates a fantasy world that brings to life the types of characters that populate fairy tales and gives them comfortable personalities, warmth, and time to develop. The residents of the castle are much like the supportive but easygoing neighbors we see in contemporary stories in other media.<br />Though Medley creates some conflicts and a degree of pending menace, this volume's greatest fault may be it's relative lack of dramatic tension. Comic book readers used to rapidly propelled stories may find themselves having to adjust to the more relaxed pace. That is really just your cue to sit back and enjoy the details.	2003-01-30
US	52625903	R2JONQDL2JWTK3	0060007818	382101242	Summer of '49 (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	There's something missing here	Prize-winning journalist David Halberstam tells the story of the 1949 American League pennant race. Or at least, he tells his story of the race, with a little help from his friends, the baseball players that he interviewed forty years later.<br />Early on, Halberstam reveals his original perspective on the season in question -- as a pre-adolescent Yankees fan, listening to the games on his radio. He finds several other fans of the day, and gets them to recount the meaning of baseball to their young lives. This perspective is important, because this is where the myth of these giant players began. And then much later on, Halberstam, now a prominent journalist, decided to recreate the myth, but to also use his tools as a journalist to get a glimpse of the forces behind the myths.<br />We are talking, here, about giants that strode the earth. And the giants that manipulated their salaries, and the giants that wrote about them. They are all very pale giants. Halberstam shows us the managerial politics, the salary negotiations, the long road up from the minor leagues. He shows us the families of the players, he shows us the grisly wear and tear of the long season. He shows the bars, with their newly installed televisions. Climactically, he shows us the amazing conclusion of the 1949 regular season, and its devastating impact on the Red Sox.<br />He also inadvertently shows us what was missing. As an afterthought, one of the latter chapters details the 1949 World Series. There, the Yankees make mincemeat of the semi-integrated Brooklyn Dodgers. Oddly, though, the tale of the black Dodgers playing in Yankee Stadium is the most electrifying in the book. That energy, that tension, is clearly what's missing from everything that goes earlier. If Halberstam recognizes this, he only decides to focus it on his follow-up, OCTOBER 1964.<br />One should also note that The Summer of '49 is a fairly gauzy interpretation. Halberstam relies heavily on his interviews, and the accuracy ofthis book was stridently challenged by Bill James (1991 Baseball Abstract). Ted Williams (may he freeze in peace) died while I was reading this book, which made me grateful for its in-depth portrait of him.	2003-01-08
US	52625903	R2G5PZI9XIDRSH	0064407667	25170610	The Bad Beginning (A Series of Unfortunate Events #1)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Better than the first version -- The Banal Beginning	I am pleased to report that Mr. Snicket's first chronicle of the Baudelaire children is suitably bad. Had it been what apparently constitutes \\"good\\" these days, I'm sure there would be no need for an endless string of sequels designed to correct everything that is wrong about this volume.<br />That said, I thought this would be the perfect story to read to my 8-year-old niece. I put on my best Tim Curry impression, and commenced reading. Within no more than 50 words, my efforts were rebuffed. My niece, an obvious connoisseur of good books, indicated that she vastly preferred good stories of children with lightning bolts burnt onto their foreheads over repulsive tales of gangly, unshaved men with eyes tattooed to their ankles. Maybe if I had brought in the real Tim Curry (or bought the book-on-tape, as I found out later), it would have gone down a bit easier.<br />So I was left to wallow in the misery of the Baudelaire orphans. Mr. Snicket chronicles the first in what is apparently a series of misadventures involving a trio of young moppets who face disaster at every step. What is their appeal? Besides their inventiveness, their literacy, and, of course, their very sharp teeth, these three children are probably nothing like you, gentle review reader. After all, surely no children ever fantasize about being orphaned and surviving solely by their wits.<br />And what of the hero, Count Olaf? I fear that Mr. Snicket may have been unfair in his characterization of this abundantly talented thespian. Surely, his generosity in extending shelter and entertaining his unfortunate but distant relatives has been misinterpreted after his attempts to bring them fame and additional fortune by including them in his current theatrical production. Truly, I expect that the later chronicles of The Series of Unfortunate Events will vindicate the Count, just as the delightfully pedantic Mr. Snicket is sure to attempt to describe \\"irony\\" to his readers. A good thing, too, or how else will they understand the subtexts to the film REALITY BITES, which they will be sure to encounter later in life.	2002-12-11
US	52625903	RUJNLN8Q1W70Q	0140365990	246292134	Changeover: A Supernatural Romance (Point)	Books	4	30	30	N	N	Yeah, it's the prefects you need to watch out for!	Margaret Mahy's book is an unusual take on the juvenile magic-user theme. It takes place in New Zealand, in a single-parent home. Laura Chant lives with her divorced mother, and her toddler brother. Nothing is entirely reliable in Laura's world, certainly not her slightly flaky mother, their extremely flaky car, and especially the surrounding landscape, being transformed from forest and farm into a new subdivision. <br />Chant, perfectly named, can sense things that others can't. She can sense that her brother's rapid descent into illness is supernatural, and that it is linked to the boy's unfortunate contact with the also perfectly named Carmody Braque. She also can sense that the mysterious prefect at her school, an older boy named Sorensen Carlisle, is a \\"witch\\" and that he may hold the only key to healing her brother.<br />Sorry, as he's called, is one of those magnificent characters, the enigmatic boy who shows all the signs of being a proto-romance hero. But here, he's young, sly, and not above using his advantage over Laura. Mahy writes Laura as a strong character, and watching her handle Sorry is a lot of fun.<br />This novel is full of brooding atmosphere but with a great contemporary setting. Mahy's protagonist carries her weight, but everyone else is equally nuanced and fascinating. The book calls itself a romance, but I've never read an adult romance filled with such menacing ambiguity.	2002-12-04
US	52625903	R21IB7TBWIH1I3	0553565230	429048865	The Perfect Mistress	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Mysterious whisper	Set later in the nineteenth century than most romances, THE PERFECT MISTRESS offers an entertaining glimpse of the upper crust underground. The novel features the daughter of a successful courtesan, a young woman who suspects that financial security lies in marriage rather than settling as the mistress for some lordling. In that sense, young Gabrielle may appear to be sensible and wise in rejecting her mother's plans for her future, but alas, she is actually prone towards hasty schemes and extreme measures. She initiates the action in this novel by escaping her mother's luxurious home to run wild on the streets of London and, what, meet her future husband?<br />Er, well, this is a romance. But before satisfying her longing for security, she ends up twice abducted by men expecting her to be your basic fowl-mouthed Haymarket prostitute. The first attempts to reform her against her errant ways, and then the latter seeks to gather evidence of the former's hypocritical interest in whores. At the conclusion of these encounters, she's been roped into British partisan politics, and she's found a pretend suitor in order to stave off her mother's matchmaking/pimping.<br />You can't expect everything about a book like this to be a breath of fresh air. The hero's dour mother threatens his inheritance, and, natch, he calls her The Dragon. The heroine launches a desperate crusade to win back the hero's trust. There are also a couple of variations on The Misunderstanding, but they don't overwhelm the plot, and seem fairly consistent. <br />Besides these minor faults, THE PERFECT MISTRESS has plenty of entertaining ideas. For instance, while \\"courting\\" Gabrielle, the hero encourages her to scout out those souls who responded to the advertisement that she placed in her quest for eligible and willing bachelors. This scenario plays out perfectly, both amusing and ratcheting up the stakes in their relationship. It will be interesting to see if author Betina Krahn can maintain this level of creativity in her other books.	2002-11-30
US	52625903	R1QW916N3OYQGL	1891830198	803391257	Box Office Poison	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Now, if only someone would do that Emma Goldman bio-comic	There are so few total artistic successes in the comic book world these days I'd like to point to this one as the exception to the rule. Unfortunately, before granting an unqualified endorsement to BOX OFFICE POISON, a couple of observations must be made.<br />First, and most problematic, is dedicating one of the two main storylines to the tale of a struggling comic book artist and his mentor, the exploited creator of a beloved superhero. Now, anyone familiar with the comic book industry is aware of the many controversies involving the important issue of creator's rights. Still, the end result is that you have a comic book that is about people that make comics. It's not a guaranteed route to failure, but, think about it, most of the movies that Hollywood makes about Hollywood are pretty lame, well, at least since SUNSET BOULEVARD.<br />Actually, that's really all there is to complain about. Sure, the artwork isn't going to turn Alex Robinson into the next comic-creator/superstar, but this is clearly the best character-driven series in along time. If you've burnt out on the bad poetry that clogs the stranger competition this is really your new home.<br />Robinson works hard to make sure that every character with a speaking line is flushed out with a personal history along with its attendant shames and glories. It's impossible not to react strongly to any of the people in this book because Robinson has the magic that brings them into your own world. How can Jane be so unforgiving? How can Dorothy be so irresponsible? Why doesn't Sherman quit his job at the bookstore and work for a benevolent on-line retailer?<br />Because BOX OFFICE POISON collects the complete run of a series, Robinson has the decency to resolve just about every important storyline. The 602-pages gives the whole story an epic feel that ends just right. If only so much of it weren't industry in-jokes, I would hand this thing out to non-comic reading friends as one of the best in the form.	2002-11-01
US	52625903	RP5AKNLK7YFUR	0812536355	288499140	A Deepness in the Sky (Zones of Thought)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Qeng Ho! Qeng Ho! It's OnOff to work we go!	A DEEPNESS IN THE SKY is a nifty parable about power, commerce and exploitation. It's almost a shame that it is relegated to the Science Fiction shelves, because I think it would be interesting to hear the insights of scholars in the political economy and linguistics fields after they've had a chance to pick through this thing.<br />The premise in this novel is pretty radical. Two human societies are competing for the opportunity to exploit the resources of a newly discovered alien civilization. One society is secretive and repressive, and the other relies on a complicated ideology based on commerce and information sharing. Neither has a plan for returning to their home systems that doesn't involve waiting for the alien civilization to undergo rapid, 20th century-style technological improvement, so they have a long time to sit around and wait with each other. Can these two disparate economic philosophies get along? Hey! You're anchovies fell in MY peanut butter!<br />Vernor Vinge makes this all work, and successfully draws it out into a novel that would normally be of prohibitive length. The repressive bad guys have unusually clever leadership for a bunch of moustache-twirlers. They are masters of trickery and propaganda, though Vinge is not above letting them have tastes for brutality and rape.<br />The alien civilization initially seems charming and cutesy, until the reader understands the filter through which they are being viewed. It's a neat authorial trick, and is one of the many innovative features of this novel. Both alien and reconstituted human societies have an abundance of fascinating characters and surprisingly few cliches, and Vinge weaves them around to create an amazing display of storytelling. A DEEPNESS IN THE SKY is fully worth the considerable investment involved in reading it.	2002-10-25
US	52625903	R3BWXB4R153URP	0441004520	84311395	The Killing Dance (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	2	5	11	N	N	Looking for Richard	Poor Anita Blake! Man or woman, monster or human, it seems like everybody in St. Louis wants to have sex with her. Or kill her. Or both. No wonder she's stressed out. What she needs is a nice long Alaskan cruise, not a new, enigmatic, decaying client, a disintegrating soul who happens to be a peer of one of her two boyfriends. Nor does Anita really need to find out that someone has taken a contract out on her life. Snuggling up with the Tony Soprano of the St. Louis preternatural underworld isn't really going to help her relax.<br />Let's face it, anybody reading Book Six of a series probably is already a fan of the author. Any other readers are strongly advised that this book, THE KILLING DANCE, stands poorly on its own. Long time readers will already have accepted the fascinating if not exactly clearly thought-out premise behind the series. They will have become accustomed to the non-stop action-cramped plots, and the drawn-out dilemmas facing Anita Blake, who fate has assigned too many roles and too many skills.<br />Even fans of the Anita Blake books cannot consider this one of the best. Anita's characteristic dry wit fails her here as she utters feeble observations on the absurdity of her experience rather than caustic banter about mixing fashion and firearms. In this book, the contract on Anita's life is the driver for the plot, but Anita willingly puts her life in increasingly dangerous situations that have little bearing on the hitman storyline. Sadly, the Anitaverse starts to make less and less sense, while characters, both human and demi-human, are constantly thrown into the mill. If some of them had exotic names, it might be easier to track everybody, but the wereleopards are as blandly identified as the humans. This actually makes sense, given the themes of monster/human revulsion/attraction that Hamilton pounds over and over into the reader's head, but it is also annoying and confusing.<br />Fans of the soap-opera aspects of the series will probably either enjoy or be shocked by the pivotal choice that Anita makes at the end of the killing dance. Readers who haven't invested themselves in the entire series will find themselves not caring and wondering what the big deal is.	2002-10-23
US	52625903	R2VSB8NHWEB4J1	0312974256	394302937	Welcome to Temptation	Books	5	5	5	N	N	I'm going down to Cowtown	What am I looking for in a romance? Quite frankly, I'm looking for interesting characters, and I want to see them react with each other. I've read a decent amount of these books, and think I know what like, and what I don't like. I'm sick of plucky virgins, and I'm tired of emotionally repressed dukes, earls, and titans of industry. I want the characters to be noticeably different, not cut-outs from mythic templates. In this area, Jennifer Crusie never disappoints.<br />In WELCOME TO TEMPTATION, we have Sophie Dempsey. She's been burned in love before, but that's the last thing on her mind while she tries to shepherd her sister's documentary project through its filming. The subject of the documentary, an aging starlet, wants her belated return to her tiny Ohio hometown filmed, along with any amorous reunions that would hopefully occur. The mayor of the town, single-father bookstore-owning Phineas Tucker, is the most recent in a long line of Phin Tuckers, and, for a guy who likes things to be routine, this video could end up changing everything.<br />Phin, however, is not master of his domain. He doesn't have countless peons attending to his whim and putting his every plan into action. He's basically competent, basically decent, but the mayoral job isn't fun anymore. In fact, it really was never fun, but the alternative would be to watch some other fool really screw up the town. His friend Wes, though, is the police chief, which kind of makes up for the hassle. Likewise, Sophie is not some sort of media genius, the only person that could make the documentary fabulous, but she is good at managing her family, which is good, since they have a long history as con-artists.<br />Sure, romance has its formula, but the point is to do something interesting within its framework. WELCOME TO TEMPTATION is witty, profane, sexy, relaxing, and thoughtful. It has the benefit of being a small-town satire, while dealing with family issues and personal history. Sure, it stumbles a bitwhen it also decides to be a murder mystery, and the Crusie formula dog is kind of a throwaway, but the overall good-feelings that this book projects are terrific. I have a strictly regimented to-be-read list, but this book was so good that I had to have another dose of the Dempsey family right away.	2002-10-18
US	52625903	RKLFJFA57M6AV	1561632880	918841450	The Mystery of Mary Rogers (A Treasury of Victorian Murder)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Everyone's your friend in New York City!	It is very unusual for antebellum New York to get any sort of treatment in popular culture, which is a shame, because the whole space between the Revolutionary War and the Civil War features dramatic changes in the city's popular landscape. Institutions for maintaining public order and safety that we take for granted today were less organized and often appropriated by the underworld for its own purposes.<br />Scorsese's upcoming movie, GANGS OF NEW YORK, looks like it will offer an interesting look into this time. Readers looking for a little less bombast can take in Rick Geary's tight little graphic exploration of THE MYSTERY OF MARY ROGERS. Geary tells the true tale of a corpse that captured the public imagination in a manner similar to any of today's celebrity victims. He renders useful maps and recreates the known facts of the case with haunting sillhouettes and faces that are remarkably expressive in their cartoonishness. Geary also tosses in a tidy little chunk of social history -- so that we understand the context -- and chronicles the sensationalism that followed this case. As a final service, he puts forth the prominent theories about the case, noting its inspiration of Poe's mystery.<br />Graphic (as in illustrated) non-fiction is somewhat of an oddity, often represented by simpering auto-bio. True crime stories tend to show up in the BIG BOOK OF ... series. This, however, is a neat and stylistic volume that would put Anne Rule to shame.	2002-09-29
US	52625903	R3QW1F7BI0KP1J	1563896680	128533016	Top Ten, Book 1	Books	5	11	16	N	N	I can't believe nobody's done this yet ...	10. It's just like Xanth! Everybody's got a superpower!<BR>9.  It's got a talking dog, what every successful series needs (see Pratchett)<BR>8. The good guys drive superslick tank-like police cars ...<BR>7. Which can still get wiped out by blind taxi drivers.<BR>6. More laughs than MiracleMan.<BR>5. It has a cheap AIDS analogy. <BR>4. Norse Gods! Giant fire-breathing lizards! <BR>3. None of the cops are in uniform!<BR>2. More marginal detail than a Groo comic!<br />And the Number One Reason to check out TOP 10 --<BR>1. No annoying theme music	2002-09-13
US	52625903	R1F9775FBG49KW	0671778633	119994188	Bewitching	Books	2	6	15	N	N	Regencies Without Pity -- Weasel Fu!	BEWITCHING, according to a reliable source, is one of the best of the genre. I beg to differ. It certainly has a couple of high points, but not enough to keep the reader truly engaged. It also is an amusing tribute to the TV show it slightly resembles, but the plotting is barely serviceable, the dialogue barely up to the witchy premise, and -- besides the magic -- filled with your basic regency stock.<br />The closest resemblance between the book and the classic TV show is the stern but befuddled husband, Duke Darren of Belmore. Surprise! He's emotionally repressed. Breath of fresh air right there, except not. And, just like the show, you could probably replace him with a Duke from another romance novel, and you probably wouldn't notice. And he's got two buddies, one a vicious drunk, but both basically good-hearted.  Oh, and many hijinks revolve around avoiding a shrewish gossip. I think I may give up historicals right now.<br />Where the script diverges from the show is that Joy, the heroine, is an incompetent compared to Sam of BEWITCHED. She desperately needs the assistance of her aunt and mentor. If Joy had been saddled with Endora, both she and Duke Darren would have been burnt at the stake by page 50. Oh my goodness! Sam also did not have a weasel for a familiar. I get more nostalgic for that show with each sentence.<br />The story is cute and has its charming moments, but once the premise is established, the plot is muddled. As far as plotting errors, there really is very little indication of any emotional progress on the hero's part until the entry of a character late in the book. This little &quot;twist&quot; feels very tacked on, and the conclusion is exceptionally limp.<br />I suspect that a giggle-inducing romance may be just the thing to read if most of your recent regency readings have been traumatic angst sagas. In that case, you deserve a break today, and this book is it.  But if you are looking for the highest exemplars of the current romance form,stay away.<br />-- Brian, waiting for the inevitable \\"Emma the Vampyre Slayer\\"	2002-09-11
US	52625903	R14Q8N5PUEBFP4	0679769439	789029832	The Verificationist: A Novel	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Nothing more seductive -- and dangerous -- than pancakes	Antrim is probably my favorite \\"literary fiction\\" writer. Up until this point, his unreal invocations of worlds that are loosely connected to our own are the perfect places for his self-centered, monologuing protagonists. <br />THE VERIFICATIONIST, unfortunately, is less fantastic. It takes place in an entirely plausible pancake house, in a mostly plausible New Englandish town, with a slightly less plausible group of blathering shrinks sitting around trying to avoid talking either \\"shop\\" or each others sex lives, which is more or less the same thing.<br />Tom, the protagonist, ruminates endlessly, both before and during his infamous out-of-body experience. The soliloquies range from the tedious, as he contemplates various aspects of his profession, or his surprisingly mundane conflict with his wife. On the other end, you have the amazing speculations, like the digression on pancakes and their demon-hold on the human psyche. Also waiting to give you the creeps are his appalling weaknesses. His interest in the teenage waitron serving his party is thinly-veiled as he encourages her to join his Young Women of Strength discussion group. <br />It is hard to say why this book doesn't drive me as much as Antrim's previous efforts. I suspect it has much to do with the setting. While pancake houses and their denizens often offer their own particular horrors, they don't carry the atmospheric menace that existed in the 100 Brother's crumbling library, or Mr. Robinson's aggressively paranoid neighborhood. I'm afraid I need the obvious -- the violence. The only violence in this book either never actually happened, or is limited to an aborted food fight. Yes, give me DIE HARD over THE AGE OF INNOCENCE any day. There, I've faced my shame.<br />All this is to say that this book is still a fascinating read, though it ultimately seems less \\"fun\\" than Antrim's other books. The difference, the other books dealt with physical torture, like drawing-and-quarterings, or human sacrifice, while this one resides in the realm of the emotional torture of listening to the angst-ridden droning of a high-school literary magazine editorial meeting. Trust me, bring on the Vogon poetry!	2002-09-11
US	52625903	R3BTJK5EMXHFK2	0821772023	3905367	Love's Charade	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Lots of love, not so much charade	One of the frequent problems with many romances that I've read is that the author has devotes a great deal of her creative energy in devising magnificent and fantastically complex heroes. In comparison, the young woman to be paired with this perfect specimen of tormented masculinity is usually bland and uninteresting. The author has already spent her creative juices. The interesting thing about Jane Feather's LOVE'S CHARADE is that we have the opposite problem.<br />Danielle is a stunning creation. At 17, she's beautiful, educated, strong-willed, and a witness to horrors that have brought her maturity beyond her years. The traumas of her past leave her driven to provide succor to the gentry dispossessed by the French Revolution, efforts that she pursues with ingenuity and charisma. And on top of that, she is witty, and oh yes, as we mentioned before, stunningly beautiful. Given such a glowing heroine, the 34-year-old hero, despite being twice her age, and allegedly clever and well-connected, is bland in comparison. He is your basic British Earl/Duke/Whatever of near total economic success, with a secret passion for aiding the Crown and no real interest in marriage until he's found the perfect post-adolescent. Their age difference is more than countered by their comparative weight in personality.<br />Balance! That's all I want! Just a little balance<br />The plot is fairly pleasant, offering a slight twist on the usual Pimpernalia. It is a bit drawn out, with a couple of clearly unnecessary episodes, including the usual Jealous Misunderstanding, Resigned to Lonely Marriage, and Kidnapped By An Evil French Rapist bits. These only serve to pad the book.  Maybe target audience readers feel like they need these steps and I am simply out of synch, but I'm sure that at least two of these three could have been eliminated.<br />The basic problem with this book is that most of the suspense in a romance is in trying to figure out how the disparate hero and heroine will ultimately be bound together. Since that is resolved fairly early on, the rest of the novel is devoted to whether Danielle will get herself killed in her recklessness.<br />Polished prose keeps things moving along, and Feather introduces a couple of interesting bits by tying the plot so closely to the French Revolution. The aristocracy that stayed in France was not all wiped out overnight, and those that escaped often found themselves in more dire circumstances than the urban impoverished that they fled. Feather offers another view of the Revolution, one that fills in some of the gaps left by Les Miserables and The Scarlet Pimpernel. For that, there is no reason to regret reading this book.	2002-08-08
US	52625903	R31JY1Z9QTI4DA	0813017173	184166212	Kick Ass: Selected Columns of Carl Hiaasen	Books	5	19	20	N	N	I Wonder What Happened to that Jeb Bush guy?	There was a brief stage in my college career when I hoped to get into newspapers. Unfortunately, I'm a very slow writer. I would sweat bullets over remarkably simple stories, and my editorial prowess was equally dubious. It was at that time I discovered Carl Hiaasen and his remarkably subversive novel, TOURIST SEASON. His author's bio indicated that his newspaper setting was drawn from authentic experience -- he was a columnist for the Miami Herald.<br />Unfortunately, the web was just in its infancy, and access to Hiaasen's newspaper writing was apparently one of the few exclusive benefits of living in South Florida. KICK ASS turns out to be just the sort of collection that I had been craving for many years.<br />KICK ASS does not disappoint. It begins with a nifty introduction that provides a smattering of biographical information on Hiaasen, as well as a context for the subjects and tone of his columns. Hiaasen clearly resides in a longstanding tradition of muckraking American journalism, and I mean that in the best possible way. <br />This is no mere sampling of his work -- there are more than 200 columns here, organized by topic, and just about every one of them meets the mandate stated in the title of the collection. Hiaasen has a passion for the environment, consumer protection, crime control, and good government. His portrait of a Florida reeling after the flood of growth and development of the last three decades is even starker than the one in his novels. Speaking of the novels, it is also fun to see where he \\"lifts\\" some of his ideas for the things that happen in his books. The overamorous dolphin of NATIVE TONGUE appears in KICK ASS as well.<br />If there is anything to regret about this book, it is that the topical organization often generates confusion for the reader when certain figures re-occur. Some of them almost develop a roguish charm. After all, us non-Floridians don't have to live with the direct consequences of local corruption. A little wrap-up to let us know how some of the notorious figures and controversies ended up would have been nice. I always hated that device at the end of his novels, but it would be perfect for a collection like this.	2002-07-24
US	52625903	R3HKPB82SXSLLA	0316715476	493608555	Temporary kings	Books	2	6	7	N	N	"I hope that I get old before I die"	This is probably not the best part of The Dance to start with. It is, after all, the penultimate volume of a twelve-part series. Still, it is possibly the one novel of the series with the greatest notoriety, and also some great acclaim.<br />In this volume, it is about 1958, and narrator Nick Jenkins is a full-on academic, attending a conference in Venice, reflecting on travelling professors' statuses as \\"Temporary Kings.\\" It isn't long before Pamela Widmerpool arrives in the story and sucks all the air out of the other characters. They all meet while gazing at a painting featuring another King, a scene that Lady Widmerpool finds entirely too relevant.<br />For good measure, there's a couple of Americans tossed in. There's a movie director/race-car driver, and then the introverted would-be biographer of Pamela's late lover. Between the art and the horde of characters that show up in the seemingly casually strung together episodes, Powell continues to bring humanity to his characters, all the while killing them off more quickly and methodically than Jason dispatches errant campers in a Friday the 13th movie.<br />Still, the messy humanity of these characters is the driver for the story. In this way, the characters in this step of The Dance are much like the Osbournes on TV. Despite all the fabulousness granted to these literary, political, academic, or artistic elites, they're still naked under all their clothing. And their getting older, while realizing that they've reached the primes of their adult lives, and their friends are beginning to die of natural causes, and none of it is that unexpected at all.	2002-04-26
US	52625903	R1MWIPYXU2LRCJ	067976402X	877433184	Snow Falling On Cedars	Books	4	1	2	N	N	When it rains, it snows	Growing up in Seattle, I used to fantasize about snowstorms like the one described in this book, the chaos and the peace. I still like the stuff, even though I live in Iowa now and snow is commonplace. One year, the weather forecasts promised us something called \\"thundersnow,\\" but it never showed up. I was profoundly disappointed.<br />So for me, a book about a debilitating Pacific Northwest snowstorm is inherently exciting, you don't even need all the subplots about murder, wartime internment, forbidden love, real estate, interracial jealousy, and journalism. And surprisingly, despite the fact that the book is mildewy with descriptive passages constantly evoking the not-so cheery environs of a sunlight-deprived fishing and berry-picking community, the book is a nice, quick easy read.<br />What Guterson creates here is a solidly crafted story, with interesting and sympathetic characters and a fully defined history. If he could find enough drama in one of the annual Strawberry Princess pageants, he would be able to generate an equally detailed and emotionally resonant portrait of beauty queen backstabbing. Of course, San Piedro is closely based on a real island, but a convincing author still has to create that consistency.<br />Guterson casually hangs all this depth around the frame of murder mystery, the facts of which are all revealed during the snowbound trial of the accused. The characters are handled with skill, though I think Guterson could have explained more about one character's sudden realization of the \\"wrongness\\" of her relationship with the protagonist. The mystery doesn't matter nearly as much as the people and the town, and for the most part, Guterson makes them as real as can be. It doesn't matter who wins the trial -- it's the snow that wins in the end.	2002-04-23
US	52625903	R3SPRXDOAJAXJH	0312420285	113090843	The Storyteller: A Novel	Books	2	26	33	N	N	And so it goes.	This is one of those books that you can tell is a really great book. It exudes deep thoughts, alienated characters, and cultural sensitivity. It reeks of innovative storytelling techniques, challenges to provoke the reader, and a finely tuned moral sensibility. And yet, somehow, I did not care for it.<br />The story concerns a Peruvian writer, reminiscing about a friend from his youth, who disappeared after developing an intense interest in one of Amazonian Peru's last remote indigenous tribes, the Machiguengas. What makes the book unusual is that a large portion of the text is dedicated to narratives of Machiguenga legend, as told by one of their habladores, a sort of travelling storyteller. The storyteller is the two-legged storehouse of cultural knowledge, and he wanders from each of the small and temporary Machiguenga family settlements, passing on collective wisdom. It is these segments which have probably brought the book as much acclaim as it has, but for me, they made for very difficult reading and their great length and apparent loose connection to the plot caused me to become detached from the framing story. <br />Reading this book is like eating vegetables, or taking bitter medicine. It is a great book in that it will make you think; it is powerful in that way. But I suspect many readers will have as difficult a time as I had in making it through the habladore's stories; I'd suggest skipping them, but then you lose the point of the novel.	2002-04-10
US	52625903	R3PQ38XDPQZOIA	0380978369	807974111	Bones of the Earth	Books	2	21	27	N	N	T. Rex communicates through corporate memos! Who knew?	The challenge for dinosaur fiction is that a human perspective usually provides the best means for communicating the awe that the author feels for the dinosaurs. Unfortunately, to facilitate this perspective, you have to bring the dinosaurs to the present (a la JURASSIC PARK), or you have to travel back in time (i.e., LAND OF THE LOST). In science fiction, time travel is a tricky business. Many writers simply avoid it because it seems so far removed from today's technology. Other authors write time travel stories because time travel paradoxes make for an amusing gimmick.<br />In BONES OF THE EARTH, Michael Swanwick has handled the time issue deftly. The acquisition and management of time travel is an important part of the story, while still allowing for back-and-forth shenanigans and a survival-in-the-Mesozoic scenario that provides much of the books \\"action.\\"<br />Unfortunately, Swanwick hasn't handled his characters so deftly. There's the earnest academic, the cigarette-smoking-man with access to profound secrets, the wambitious woman not above using sex to meet her goals. Swanwick errs further by creating a villain in the form of a ridiculously extremist Bible-thumper, which he than tries to counterbalance by allowing other characters token religious affiliations that turn out to be only relevant in the matter of determining appropriate burial rites.<br />Though his plot structure rather elegantly handles the many different time settings, it helps that every chapter has a date stamp, especially since several characters appear in each of the major time settings. Still, Swanwick's detectable satisfaction in how he's organized the story lines is irritating in the face of his uninspired characterization. He does make a couple of amusing jabs at scientist culture and academic hierarchies, while also offering up a discussion of leadership and group dynamics that is extremely interesting, even if it does devolve into male fantasy. Finally, Swanwick does a decent job with the dinosaur action sequences -- the \\"money shots\\" for a book like this -- making the prehistoric monsters interesting, even if the humans characters observing them are not.	2002-04-04
US	52625903	R2UYEHFMQ19TVK	0553577255	726290076	Traitor's Moon (Nightrunner, Vol. 3)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Apparently we aren't supposed to approve of necromancy	Just before the first two Nightrunner books came out, a friend of the author's keyed me on to them. I was very pleased with them, and surprised, because it seemed quite unlike my friend to recommend a book featuring a pair of heroes who were, uh, less &quot;ambiguous&quot; about their orientation than say, Batman and Robin. And after he read them, he did seem a little surprised and put off. But I enjoyed them -- Flewelling brings a very fresh voice to a genre that had started to seem a little musty.<br />This third entry picks up a couple of years after the second Nightrunner book. Alec and Seregil are recruited to join a diplomatic mission to the homeland that exiled Seregil in his youth. Their adopted nation is pleading for an opening of borders and trade, in the hopes that it will turn the tides in their war against an implacable foe. <br />As can be expected, this new story line allows Flewelling to further flesh out her characters, especially her star spy/thief Seregil, while also demonstrating her world-building abilities. Aurenen is a complex creation, with several competing factions within its borders. As the author points out, this book lacks a much-needed glossary (available at her website), but it could also use a George R. R. Martin-style cast sheet.<br />Flewelling also takes her sweet time setting things up, so that the initial results of full-scale diplomatic skullduggery aren't seen until almost halfway into the book. &quot;At last! Finally something is happening!&quot; a character remarks, unfortunately echoing the thoughts of this reader. This is a book for the patient.<br />The conclusion, while definitely thrilling, leaves the same bittersweet taste that the series predecessors offer. This is a mood book, with plenty of mystery for good measure. And while this book may lack the cataclysmic battles of its immediate predecessor, it does a good job of leaving the characters seared in your mind, wondering about their ultimate fates.	2002-02-07
US	52625903	R2N83LI0MI151R	059035342X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	3	0	0	N	N	The Philoceror's Stone!	Informed that I HAD to read this book before venturing to see it's onscreen translation, I'm one of the many hordes that must have just reading about Harry for the first time in late 2001.<br />Unfortunately, I've also read more thoughtful fantasy, and more intense British &quot;public&quot; school stories. For all of it's bang, this first book in the series seems a little thin, though allowances maybe should be made for all the time spent establishing the characters and the setting. Still, Harry is charming, and the characters surrounding him are extremely appealing, so their is obviously huge potential existing in the remaining books.<br />Harry, himself, is a clever creation. He's not that original an idea, not even in his appearance, but he provides a perfect view into Hogwarts School. Like us, he never knew such a wondrous place could possibly exist. Everything needs to be explained to him, and, lucky us, we get to listen in. The other appeal in Harry is that he turns our world on its head. Slight and bespectacled, he's a veritable superstar - a natural - at the wizard world's athletic pastime, Quidditch, a game that captures the best and worst of modern sporting (fast-paced flying broom and ball game with elements of soccer, and scoring even weirder than cricket).<br />Prior to his new academic life, Harry lived a nightmarish existence amidst bourgeois plenty. Harry's got too much pluck to let us know how miserable he is, but when the world of wizardry aggressively invites him in, it almost seems like the remainder of the book is mere wish fulfillment. The Muggles here most clearly resemble Roald Dahl grotesques, which makes it almost disappointing when Harry gets whisked off to the Chocolate Facto-- er, the Wizard's school.<br />Hogwarts threatens to be a sticky-sweet paradise, but Harry's friends and rivals, along with the school's faculty and staff, flesh everything out nicely. While author J. K. Rowling borrows relentlessly from all sorts of fantastic traditions to populate and decorate Hogwarts' halls and surroundings, she does it all with a deft spin to keep Harry Potter's world from being one giant, cheesy pastiche. And even though Rowling seems to rely a bit on the Dumbledore ex machina to resolve the House Competition at the end, the conclusion to the mystery occupying the final third of the book is very satisfying. It is easy to see why her readers repeatedly return for more doses of Harry's world.<br />Viva Ravenclaw!itions to populate and decorate Hogwarts' halls and surroundings, she does it all with a deft spin to keep Harry Potter's world from being one giant, cheesy pastiche. And even though Rowling seems to rely a bit on the Dumbledore ex machina to resolve the House Competition at the end, the conclusion to the mystery occupying the final third of the book is very satisfying. It is easy to see why her readers repeatedly return for more doses of Harry's world. <br />Viva Ravenclaw!	2002-01-18
US	52625903	R2N13TW5V0NBBS	0671019635	543514456	Family Man	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Triangle Man hates Family Man	For many years, I thought I had already read this book. Now, to be honest, I can't tell which of Jayne Ann Krentz' books I read in its place -- the similarities are just too blurring.<br />In FAMILY MAN, the familiar Krentz topics play themselves out in pretty good fashion: Set in Seattle along with the usual fictional Western Washington town, this novel features corporate intrigue, a sprawling family of eccentrics and artists (this time belonging to the hero), the hospitality industry, lost parents, food, generational grudges, and, oh yeah, sex. When she wrote this book, Krentz was still putting this stuff together in a manner that seemed fresh, and she had the space of a single-title novel to give the stories necessary polish. These attributes still show after several years, and the only thing that distinguishes this book from her similar efforts is the lack of outlandish character names.<br />This typical Krentz outing features Katy Wade, taken on as the personal assistant to the matriarch and CEO of Gilchrist, Inc., the firm managing a prominent chain of Seattle restaurants and a frozen gourmet dinner outlet. Madame Gilchrist crushed plenty of other people's dreams to make her way to the top, including those of Katie's own family. Katie's boss is not without remorse -- she's taken Katie on because of her guilt over the Wade family's demise. Now, Gilchrist, Inc., is mysteriously hemorrhaging, and Katie recruits reluctant family exile Luke, and his intrepid dog Zeke, to find out why the family business is collapsing.<br />Some of the book's recurring themes get hammered over and over again, but the effect of this may have been amplified as I was listening to this on tape. Sometimes it seems like Krentz will pound on a good idea until it's been squashed flat, a meaningless pulp all over the sidewalk. Also, in sections, the dialogue in this book is a bit clunkier than Krentz' best stuff, though, again, the laughable male interpretations by the tape's reader may havecompounded this.<br />Still, readers looking for their fix of the old Krentz formula will get a nice hit here, and new readers of Krentz would do a lot worse than this one in finding a book to sample here wares. Really, FAMILY MAN is very similar to the type of story that my wife used to successfully introduce me to romance novels, so, for me, it brings back good memories.	2002-01-16
US	52625903	RY3KUPCSOD6I6	0671877046	92373266	Glory Road	Books	5	3	3	N	N	On the road to misery and happiness	I've read a handful of Heinlein's novels, and I'll probably read a couple more. They're pretty easily identified -- his distinctive voice is usually detectable by the second sentence, no matter whether the point of view is that of a 14-year-old Boy Scout colonizing a Jovian moon, or that of a veteran courier for an intergalactic intelligence agency. Here, that voice seems to have found an interesting, and unusually appropriate, speaker in the form of a twenty-something American soldier coming off a nasty bayonet wound that ended his tour of duty in Vietnam.<br />Finding himself wandered into France, our man is recruited by a stunning nudist for some light mercenary work. Transported to a fantastic locale, our hero is rechristened &quot;Oscar&quot; while his new employer accepts the name &quot;Star.&quot; Suddenly, the light mercenary work is morphed into an intergalactic treasure quest.<br />The consequence of Heinlein throwing his voice so clearly into his protagonists is that they often end up seeming like slightly distorted versions of himself. It doesn't always work so well, making certain characters unbelievable, but it's almost perfect for Oscar, giving the character the right attitude as he takes on increasingly grueling physical, mental and emotional challenges as the book progresses. Star's a pretty good creation, a puzzlebox of a woman with so many layers and secrets that it will take more than Oscar's adaptability to handle her.<br />Not surprisingly, the Quest is just a sideshow, giving Heinlein a chance to explore sexual mores, the relationship between power and knowledge, and, of course, the absurdities of the American tax code. The novel drifts a bit at the end, but Heinlein uses the space to make few final satisfying points about the value of an adventurous personality. Clearly, this is a good novel to introduce yourself to a most unique writer.	2002-01-10
US	52625903	R1WB87XKSCQ3CW	0374332657	159975375	Holes (Newberry Medal Book)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A newfound appreciation for onions ... if only!	Convicted of a crime he didn't commit ...<br />That's probably not the most original way for an author to come up with a theme for his story, but everything else about this novel is pretty much an onion-tainted breath of fresh air.<br />The protagonist, an amiable everyloser improbably named Stanley Yelnats experiences chronic bad luck brought on by a family curse. In this case, a particularly bad wave of ill fate causes him to be sent to a boys work camp where the daily labor focuses on the bizarre task of hole digging. We're not talking ditches here, just holes. Mysterious and sadistic figures abound at the also improbably named Camp Green Lake, and nothing is quite as it seems, but it looks like Stanley is going to be too tired to care either way.<br />Still, a character's got to grow, and Louis Sachar has got to take credit for economically using every piece of this novel to create a story that is exciting, entertaining, and thought-provoking. A mini-family saga, Sachar doesn't shy away from serious issues, including a skeptical look at the youth penal system, along with some peeks at racial politics, both contemporary and nineteenth-century style. The wrap-up at the end seems hastily thrown-together, but it also throws the reader a nice lyrical bone.	2002-01-10
US	52625903	R8Q6PRW1SGEKG	1557100462	322496509	Thomas the Rhymer	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Thomas the Climber	Thomas the Rhymer<br />Drawing heavily on existing mythology, Ellen Kushner's novel THOMAS THE RHYMER relates the story previously told in ballad form. Expanding on the available verse, Kushner tells the story of a young and flashy balladeer, a dashing man who follows the courts of the powerful while maintaining a friendship with a farming couple and flirting with their comely neighbor. He disappears, mysteriously -- he's been taken by the Queen of Elfland to sing for her court and entertain her in her bed. After a tumultuous seven-year tenure by her throne, Thomas is returned to the world of humanity, unaged and unable to speak anything but the truth. He faces the challenge of reconnecting with those he left behind.<br />Kushner does an excellent job of creating the characters that populate the tale. The four primary characters are each given an Act in the story to narrate, with Thomas himself relating the tale of his semi-forced interplanar relocation. Kushner handles this so skillfully that she completely conveys the mud and the grime of the &quot;real&quot; world, but still allows it a powerful appeal that contrasts with the &quot;unreal&quot; beauty of the land of the elves. Each of these characters brings joy to their own existence and their jobs, especially Thomas, who rhymes as easily as he walks. It is these perspectives that give the story its air of tragedy when the characters lives are interfered with by wondrous forces.<br />In giving these people authentic voices, Kushner risks losing clarity at points when it would be useful for the story. These confusing points occasionally mar Thomas' trip to Wonderland, but otherwise, this is an elegant, and ultimately, very romantic read.	2001-12-18
US	52625903	R2WZXSADJQ9RPY	0061056405	920320505	Foundation and Chaos: The Second Foundation Trilogy	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Hari Seldon and the Robots of Doom!	Though twice as good (or half as bad) as its predecessor in this misguided series of Foundation filler books, Greg Bear's installment continues the ruination of the Foundation franchise begun with Asimov's own bridging novels. Asimov's original Foundation books are tight little novels with twists and surprises. The linking stories -- designed to provide continuity between the robot, galactic empire, and Foundation books -- end up destroying the magic that existed when all of the original topics stood alone.<br />Asimov's not-so-great idea of unifying his disparate storylines is carried to further depths with this Second Foundation trilogy, at least so far. Brought to you by writers who are allegedly the best in the field, they would seem ideally suited to carrying Asimov's torch.<br />Unfortunately, Gregory Benford's first volume made a hash of it, introducing cyberspace and two extremely annoying characters in the form of simulated Joan of Arc and Voltaire intelligences. In this book, Greg Bear gets the credit for cleaning up some of the mess. Here he brings to the fore a couple of interesting characters in the forms of extremely powerful telepaths. They foreshadow an important character in one of Asimov's original novels, representing the Chaos that threatens Seldon's theories. One of these characters has interesting potential, along with the novel's subplots involving competing robot conspiracies and yet even more imperial palace intrigues. But the whole thing ends with a whimper, disappointing by the standards established by both Asimov and Bear in their own books.	2001-12-18
US	52625903	R2BUUBOM75DIUJ	1896597459	29779272	The Golem's Mighty Swing	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Ring that bell!	Comics about history are rarities in this country. Comics about baseball are even more rare. Here, James Sturm has combined both to create an elegant graphic novel about a barnstorming squad in the 1920s. The gimmick behind this squad, The Stars of David, is that the players are all bearded Jews. Kind of.<br />The manager, fierce-looking Noah Strauss, a former bench player for the Red Sox, fields a team that also features his younger brother, Mo, a kid with huge potential if he can keep his head on straight. Mo's a little young to grow a beard, so he improvises. Noah also fudges the lineup by adding a former Negro-Leagues slugger, Henry Bell, billing him as Hershl Bloom, &quot;a member of the lost tribe.&quot; Barnstorming is a tough business, and, strapped for cash when the team bus dies, Noah accepts a promoter's offer of a big pay day if Henry will wear the recently acquired monster costume from the contemporary German horror movie smash, THE GOLEM.<br />The proposed match-up with an enhanced upstate New York factory team carries electrifying potential when the hype-machine rouses an anti-Semitic furor. Despite the tension he creates, artist Sturm delivers a narrative that captures the rhythms, suspense, and gamesmanship of a great baseball match. In this tale, he looks at what baseball means to its fans, what America looked like to its immigrants, and how both of these themes lend themselves to great storytelling. All this comes with clean, well-designed artwork that represents an object lesson on the principles of great comic art. Fans of non-superhero comics will enjoy this book for its craftsmanship, while fans of baseball history will love the story.	2001-11-23
US	52625903	R1UNWHVKSZ91ZJ	1567405487	560236737	Renaissance Man	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Renaissance Man, doing the things a renaissance can	This tape is the abridged version of a serial romance novel published in 1981, and re-issued more recently to capitalize on the Jayne Anne Krentz' more recent popularity. Fans of Krentz can find these reprints helpful; most of her earlier work, especially that published under the Stephanie James, can be difficult to come by.<br />[...] In many ways, reading RENAISSANCE MAN feels like reading an abridged novel already, with certain aspects of the story seeming severely underdeveloped.<br />Set in California, Alina Corey and Jared Troy haven't met, but they have engaged in a bitter battle over the unknown historical fate of a particular Italian courtesan and the wealthy mercenary who once bypassed her defenses, romanced her, and then disappeared. Thinking she has found the location of a document that could settle the matter, Alina uses Jared's name to acquire copies of the document. Tipped off to the scam, Jared Troy confronts the heroine, and, in true Krentz fashion, sparks fly immediately.<br />The gist of the novel lies in the way Alina has patterned her personal life after her historical ideal, populating her world with intelligent men kept at arms length. Likewise, Jared is a modern-day merchant-\\"warrior\\" -- his business acumen is so finely attuned that he has a computer installed in his home office just for tracking market conditions! In fact, Jared has noticed the similarities in the relationship between him and Alina and that of the renaissance-era lovers. He points it out to Alina, but not after Krentz has explicitly pointed them out to the reader, several times.<br />There is an extremely perfunctory suspense element, reduced further by the presence of only one likely villain. The romance develops roughly, largely because Krentz fails to adequately explain why Alina would disregard Jared's frequently obnoxious behavior. Furthermore, there is precious little of the dialogue that Krentz would become known for.<br />The story is not without some sly tricks, though. The fate of the renaissance lover's is left to the reader's imagination -- a potentially ambiguous ending that I'm not sure would make it into print, today. Ultimately, the lack of character depth is the real disappointment here. Jared is a businessman with a passion for history, and that is as complex as he gets.<br />Krentz fans should still try to check out these early books, because they provide an interesting view on her developing obsessions over the intersections of commerce and art, why still showcasing her dramatic sense of passion.	2001-11-19
US	52625903	R6NEX38Z88IHJ	0595176364	435110991	One Note Symphonies	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A medley of wild ideas	The unruly little stories in Sean Brijbasi's collection are hardly the &quot;one-note symphonies&quot; that the title suggests. Each item in this book offers a particularly intense view of a vaguely out-of-control universe, wherein two or three storylines intersect and produce the collision of sounds.<br />Looked at another way, an artfully constructed medley of one-note symphonies would resemble a song, a short one, but still, potentially, a tune, unless all of the symphonies consisted of the same note (thankfully not the case here), which would then be self-plagiarism. <br />Brijbasi tracks down many interesting ideas in these stories. Fortunately, he doesn't kill them, and mount them on the wall. Instead, he strokes the wild idea, rubbing it against the grain of the fur, making it more angry, wild, and beautiful. One such idea, treated well, is the relation of bird flight and coloring to the construction of music, both classical and jazz. One shudders to think which birds inform my current favorites: polka and grunge, but still ...<br />These stories are loosely interconnected. There are recurring characters, with their recurring sexual and sensual obsessions. Bicycles, trumpets, elephants, all return to wreak their presence in different locales. Though light-heartedness is mixed freely with very somber thoughts, the very intensity of the writing hampers the reader's ability to connect with the characters or the ideas. It is obvious that Brijbasi put a great deal of energy and thought into presenting his insights in a unique and artful presentation. Unfortunately, the effort shows in a manner that reminds the reader that the best writers, while expending no less energy, make the work appear effortless.<br />Still, an author that notes that all living matter consists of combinations (&quot;mutations&quot;) of pre-existing non-living elements just before he ruminates on mismatched leg sizes, this author certainly shows signs of promise.	2001-11-19
US	52625903	RKFBWEL9B6DH1	0671578286	644110908	Cordelia's Honor	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Maybe she should try &quot;shopping&quot; over the Net next time.	This is an interesting book to read early on if you are just getting into the Vorkosigan books. I came to CORDELIA'S HONOR, with some prodding from my wife, after finishing the most recent entry, A CIVIL CAMPAIGN, and it provides some much needed background to the history of the troubled planet Barrayar.<br />Focusing on Cordelia Naismith, this dual-novel covers her introduction to/capture by &quot;The Butcher of Komarr,&quot; Aral Vorkosigan. Aral may have a terrible reputation, only partially deserved, but he sees the strength and intelligence in his prisoner, and they ally against his formidable internal enemies.<br />The first novel follows Aral and Cordelia as they meet and separate repeatedly. It isn't paced especially well, but the conclusion exemplifies the devious but draconian nature of the political world facing our heroes. The second book concludes Cordelia's saga as more Barrayaran turmoil threatens the new family that she is trying to build.<br />Cordelia is a joy to read about because the reader is allowed to see everything in her that Aral does. Though Bujold does put her through the wringer, her weary triumph is moving and hopeful. Wry humor punctuates even some of the most grim and horrific events, making this a read that is easy to swallow.<br />This is a political novel, with very little to interest those interested in hard scientific speculation. Intrigues abound, personalities and agendas drive the plot. Some of the situations are a little clichd, or preposterous (including a near-rape by an arch-villain, sort of), but each are given a melancholy touch. Triumphs rarely lack their collateral damage in these stories.<br />My chief regret about Cordelia, though, is that for all the differences between her and her son Miles (the focus of the other Vorkosigan books), they both speak from the same voice. I was hoping for something a bit more distinct. Still, this flaw does very little to detract from the fun.	2001-10-30
US	52625903	R15VX778OR37TB	0451402448	56477257	Uncommon Vows (Onyx)	Books	3	5	8	N	N	I forgot how I felt about this book	Romances consists of about a quarter of my recreational reading, and have done so for about six years, now. I've been led to believe that amnesia storylines are not unusual plot devices in this field, so I was kind of surprised, and now grateful, that I never bumped into one until I read this book. <br />Dispensing with the praise first, Mary Jo Putney writes good characters, with complex heroes and heroines. They have the messy internal contradictions and battles that make for very engaging reading. All this is complemented by a confident writing style that would be enough to carry the reader through the normal plot, characterization, and historical inconsistencies which one must expect in a novel. Putney also makes excellent use of a huge (for the time) plate window with a commanding view that is just screaming to be smashed most cinematically.<br />Plotting, though, is where this book stumbles. Not only does this romance rely on The Misunderstanding and The Deception to drive the initial conflict between the hero and heroine, but the introduction of the amnesia device steers it right over the cliff. A nice, tense medieval romance can carry itself just fine without a Gilligan's Island-style plot complication. <br />That said, the story does offer some genuine surprises in the form of tactical errors -- that might also offend the reader's modern sensibilities -- made by the normally forward-thinking hero, as well as a curiously melancholic showdown at the end. If Putney had made the villain less cartoonish, the whole thing would have felt much more satisfying.	2001-10-17
US	52625903	R33M7UTH6KVLYH	0380788624	555229230	Cryptonomicon	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I never could stand Cap'n Crunch	Really. Maybe the reason is because I never tried the super-duper Cap'n Crunch munching methodology described in excruciating detail. Frankly, it sounds like too much work.<br />Stephenson's writing is very much about the details. His memorable explanations of all the different situations facing several characters over two different timelines and three different settings allowed me to pick up and set down this book over nine months. At about 100 pages a month, it's difficult to become attached to the characters involved, but I never lost my way in the story. <br />Frankly, not coming to grips with the character is not that big of a problem with this book. Character definition is not Stephenson's best skill, especially [...] the female characters. Nevertheless, most of the story is told from nerd-centric points-of-view, so the portrayals of women as mysterious and objects of desire is maybe not that inappropriate. Still, Stephenson might have done better to develop a female lead. Also, fans of his work are probably familiar with and reconciled to his crashing endings, but new readers could easily be put off with a conclusion that ends as abruptly as an action movie.<br />Issues of sexism, academia, cryptography and military intelligence, and the contemporary global distribution of techno-wealth are covered glibly, but in far greater detail and with much more thought than in just about any other novel, and most of this stuff is handled in a very entertaining fashion. Stephenson only pulls a few cheap shots, so that the final tone for the book is enlightening, sophisticated with a philosophical underpinning that he spells out rather too-clearly at the conclusion.<br />It is hard to recommend Stephenson's book to just anyone. Anybody that has heard good things about him but doesn't like science fiction should check this out. I would also recommend this book to anyone with a passing interest in at least two of the four topics described above. CRYPTONOMICON was fun read,a refreshing well that I could dip into for almost an entire year, and I'm kind of sad that I won't be able to savor it the same way again.	2001-09-22
US	52625903	R2EX2OMGNT3ECZ	0822319241	968508634	The Queen of America Goes to Washington City: Essays on Sex and Citizenship (Series Q)	Books	2	25	32	N	N	Can Lisa Simpson Save Us From Our Cultural Baby-Craze?	Lauren Berlant's book contains a series of essays concerning issues of sex and citizenship, though it may be a bit too much to hope that each section deals with both topics. The title itself refers to a cultural perception of innocence and how it relates to the seat of state power. Of course, power corrupts and innocence is tainted, disillusioned.<br />As with most texts of this type, a careful reading of the introduction will acquaint the reader with the author's ideas and intentions. This is important, because it is likely that in readinging the essays that constitute the majority of the remainder of the book, it is entirely possible to lose track of these ideas. The reward-to-effort involved in reading these essays is minimal, and I felt ripped off. It is also important to check the footnotes: Berlant hides some useful information that adds light to her story (such as the fact that Newt Gingrich not-very-noisily encouraged Republicans to become less hostile to gays).<br />In her essays, Berlant uses a wide variety of source documents -- her \\"archive\\" -- to provide the cues for her analysis. She picks and chooses context at will: The fact that The Simpsons' format requires all characters to forgo any growth is ignored (Lisa couldn't end an episode embittered against the structures of state power, even if it would be appropriate), but factors the creators have no control over (the local TV station places a military recruitment ad in a broadcast of a syndicated episode) are noted. The extreme selectivity of her sources, in my eyes, makes many of her conclusions suspect. In a few other cases, such as when she looks at the cover stories of several issues of TIME magazine to find messages about immigration and citizenship, her selections seem most appropriate. <br />Each reader will probably have their own sense of how well Berlant chose her source material. Since \\"your mileage may vary,\\" I will list several chapters along with the sources chosen.<br />1 - \\"The Theoryof Infantile Citizenship\\" - Audre Lorde's childhood trip to D.C., an episode of The Simpsons (\\"Mr. Lisa Goes to Washington\\"), the movie IN COUNTRY. Also, the movies MR. SMITH GOES TO WASHINGTON and THE LITTLEST REBEL provide further context for the critique of The Simpsons episode. Are sweet, innocent little children the ideal citizens? Even if they ask a presidential candidate what type of underwear he wears?<br />2 - \\"Live Sex Acts\\" - This analysis over various censorship controversies looks at the pivotal figures in the debates from the late 80s and early 90s. Former NEA director John Frohmeyer's memoir LEAVING TOWN ALIVE; some NEA projects, like the zines LIVE SEX ACTS and QUEER CITY; anti-porn criticism from the likes of Andrea Dworkin and the Meese Commision; Tipper Gore's HOW TO RAISE PG KIDS IN AN X-RATED SOCIETY (and I was just beginning to like her again after the election) and a variety of images of Jerry Falwell. Gotta keep those little kids sweet and innocent.<br />3 - \\"America, 'Fat,' and the Fetus\\" - If sweet, innocent little children are ideal citizens, what does that make fetuses? Berlant takes on the nations fetus fetish, and it isn't pretty. The archive includes the movies ONCE AROUND, LOOK WHO'S TALKING (and its first sequel) and INNERSPACE; pro-Life propaganda like THE SILENT SCREAM and THE ECLIPSE OF REASON; Raymond Carver's story \\"Fat\\"; two episodes of I LOVE LUCY concerning Lucy's pregnancy; LIFE magazine's famous pre-natal imagery; and, finally, videotapes of Berlant's nephew, covering his sonogram, birth, and first birthday. <br />It kind of goes on like that, but further highlights include the return of The Simpsons when Queer Bart is taken up as a gay icon, pilgrimages to the capitol by slaves, fictitious and real, and a \\"gallery\\" of images related to the topics of the essays, including the, uh, bracing cover to Tom Ace's magazine. [....] I would not recommend Berlant's book to non-academic types. Trying to apply Berlant's reasoning to items other than her \\"archives\\" might be asking for trouble, and her prose is often tedious in its construction. Further, some of her archive material and topicality seems unfortunately dated. I've been told this is some of Berlant's most clear and incisive writing, which strikes me as kind of sad.	2001-09-19
US	52625903	R3O2G4TKFB85LV	0441117732	231473731	Count Zero	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Who needs a global village when you can have global sprawl?	Clearly, the visions presented within Gibson's books have been hugely inspirational for other writers. When this was written, The Sprawl was seen as a not too distant future for the North-American eastern seaboard, just as &quot;Pugetopolis&quot; was seen as a Pacific Northwest mini-sprawl following I-5, leading up to Vancouver.<br />I have seen the characters from Count Zero in countless other stories since then. In movie, in stories, they've had different names, and though it would be foolish to suggest that Gibson created these archetypes, he did have a big part in placing them in the hyper-networked distopian futureverse, where they will forever live, die, and rent time-share condos.<br />Dropping straight into the world of Count Zero might leave the reader a little confused: some of the economic realities are a little unclear. For instance, how dire is Marly's economic situation because she's been fired from her job? Is her survival at stake, or simply her career in her chosen field? Gibson never entirely makes it clear why her instincts are so crucial to her nearly omniscient employer.<br />The gaps in explanation are often irritating, especially as they seem to exist for the sole purpose of maintaining the tone of the environment, the characters, and the dialogue. I can't help but wonder if these things could have been explained without losing the art that is at the heart of the story. These issues become very important as the story draws to its conclusion.<br />Still, this is a very competent exploration of ambition, religion, and sacrifices made for friends and freedom. In that sense, it seems like an oddly relevant story these days.	2001-09-18
US	52625903	RSRO1X2WFF51	1560973838	281068043	Whoa Nellie Collection (Love and Rockets Collection)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	If Rocky deserved an Oscar than this deserved a Pulitzer	This book collects a three-issue series that Jaime Hernandez created shortly after the initial gazillion-year run of LOVE AND ROCKETS. Those familiar with Jaime's work will be comfortable with his simplified drawing and eminently likable characters.<br />WHOA, NELLIE! is a wholesale tribute to women's wrestling -- the book contains several pages of &quot;pin-ups&quot; -- that contains all the narrative ups and downs of an actual bout. Rules are broken, the goods guys are winning, the good guys are losing, and then, well, anyway, it's all about loyalty. Xochitl &quot;The Terrible&quot; and Gina are an aspiring tag-team that appeared initially in LOVE AND ROCKETS. Working out of Vicki Glory's stable, they have to fight each other, several formidable opponents (including the terrifying Birmingham Lady Bashers), and, of course, the weird distortions of reality forced on the players in the wrestling universe. Who can be sure of their standing in the pecking order if you can't remember whether you're &quot;good&quot; or &quot;bad&quot; depending on which part of Texas you're in?<br />The dreams and friendships of Xochitl and Gina are innocent and naive, and their about to get stomped by some old fashioned real-world politics. WHOA, NELLIE! is a classic sports story, told in an entirely unique fashion. A thoroughly gratifying read.	2001-08-10
US	52625903	RFLIK7LAHRDEI	0679722564	570736767	The Swimming-Pool Library	Books	3	6	9	N	N	The Sauna Archives	This novel is probably different from anything else you will ever read. A tale of mentorship, treachery, lust, it presents two characters of remarkable similarity, their situations largely the result of the history and the generations between them. Young William Beckwith, a carefree man and aristocratic scion, gleefully moves from encounter to encounter, all the while attempting to enjoy a couple of long-term relationships. <br />After a couple of meetings with elderly Lord Nantwich, Beckwith is recruited to review his diaries. While both agree that a biography is the ultimate potential outcome of the examination, Beckwith is less than eager to launch himself into the world of responsibility and commitments. He reads the books in scattershot manner, never letting his interest in the older man get in the way of his funtime.<br />The diaries themselves offer brief glimpses of life as an aristocratic gay man in early 20th-century Colonial Africa. Inevitably, that lifestyle would disappear with the second world war, just like Beckwith's wanton existence would (post-novel) be irrevocably altered by an impending health crisis. All this lends a rather somber mood to the whole affair. Wafting throughout the novel is the fragrance of &quot;Trouble for Men.&quot; <br />After the initial set-up, the novel seems stuck in place for the first two-thirds, leaving increasingly tiresome sex scenes to interest the reader. That is probably the book's greatest flaw, but the presence of &quot;Trouble&quot; is increasingly felt and Beckwith's family history is brought up in a manner that will change his attitudes. Predictably, the sex becomes more interesting at that point. The novel proceeds to end in daring fashion.	2001-07-17
US	52625903	RNTCV223B1K1L	0802713432	654799136	Galileo's Daughter: A Historical Memoir of Science, Faith, and Love	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Galileo's Daughter, a few friends, enemies, employees ...	As is the case with most books, the benefits that Galileo's Daughter brings to the reader largely have to do with what the reader already knows. In this case, the book has a great deal to offer to somebody whose idea of Galileo is limited to his role as the icon of rationality or as the topic of an Indigo Girls song. It provides a (presumably) competent distillation of the scientist-philosopher's most public accomplishments and conflicts. In this, the author goes overboard with the detail on occasion, especially in the constant references to Galileo's dialogue texts. Still, for the reader who knows little of him, the book is a good place to start.<br />What takes this book beyond the normal popular biography is the additional view of the the astronomer's private life. The letters of Galileo's daughter, written in the night's darkest hours from her convent cell, provice Sobel with an opportunity to explore Galileo's family life, estate management, and other trivial details. By providing us with his daughter's voice, Sobel makes Galileo more human, and less of a symbol.<br />While letting us see Galileo, the family man, Sobel also uses the letters as a chance to explore the political and public issues that helped and hindered Galileo. Church politics, naturally, played a role in Galileo's fate, but so did fears of the plague. Earlier on, as an acadamecian, Galileo could not marry, thus his female offspring were sent to live in a convent.<br />As many have pointed out, Suor Maria Celeste is not the focus of the book: instead, she provides an opportunity to re-examine her father's life. Nor should she be given short shrift: while Sobel documents the devastating effect her death had on Galileo, she was clearly an important asset to her convent, which probably suffered much from her loss.<br />A bit dry and uninvolved in parts, this is still a well-written popular biography of an extremely important figure, but the true value for this book lies in its pictures of daily life.	2001-07-17
US	52625903	R1VZGEK3I612YU	0394914686	33784925	Magic at Wychwood.	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Good-natured fun	It is hard to tell what this book actually feels like, since I read the most easily attainable copy (as an e-book). The setting is some sort of fractured medieval fairyland, and most of the conflicts derive from characters that yearn to fit in to their pre-defined roles in the universe, and it would be very nice if everybody else would do their part as well.<br />The most central character is the Princess Elaine, who bucks the trend and wants to have fun. When the world is conspiring to make a wilting (but proper) princess out of her, her recourse is to find friends of a magical variety. Over time, just about everybody she encounters wishes she would just be a good princess.<br />Would-be wizards and knights, animated objects, cats, transformed guards, evil fairy godmothers, and non-believing instructors, all interact in a series of five romps in which these fairly light tensions play out. The humor ranges from the sophisticated to the broad: in many ways, it reads like Phillip Pullman's earlier stories.<br />This is an entertaining book, and I'm going to try reading it to my niece, but I wouldn't recommend paying the price that the auctioneers seem to be asking for.	2001-06-25
US	52625903	R3O02BNF0FZ0XK	0312054262	417669698	The Eighth Rank (Dreamers of the Day, Book 2)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Pound for pound	This sequel to THE ARGUS GAMBIT takes right off where the first book stopped. The author's plotting continues to spin off in countless directions, so that any no character, or story, really threatens to take off and run away with the entire book.<br />At the core of the story is a solution for humanity, which has become overpopulated and faces rationing: a prospect that has surprisingly few political consequences for President Shefferton, who has managed to rapidly persuade the American people to start dropping their isolationist guards while also funding a space-based artificial photosynthesis system.<br />Naturally, the forces of &quot;good&quot; face potential doom, at the hands of both the revitalized Soviet Communists, and Horatius J. Krebs and his monopolistic (and aptly named) Python Industries. The latter is a bit surprising, given the author's &quot;Libertarian/Objectivist&quot; leanings. Maybe it only seem's odd because of the Objectivists' defense of Bill Gates and the Microsoft monopoly, but, the author only lets the political speechifying escape every once in a while.<br />It's all pretty entertaining, but some plot threads are left dangling, and others in surprisingly abrupt fashion. Characterization is a bit spotty, sometimes drifting a bit above, but more frequently settling at the Tom Clancy level. The most complex character, ex-cop Mel Hardrim, is at turns, lunk-headed, hard-boiled, lovelorn, and yet a capable member of a secret society of super-intellectual scientists. Female character's get short shrift, even the VPOTUS.<br />Still, it's a page-turner, with some interesting dilemmas, some decent near-future speculation, and a portrayal of DC politics that seems almost innocent to someone who's watched THE WEST WING for a couple of years now.	2001-06-12
US	52625903	R250UT123HIDGM	0374283923	150979101	The Vintner's Luck: A Novel	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Wine and pickles	It is unfortunate that the Kirkus Review comparing this book to THE GOD OF SMALL THINGS, is featured prominently. I feel that the comparisons are simplistic: non-Americans confront issues of spirituality in family settings that include food and beverage production businesses. But the way each book deals with issues of structure, chronology, plotting, characterisation, and, of course, theology, are radically different.<br />THE VINTNER'S LUCK should stand (and fall) on its own merits. But if comparisons must be drawn, one might look at how Neil Gaiman characterizes religious mythology in his fiction. Heaven and Hell are made real, as are Lucifer, God, and a host of angels, all given motivations and decisions to make.<br />This would all work out pretty well, but Knox chooses an intuitively obvious structure for conveying her plot: one chapter for each year that takes place. This makes sense, except that the angel and the vintner engage in lovers spats. It draws the events of the novel out longer than necessary. Knox cheats the structure a couple of times as well, when it suits her to draw chapter endings in more conventionally dramatic fashion.<br />We're allowed to see the life of the vintner, but the experiences of the angel are related to us by him, in small bursts. Thus, we are given portraits only of secondary characters in the vintner's life. Of those, only his friend and employer, the Baroness, is vividly painted. For that matter, the vintner's character is muddled, as the themes of the book are played out within him.<br />Ultimately, THE VINTNER'S LUNK is an interestingly imagined tale, but doesn't always handle its characters and plotting well in order to present a cohesive end-product. On the plus side, you don't need to be a wine connoisseur to enjoy it.	2001-06-04
US	52625903	R1SJLZPFXCXCTO	0060977493	521720988	The God of Small Things	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Muggy	At a bowling alley, after a you have knocked the carefully arranged pins all asunder, they lay scattered, ruins, victims of havoc wreaked by a crushing weight applied rapidly. Most modern American bowling alleys have installed useful equipment that sweeps up the chaos, and resets the pins, ready to get smashed again. Most modern American bowling alleys are also experienced with the phenomenom of having this equipment get jammed. THE GOD OF SMALL THINGS is a lot about sitting at the end of the alley, staring at the strewn remains of the catastrophic event, for, oh, 23 years.<br />The reason I use such a clumsy metaphor is that it is also mundane (and cliche). THE GOD OF SMALL THINGS brings an exotic setting, with exotic stresses, and makes it accessible to those of us who will never know India, and it's amazing history. By placing the events of the story amongst semi-familiar contexts -- TV-watching, THE SOUND OF MUSIC, expensive cars, Elvis records, family businesses, Christians (instead of Hindus), divorce and star-crossed love -- Arundhati Roy gives us a protective veil through which we can examine the &quot;exotic&quot; aspects of her otherwise conventional fable -- caste society, foreign language, colonialism, and of course, a viable, diable Communist Party.<br />Frequently, tales that use the unraveling of memory to examine a repressed traumatic event do not interest me. In this case, Roy also kept herself busy creating new ways to use the language of children and other small things. At times it seems precious, at other times is lightens the way, and sometimes it just seems to bog things down. I generally do not respond well to this type of writing, but Roy seems to handle it nicely, and it provides a good disguise for the familiar traumas. Nevertheless, the language ultimately gives the story, as a whole, a sticky, sweaty feel, muggy, just like Ayemenem in 1969.	2001-05-02
US	52625903	R4ULMHU2XU4KE	0553262505	826884658	A Wizard of Earthsea (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Otak charmer	It's interesting that Le Guin is now returning to Earthsea, first with her new collection of stories, apparently to be followed with another novel. It is telling that she has created a marvelous invention -- despite all promises, even she can't help returning to the scene.<br />It starts off well. A WIZARD OF EARTHSEA is an intense starting point. It describes a harsh realm, where, even with the aid of everpresent magic, life is tough, and survival is eked out. From here, Le Guin launches her fable of Ged, the Sparrowhawk, an intensely talented but brash young man. The consequences of his pride are unleashed in dramatic fashion, and ultimately he must confront the dark forces of life.<br />There is nothing glib, and dark surprises abound. Le Guin moves the story along at a reasonable pace, with a disappointingly (but probably necessarily) compact conclusion. Highly recommended.	2001-05-02
US	52625903	R1YL1FYNP5AMWJ	0446603775	972640933	Dawn (Xenogenesis, Bk. 1)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Tentacled humanoids -- it must be sci-fi	The late 80s edition that I have is one of those with a white Lilith on the cover. That's kind of freaky, you know.<br />Octavia Butler's story is an interesting variant on a couple of cheesy SF tropes -- Aliens have come to save us from our own destructiveness. But wait, they've kidnapped us and performed bizarre biological experiments on us, and they need us for our reproductive capacity (Mars needs women!). Tentacled alien weirdoes are manipulating us for their own nefarious purposes.<br />Butler makes all these ideas fresh, well except for maybe the tentacles part. She clearly thought a great deal about the repercussions of the various plot elements, while creating a sincere survivor of a heroine, Lilith Iyapo. There are essays on the web that show how Butler was way ahead of her time in her speculations on the possibilities of genetic research and manipulation.<br />While slightly faulting her for never adequately explaining what made the visage of the aliens so horrendous for her characters, Butler's scenario is a refreshing antidote to the &quot;Survivor&quot; phenomenom plaguing our airwaves right now -- Lilith must select from amongst a human population in suspended animation to build a cohort that will help her escape her island. The tension increases as disparate personalities and other would-be leaders are added to the group. I think it is a testament to Butler's ability (or my lack of imagination) that I didn't expect the ending at all.	2001-04-08
US	52625903	R28F0W0KY2FHQX	014028091X	440273884	T.C. Boyle Stories	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Deeper! We must go deeper!	In &quot;Rapture of the Deep,&quot; one of the more than 60-plus brilliantly realized stories collected here, Jacques Cousteau confronts a crew starved for the culinary comforts of land. Cousteau seeks to explore the dark and bizarre landscapes, the truly remote regions of the planet, to document the life that desperately struggles in harsh and exacting circumstances.<br />You can tell where I'm going here, right? T.C. Boyle is our Cousteau, and he takes short little voyages in his literary bathyscape, taking us to meet all sorts of strange, colorful creatures, people living in remote corners of the world. Or, like the blind sea-life who do not need eyesight to understand their universe, his self-centered humanity can't see around their own immediate aims.<br />In as comprehensive a collection as this, there are bound to be quite a few clunkers. The surprise is how few there are. Boyle's vision of people and their dreams, their impact, their victories and losses, their neighborhoods is about as diverse as the entire planet has to offer. Vignettes, fables, speculative jokes, romances, tragedies, and just plain absurd, the range is amazing.	2001-03-19
US	52625903	R29AKVM8JWD5G8	0671019740	625458726	Heart of Fire (Pocket Books Romance)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Amazons	The last romance that I read was really horrible, so this one, in contrast, looks like sheer genius. What it actually is underscores the things that I do appreciate about good romance novels.<br />Things that Linda Howard does right includes creating well-defined and interesting characters. In this case, her ambitious archaeologist heroine and rough-neck river guide hero are well-suited for building tension during a danger-filled trek up the Amazon Basin. <br />Howard's intelligence as a writer shines in her restraint. Her straight-forward narration works well for this adventure story; no showy vocabulary,  she uses her language like a professional. There's also an unusual amount of violence for a romance, but it is appropriate considering the manner in which she develops the bad guys.<br />Mind you, the supporting characters aren't particularly complex, and the circumstances that ultimately drive the heroine into the hero's arms may seem a little dubious. Nevertheless, this was my first Linda Howard novel, and I will probably be out looking for more now.	2001-02-18
US	52625903	R2KUHF8IVYK2F4	0843944463	561149778	Mine to Take (Futuristic Romance)	Books	2	15	21	N	N	Wigamabob!	Normally, I don't give a writer like Dara Joy a second chance, but Rejar was sufficiently amusing, and its problems reasonably fixable, that I felt like it would be fair to try again. And, hey, Mine to Take has a fairly provocative cover.<br />So, it could be said that I had a pretty good idea what I was getting into. And I think that it is fair to say that Ms. Joy managed to eliminate many of the annoying tics that suggested that she was exceedingly pleased with her own prose. Nevertheless, the constant breathlessness is still present. Everything (not just the sex) is just so obvious. And when she foreshadows plotlines for future books, she absolutely pounds the reader over the head.<br />Let's be clear: as evidenced by the abundance of positive reviews, this type of book fulfills some sort of romantic fiction need. That's OK, but if, like me, you read romances for stories that involve complex characters, witty and charged dialogue, and the emotional charge that comes from developing an interest in the successful outcome (the Happily Ever After), you might find Ms. Joy's delivery a bit lacking. Ultimately, Mine To Take revolves around a series of sex scenes that take place in unusual places (a dungeon, a tree, a cave, a seedy tavern), covered in the trappings of intergalactic fantasy. Character development and dialogue seems more like an afterthought designed to propel the series to later books. In fact, the only character's that really change and grow are heroes from past novels or future ones.<br />Mine to Take suffers in comparison to Rejar in at least one key regard: Rejar mostly takes place on Earth, and the familiarity allows the user to sympathize with the heroes fish-out-of-water predicament. Mine To Take takes place on several different worlds, entirely creations of the author's imagination. Here, she fails to give these alien environments enough depth to make them an additive presence to her stories. One short guide-like alien who talks in oddly parsed sentences is named Wigamabob (or I-can't-think-of-a-name-and-Yoda-is-already-taken).<br />So, in a nutshell: Mine To Take - good with the sex scenes, some of them memorable, but if you're looking for that perfect melange of romance and science-fiction or fantasy, you may wish to look elsewhere.	2001-01-31
US	52625903	R15SLFK70LWBC3	0671578278	784554812	A Civil Campaign: A Comedy of Biology and Manners	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Fun Story	This is a hugely entertaining read. Bujold has created vivid characters and placed them in extraordinary dilemmas. She whisks the story through several remarkably charged scenes, and doesn't let the reader relax.<br />A reader who is new to the Vorkosigan series (like I was), will probably be immensely frustrated at the huge amount of back story that surrounds the players. The crucial details are eventually explained, though, in some respects, the reader is left in the dark in ways that certain characters are, so, no, it doesn't make a good &quot;starting point.&quot; New readers may find themselves scratching their heads. Unfortunately, despite her apparently devoted fanbase, none of Bujold's ardent readers have seemed to built up an up-to-date web-site reference to Vorkosigan universe.<br />But the real point of the novel, despite its obvious fixture as a shifting point in an epic series, is the development of the characters. It is clear that Bujold gives great thought to the emotional drives of each person she writes about. This is the value of the story, and where it shines.	2001-01-16
US	52625903	R2R4S10D7A1UDB	0860919781	369805916	America	Books	2	16	24	N	N	Surprisingly unoriginal	Though there are a scattering of trenchant ideas thrown about, there is very little of actual substance to chew on here. The best food for thought comes when the author compares the United States to his French homeland, where his critical eye examines the banalities of both the Old and the New World. <br />The detached examination of American cultural myths does get tedious at points, though Baudrillard pops off a few one-liners here and there to keep the reader awake, and the well-chosen photos punctuate the book nicely.	2000-12-28
US	52625903	R1UIAY4OHUHD4L	156947012X	835538748	The Liar	Books	4	3	3	N	N	What does a Lyre Bird sound like?	While stalled in my reading of Neal Stephenson's Cryptonomicon, I started, and finished (a relatively quick read for me), this hilarious story by this noted British personality (and I mean that in the nicest way). I note Cryptonomicon because A) Bletchley Park and Turing are also mentioned here, but B) there is a strong theme of disinformation ladeled throughout the book.<br />In fact, in a couple of neat paragraphs, Fry manages to communicate a couple of Stephenson's main points, many of which take dozens of pages to express in Cryptonomicon. None of this is to fault Stephenson; the point is that Fry's work, is compact, hilarious, and discusses the interpersonal and emotional aspects of deception. Stephensons is rambling, hilarious, and more interested in the mathematical and cryptographic implications required for international deception. Oh yeah, Fry's got more sex. Lots of it. Really. <br />His use of setting works well when it seems familiar territory: the British &quot;public&quot; school, apparently grown a bit more civilized since the days of &quot;If...&quot; and Cambridge. The brief satires of Academic eccentricity and procedure are probably the funniest sections in the book. The protagonist also, memorably, &quot;works&quot; briefly as a Piccadilly street hustler. Unfortunately, the story explodes into a shambles when it turns into a dis-assembled parody of a spy thriller (another quintessentially British theme). One may end up reading the novel feeling like Eddie Murphy and Dan Aykroyd at the end of &quot;Trading Places,&quot; after they've found that their fates were cast about simply for a $1 bet. Others may like it that way.	2000-12-11
US	52625903	ROA8EHBVOFSW5	0345324382	208109050	Farmer in the Sky	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Tell me about the Jovian rabbits, George	Actually, I was pretty surprised by this one -- I'm not much of a fan of Heinlein, but his characters are compelling enough to drag me through this very episodic book.<br />Despite the fact that everybody talks pretty much the same way that they do in other Heinlein books, and some characters obviously exist to make philosophical points, or to die conveniently, the main protagonist has enough depth to shift his point of view convincingly (except for some wild swings at the end), and not be the perfect Boy Scout. This book shows its age, but its still clearly thought out with many interesting ideas.	2000-11-27
US	52625903	R3SIMCQ99QQU20	0445210249	624524242	Pockets of Resistance	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Hackers and genetically engineered diseases	This is a fun little apocalyptic action-romp by science fiction/fantasy writer William Sanders. Apparently publication was delayed on this book for about 17 years. If your into tales of tough guys fighting against authoritarian regimes, this is right up your alley.<br />The plotting isn't especially amazing, and some of the characters surprise, but the best part is poking through this thing and seeing what Sanders would anticipate about our country's technological, political and social development.	2000-11-25
US	52625903	RTU59LAZIUVGQ	0812550234	622239218	Primary Inversion (The Saga of the Skolian Empire)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Primary Inversion	Asaro already hooked me on Soz when I read her short &quot;Aurora in Four Voices&quot; in an Analog magazine a couple of years ago. I then keyed my wife into the serialized novel (also in Analog) that will be &quot;The Quantum Rose&quot; and she then skimmed through all the easily available Skolian books in the library. I'm finally just now getting into the novels, here, and I'm impressed.<br />The hints that she drops here and there about the scope of her universe are insanely tantalizing, and in Sauscony Valdoria, Asaro's got one of the more fascinating science-fiction creations. The ambitious story and the narrative gambles payoff well, even if most of the physical action scenes take place in the first third. <br />I only wished that Asaro's given herself an opportunity to flesh out the character of Jaibriol Qox, a matter that I suspect is rectified in the sequels. Still this book stands alone, the conclusion is very satisfying.	2000-11-15
US	52625903	R1PEMX5PFNYSBG	0689817215	491485249	The View from Saturday	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Filling your pen	On the surface, this is a tale of four children who bond together prior to being selected by their wheelchair-bound 6th grade teacher for an academic competition. There are simple pleasures, as the five overcome adversity to climb the ladders of success while less mature types are left behind. But this is a book that is much more complex. Each child brings some piece to the puzzle, and the book becomes less and less about a competition, and more and more about a journey, about caring, about patience, and about filling your pen. A very good read, and I suspect it is unusual in that it offers sixth graders a fairly realistic look at how their teachers may feel about them.	2000-11-01
US	52625903	RMIDUJ5IWE3E6	0451406141	162145347	Shattered Rainbows	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fallen Angels	This is about as solid a romance as you could hope for. Putney's characters are well-drawn, the story is excellently paced, and most scenes are very richly written. Her research into the time period shows. She creates some truly unique and original dilemmas which I haven't seen explored fully in romances. I enjoyed the book thoroughly.<br />Some small warnings: the hero and heroine are perfect fits for angst-ridden romance, some of the requisite scenes of brotherly reconciliation seem a little forced, and, considering the novel-manner in which the relationship between hero and heroine builds, the action-packed conclusion seemed surprisingly conventional. This is also the nth book in a series about boyhood friends who grow up to be &quot;Fallen Angels,&quot; so there are a few in-jokes scattered throughout. <br />Overall, this should be considered a highly recommended romance.	2000-10-31
US	52625903	R1WK413O2AN9WG	0684848783	223960215	'Tis: A Memoir	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Ragged Frank	McCourt finished his first book rather shamelessly, returning as a young man to New York City. 'Tis a great country -- knowing that most of his readers are American. It's an uplifting, patriotic image, the young man returning to the land of dreams.<br />Except maybe 'tisn't such a great country after all. Maybe it's just merely another ordinary country, with it's attendant racial, ethnic and class conflicts, all explored rather deftly in this second autobiographical volume. While I was skeptical of the authenticity of Angela's Ashes, 'Tis goes along way in filling up the holes and making the first book more, er, real. The consequences of his miserable childhood existence become evident, as Frank deals with his father's family, his own relationship with the bottle, etc.<br />Nevertheless, with the help of some beneficient advisors, Frank learns to avoid extravagance, and saves a little money each week, after nobly setting aside a generous portion of his earnings for his destitute mother. His pluck and ingenuity help him to succeed in all his ventures, whether contracting as a maintenance engineer for the Biltmore hotel, or shaking down his reluctant high school students. In just a matter of a few decades, he has accumulated enough wealth that he proclaims himself to be Francis McCourt, Esq., a man of property. Well, okay, he inherited the downpayment for his brownstone from an eccentric neighbor, but there is the exciting sequence where he leaps off the Staten Island Ferry to save his drowning future wife. I'm sure that Horatio Alger would have been exceedingly proud of how young Frank conducted himself, especially after the very classy Civic Wedding sequence.<br />Anyway, this book is a very necessary follow-up to Angela's Ashes. Some readers, their hearts ache for the poor miserable child in Liverpool, probably won't be able to handle the fact that he grows up, and proves to be very, excitedly, human. But for the bigger picture, you must read the second book.	2000-10-23
US	52625903	R1X01GM17SXQCV	0571057071	710338273	End of Term	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Books for Breakfast!	Oddly enough, these books were recommended to me by a &quot;collaborative  filter&quot; program -- a website that matches me with people that have  similar reading tastes, and then recommends books to me based on what my  matches like. I have a difficult time imagining the Amazon recommender  doing that.<br />I started with The Cricket Term, and loaned it to a friend,  who immediately got hooked and acquired all of Antonia Forest's other  school books. Now I'm reading her copies. I think we both like the books  for much the same reasons -- the character's are incredibly complex and  developed throughout the series. Carefully plotted, these imperfect  children face crushing disappointment and bittersweet triumph.<br />Arriving  for her second year at Kingscote with her smallish raptor, The Sprog,  Nicola Marlow is faced with early disappointment when the rival of her  older sister uses her influence to keep her off the netball team. Likewise,  her twin Lawrence, is denied a choice part in the Christmas play when the  headmistress casts the actresses on the basis of virtue as opposed to  actual talent (No &quot;Best Christmas Pageant Ever&quot; here!). With  older sisters Karen (gone to Oxford) and Rowan (dropped out to run the new  family farm!) out of the picture, pious Ann is now the senior Marlow at  Kingscote, and of course, she is Mary. Miranda West, the snooty IIIA from  the previous year, has become Nicola's best friend at school, while Patrick  Merrick, the Catholic-next-door, provides meaningful discussion (and  outside perspective on the Marlows) when they are home for break.<br />Faber  &amp; Faber is re-releasing the first Marlow book this November. I highly  recommend going over to Amazon.co.uk and checking it out.	2000-09-08
US	52625903	R46RNL1KP99NW	0553563289	96734634	Love Storm	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Before the Revolution	This is a rather odd romance. It's oddly episodic, so it builds unevenly,  conflicts are resolved in an unusual manner, and the plotting seems to  revolve around a couple of &quot;erotic&quot; set pieces that seem very  likely to alienate average romance readers (see other customer reviews).  <br />Nevertheless, the author uses an exotic setting (turn-of-the-century  Tzarist Russia, though, in many ways, it is indistiguishable from the  Regency social setting), and she has clearly spent a great deal of time  researching her milieu. It should also be noted that this book was  originally published in 1981, when conventional romance tastes were,  presumably, different. Or, at least, I gather as much from my friends that  have dabbled in Catherine Coulter's earlier work.<br />But Love Storm is  definitely flawed: The author sets up the heroine to be some sort of modern  free-thinker, yet this is not reflected in any manner until the conclusion.  Many of the character's, and many of the subplots, are cliches from  throughout the genre -- the loyal servant, the interfering friend, the  misunderstandings and arguments. Nor, other than his prodigious erotic  skills and fabulous wealth, is it convincing that the hero would be a  suitable mate.<br />Love Storm deserves credit for being imaginative in some  areas, and should be docked for not being imaginative enough in others.  Finally, I note that this was originally published by Playboy Paperbacks.   A tiny bit of research revealed that PP folded shortly after 1981, and sold  off their science fiction properties. Clearly, Love Storm is not science  fiction. I am intrigued that Playboy would be interested in publishing  romances as well.	2000-09-08
US	52625903	R1EZR7N1F2NQOU	0140286802	149633096	Collected Fictions	Books	4	11	12	N	N	All Borges! All the Time!	I've been working my way gradually through this volume, reading one story at a time. Okay, I cheated and read handfuls of one pagers. <br />Sure, there's some not-so-impressive pieces here, but there is also &quot;The  Aleph&quot;, &quot;Blue Tigers&quot;, &quot;Death and the Compass&quot;,  &quot;Guayaquil&quot;, &quot;The Library of Babel&quot;, &quot;The Mirror  and the Mask&quot;, &quot;The Rose of Paracelsus&quot;, &quot;The Shape of  the Sword&quot;, &quot;Three Versions of Judas&quot;, &quot;The Two Kings  and the Two Labyrinths&quot;, and, of course, &quot;The Lottery in  Babylon.&quot; Some are simple narratives, clever tales. Others are  speculations about delicate ideas (a one sided disk, a single point through  which one can see everything in its entirety, a society where everybody's  actions may or may not be determined by chance). At his best, he creates  interesting people, not the least of which is the character of himself, to  see witness these phenomenom.<br />Be careful, though, of a volume that  contains stories like &quot;The Dead Man&quot;, &quot;The Other  Death&quot;, &quot;The Duel&quot;, &quot;The Other Duel&quot;, and  &quot;The Other&quot;. In some ways, the risk is having the entire  translation of a collected volume all done by one man. I haven't read the  originals (my Spanish is seriously lacking), but I feel that, while his  translation of any one particular pience may be adequate, having the entire  work translated by Hurley lent the entire volume a lingering sameness. It  was difficult to detect a maturity of voice, or any serious change in  style, over the 40+ years of stories here. Maybe this was part of the magic  of Borges, but I doubt it.	2000-07-28
US	52625903	R3SZ1HTLSF2LKZ	068484267X	698161422	Angela's Ashes: A Memoir	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Engaging reading	Obviously, and rather slyly, Frank McCourt informs us that reading about a happy childhood isn't worth our time. Geez, with all the hype about the misery portrayed in the book, I would have expected the majority of McCourt  children to be have been wiped out. Instead, the grim reaper gets only 3  out of 7, and the reader feels cheated. Okay, maybe not that cheated.<br />So,  McCourt's memoir treats us to 360+ pages of misery. Starvation.  Desperation. Drunkenness. Classism. It would all be pretty unbearable,  except that there's the sly humour poking out here and there. Can we really  trust Frank? He knows that the more miserable he can make his life the more  credibility he has.<br />He treats us to a variety of scenes, many of which  we've seen before, in, oh, Oliver Twist, Sister Mary Ignatius Explains It  All, Rachel and Her Children. It's all very fresh though. I'm willing to  give him the benefit of the doubt -- either his life was appallingly  miserable, with enough Irish charm and humour to make up for the lack of  nutritious sustenance; or McCourt himself has enough charm and humour to  repackage a few dozen literary cliches as a tragic but uplifting  memoir.<br />Either way, I'm never touching a Guiness ever again. And I'll  probably finish 'Tis pretty soon. And I'll still dock McCourt for failing  to use quotation marks -- an annoying device that fails to communicate  anything worth the reading confusion it causes.	2000-07-19
US	52625903	R1F2XVJ6SWRCF4	0451521919	389889394	The Island of Dr. Moreau (Classic)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	The law	There is one scene: Prendrick has fled the compound and has entered the village of the beast people. He sits in on a bizarre ceremony where a leader recites the laws of the beast people. The reader, with a heavy  ominous sense, can feel that these laws are ultimately meant to be broken .  . .<br />Though the story is crowded at the beginning with the plot logistics  of stranding the narrator on the island with Moreau and his creations, and  the ending is sort of rushed, Wells has created a horror novel of startling  implications and fantastic imagination. You'll never look at your  genetically engineered tomatoes the same way again.	2000-07-18
US	52625903	RTMAM2D0W5954	0446345091	361953490	Tower of Glass	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Dreams, dreams, shattered	Simeon Krug is the king of the universe. A self-made man, he is the Bill Gates of the era, having built a mega-commercial empire on the backs of his products: &quot;androids&quot;, genetically-engineered human slaves. Having  amassed incredible wealth, his next major goal is to communicate with  aliens living in an uninhabitable world, sending a mysterious signal. This  requires building a mile-high tower in the arctic tundra.<br />The androids  want civil equality with humans, but are divided on the best means to the  goal, political agitation or religious devotion to Krug, their creator. And  Krug's son, Manuel, is reluctant to step into his role as heir to his  father's empire.<br />Silverberg has created an interesting universe with many  fascinating, but uncompelling, characters. Activity builds up to a  crescendo, but collapses into an appalling mess. In some ways, he daringly  leaves many questions open. (was there any significance to the shift in the  aliens' signal?) In many other ways, it just plods along until its  conclusion.	2000-07-17
US	52625903	R1QOIMI0P466W8	0312032870	605017994	The Argus Gambit	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Conspiracies, Secret Societies, Macho Cops . . .	David D. Ross looks at a near-term future. Written towards the end of the cold war, he envisions the United States is now Fortress America, an increasingly isolationist and technophobic state. Resting on its existing  technological base, it innovates just enough to remain superior to the  cunning Soviets. While certain high profile scientists are assassinated, a  mysterious blight threatens the South American food supplies, and there's  no reason why the blight shouldn't move across the border into the  fortress.<br />David D. Ross's novels relies on a few too many hoary cliches,  and it feels like he tries to throw in every science-fictional idea that he  can think of, so a lot of it seems like overkill. But you can't go too  badly with a plot that's this thick with assassins, intrigue, politics,  core-taps, mega-corporations, and drug-addled saboteurs.	2000-07-14
US	52625903	R2CVDFVC7VKML9	0441001971	4008031	Circus of the Damned (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The best entertainment in days	My wife has been pushing and pushing to get me to read one of these books.<br />Heh. I'm pretty impressed. New readers to the series won't find this to be too bad of a starting off point. Everything is pretty nicely  explained, and the action is fast and grisly.<br />There's plenty of violence  and lust to go around. Anita is portrayed pretty vividly, and it's clear  that she makes some pretty tough choices as she goes along. She's got a  great narration voice.<br />The ending is a little pat, and it doesn't really  explain why Anita puts up with Bert, her boss, but otherwise, this is a  pretty fun book.	2000-07-13
US	52625903	R30D4DP1WC35SC	0061043494	769540204	Gaudy Night (Lord Peter Wimsey Mysteries)	Books	4	5	11	N	N	Wordy night	Loaned to me by a friend, this book has given me a lot to chew on. Matters of principal, academic righteousness, gender essentialism, dominance, class relations, all are brought up in this novel, a very ambitious  &quot;whodunit.&quot; Some of these issues are tackled in a straightforward  manner, and others only peripherally. <br />Lord Peter and Harriet are  presented as winning characters, and most of the secondary characters are  fleshed out pretty nicely -- a difficult thing to do with a large cast.  Still, it was too easy to get the different dons mixed up.<br />Lastly, this  is my first Sayers novel, and I don't think the reading experience was  particularly marred by a lack of familiarity with the previous books.  Rather, I felt disturbed by my inability to catch the literary references.  Knowing your classics would serve you much better than knowing your other  Sayers.	2000-06-23
US	52625903	RQXDNZBU32XWF	0553108034	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A fabulous installment, but an installment nonetheless	So much happens, but so little changes... A reader should beware. Reading this book without knowing what goes before is lost. A reader aware of the past would read this book and be rewarded.<br />Bleah. I can't keep writing  like that. Just in case a reader is wondering, how can George R.R. Martin  hope to write a six-book series when he kills off so many in the first two,  he adds so many new characters -- like Jaqen, the mysterious killer off to  join the Night's Watch.<br />There's much more magic in this book than the  first one, but there's an explanation (kind of), and it does little to  detract from the action and excitement and realism that does take place  (though the reader may feel cheated out of a couple of potentially  interesting battles). Medieval fighting tactics come to the fore, and the  detail is amazing.<br />As in the previous novel, there is much in the way of  battlefield tactics and palace intrigues. The &quot;smallfolk&quot; have a  greater role, as the impact of the wars ruin the lives of those powerful  and weak. Enjoy this one for the depth and the amazing characters.	2000-06-19
US	52625903	R3RNEYM5398Q2Z	0060987561	406344440	I Know This Much Is True (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Stay away from monkeys	Lost brothers. Lost sisters. Twins untwinned. Amputated limbs. Rabbits. Monkeys. Raising others' children. Confinement. Abuse. Rape. <br />All of these images cross the generations as Dominick copes with the escalating  crisis of his identical twin brother. As the story wraps up into it  surprisingly neat conclusion (considering how very messed up the characters  are), I ended wishing for a little ambiguity. <br />Maybe I diluted my reading  too much (I read this book over 3 months), sharing my time with Borges. The  themes of repeated history strike most heavily. After chewing up Lamb's  novel in very tiny little bites, I feel like there is very little left to  digest. I would suggest that somebody reading this immerse themselves in  the book in order to develop the resounding sense of everything that goes  wrong for Dominick. By parceling the book out, the reader may diminish its  impact. I've just finished reading this, and all I can say is I'm  glad.<br />Technically, Lamb has pretty good dialog, and there are some  interesting parallel plot structures (though not nearly so innovative as  the cover blurbs suggest). Some plot developments seem natural and  sensible, others completely contrived, and this occurs throughout the book,  not just at the ending. In many ways, old Domenico's diary seems the most  fascinating feat: The way that Lamb moves into a different character's  first-person narrative voice is  impressive. <br />Redemption is a powerful  story line, done correctly. For some reason, and I don't know what, this  one didn't seem to hit all the right targets.	2000-05-17
US	52625903	RLDCPBF88P20I	0684803860	59773996	The Daughter of Time	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Remind me to stay out of the hospital	This book is largely interesting, to me, because of its perspective on historians. Being married to one, it is fascinating to look at how histories change over time. Our past is fluid, shifting with political  tides. A given &quot;fact&quot; about history is always suspect, there will  almost always be equally suspect sources that say otherwise.<br />This book  has little to offer those craving action; the protagonist is stuck in a  hospital bed, pre-television. So he's stuck reading bad novels until  someone brings him interesting portraints to look at. When nobody can  identify Richard III's portrait as that of a cold-blooded murderer, he  becomes obsessed as could only someone with a lot of time on his hands (or  a graduate degree to earn). Eventually, he begins to collaborate with a  graduate student who does the legwork involved in the research to find the  truth behind Richard III. The satisfying denouement: somebody promises to  write a book.<br />This may not be everybody's idea of an exciting book, but I  would imagine that if the attitudes of the general public towards Richard  were represented by characters in the novel, the impact of reading this  when it first came out would have been shocking. It's a shame that Robert  Barnard didn't discuss this to any length in his introduction, instead  apologizing for Tey's personal and political biases.	2000-05-09
US	52625903	RO422SZE1Z25K	0802713459	271957210	The French Mathematician	Books	2	10	15	N	N	Teenagers are tiresome	Petsinis takes a very interesting topic -- the short career and life of boy-genius Evariste Galois -- and surrounds it with flowery mathematical language. Probably the most interesting narrative ideas are presented in  the first, er, Chapter Zero, but similar attempts later in the book are  nearly incomprehensible. By then, Evariste has determined to make himself a  martyr for the Revolution, a much drier concept then dying for mathematics.  As his Republican comrades complain, Evariste becomes  tiresome.<br />Nevertheless, I have picked up a couple of books on  mathematical history: the politics of France at the time of Galois and the  politics of academic mathematics are fascinating.	2000-02-16
US	52625903	R1U8UTX1CEG4YW	067102079X	616254162	The Quiet Place (Star Trek New Frontier, No 7)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	It seems a little off track	Peter David continues to show his solid grasp of his owncharacters, but this particular installment disappoints. I, for one, shell out the $ for a  Trek novel because of familiarity with the characters. The tale of Riella  isn't original enough to stand out on its own, so this one's a real let  down.	2000-01-25
US	52625903	R2B09WVX2VFT66	0671020803	846685858	Dark Allies (Star Trek New Frontier, No 8)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	That's more like it	I think what I like about these books are that they allow Mr. David to do things that neither the writers of traditional Trek novels, or the TV series cannot do. Characters come and go with ease. On the TV series, you  add a character, and you now have to hire another regular actor. In the New  Frontier, David creates groups of characters that would never work in other  formats. In many ways, these books feel much like the comic book teams that  Mr. David has written. Before long, we may see the bridge crew engaged in  BlackAdder riffs.   Better action, and it's clear that David enjoys putting  his characters through the wringer. These should be enjoyable reads as this  unique voice continues to add to the familiar turf that is Trek.	2000-01-25
US	52625903	R35DL5TPO66CQP	0671024671	452717812	Touch Not the Cat	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A good start	At first, the anger between these two characters was interesting, but the repetition as the relationship bounced from low-point to low-point set a rather ominous rhythm, and some of the plot-twists seemed pretty routine.  But Fobes' language will drag you in. I accidentally left my copy on the  plane a month ago -- but I had to finish it. She has the right brush  strokes, her work will undoubtedly improve.	2000-01-17
US	52625903	R1FCH3P1LT7777	0312198493	441085885	Crazy for You	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Crazy for cocoa puffs!	So, I'm trying to figure if the frequent references to pizza count as the trademark Crusie junk food fetish.<br />I was really slow getting to this one, and boy do I feel guilty about it. And stupid. This was too fun to hold  back on. The ethics of the Crusie universe are evident and appealing here.	2000-01-17
US	52625903	R12VQ3GRKXIWC5	0451453328	469239951	Song for Arbonne	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Winding down my spasm of Kay reading	I have now finished everything that Kay has published since the Fionavar tapestry (of course, he has a new book out in four days). And I'm exhausted.<br />So why read so many? Even at his worst (like this) the  characters are compelling, the intricate plots ensnare the reader, and the  &quot;stakes&quot; for both character and reader are far more significant  than in ordinary fantasy fare.<br />In the case of Arbonne, there are more  characters, and they are less finely drawn: de Talair seems but a shadow of  similar Kay heroes (Alessan), but the key, Blaise, is still his own man,  just like Crispin. The bad guys (Ademar, and Galbert de Garsenc) seem much  more like stock bad guys than I have expected from Kay.   But the conflict  between the two religious ideologies and the metamorphosis of each  character makes this one worthwhile. Highly recommended, though I would  point unfamiliar readers to Tigana or Al-Rassan first.	2000-01-10
US	52625903	RNX5K96EHX5HO	0061051179	874356818	Sailing to Sarantium (Sarantine Mosaic, Book 1)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Boldly going where Kay has never gone before . . .	This book suffers from being the first part of a series, but Kay continues to deliver in his explorations of artists relating to their work. Further, this book covers spiritual matters in a sophisticated manner that he has  never touched on. The problem with the book - I hate ones that don't have  appropriate endings. Two major secondary characters finish their storyline  with minor plot points (Kasia goes shopping ala pretty woman, and Vargos  gets to play hard-boiled detective). The other big problem -- the cover is  dreary and uninteresting. This isn't Kay's fault, it's the publishers, but  it sure wouldn't entice me to pick the book up if I were browsing.	1999-10-11
US	52625903	R3R65SD2YCCSZL	050552337X	964607725	Rejar (Timeswept)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	What a disappointment	Given all the hype about her, I was expecting something more from Dara Joy. While there were entertaining scenes, I found the prose, and the characters to be irritating. References to &quot;said cat&quot; leaped out  at me through out the first half. The secondary characters seemed to be  constructed of the flimsiest cardboard, and, once you got past the gimmick  of the book (shape-changing alpha-male alien woos Regency England babe),  the plot seemed very unimaginative.    My wife says the next one is much  better.	1999-05-03
