US	52621682	R1PC5F7L20ASO1	0757000266	881037273	Bushido: The Way of the Samurai (Square One Classics)	Books	3	9	18	N	N	of historical importance alone	Bushido was interesting to read because it opened insight for me into the relation of the samurai and his feudal Lord. Being Christian, I had an outsider's approach to the text. I noted the author's disdain for the foreign religions invading his country and clouding the minds of the younger warriors from their duty to their Lord. I found interesting his advice on relations with one's superiors such as not being too free with advice early on and sharing with the superior that his opinion of your actions upon learning of them is important to you. The author worked hard to avoid appearing \\"bright\\" and hid for one year after receiving a haircut that might make him look too bright. The point the author shows of making the choice between life and death (and choosing death with honor over life with disgrace) before confronting the moment of acting is a notable window into the thoughts of the warrior on a desperate mission. Many times in the history of Japan since the early 1900s (the date this text was first widely available) has this focus, resignation, and fierceness amazed Westerners.  <br /> <br />As an aside, I was unaware that homosexuality was as widespread and encouraged among the samurai as it was. I Googled this topic and found it compared to ancient Greece in its scope.  One commentator says that it is not possible to understand current Japanese society without understanding the historic reference of male attraction to young boys in samurai culture (see The love of the Samurai: A thousand years of Japanese homosexuality by Watanabe). The wikipedia(dot)org has a good reference on \\"homosexuality in Japan\\" and its cultural framework. I doubt many contemporary Japanese wives would like the author's helpful advice for men about maintaining a wife and a male lover on the side. <br /> <br />Many reviews have told about the process of the transcriptions of the hermit samurai by his friend and then its release. The book has a stream of consciousness feel to it and so thethoughts are rendered in sound bite format. Can this book be a tool to understand modern Japanese business people? If one anticipates that the Japanese pick and choose from among the relevant items it might be. The dedication to the employee to the company has an interesting analog with the samurai and his Lord. However, some of the content slips below the waves of cultural and historical irrelevance.	2005-03-20
US	52621682	R2LFCD53NKTF1T	1400053153	492598168	Treachery: How America's Friends and Foes Are Secretly Arming Our Enemies	Books	5	18	20	N	N	plus ca change	Zut Alors! Nothing new here about the French. That country has been friends with the US only when they had a vested interest served in doing so. The French have typically done this, going all the way back to the American Revolution and the Barbary Coast (once helping, once hamstringing US efforts). That Gertz reveals the venal nature of Chirac and his crony-ocracy as involved in thwarting the UN sanctions and attempting to avert US military action should surprise no one. It is surprising that Gertz leads off his book with the French and then the less offensive Germans before dealing with the Russians and the Chinese. The documents at the back of the book show these countries to be friends of the civilized world in name only. Saddam's army was found to have 12 million Russian items, 377K Chinese items and only 115k from France. Many of these items arrived after the UN sanctions were in place and were purchased with funds pilfered from the oil for food program run by Annan and the UN. <br /> <br />Gertz's salient assertion is that the biggest struggle is still ahead as we demilitarize those that would subvert freedom for personal gain. Hopefully after Beslan, the Russians have begun to change course and restrict arms and technology transfers to despots with petro-dollars to spend. Hopefully the Chinese are also reassessing their support of the DPRK as they tumble like a rabid puppy into the anti-proliferation spotlight. Unfortunately, it seems these autocratic governments are but a financial crisis away from dumping modern armaments and technology at the feet of the highest bidder. <br />	2004-10-26
US	52621682	R10UHW7EF9GXTH	0553802577	767640279	The Last Stand of the Tin Can Sailors: The Extraordinary World War II Story of the U.S. Navy's Finest Hour	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Valor immeasurable	Trapped between a rock and a hard spot the sailors of under armed and under armored destroyers and destroyer escorts thwarted the attack of the combined Japanese fleet. Guarding lightly constructed, light duty aircraft carriers these sailors thrust themselves into harm's way for defense of the fragile craft. I gained a fresh appreciation of the sacrifices made for us all in WWII. To defiantly sail against a ship more than many times your size requires mettle few of us possess. To achieve what they achieved in those circumstances is breathtaking. <br /> <br />Hornfischer has collected original interviews, done an exhaustive research of all things published and created maps to help honor the heroes of Oct 25th, 1944. He pulls no punches in his recounting of the failings of Halsey as he left Taffy 3 unprotected and properly highlights Sprauge's aggressive heroism. The valor on the individual ships is recreated from firsthand accounts. <br /> <br />If something was missing, it was a clearer picture of what happened on the Japanese ships. The writings of a few are used to fill in the picture but there is only a little of this. There is a little conjecture based on the events as perceived from the US ships and this left me wanting more detail. I don't fault Hornfischer on this account and I lament the ready availability of an additional source to fill that gap. <br />	2004-08-11
US	52621682	R2H0KFHW2QM0WZ	0895260883	683939245	Inside the Asylum: Why the UN  and Old Europe are Worse Than You Think	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Read before November	The UN was founded amidst great fanfare and hope. In the midst of a world war, dreamers sought an organization where grievances could be aired before they led to war. Today, the UN has sunk to low levels that would shock any founder. It is the tool of the terrorist against the civilized and a forum for thievery of the highest sort. Scandal is in every hall and darkens every door of the UN. That anyone in the US would still suggest that, in its present highly mismanaged form, the UN's permission be sought before the US acts in its own sovereign interests is hard to fathom. The US has constantly worked to build coalitions for the furtherance of freedom in the world only to be shouted down in the UN by the despots whose ox is to be gored or the venal whose paycheck might shrink. The fact that the US pays the biggest % of support for this abuse to have a forum is to add injury to insult. <br /> <br />NATO also receives scrutiny in this treatise. Many of the countries that are members do not invest enough in their military to warrant further inclusion and the resulting drop in their military's capabilities places an undue burden on the US. To reform NATO, many steps must be undertaken to bring these laggards (Germany in particular) back up to standard, or their membership should be questioned. <br /> <br />This book is well researched, important original documents are included, and insiders are interviewed. I deducted a star because of the highly charged, pejorative language in this billet doux. <br />	2004-08-08
US	52621682	RX0976D0Y8BKA	0471423610	987866737	Convertible Arbitrage: Insights and Techniques for Successful Hedging	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Calamos provides perspective and mechanics	I managed a convertible arbitrage portfolio for over 3 years from 1998-2002. When I began managing, the information found in this one book, had to be gathered from many different resources, if it was available at all. I wish this had been available when I first began. This book exposed me to techniques that I have not used before because of my investment mandate. Now I have them in my toolbox if I decide to hunt extra \\"alpha\\" for my portfolio. <br /> <br />Some of the techniques are only applicable by arbitrageurs that are in foreign markets. Even these are creative and inspire great avenues for further thought. It was while studying these that the thought occurred to me that the book might not be useable by the individual investor unless they are highly unique. <br /> <br />There are elements of this book that have the air of \\"promotion\\" to it. The first chapter cites the advantages of this technique in concert with other management styles. The returns and other statistics span from publication date back to 1995. 1994 was a profoundly difficult year for convertible arb managers and could possibly weakened Calamos' assertions (to be fair he acknowledges as much at the end of the book). Convertible arbitrage will have difficult comparisons when it operates in an environment of low volatility and rising rates unless all risk (and return) are hedged away. <br />	2004-08-08
US	52621682	R2ZAYU7PZZPDCH	0297816217	992303437	Alchemist of War: The Life of Basil Liddell Hart	Books	5	14	15	N	N	This stork had STYLE!	Here I go reviewing another book that is not even for sale by Amazon (although there are a few used copies about). And yet I had to because this is one entertaining read about an equally entertaining subject.<br /><br /> First here is a word about the book. If you enjoy the use of arcane expressions (tergiversation is an examples), liberal use of French and Latin, and unexplained abbreviations (CIGS (Chief of the Imperial General Staff ) is an example) this book will entertain you mightily. I found myself storming my dictionary and the Internet for help with the vernacular. It had many colorful expressions like 'This stork had Style.' It made the read a great deal longer than I am used to for 250ish pages. I didn't mind it terribly because I enjoyed the book. I could have enjoyed it the same without the speculation about the lurid details of his failed marriage, his disappearance from his duties during a WW1 battle and desire to see his ladies attired 'just so'.<br /><br /> Finally about BLH. He was a military historian and strategist that rose from the ashes of the Great War. He was an innovator (guilty of a bit of measurable theft). He wrote biographies of military leaders that had an ulterior purpose that lent to a biased rendering of the biography (see my review of Scipio Africanus). He had the ear of the highest levels of the British Military and a few devotees among the Nazi generals. He was a warrior that came to despise war. Later biographers implied that he was unwilling to recognize the &quot;naked reality of evil&quot; after he published flattering accounts of his meetings with Nazi generals. In that way he reminds me of current public figures that would treat organized terrorism as a law enforcement problem to be resolved judicially.	2004-07-30
US	52621682	R6UXULHKZO3Y9	0201408252	165980351	Six Easy Pieces: Essentials Of Physics Explained By Its Most Brilliant Teacher (Helix Book)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	An introduction to Physics and Feynman's wit	Feynman has condensed the contents of his presentations to 1st year Physics students at CalTech. The information about the six topics is simply put and without a prerequisite deep mathematic understanding. These more advanced lessons are available in the Feynman Lectures on Physics. If you would like a basic Physics understanding and would like learning it from a teacher with wit and verve, this is a great resource. The six topics are about atoms, basic Physics, Physics relations to other sciences, energy, gravity, and Quantum Mechanics.<br />When read with &quot;Surely you must be joking, Mr. Feynman&quot;, this book is far more interesting. It will highlight Feynman's wit and prepare you for its appearance in his lecture.	2004-07-16
US	52621682	R1BF2ETR1QU687	0393057658	346106080	Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Exclusionary focus	Beane and his disciples have prosecuted their edge in the draft and they have proven that they can win that way. It is new in some ways and channels an earlier time as well. The emphasis on team play is not an exclusively &quot;moneyball&quot; approach. The Rangers use this old approach in 2004 married to a traditional cadre of scouts that Beane would not use. The result for Texas has been winning baseball that is fun to watch. The play in the field (particularly the infield) is sparkling and they also put runs on the board. As of this writing the own 1st place in AL west. They have a higher payroll, but much of it is dead weight with Messrs Park and Nelson out with injuries.<BR>It is interesting to note that at the All Star break 2004, only three of the league leaders in OBP (over weighted in the A's version of OPS) were A's and the highest ranked was 30th. Perhaps this Oakland secret isn't such a great secret after all. The other &quot;moneyball&quot; team, Boston, has 4 of the top 40. In 2002, the time frame in which the book was written, the A's only had 1 player in the top 40. Perhaps this shows they are progressing. <BR>In 2002, Anaheim had a reputation for being &quot;scrappy&quot; at the plate and won the World Series. Between Anaheim and San Fran (the 2002 opponent) they only had 3 of the top 40 OBP. Does this mean that Oakland and Beane are on the wrong track? They are certainly competitive again this year. Perhaps it means that being obsessed with any thing in a liability in a multidimensional game such as baseball.<BR>Pitching is another interesting area that Beane and Co. have attempted to set on its ear. The sabermetric DIPS ratio is what they like to measure their pitching talent with and it seems to be working. They have 2 of the top 20 pitchers rated using DIPS.<BR>I chuckled under my breath when I read Beane said that Barry Bonds had &quot;risen to a level where even talent can't take you&quot;. Was he talking about BALCO?	2004-07-12
US	52621682	RAPXSU7OBS8E	0471484857	861573196	Trade Like a Hedge Fund: 20 Successful Uncorrelated Strategies and Techniques to Winning Profits	Books	5	23	28	N	N	Trading Tool Box	This book is like a wolf in sheep's clothing. This is quantitative finance not technical analysis. Floating in a wasteland of books about trading using technical analysis and supposed &quot;insider&quot; techniques, this book delivers what the others pretend to deliver validated trading techniques. Before purchasing another compendium about the latest &quot;rocket science&quot;, check out this collection of situational trades that are tested (on a distressingly small(mostly 4 years)) data sample and proven to produce profits. Even with Altucher's minimalist writing style, I feel that he waxed too poetic about the nature of the causes behind the anomalies. After all, does it matter how they work if in fact they do? Lean on the observations and if you still feel compelled to divine a reason, go for it, just make sure that it doesn't interfere with your research.<br />Some of the systems have painful drawdowns and need additional tweaking or a strong constitution to make them work.<br />Some of the trading techniques were a little loose for my tastes suffering from a few flaws. Examples include too small of a sample size or the possibility that on occasion the number of trades take would exceed capital and therefore leaving a distorted return # (see technique 13 and think of LTCM or 9/11). Even with the flaws this book is a non-stop idea generator.	2004-07-10
US	52621682	R7SK5S453LSE2	1592400663	701008983	The Obesity Myth: Why America's Obsession with Weight is Hazardous to Your Health	Books	4	14	39	N	N	Your fitness matters!	That a narrowly defined weight to height ratio is insufficient to predict a shorter life span is the central premise of this book. Campos makes a logical argument that the danger of carrying weight outside of the &quot;BMI band&quot; has been overstated and distorted by authorities. He insinuates that it may be because of researchers with vested interests handling most of the continuing examination of the relationship between weight and health. The research that Campos favors states that the relative level of fitness and activity can best predict future health. This is handled in 54 pages. The book is 250 pages long. What fills the balance of the book is an examination of American culture. I did not find that Campos' observations about society rose above anecdotal and trivial.<br />There is an annoying sub-current in the book and it seems to emanate from the author's political biases. Repeated mention of a &quot;lack of national health care&quot;, bias in the rendering of healthcare to the poor, and other liberal palaver. Nowhere can he cite a country that has socialized their healthcare system leading to a reduced mortality rate. Perhaps the author should check his socialist leanings at the door when trying to make an unrelated point. I deducted a star for the superfluous material and moralistic grandstanding.	2004-07-08
US	52621682	R2GT1NFR4ZGC8K	0736045090	400371720	Coaching Pitchers - 3rd Edition	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Include this in your pitching library	McFarland has created a single source reference for aspiring pitchers. Much of what is in the book is part and parcel of years of baseball acumen. There is game situation, training, defensive, and mechanical advice in this book. At the very end there is motivational tips for getting the most from your pitchers. This book would have benefited from clear pictures of the motions of the pitchers and of the throwing motions on the various pitches. The drawings are vague enough to invite too many interpretations and the complex motion of pitching is difficult to describe verbally. I do not agree with the prior reviewer that House has totally eclipsed the valuable information found here.<br />I especially valued the advice about pitch selection based on a hitter's weaknesses. McFarland describes more than 20 batting habits that can be exploited by the pitcher. Additionally he diagrams where the pitcher should locate defensively on throws from the outfield or after pick off throws. All very helpful for the young pitcher.	2004-07-07
US	52621682	R1D7PLD43D6I39	0736001557	48235955	The Pitching Edge-2nd	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Pitching explained in detail	The Pitching Edge was written by the former pitching coach of the Texas Rangers. He was innovative and sometimes controversial. This tome is comprehensive, covering the physical, training and mental aspect of being a quality pitcher. The book is not necessarily aimed at youth, but I have used the to help my under 10 year old player learn the basics. <br />I found that some of the language in the book to be loosely used and obtuse. Therefore I doubt that a young reader would get everything the book has to offer. However, especially when used in conjunction with the companion video, this book is a great springboard for the young pitcher when guided by an adult. (See my review of the video for more detail)<br />One qualifier is required. House does not agree that young pitchers should be restricted from throwing breaking pitches. That was against convention when the book was released 10 years ago and convention has not changed. For further reference you could check the USABaseball web site for a great positon paper. Simply add (slash)med_position_statement(dot)html to the root url to see the page. These athletes are at beginning of their pro careers and this statement is about how to get them to this state.<BR>I give my ranking about all the other items in the book exclusive of the breaking pitch advice for youth pitchers. I have not allowed my young pitcher to start throwing those types of pitches for fear of arm injury.	2004-07-07
US	52621682	R33126X88TK3QN	0306805839	935753065	Scipio Africanus	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Easy to Read, Worth Reading - A true Genius	Liddell Hart presents us with the blueprint for the modern warrior. One who seeks to complete the overarching aim of the conflict without wanton destruction and carnage associated with World War 1. Published in 1926, fresh on the folly of the protracted trench warfare and the horribly punitive reparations demanded of the Germans, this book demonstrates a different way. The slaughter of soldiers without any clear military advantage arising from the action horrified LH's generation. Here is LH's description of a better way to prosecute a war. He dispels the notion that it something of a giant chess match played by the detached, but a horrific thing that should be resolved as expeditiously as possible. Here is how he writes that Scipio does it.<br />First Scipio crippled the Carthaginians in Spain by capturing Cartegena, then crippled Hannibal in Italy by diverting Carthaginian resources from Italy to Spain. Then, piecemeal, he disables the remaining Carthaginian threat in Spain until only a sliver is no longer in Roman control. Buoyed by his triumph he proposes to attack Carthage while Hannibal still roams Italy. He receives permission from the fearful Roman Senate but modest support, and then proceeds the most stunning defeat of three separate armies (each larger than his own), including one led by Hannibal after his recall from Italy. Each battle won here was the result of superior tactics and strategy being brought to bear on the enemy. After defeating the Carthaginians (and later the Syrians under Antiochus) there was no excess pillaging and the tribute demanded was modest. Scipio made no personal fortune from the victories and was magnanimous to the defeated.<br />The contrast to the First World War and its aftermath could not be more stark. Scipio realized that peace is the greater aim of war and he sowed the seeds of peace with every action during war. The French chose to sow a future war with the armistice concluding the First World War. As is common even in this day, Scipio was later vilified at home for his decisive action that brought peace. The critics of Scipio's day feared that his popularity would rise if they were silent in the face of his successes.	2004-06-28
US	52621682	R3QY15MVYNB633	0761516638	286761738	The Death of Right and Wrong: Exposing the Left's Assault on Our Culture and Values	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Reformulation for the left	Ronald Reagan reinvented the American conservative movement by adopting traditional conservative tenets and infusing them with optimism for the future. Bruce takes traditional liberalism, but rejects the cult of the victim that the current Left establishment embraces. After Bruce prescribes a dose of introspection and responsibility, her platform is complete. Perhaps Bruce and her ideas can regenerate the rational Left in our country like Reagan energized the conservatives.<br />There are many graphic depictions about the subversion of many of the iconic movements in liberalism, many of which are not suitable for young readers. And yet it is the young that many of their repulsive ideas are aimed. These depictions are not gratuitous and help illustrate the need for reform.<br />Relativism in all its forms is the enemy of progress. Read &quot;Fashionable Nonsense&quot; by Sokal for a similar treatise in the social sciences. While it is a more &quot;intellectual&quot; and less far-reaching than Bruce's book, both of these authors are liberals that decry the high jacking of their movement by the self-interested/self-absorbed.<br />Bruce merely seeks equality of opportunity for each American and a reduction in the hateful soliloquy coming from the left. She pines for the days of yore, when the discussion was how to make America better for all of its people as opposed to the balkanization from groups seeking entitlement. She takes to task the leadership of several groups like Gays, Nat Org of Women, NAACP and the entities that do their bidding like the media, activist judges and the professorial class. She could have mentioned seniors or others that arrive on the national stage demanding a hand out because of their &quot;entitlement&quot; and &quot;victimhood&quot;.	2004-06-26
US	52621682	RCZZZ9LX45TRP	0312204078	508861703	Fashionable Nonsense: Postmodern Intellectuals' Abuse of Science	Books	5	3	8	N	N	Postmodernism on a Skewer	This is a book that grew from frustration. Sokal had hoped to exorcise his demons by writing a parody piece (that did get published, undiscovered, in the &quot;Social Text&quot;). The success of his farcical piece only whet his appetite and with Bricmont, wrote this book that lays bare all the weak academic rigors of part of the social (human) science branch known as postmodernism.<br />S &amp; B focus on the texts of a few of the most acclaimed members of French academia that borrow heavily from the natural sciences to buttress their theories in Linguistics, Psychoanalysis, Political Theory and other &quot;disciplines&quot;. The misuse of higher older mathematic and scientific terms used to awe their readers or garner accolades was a miscalculation. S &amp; B show these efforts were in many cases attempts to dress up extremely bland or vacuous thoughts so that they might appear profound. They seem even less profound after the ruse is exposed. It might have been tempting, but the authors limit their critique and do not overreach by implying that these writers have dark motives. They merely point out that the root of the argument they make is based on a weak understanding of the natural sciences.<br />Having abandoned observation and testing for the beautiful designs of their imagination, Lacan, Lyotard, Kristeva, Irigaray, Latour, and others liken their constructs to things found in the natural sciences. Often they choose the newest (i.e. quantum mechanics) or the obscure (i.e. set theory) to compare their theories. They offer nothing by way of proof or research to support these analogies. However this does not stop them from waxing poetically and claiming that such &quot;proof&quot; will &quot;shut all mouths&quot; that presumably ask them how they could make such a leap.<br />Perhaps upon reading the book you will be less shocked when you come across social research that seems dramatically out of step with your reality. In some cases it may be a writer that has some &quot;glorious end&quot; in mind that is making it up a reality to fit the desired outcome. These seem to be the type of theorists, icons in their fields all, which S &amp; B are serving a steady diet of reproach. Perhaps in the end the great minds that lust for central planning may yet find some empirical support for their grand schemes (where they might imagine themselves as some kind of a celebrated bureaucrat), but until then, hopefully they will not mind if we deliver unto them less esteem.me &quot;glorious end&quot; in mind that is making it up a reality to fit the desired outcome. These seem to be the type of theorists, icons in their fields all, which S &amp; B are serving a steady diet of reproach. Perhaps in the end the great minds that lust for central planning may yet find some empirical support for their grand schemes (where they might imagine themselves as some kind of a celebrated bureaucrat), but until then, hopefully they will not mind if we deliver unto them less esteem.	2004-06-21
US	52621682	R1ZQVK26TWOL5O	044653191X	635347725	Arrogance: Rescuing America From the Media Elite	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Liberal bias exposed (again)	This book is the follow on to &quot;Bias&quot;. I have read and reviewed both. There is a response to the criticism of the first book and suggestions (some tongue in cheek) for how to improve the network media, and a significant amount of documentation of the liberal nature of network news. This documentation of bias in the book is duplication (albeit updated) of what was in the first book. Goldberg was question about the need for his book (for a different reason) about the need for the follow on to the original book. Making the same point again may be the result of arrogance (his own) that Goldberg may have exposed unintentionally. <br />Goldberg does make a few salient points in this book. Network news organizations should not limit the exposure of conservative points of view (and avoid the sham of presenting conservative fringe groups in place of the better-reasoned conservative point of view). Additionally, Goldberg implores news editors to create newsrooms that neither surrender to the factionalism of the reporter association agendas nor merely parrot the New York Times (a resource with an explicit left lean). In some cases these are worthy addition to the original book but these suggestions make up only 20% of the book.<br />To be fair to the CBS news, I noticed the other day that CBS had an abortion opponent present the opposing opinion. This anti-abortion point of view was not presented by a drooling idiot ranting and raving. Rather the conservative view was given by a well-spoken lady wearing a conservative business outfit, speaking in moderated tones about the need to address her concerns. What a shift from the overt slant of even the recent past! I am skeptical that this represents a permanent change, but it is a welcome difference from the monolithic approach of the past. It was odd watching Rather gush about Reagan this last week while I remembered that he had an extremely jaded view of the President whilst he was in office.	2004-06-13
US	52621682	R23SCACHAOS24C	0071386262	640323191	Financial Shenanigans: How to Detect Accounting Gimmicks & Fraud in Financial Reports, Second Edition	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Useful framework for analysis	This book was updated on the heels of the WCOM and ENE scandals. There are many interesting techniques available for the researcher here. It requires a meticulous person to properly apply these techniques. However, the average person with a limited number of holdings might do very well with applying these techniques to their portfolio. See the table of contents for a listing of the 7 &quot;financial shenanigans&quot;.<br />Some of the items on Schilit's governance wish list are dealt with by the Sarbanes-Oxley legislation. This will do away with much of management's self-dealing and sleight of hand when presenting pro forma earnings. Some of the &quot;shenanigans&quot; have been dealt with FASB promulgations so there are less of an issue.<br />Schilit is too harsh on the FASB over the failure to expense stock based compensation the first time it was considered. The forces that oppose the FASB n that issue generated a considerable political threat to FASB's existence in Washington. FASB backed down was preserved and we are all the better for it. FASB is addressing this issue in an exposure draft and it appears likely that it will move forward this time despite the same forces trotting out the same vacuous arguments a second time. Schilit should have given better context with his critique of the FASB.<br />I remember seeing a piece in Grant's interest rate observer (a newsletter) about a presentation by Trevor Harris (an accounting expert employed by a bulge bracket firm). The article stated that hedge fund managers treated Harris like a rock star, because they needed to learn how to analyze the names in their portfolios better. Harris was simply presenting topics much like are found in this book.<br />In this book you will learn about many of the manipulations that have been used in the past by companies. Schilit uses the &quot;case&quot; method of teaching. The examples almost all have a real life demonstration of how the trick manifested itself.<br />At times, thebook reads like an advertisement for Schilit's CFRA subscription service. There are 13 such references in the index. I guess this is to be expected, but is still a distraction in an otherwise fine book.	2004-06-02
US	52621682	R1FZOEA13TC31L	0393320928	406448244	"What Do You Care What Other People Think?": Further Adventures of a Curious Character	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Interesting follow up	This book is the follow on to the book &quot;Surely you must be joking, Mr. Feynman&quot;. In the first book there was a time line that progressed from youth to Professor at Caltech. This book is much different in that 45% of the book describes his pre- 1986 life and 55% describes his involvement in the Challenger shuttle accident investigation. This investigation was a mere 2 years of his life (and the final 2 years as well). The same brilliant character shines through in both parts of this book. There are many interesting vignettes of this iconoclast that are not in the first book. The most interesting part is the description of his relationship with his first wife Arlene who succumbed to TB while he was still a young man. He really had a great heart for those close to him. He didn't suffer fools willingly and often was abrupt to the point of rudeness. More interesting observations are available at feynmanonline^com. Detailed there is a more balanced view of the man and his foibles.	2004-05-27
US	52621682	R2K5VG4T4DL2FB	0393019217	33679552	"Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman": Adventures of a Curious Character	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Feynman up close and personal	To borrow the phrase from MTV this is Feynman unplugged. <br />I really enjoyed his commencement talk that is last chapter in the book. He exhorts his listeners to create real empirically supportable results in their research. There is a new kind of scientist in our midst that I feel Dr. Feynman would have detested. This kind of scientist is less interested in the reality of what is being studied and more interested in advancing a certain agenda. There is a great web site (junkscience^com) that catalogues many of these scientific gunslingers.<br />This book is a retrospective that begins at the beginning and finishes in 1974 (many years before his report on the Challenger accident). It describes his early years working in a hotel, going to MIT, working at Los Alamos, and teaching at Cornell and Caltech. There are many demonstrations of his wicked wit and quirky (quarky?) sense of humor. He is quick to seize  the opportunity to use his wit as is shown when he hides a door in his fraternity house. <br />This is a fun read!	2004-05-20
US	52621682	R23R5JLXIR8EL8	0684863758	117849027	Quality of Earnings	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Still worth reading	17 years later and many things have changed. The desire of investors to accurately gauge the stability of the companies in their portfolios remains the same. The incentive of management with stock options to hide the true nature of what the reality of what the company's earnings have been remains strong. Some of the techniques mentioned will be hard to use when companies employ SPEs to hide their true indebtedness and derivative positions mask the Value at Risk. However, many of the technique still have value. The analysis of receivables and inventories can provide insight into the immediate future of the company. The techniques that have lost their clear edge are the debt and write-off analysis. Write-offs are now required by GAAP (although the \\"big bath\\" write-offs are still \\"non-recurring\\") and SPEs or variable interest entities can obscure debt. It is fascinating in light of Enron, WorldCom, Qwest, Tyco, and Adelphia the stories of companies in the 70s and 80s that were attempting to do the same thing (though often without the fraud). How little man changes through the ages.	2004-05-18
US	52621682	R3A0D6N5XFS45U	0735531099	238876473	Structuring Venture Capital, Private Equity, and Entrepreneurial Transactions	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Focused advice	This book covers most of the major types of transactions that are common these days. There are discussions of initial venture capital, roll-ups, LBOs, and partnership transactions. I focused on the chapter that dealt with the initial funding of a start-up. There is a checklist at the end of the chapter that will help the entrepreneur address all of the critical issues. Basically this chapter is a primer that will keep the entrepreneur from making the &quot;first timer&quot; mistakes.<br />If the reader wants a text that goes into greater depth and expands the discussion to include less typical transactions, they will have to look elsewhere. I recommend Deal Terms by Wilmerding. If the reader wants a desk reference that covers most typical transactions, this is a great candidate.	2004-05-02
US	52621682	R39Y1AU6R0KHIM	0935015698	792291292	Quantitative Methods for Investment Analysis	Books	5	11	17	N	N	A big improvement	This text is a great improvement over the material the CFA program used in the mid-90s. Since it is intended to provide a survey of basic statistics and their applications in finance, it would be wrong to expect a deep treatise on any one subject.  There are many real world applications used to describe the concepts tackled in this book. The learning outcomes listed at the beginning of each chapter provide a road map for the reader so that all salient points will be absorbed. <br />Will this book be the only one you will need to become a quantitative analyst? No, but it is a great starting point. If you are desiring more depth perhaps a review of the abstracts on the AIMR website would lead you more involved, scholarly efforts.	2004-04-21
US	52621682	R10L2UAWWY7QZ1	0060529148	356154174	Give Me a Break: How I Exposed Hucksters, Cheats, and Scam Artists and Became the Scourge of the Liberal Media...	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Stossel says -&quot;get real!&quot;	Iconoclast Stossel takes aim at mediocre journalistic crutches. The assumption that lawyers and government officials have unbiased information is unchallenged by reporters all too often. Reporters are the &quot;tools&quot; of activist or the self-interested in these roles. <BR>His favorite target is that government and its regulations can make things better than the market forces working on the same problem. He admits that limited governmental regulations are a necessity but the massive intrusion into everyday life by big brother (particularly during Democratic administrations) creates unwelcome drag on our liberty and pursuit of happiness. The junk science used by fear mongers will amaze you if you analyze it objectively (going past the sound bite). The popular web site junkscience^com, that has Stossel's book prominently featured, that has a long history of tracking the wackos out to affect what you can and cannot do. Take as example the anti-nuke radical that wants smoke detectors outlawed because of a trace radioactive element that it employs. There is a great satire of these wackos at dhmo^org where common water is made to sound sinister.<BR>It is doubtful that Stossel will have the effect he might wish for in this tome. The entrenched interests that exist in a media driven by ratings will be difficult to change. It is interesting that he is most critical of Dan Rather the anchor of a rival network.	2004-04-18
US	52621682	R35E01G04L4SO8	1574882864	329455826	The Forgotten Soldier	Books	5	7	8	N	N	If it is True	Much debate rages about the accuracy of the account in this book. After researching on the web I feel that it is very likely true. The scale of this book is myopic and that really helps the reader focus on the plight of the humans involved in this story (though Sajer doesn't bother to do much character development). If the scale were any greater it would be easy to forget the number of soldiers that were chewed up and spit out in Hitler's eastern folly. The casualness that Sajer describe the death and destruction around him accurately portrays many veteran's hardened views of what they saw. The piling up of the dead as a windbreak on a train, the skirmish in the factory against the partisans, and the Russian air raids are described with an unusual detachment. Read this book to understand the depth of despair that is war.	2004-04-13
US	52621682	R18WVL9QKM8YGC	1584500611	917551739	Learning Computer Programming (With CD-ROM; CyberRookies Series)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Read this one first!	After reading programming for dummies and learning an arcane language I was left wishing for a better book to expose me to the basics of programming. The subtitle of this book is \\"Its not about languages\\" and that is the approach of this book. Farrell focuses on the logic of programming and mentions the actual syntax in passing. This makes this book valuable and a helpful tool for all programmers no matter what their language destination is. I wish that I had read this book first!	2004-04-11
US	52621682	RF1JQEHRDM7A8	3540424512	768294890	Foundations of Genetic Programming	Books	5	22	23	N	N	A survey of what was new in 2002	This book was published in 2002 to provide a survey of the direction research had taken in the field of Genetic Programming. There is an explanation of what genetic programming is and how it is different from genetic algorithms in chapter 1(GP is a \\"generalization\\" of GA). Chapter 2 discusses the problems with the fitness landscape. Chapter 3 - 6 discusses various schema theory approaches and proofs. Chapter 6 has a great explanation of effective fitness.<br />There are numerous theorems and proofs in the book. There are informative examples of the max problem and the artificial ant (Santa Fe Trail) problems. Chapter 11 is about how GP convergences are a tricky matter and how subtrees can hide interesting incidences of convergence.<br />This is not an introductory text, it is intended for graduate level or higher readers. There is much theoretical work here and a limited background in this area will result in limited understanding of the material.	2004-04-09
US	52621682	R2C13TWEKWRA0R	0060582510	541105320	Deliver Us from Evil: Defeating Terrorism, Despotism, and Liberalism	Books	5	4	11	N	N	Worth Reading	Hannity's book is similar to many of the recent polemics from the right with a unique and significant twist. It is for this reason that this book achieves must read status.<br />There is the familiar homily to President Reagan and listing of the many foreign policy failures of Clinton and Carter. These items are well known to readers of conservative authors and frankly do nothing but accelerate the recycling of trees. Perhaps because of the wider audience that Hannity attracts makes this retelling worth the pulp.<br />And then comes the twist.<br />In Nov 2003 a congressional aide leaked a copy of a congressional Democratic internal memo explaining the political potential of publicly exploiting information learned in the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence for political gain. Dastardly stuff indeed, potentially risking the lives of intelligence operatives for momentary political advantage and few headlines. At the epicenter of this controversy since receiving the purloined memo, Hannity has received much invective without adequate focus on the substance of the scandalous political maneuvering being examined. At least the Republicans will be forewarned about the supposedly objective SSCI being filed with partisan operatives. Is it any wonder that they view the 9/11 commission skeptically?<br />This book is worth reading in spite repeated material.	2004-03-29
US	52621682	R3RKUMGK2FLXME	1587622084	651202428	Deal Terms - The Finer Points of Venture Capital Deal Structures, Valuations, Term Sheets, Stock Options and Getting VC Deals Done (Inside the Minds)	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Direct to the Deal Terms	This book has a few sample drafts of term sheets and other legal documents. That is not the primary focus of this book. You can hire that kind of talent (legal drafting) on a per hour basis. This book helps the owners make the BUSINESS decisions necessary to avoid hamstring their new venture during this difficult passage. Included is information about what to pay your independent directors, advisory board members and senior management. Also included is what percentage of the company the founders should expect to keep, how to avoid excessive dilution during an unfortunate down round and how to present your opportunity to potential investors. All of these BUSINESS decisions are beyond the discretion of attorneys in this area, they typically instruct the entrepreneur to reflect upon the topic and then the attorney will draft it to suit. <br />Wilmerding interviews individuals that are representative of players an entrepreneur will encounter in getting his business funded. These real world examples of how business (strategy) items are handled or viewed by third parties are the best part of his book.	2004-03-26
US	52621682	R97TFPQ8UU2XU	0735201447	498000734	Trading in the Zone: Master the Market with Confidence, Discipline and a Winning Attitude	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Focus on trading in the &quot;Now&quot; moment	Good traders dispassionately address opportunity as it presents itself. How do you arrive at this &quot;destination state&quot;? The author tells us that learning more about the market is a wasted effort if you first do not know about yourself. If you assume that each trade is independent of the other trades you have taken and view them as a probable outcome based on your &quot;edge&quot; then you are miles ahead of other traders.<br />You will need to find another book to generate trading ideas (your edge). This tome does a great job of discussing the &quot;trading attitude&quot;. Douglas uses some odd imagery to describe how dearly a belief is held. He says that it has &quot;energy&quot; and then describes how physics states that energy cannot be destroyed. He lost me on that analogy, but the point he made is that we have unproductive beliefs that have to be neutralized by adopting productive beliefs and emphasizing them over those unproductive beliefs.<br />There are seven principles of consistency and five fundamental truths in trading presented here that are helpful to any trader review on an ongoing basis. If you are already successful then you may note that you have these beliefs already internalized. If you are new to trading these are invaluable because it can help you avoid the pitfalls that await you.	2004-03-07
US	52621682	R3BIF7U1AHSMEJ	0767908171	997649583	A Short History of Nearly Everything	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Science made enjoyable	This very interesting book has a split personality. It helps those without a scientific background gain an appreciation of scientific theory and facts, but also help the reader gain an appreciation of the various personalities of the scientist involved with these varied areas of study. The subject matter is presented in a way that even those that struggled in high school science can gain a great deal by its reading. At nearly 500 pages, there is something here that will interest nearly everyone.<br />The wide range of the scientific topics that Bryson embraces is astounding. The smallest living entities and far away galaxies are included in this work. The beauty of his prose makes even the onslaught of scientific numbers digestible and entertaining. Perhaps his thoroughness is an offshoot of the travel guides he has written. He ambles through the speculations about the earth's past and scientific prognostications on its future. For the faint of heart, skip the sections about asteroids striking the earth or the coming ice ages.<br />It is in the descriptions of the scientist that this book really shines. The idiosyncrasies of the people are at times wondrous and amusing. The profiles of the well known and unknown are here and are equally fascinating. I heard Bryson recount on CSPAN the interesting story of a French Astronomer attempting to track the transit of Venus and decided to get the book. There were many more stories of vanity, determined pursuit, treachery of co-workers, stubborn maintainers of the status quo and profound achievement here. It was almost as if the people who created the VH-1 Behind the Music series decided to focus on scientists instead of musicians (except there were no gratuitous drug use or groupies). I found it fascinating to do an image search on google to see the faces of some of the scientists mentioned in the book like Fritz Zwicky and James Watson.	2004-02-23
US	52621682	RGIMM5PENTE15	0974537616	164161415	A National Party No More: The Conscience of a Conservative Democrat	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A plea for the Democrats to embrace the center	This book is a soul bearing exercise for Sen. Miller. He feels that his party has been subverted by the liberal special interests with cash donated to the soft dollar funds. He predicts that if left unchecked that the national Democratic Party will face a rejection similar to that faced by the California Democrats. He supports many things that national donors to the Democrats have opposed such as a Homeland Security not being controlled by AFSCME, which in his opinion is a giant activist union. He encourages more compromise and bipartisanship in DC. He urges Democrats to show restraint in spending and supports the Bush tax cuts. He urges his party to find the middle ground as he defines it.  He fears that unless the Democrats move back to the center they will become increasingly irrelevant. Miller resents the claim made by Dr. Dean that he represents the \\"Democratic wing of the Democratic Party\\" and that the more conservative elements (like himself) are not true Democrats. Miller recognizes that the South is more conservative and cannot be easily dismissed in the manner that Al Gore did. He is not thrilled with the current Democratic candidates for president as he feels that they are a product of this corrupting influence.	2004-02-19
US	52621682	R2ETJS2DYPTXWB	0764508350	929682912	Beginning Programming For Dummies	Books	4	18	23	N	N	Great for program structure -Very Helpful	I have to agree with the prior reviewers exhaustion at the pedestrian political commentary included in the text. But unlike that prior reviewer, I will extol the value to be had here in this book. I approached as a tool to understand the basics of how the various parts of a program are constructed. The book focuses on Qbasic with passing references to C++ (my ultimate goal is to use C++) and Java. Since I plan to progress rapidly to this other language I did not run afoul of the errors reported by the other reviewers because I did not input them.<br />I feel that I have more than adequately met my goal of learning about the &quot;nuts and bolts&quot; of a computer program. There is adequate depth about functions, subroutines, variables and arrays to start you on your way. There are also many tips and danger areas highlighted for the budding programmer.<br />I don't feel that this book is lacking with regard to the structure of programming, and I will not rate this lower because of the coding errors others have reported, but I can not give this a higher ranking because of the inane attempts at humor. Mr. Wang, a comedian you are not, keep to your day job.	2004-02-18
US	52621682	R2FVS0KEB92ISJ	0521460867	83814155	Pattern Recognition and Neural Networks	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The inner workings of a neural net	I concur with the other reviewers. This book requires the reader to be proficient in many different disciplines. It is extremely difficult to digest if you lack an in-depth background in statistics (Bayes theory etc.), calculus and advanced algebra. Many sections of this book were used as a part of Ripley's graduate courses taught at Cambridge where is still a professor of applied statistics. Where I part company with many of the reviewers is that I will not penalize this book for going over my head at times. It is intended for graduate students in statistics or computer science.<br />The neural network section explains the workings of NNs that are typically hidden to users of NNs in software packages. In some cases a click of a button is all that is needed to do what is explained in considerable depth in this tome. It can be very useful to fully understand what it is that has happened when a program switch is altered. This prevents using a NN and receiving a naive result that makes unfounded predictions.	2004-02-05
US	52621682	R2YRR724WP0CG0	0262631857	297264162	An Introduction to Genetic Algorithms (Complex Adaptive Systems)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	An introduction and much more	First it must be said that the book is not an introduction that the non-scientist will easily understand. Some knowledge of computer programming is assumed. It acknowledges this in the last paragraph of the preface. Many of the notations in the book are unfamiliar to business or financial readers. There is no mathematics beyond algebra so the aforementioned prerequisites are the main hills to climb.<br />Mitchell's book is an overview of genetic algorithm analysis techniques as of 1996. The author gives a history of pre-computer evolutionary strategies and a summary of John Holland's pioneering work. A description of the basic terminology is presented and examples of problems solved using a GA (such as the prisoner's dilemma). The second chapter discusses evolving programs in Lisp and cellular automata. Also included in this chapter is a discussion of predicting dynamical systems. This was the section that has the most interest for me. Also interesting was the summary in this chapter about putting GAs into a neural network so that the ANNs could evolve.<br />The fifth chapter discusses when to employ a GA for maximum success. I appreciate the clearly thought out discussion of when to choose a GA for a problem. Sometimes authors of these types of books mimic the man with a hammer that thinks everything looks like a nail.	2004-01-25
US	52621682	R3A2OMB64HQLLI	0066620996	205785288	Good to Great: Why Some Companies Make the Leap and Others Don't	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Prepare for the next level	Collins and his assembled team examine companies that have existed and then developed a focused cultural meme that propelled them from surviving (in some cases profitably) to excelling. This surge is measured by the stock's appreciation relative to the overall market and specific companies that are in the same industry. Is this the most significant way to measure a company's performance? It may well be if you are attempting to do it over many years, as Collins does. Unfortunately, it precluded his examination of non-publicly traded companies.<br />He creates some new jargon to describe how this focused meme manifests itself in the examined companies. If learning this new parlance bores you, you will have a tough slog ahead. However there is much of value here. The methods and tools of adherence to a metric that is at the essence of the company are described in rich detail. It is possible to take this and replicate it at any size company or organization.<br />I won't repeat the description of the ideas in the book that some of the other reviewers have exposed. I will commend this title to those who would like to learn how to propel their organizations to a higher level.	2004-01-20
US	52621682	R1T5F4DQ7151N8	0471477540	255881696	Stock Trader's Almanac 2004 (Almanac Investor Series)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	This book can make (save) you money	This is the third year in a row I have reviewed this almanac.  Clearly I believe there is real value in this tome. The introduction last year had the quote &quot;We discovered that while stocks do indeed fluctuate, they do so in well-defined, often predictable patterns. These patterns recur too frequently to be the result of chance or coincidence.&quot; in the introduction. In this book you will find a compilation of money making market anomalies. If you believe the market is efficient this is not the book for you.<br />In the prior edition was an extensive review of the effect of the pre-presidential election year. It would have been a great tip off to the rally that began in March of 2003. There hasn't been a losing year in the Dow 30 since FDR. If you had reviewed this page you would not have been caught flatfooted. (see page 42 &amp; 30). In this year you can review the historical track record of election year markets (pg 34).<br />In fairness, the Lester indicator (on page 40) was misleading in 2003 as the Dec 2002 low was violates and then the S &amp; P roared to new highs in March. It was tradeable in that with proper risk control you could have made a 4%+gain, below the average listed as 10.7%.<br />Sometimes there is additional work you can do to make the #s more understandable. I went to page 18 to calculate the net Feb-Dec return of the respective January Effect listings (after all, aren't you most interested in how it performs after you get the signal?). For the record, it was not a good signal this year.<br />There is a review of Larry William's &quot;The Right Stock at the Right Time&quot;. The review mentions many market anomalies like are found in the Almanac. I will make a point to read this book.  I read the book reviewed in the 1993 edition and it was exactly as represented, so I have great confidence that this review is spot on as well. There are several other investment books as well on page 98<br />If you want to play the various oddities to beat the market, this book makes it simple. Since it has a week by week calendar, it could be your organizer. Imagine that, an organizer that makes you money.	2004-01-07
US	52621682	R1JIV9PCG8SKTN	0471576794	769660963	Genetic Algorithms and Investment Strategies	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A worthy introduction complete with examples	After I read this book I read the review from 1998. I was quite surprised that the prior reviewer felt that way. The book provides an introduction to developing the data required for testing, a methodology for developing a study that would be useful in investment practice. This is a quality effort. This book will not provide (or promise) the reader a turnkey system for conquering the market, however there is a framework for future research.<br />This book was written in 1994, before many of the books dealing with Neural Networks came out, and so the terminology will seem unfamiliar. If you are willing to work through these differences (and it is not too hard) then there is a great deal to learn here.<br />Bauer predicted (in 1994) that Genetic Algorithms would become widely used. Bauer also predicted that much of the development would be done in secret. I have not come across them in the last few years and at very least I would have expected to see them as signals for sale from system developers. Additionally, there are a series of books like this one that should have appeared since 1994. A search of Amazon using Genetic Algorithm as the subject and sorting by publication date returns 133 titles. I reviewed these titles and did not find any further investment focused titles. I will use this book as a starting point for my research.<br />My next book will be Melanie Mitchell's \\"Introduction to GAs\\".	2003-12-30
US	52621682	RJ8RIPPX1GN5Y	0071412743	88893061	The Market Maker's Edge:  A Wall Street Insider Reveals How to:  Time Entry and Exit Points for Minimum Risk, Maximum Profit; Combine Fundamental and ... Trading Environment Every Day, Every Trade	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Learn the mind of a market maker	I really liked this book, but I had to ignore significant portions of it to do so. If you parse the new age inspired psychological section and the tepid discussion of technical indicators that are anecdotal in nature and unsupported by research (I have been spoiled by &quot;trading classic chart patterns&quot; and  &quot;practical speculation&quot;), then you might like it too. While it may be unfair to compare this book to the others since this book predates them, I will be forever testing what I read by those standards. <br />I really value his anecdotal explanation of what he did as a market maker and how he traded. I think there is real value to know the mind of the market makers that have to make a living in the market everyday by accepting risk. If you can rework your trading to trade WITH the order flow that market makers have on their desk, it will be a much easier ride. Obviously, there is no way for a third party to exactly know what is on a market makers desk, it may be interpolated from their actions. This book provides a perspective that I have not found in other trading books.	2003-12-11
US	52621682	REFVXGO7XQ3JY	1857442695	851749278	Rapid Chess Improvement (Everyman Chess)	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	Requires dedication	This book lays out a program for developing tactical strength in the chess player's repertoire. The program uses &quot;vision drills&quot; and problem solving. The program requires intense dedication and may not work if attempted with less intensity. De la Maza has testimonials from players that have used the method to improve their tactical play and this is demonstrated by the Fritz scores they generate in their tournaments. Prior reviewers have criticized the reliance on ratings by the author, but the Fritz scores demonstrate the soundness of the approach.<br />To most effectively execute his training regimen, de la Maza suggests the purchase of the CT Art, so there is an extra cost associated with this effort. If you can afford the cost and the time, there seems to be considerable value to doing theses drills.	2003-12-02
US	52621682	RJ9HES8IXDZTH	0471443069	500982182	Practical Speculation	Books	5	11	16	N	N	Homebrew speculation yourself	How to practice speculation for yourself. The odds are stacked against the average individual and there is much misdirection offered as sage advice. Niederhoffer and Kenner (N/K) offer a debunking of the conventional wisdom designed to separate one from his money. Such a valuable service cannot be overestimated.  N/K challenge the value proposition, the arms index, technical analysis and perma-bear attitudes.  They provide a framework (the scientific method supported by statistical analysis) as a tonic for the bad advice. They mention several fruits of their research and other worthwhile investing ideas from other's financial research. I was able to glean many other interesting books to read from the references listed in this book.<br />Missing from this book is the attitude that made Niederhoffer's first book difficult to enjoy. He told us how successful he was, but not how to replicate that success. In this effort, he endeavors to \\"pull back the curtain\\" and give a sense of how he operates, complete with window into his self-doubts.<br />When I review a book, I always reflect and attempt to determine whether it was worthy to have bought and then invested the time to read the book. I feel as good about my investment in this book as have in any financial book in a long time. I highly recommend it for anyone that seeks above average returns.	2003-12-02
US	52621682	RE0IRO3ZR8NAH	1579546463	191099180	THE SOUTH BEACH DIET The Delicious, Doctor-Designed, Foolproof Plan for Fast and Healthy Weight Loss	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	This book can help - My Story	I bought the South Beach Diet book because I wanted to lose weight. My wife, a registered clinical dietician and a Certified Diabetes Educator (CDE), had me on a low fat diet &quot;American Heart Association&quot; diet for years. I kept gaining weight. We read the different low carb books and I decided, with her help, to try the South Beach Diet because it includes moderate fruits. She agreed I should try it, perhaps she had grown embarrassed because I was so heavy given her profession.<br />Week 4.<BR>In the first phase, which I had been on for 3 weeks, I have dropped 6% of my total body weight. I seem to have leveled off for the last week as I have begun to add more things back. This is what the book predicts. I had a BMI of 32.5 and now have a BMI of 30.6. I will go back into the strict phase soon to push that even lower. I am targeting less than 25. I include 30 min of exercise per day. The best news is that at no time have I felt deprived.<br />Week 10.<BR>I now have been in the maintenance mode for some time with a few meals where I had fries or bread that are not included in the diet. My BMI is now 29.7 which is .9 less than the 4 week reading. I am still exercising and feel great. I still do not feel deprived.<br />A significant item in the book is the suggestion to add a sugar-free fiber supplement. I highly recommend this as well. It has made this diet very tolerable, plus adds to my satiety. <br />My wife is now a quiet, but enthusiastic believer in this type of approach.<br />Thumbs up Dr. Agatston, this plan works.	2003-11-07
US	52621682	RF7BME9HZM1Z5	0471065153	681917915	The Day Trader's Course: Low-Risk, High-Profit Strategies for Trading Stocks and Futures	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Introduction to trading	This is exactly as described a how-to book for daytraders. There is a perfunctory rehash of the basics of technical analysis and execution systems. The material here is helpful as a stepping stone if the reader has never been exposed to the material but there is nothing groundbreaking presented. That alone is of interest to me. Here is a trader that has been successful on the floor with little more that a few support and resistance numbers in his head. It is clear from his book that you will make bigger profits if you understand the market, even if you invest little time reading the latest book from newest technical analyst.<br />There are sections about how to prepare for the trading day, the dynamics during the trading day and how to use time effectively after trading is done. Again, the material presented is basic in nature. Perhaps when a book is written with such a large scope, it would be impossible to add much depth to the various topics. Borsellino is a legend of trading. But I would recommend Schwartz's Pit Bull over this effort.	2003-11-03
US	52621682	R2RKI81WRQBWNM	0465054803	818578640	A Mathematician Plays The Stock Market	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Worthy effort	When I first saw this book on the shelf at the store I was highly intrigued. I was hoping for a book that used advanced math to dissect the market. This book was more a survey course than an in depth treatment of the best that math has to offer the investor. Using a failed investment as a springboard in to all things financial, we get a review of various financial theories (such as behavioral finance) and probability. Paulos has an academic's traditional disdain for technical analysis and an over-fondness for fundamentals (in spite of all the critical things he say for the Efficient Market Hypothesis). He has a lot of company (see AIMR, of which I have membership), but I think he misses a bet here. He cites Andrew Lo's research and yet still disparages technical analysis. <br />There are high level reviews of other interesting theories like chaos theory, but you will have to find other sources for depth if you this is your interest. This book does what it sets out to achieve and can be used as an introduction to the subject if you are aware of the author's biases. At the very least you will enjoy his witty, if sometimes tortured, prose.	2003-10-27
US	52621682	R3UTP569LEFJWO	0471356344	742802298	Food Irradiation: Principles and Applications	Books	5	0	0	N	N	For the professional and consumer alike!	This is the best I have read on this topic to date!<br />This book begins with \\"Since the philosophy of this book is that food irradiation needs no further justification, the wholesomeness of irradiated foods is covered from a historical perspective only\\" on page 12. Given the near hysteria some irresponsible advocacy groups have engaged in over this topic, perhaps more could be done in this text to counteract the bad science these groups employ. The conclusion in the food irradiation chemistry chapter states that \\"It is important to note that radiolytic changes that occur in food on irradiation are minimal and are no more significant than other food processing technologies\\". That would include cooking which creates many more profound changes in food. There are few of us that would consider going without cooking, therefore it is wise to consider this additional food safety tool.<br />There are many topics that receive in-depth treatment in this tome including: the differences between machine source and isotope treatments, meat and poultry irradiation, process control in facilities, irradiation of spices and minimally processed foods, and irradiation for phytosanitary purposes. Each topic is addressed by an expert in the field and contains historical data and a prognosis for the future. Each chapter has a bibliography that is a treasure in itself. The future of irradiation depends on the public's willingness to accept it. Books like this do a tremendous amount to dispel the irrational, unfounded concerns voiced by some and pave the way for widespread use.<br />If you read only one book about food irradiation, make it this book.	2003-10-23
US	52621682	RRJPXELUYELHQ	1587160811	329548533	Irradiation for Food Safety and Quality	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Dated, but interesting overview	This is a dated text since it is now 4 years after the Conference in Antalya, Turkey. There is much water under the food irradiation bridge.<br />LM Crawford's opinion about the logistics of source has not proven prescient. Service centers remain the dominant source of treatment because of the high cost of facilities. This allows the facility cost to be amortized over several producers without placing and undue burden on the medium and small producers. In Texas, its is the smaller producers that are leading the charge and this opportunity would be lost if one waited to use only inline systems.<br />The section from Gupta that details the APHIS proposed regulations will be helpful for importers as the thoughts behind the final regulations that were approved in the fall of 2002 are presented. Thomas' presentation covers the nuts and bolts of using irradiation for export purposes.<br />Etzel's paper on the Epidemiology of Foodborne Illness is useful for those trying to understand how outbreaks are now tracked in the US. It is dated because the monitoring now is far more widespread. One thing recent history has shown us is that the problem is far bigger than we have ever imagined. We can all appreciate the better monitoring that protects us now.<br />There are papers from Christine Bruhn and Morton Satin, the queen and king of the high ground in this field.<br />The economics for both machine and cobalt sourced facilities are presented. IBA/MDS Nordian employees present these papers. MDS Nordion has a food presence in the US in cobalt facilities only. There are no papers by SureBeam, the industry leader in machine source processing. The book suffers as a result. There is a fascinating recounting of Food Technologies struggles and the progress they have achieved.<br />The papers presented on Chilean grapes and South Africa's use of treated food provide many interesting data points.<br />I recommend a google search of Antalya + irradiation to add color to this book.	2003-10-07
US	52621682	R2108QOM5AT2A5	0060937653	652737663	How to Go to College Almost for Free	Books	5	62	63	N	Y	From A-Z, a battle plan for getting scholarships	When I saw the title of this book, I began salivating uncontrollably. Imagine, having someone else pay to send your kids to college. That may have been an overreaction. Surely anyone else that has college-bound kids should sympathize.<br />The book is well organized and written on a level that will not challenge a high school student. However, there are tips for a wider audience including the very young, older returning students, graduate students, and students that fit into special groups.<br />Clearly, the competition for scholarships can be intense, but with a logical game plan engaged in consistently, an applicant's effectiveness can be increased. The one consistent theme in the book is that a steady approach will lead to success.<br />I will take issue with a combination of techniques mentioned in the book. Kaplan suggests that students get their recommendations in electronic format so that they can print them out as needed. He also suggests that you solicit \\"small\\" changes to recommendation letters to make them \\"great\\" letters. I feel this may present many an ethical challenge to some applicants. To be clear, he does not suggest manufacturing recommendation letters.<br />He also provides access to his companion web site to add extra punch to the process.<br />In the final analysis, it is hard to argue with his success, and Kaplan was very successful on his own behalf. He interviewed many of the people involved as applicant and administrators and their tips appear in the book.	2003-10-05
US	52621682	RHOUCME2AFMXE	0786868414	511065138	Leadership	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Rudy invites us into his world	Is there a more polarizing figure in NYC politics than Giuliani? Ok, maybe Clinton, the target of many jabs from Giuliani in this book about leadership. Giuliani also makes many other partisan notes in the midst of his book on leading effectively.<br />I have not read the plethora of other books on leadership, so I will not comment on whether the items posited in this book are original. I will note that the recipe he describes is backed up with many real-world situations where they were employed. I suspect that many other authors would be hard pressed to have as many examples of the suggested action having real-world success. Of course, Giuliani colors his successes in the most favorable light, but field-tested and proven techniques like his are worthwhile.<br />The best part of the book is Giuliani's remembrances of the people he met in his public life. Arafat (whom he ejected from a black-tie event), Tom Olsen, various Mafia Dons, Dick Cheney, and many firemen and police officers in NYC that helped with the 9/11 tragedy all make excellent character studies. Giuliani may not be a hero to some, but his transformation of NYC by paying attention to the details and resisting the entrenched special interests is laudable on a public service level. His struggle against prostrate cancer is praiseworthy on a personal level.<br />I listened to the CD version and I found that the narrator would be better suited to a Mickey Spillane thriller because he was a little too melodramatic.	2003-10-05
US	52621682	R3UBXA1R9IJQ1E	0895267896	485385986	Witness	Books	5	12	14	N	N	A journey into light	This is the true story of Whittaker Chambers. Born in depravity, he lashed out at the status quo in a typical outburst of youthful angst. Driven by the depression and a trip to post-Great War Europe, he sought a rational mental framework in the writings of Karl Marx. He immersed himself in his writings and philosophy and adopted the tactics of Lenin. He joined the American Communist Party and later migrated into the Soviet-run Communist Underground. He was charged with creating and maintaining a Communist &quot;apparatus&quot; in Washington DC for the purpose of generating espionage at a later date. He had several Russian masters while in this role and formed close relationships with the operatives he controlled. One of these was Alger Hiss, a darling of the liberal elite in power in FDR's administration.  Chambers broke from the Communist party and returned to a seemingly normal life for a decade. Then he becomes a focal point for the House Committee that Richard Nixon was on, which was charged with finding Communist influence in US Government. Chambers served as a lightning rod for all those who saw an attack on Hiss as a challenge to the status quo. Much of what is detailed in this book has been corroborated in other's testimony and in the more recent Venona transcripts, the FBI deciphered Soviet cables.<br />There is another side of this book that is at least as interesting as the actual spy tale. It is the passage of a person from spiritually dead to brimming with an awake spirit willing to join in the battle between good and evil. Chambers identifies God's will as fighting the godless Communists and unraveling their efforts to cause the US to more closely resemble the USSR through the New Deal and other social programs. He laments how these imbedded Communists managed to change US policy that led to years of totalitarian rule in China. His spiritual journey is detailed here, including his failings, in considerable detail. At 800+ pages, it is not a casual read, but not merely for its length. <br />It is kind of eerie to read about these hidden cells of terrorists in light of the US' recent history. The tactics have not evolved that much, and yet they are still deadly in the US because of the freedoms we enjoy.	2003-09-28
US	52621682	R275GIXURSD1IO	1579546463	191099180	THE SOUTH BEACH DIET The Delicious, Doctor-Designed, Foolproof Plan for Fast and Healthy Weight Loss	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	This can help - My story	I bought the South Beach Diet book because I wanted to lose weight. My wife, a registered clinical dietician and a Certified Diabetes Educator (CDE), had me on a low fat diet &quot;American Heart Association&quot; diet for years. I kept gaining weight. We read the different low carb books and I decided, with her help, to try the South Beach Diet because it includes moderate fruits. She agreed I should try it, perhaps she had grown embarrassed because I was so heavy given her profession.<br />Week 4.<BR>In the first phase, which I had been on for 3 weeks, I have dropped 6% of my total body weight. I seem to have leveled off for the last week as I have begun to add more things back. This is what the book predicts. I had a BMI of 32.5 and now have a BMI of 30.6. I will go back into the strict phase soon to push that even lower. I am targeting less than 25. I include 30 min of exercise per day. The best news is that at no time have I felt deprived.<br />A significant item in the book is the suggestion to add a sugar-free fiber supplement. I highly recommend this as well. It has made this diet very tolerable, plus adds to my satiety. <br />My wife is now a quiet, but enthusiastic believer in this type of approach.<br />Thumbs up Dr. Agatston, this plan works.	2003-09-25
US	52621682	R2VGO81CXL6LIV	140139695X	959243127	In Search of America	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Worth the time	Peter Jennings narrates this abridged series of interesting vignettes about Americans living in America and by doing so creating and recreating America. He examines the old tensions in our democracy like big or small federal government, corporatism versus individualism, and secularism versus religious fervor. In some cases he elevates historical figures too highly, like Jefferson, despite his seditious writings in the Kentucky Resolutions, and W E B Du Bois, despite his socialist rantings from early in the century. Jennings and Brewster would have done well to feature other more worthy people in their book. I enjoyed the profile of the Club for Growth using populist tactic against unresponsive Republicans, and the profile of CFG's mouldy counterpart on the left. The heart rending story of Gary, Indiana and its misinformed leaders is a cautionary tale to any group in America that expects to dwell for long periods at the federal trough, administrations and sentiments change, don't get too comfortable. I would have liked to have heard how outside threats have molded our country (aside from 9-11), because I feel that it defines a portion of the  core of our country. Start at the XYZ affair up to the communist involvement in the FDR administration and I think you have rounded out a view of America more fully. Perhaps this is in the unabridged version.	2003-09-05
US	52621682	R1G9BS7FYP524D	0816039364	957738611	Food Alert!: The Ultimate Sourcebook for Food Safety (Facts for Life)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Protect your family - Learn from this book	A book that describes how that which sustains you may also maim you. Light reading? Hardly, but it is also not a bad or difficult read. Dr. Satin's prose and ability to address sensitive topics without bludgeoning the reader makes this book enjoyable indeed. It would be easy to assume that food borne pathogens and the illness that they cause is the other guy's problem. Dr. Satin shines a bright light on food handling and shows that we can all improve. He exposes the reader to the best that science has to offer to help us avoid illness. He repeatedly shows food irradiation to be a valuable tool that the alarmists in the food activists groups have unfairly maligned. As food irradiation becomes more available in the local grocery and restaurant, it is my hope that rational voices like Dr. Satin's carry the day.<br />Proof of Dr. Satin's wit shows through while debunking myths and passing on advice.<BR>-If anybody insists that a little dirt is good for you, take them out to the garden and have them swallow a thimbleful of the stuff.<BR>-When you are finally sure you can eat off the floor, make sure you do not!<br />If you can stand to take a critical eye at your own food prep and local restaurant, this book will help you avoid the dangers in your food. Protect your children, pregnant and elderly with the ideas you will garner from this text.	2003-08-29
US	52621682	R243V7RMKI9T8U	0786192151	799406093	Into the Rising Sun: Library Edition	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A measure of the sacrifices	This review is of the Audio CD version of this excellent book. Jeff Riggenbach did a fantastic job reading this text. He managed to give proper emphasis without drowning the material.<br />Many soldiers are reluctant to talk of their wartime experiences for fear of seeming boastful. O'Donnell got these veterans to open up and tell their stories. They did so that the fallen heroes would get proper credit, not to tell of their own exploits in a grand fashion. Many of the other reviewers have told of the specific episodes relayed in the book, but what struck me was the depth of feeling that these men had many decades after the fact. One soldier tells of looking up the family of a fallen buddy after the war. It was as if he felt driven to tell them of their son's valor and his worth to his fellow soldiers. Another tells of a friend he saw die in combat after having met his wife and been their with him during the arrival of their child. It was a common theme that these men had these experiences with them every day, if only just beneath the surface. I highly recommend it to those who would like to grasp the depth of the sacrifice these individuals made on our behalf.	2003-08-25
US	52621682	R24LNRPLAI3P63	1402704178	731753611	Crosswords for a Super Brain Workout	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Much Fun	This collection comes from the Attach magazine, the US Airways magazine. The feature puzzles by some of the top constructors in current production. They were attracted by the unusual format of 17 squares per side. They challenge using foreign language, pop culture, and witty clues. Have fun with these and get a super brain workout!<br />One odd thing is that the solutions are not in the same sequence as the puzzles. This is minor and easily resolved.<br />In the 2nd Section are the Pop Culture Puzzles.	2003-08-23
US	52621682	R1MGNLEZ4QOIVO	1587620685	150242383	Term Sheets & Valuations - A Line by Line Look at the Intricacies of Term Sheets & Valuations (Bigwig Briefs)	Books	5	47	48	N	Y	Informative and highly focused.	When I first received this book, I was disappointed because of its short length (106 pages). I could not have been more wrong, the book is very comprehensive. I bought this book because I was involved in a Private Equity transaction on the entrepreneur side of the transaction. We had received a term sheet from the investor and I needed to get educated about this stage of the transaction. The investor that submitted the term sheet was not using one of the 5 typical formats, so Wilmerding's approach of describing the various clauses in the term sheet and the effects on the parties was of critical importance to our transaction.  As the other reviewers have mentioned, the author describes the various clauses as investor favorable, middle of the road, or company favorable. This approach was helpful in developing several ideas for \\"push backs\\" in our negotiation. The author also helped highlight \\"red flags\\" to be aware of and described their significance. The author also highlights where it is important to retain experienced council to avoid legal pitfalls. <br />This book is a step by step cookbook for navigating the first critical steps in each round of financing a new company will do. Ignore his advice at your own financial peril.	2003-08-18
US	52621682	R3VUCXBKG2M9Q9	1565301439	337050852	1939: Baseball's Pivotal Year : From the Golden Age to the Modern Era	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great book Talmage!	I thoroughly enjoyed your book. I have given it as a gift and recommend it highly. One person I gave it to grew up a Brooklyn Dodger fan and he really loved the section about \\"Leo the lip\\" Durocher.<br />If you want to learn about the fading days of Gehrig and the ascendancy of the splendid splinter, you will find it here. The personalities of the various featured players shine through in Talmadge's prose. Easy to read, enjoyable, and inexpensive when bought used, this makes for great summer reading!	2003-07-30
US	52621682	R7ZX61K57UYZE	156530229X	301973166	1001 Most Asked Texas Gardening Questions	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Keep your weekends manageable!	Already familiar with his weekend radio show, I bought this book. Now, instead of wondering how to work with my lawn, I now turn to this book. It saves me many a trip to the local nursery.  There are scores of answers for many of the questions for me, the average gardener.  My azaleas are thriving, a mountain I never expected to climb.<br />With regards to the last review about organic gardening, Sperry uses organic solutions when it is indicated, but makes no special effort to employ them. The non-organic solutions he recommends are safe according to the research he cites and that is good enough for me.	2003-07-30
US	52621682	R2YTCJYN3IT0FA	0895261901	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	Bias still strong at CBS	Goldberg has done this country a great favor.<br />I first reviewed this book on the 14th of December 2001.<br />I have spent a year and a half viewing the CBS news looking for the kinds of slights that Goldberg described. Has it had an effect? Yes perhaps, but of late I have begun to see the national news media (ex-Fox) begin to slip back into familiar habits. The coverage of Iraq is a great case in point. The continually paint Iraq as another Vietnam. Of course they forget the minor detail that this war was fought to win and the conventional Iraqi forces were defeated. The brave troops are never interviewed, but the lone angry soldier is given plenty of air (he purports to speak for all of his squad). I saw this last night in the Byron Pitts story. It makes me angry when I witness this kind of slander by the left. One more chance to get in a dig at the right without balance could not be passed up. Read and Reread this book to prevent the left for deciding on your behalf what is \\"best\\" for you to know and start watching Fox from time to time to add some balance to what you take in!<br />Many people have already abandoned the network news for other outlets, look for this to continue until they shape up.	2003-07-29
US	52621682	R1MQYG657I4XE9	0743525485	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Truly a remarkable man!	This review is of the 26 CD unabridged audio rendering of the John Adams biography. The reader of the text uses necessary inflection but does not overwhelm the listener or supplant the text. This is a long CD set and well worth the journey. The Pulitzer Prize winning book makes a great audio CD. I have a pre-reading child that has listened intently to all of the CDs. This has been a great way to teach the lessons our nation's founders desperately wish we knew.<br />The book itself makes for great reading (listening). It exposes the foibles and strength of many of the founding fathers and mothers. No icon is spared. Jefferson (impractical spendthrift and hypocritical), Franklin (egomaniacal spendthrift and disingenuous), Adams (pathologically thrifty, honest, and blunt), and Hancock (vain and bitter)are protrayed as equally human. I love the portrait of Abigail Adams and the story of her and John's famous romance.<br />The accomplishments of these founders in the face of numerous hardships and detractors still resonate 200 years hence. The annealing experiences of strife against enemies and nature are largely lost in these days. I shudder to think what Adams would think of the current culture in the US. Libertine behavior of a pedestrian nature they observed in France shocked them. Despite the efforts of the ardent multi-culturalists, human foibles of the subjects of the text, and the passage of time, the United States will never become a mediocre nation if it heeds Adam's lessons and learns from his ideals. Many complain that McCullough does not describe negatively enough the Alien and Sedition act, but when compared to the whole of his career for our nation, I think McCullough gives it proper context.<br />John Adams seems to be the kind person I would have loved to meet. Very much a man's man and wonderfully loyal friend, I would have really enjoyed his friendship. A person, who was also acknowledged as honest as could be found, I find many of his characteristicsthose I hope to find in my friends. This account of Adam's life will show a 3D rendering and adds color to boot. Well done Mr. McCullough.	2003-07-28
US	52621682	R2RQ380BH64SKQ	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	4	3	9	N	N	A+B=C?	This is an interesting book with many punchlines. Let's examine the argument Coulter is making.<br />A. Was there a strong pro-Communist, pro-Stalin, subversive element in the US government in the 30s & 40s?<BR>Yes. It has been proved without the shadow of a doubt by the declassified Venona cables and the never impeached eyewitness testimony of the time.<br />B. Were these treasonous people aided and protected by elected Democrats, most notably FDR and his unelected aid Dean Acheson?<BR>Yes. FDR promoted Hiss despite FBI warnings and Dean Acheson made a very public defense of same.<br />C. Therefore this proves that the Democrats and liberals are treasonous?<br />C. (or) Joseph McCarthy was properly discharging his duties in his role as Senator.<br />Yes, this is a monumental undertaking, the rehabilitation of a reviled character. Joseph McCarthy is still held up as villain. This is done mostly by Leftists that are attempting to limit the exercise of free speech by conservatives or to protect their own subversion.  It may be an impossible task to resurrect his reputation from the years of abuse at the hands of Leftist historians. But the question remains, was McCarthy pursuing a just cause? An objective view of history (explained in this and other books) renders a \\"yes\\". Was McCarthy vilified beyond what was called for? An objective view of history renders a \\"yes\\". Were these Democrats guilty of treason? An objective view of history renders a \\"yes\\". Are they still (as Coulter implies)? She does not make this case.<br />True, the Leftists have now embraced Multi-Culturalism and America is the poorer for it. The wellspring of all this nonsense goes back to a time when the Democratic Party promoted and protected Soviet agents at the highest level of the FDR administration. If you want to see the face of US Communism today, you need to look no further than Katrina Vanden Heuvel of the Nation. She waxes annoyingly about all of America's shortcomings and most of what shesays is merely echoes of the 30s and 40s. Merely adopting a pacifist stance in the face of current enemies is not a patently treasonable. <br />There is a discussion about whether Reagan ended the cold war, North Korea and the Iraq debate, which is interesting filler.<br />You should notice in this review that the term Leftist was what I used, not liberal or Democrat. This is a distinction that Coulter unfortunately fails to make. D Flynn makes it in his book, \\"Why the Left hates America\\", and is better for it. There were many anti-Communists Democrats and liberals. The conclusion she draws from it fails as well.	2003-07-28
US	52621682	R1U4S80PET0OFN	0761100806	437275196	Steak Lover's Cookbook	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Bravo!	I bought this book to help me become a better grill chef. I love a steak cooked on my grill. There are tips for how to grill successfully here, especially on page 26 and page 6.  There are several notable tips for insuring a great grilling experience, such as the admonition to use Salt on page 40 and 51. I love the composed butter recipe for T-Bone steaks.<br />The book is organized by types of \\"cuts\\". It is the uptown cuts that interest me the most. The sections about the T- Bone, Porterhouse, Strip, Rib Eye, and Sirloin. There are recipes for each type of cut. There are many asides in this book that describe the history of and tools used in cooking steaks.<br />I will not comment on the downtown or cross-town recipes because I've not spent much time with them.<br />I cannot help but favorably recommend a book the mentions a personal favorite steak house of mine in Ponder, Texas.	2003-07-26
US	52621682	R2KYM87Y808YTP	0688161995	783781913	How to Cook Meat	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Tips for successful dining	I bought this book to strengthen my grilling techniques. I made a mistake because that is not the focus of this book. There is an extended discussion of grades and what cuts come from various part of the animal and how to get what you need from the butcher. The book is further divided between beef, veal, lamb, and pork recipes. <br />To my pleasure I found the authors' top 5 tips for cooking meat and the recipes in the tender beef section. These would make the purchase of the book worth while. I did not spend much time with the other section and so express no opinion on them.	2003-07-25
US	52621682	RO70PXWJLJJO	007222679X	284952297	Quickbooks(R) 2003: The Official Guide	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Superb source of shortcuts	The time that you will save using the shortcuts in the book will pay for the cost of this tome many times over. Yes, much of the basics in here are covered adequately in the manual but the truth is that even one time-saving idea from this text can easily justify its purchase.<br />For the power user the are many notes on how to get more from your quickbooks pro. Saving the cost and pain of migration to a more advanced package also makes this text worth while.<br />There are separate sections for Accounts Receivable, Accounts Payable, and Payroll. These sections will walk the novice through account set up and statement creation. The Tips, Cautions, and Notes will insure that you will not create conflicts in your books that will befuddle your accountant and cause your audit expenses to rise. Worth the time and effort to read if you use this software package.	2003-07-24
US	52621682	R2BYCS7885D0KM	0808008501	186371783	U.S. Master Tax Guide, 2003	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A well annotated tool	I have purchased this book for the last decade and a half. It is great to use in the preparation of returns. I also have used it to meet my states' CPE requirements. I don't think that is possible any longer, but this is still a handy tool.    Other features include a annual update of the changes to the prior year's code and reg, and a calender of important date to plan preparation and filing dates.     The MTG references the larger loose leaf service that CCH sells too. The MTG can be used without the other service which can be found in some of the larger libraries if further research is required.	2003-07-23
US	52621682	R2EJ4MMH63XX6X	076156375X	398927034	Why the Left Hates America: Exposing the Lies That Have Obscured Our Nation's Greatness	Books	5	30	41	N	N	This is worth reading and enjoyable too!	Inflammatory? Yes. <br />Does this author deliver over-the-top narration about the holes in his adversaries opinions? Yes.<br />Does this author have a good point? Absolutely!<br />This book outlines some of the arguments posited against the longest standing democracy in the world. While he readily acknowledges the shortcomings of our current system, he decries the Left/Socialist critique of America. Dating back to earliest attempts to subvert our democracy by Socialism and chronicling the various attempts after, Flynn documents the history of Communism/Socialisms chronic attacks on our freedom and way of life. Starting with Marx, W E B Du Bois, the US Communist Party, and their illegitimate offspring multi-culturalism, Flynn gives a blow by blow account of how the jealous elite wants to subvert all of our freedom.<br />If you have become frustrated by the continuing liberal slant in the news media and from the universities, this is your road map for understanding what is really behind the nonsense. This is your chance to unlearn the unsupported attacks on our country and its founders that you received in school.<br />Deal with the hyperbolic language and you will find this a well-researched gem that with help you understand the wellspring of Leftist whining and extremists attacks on our country. It may also help you re-educate the brainwashed liberal next door.	2003-07-21
US	52621682	R2ILM4WBDNXAQK	0761103465	959089314	Memos from the Chairman	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Pithy sayings from a fertile imagination	If you can weather a few cultural references that not be cheered in these days of political correctness, you will be treated to a book full of \\"ACE\\" Greenberg's exhortation to keep your eye on the ball. Mr. Greenberg makes his points to the \\"troops\\" by focusing on the smallest detail. In one case this is paperclips, and so it goes on from there. Several mythical characters live in Greenberg's memos, and so keep the reader's interest. All this is window dressing for the main point, cut costs, even in good times, and you will keep the wolves at bay when things get soft.<br />An easy read, but worth the time.	2003-06-22
US	52621682	R3DLB9CWLI6M9S	0471112127	808564688	Neural Networks for Financial Forecasting (Wiley Trader's Exchange)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Worth the money	What does this book promise?<br />&quot;Succinctly explains how neural networks function, what they can accomplish as well as how to use, construct and apply them for maximum profit.&quot;<br />Ok, so perhaps it should say .... An introductory text with basic definitions and a example of how to use a neural network to predict the S &amp; P 500. But even on the grander promise this book delivers. The book is too basic for those previously familiar with NNs, but perfect for someone who merely would like to begin and fears the prospect of becoming too frustrated to finish. Gately points out potential snares and discusses how to overcome them and walks the reader through a project. He describes how to preprocess the data to ensure meaningful results.<br />I have followed his steps and have been very please with my project, this book and the value I received when purchasing it.	2003-06-18
US	52621682	R1DVX31P57A47Z	0743229002	88402083	The Biggest Game of All : The Inside Strategies, Tactics, and Temperaments That Make Great Dealmakers Great	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Give it a try, you'll like it	I bought this book because of the favorable review by Mark Cuban, owner of the Dallas Mavericks, and The Economist. I found the book interesting on many levels and annoying on a few others. The main annoyance was with the general tone of the book. The first part of the book is a homage to many of the people that Hindery has known in the business. It almost sounds solicitous. However, the book recovers from this with a great treatment of how to do deals and insight into how some of the deals he was a part of transpired. I finished the reading of this book with the feeling that while some of the book was a waste, the book as a whole was not a waste of time. Therefore I rate it with 4 stars and encourage any aspiring dealmaker to go and negotiate a good price on the book and learn. The 10 rules for negotiating a deal are excellent.	2003-06-13
US	52621682	RDPNXAO0C0CGJ	0070696322	539012505	Trading Chicago Style	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Nice insight from real traders	Wow! this book has some bad reviews. I am really surprised, perhaps some of the reviewers really expected to be handed a real trading system for 29.95. The book jacket definitely over-promises based on what is inside, but there is still tremendous value in here. If you look past the blatant attempts by some of the interviewees to market their services and take the nuggets where you find them then you will have not wasted your time.<br />I know several of the traders interviewed in the book. They have reputations that span the spectrum. But the really outstanding interviews were of the traders that you don't find interviewed in other texts. The nameless Phantom, CV, the Committee and Mark Brown interviews come to mind. They are worth the price of the book. The pit stops are also useful, but in some cases are found in other texts	2003-06-06
US	52621682	R3NBRGL3D9K59T	0670857688	254898318	The House of Rothschild: Money's Prophets 1798-1848	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Engaging and enlightening	The House of Rothschild 1798-1848 covers a pivotal time in history. The Napoleonic Wars, rise of capitalism, the rise of multinational businesses, development of the railroad and the French Revolution. The Rothschild's had a front row seat to all of this and were the focus of some of it. From humble beginnings in the Frankfurt Jewish Ghetto, the rise of this family is chronicled through three generations. Many myths about the Rothschilds are laid to rest by Ferguson's groundbreaking research, much of it original scholarship. One of the main threads running through the book is that finance had a profound role in the ability of the rulers of Europe to do what they wanted. By 1825 the Rothschild had a significant role in sovereign finance. Many things were wished for by the various despots that ruled Europe at that time, but if the Rothschilds did not perceive that those wishes would lead to stabilization and peace it typically was not supported thereby making it difficult to realize. They did not support the despots with out reserve, but they knew that peace protected their interests. That perspective makes this book unique.<BR>The Rothschild family business was a partnership that was constructed as the 2nd generation left Frankfurt for London, Paris, Vienna, and Naples. That the partnership should survive was the 1st generation's greatest desire and was respected (most of the time) by his descendants. The exchanges between the 5 houses make for fascinating reading and are reference extensively in the book.<BR>The book details how the Rothschilds pushed for Jewish emancipation and equality and were resisted at every turn. That did not prevent them from receiving commendations from the various governments that the worked with. It did not prevent them from gaining entry to the most prestigious universities for their children. It did not prevent Lionel from gaining entry into the British Parliament without having to swear a Christian Oath. The Rothschilds achieved a great deal for themselves and for Judaism.<BR>Intrigue, betrayal, revolution, and vignettes of famous people make this a very entertaining book, not merely a historic rendering of dates and places. From the beginning of the Rothschild climb to prominence with the Elector of Hesse-Kassel to the French Revolution in 1848, this book will engage the reader.	2003-01-16
US	52621682	R2MHXDE4676DAU	1889223034	255881696	Stock Trader's Almanac 2003	Books	5	16	17	N	N	This book can make you money	\\"We discovered that while stocks do indeed fluctuate, they do so in well-defined, often predictable patterns. These patterns recur too frequently to be the result of chance or coincidence.\\"<br />Thus begins this book in the introduction to the 36th edition. If you believe that days of the week, times of the year and part of the election cycle affect the stock market, then this book may contain many useful information points and actionable strategies. If not, read no further.<br />This edition contains much about the 3rd year of the presidential term and its prior effects on the stock markets. Page 42 (charts on page 30) contains a summary from 1915-1999. I shouldn't mention what it says, but the effect has been powerful in the prior observances. There is an actionable strategy in the book.<br />At the beginning of each month there is a summary of how that month had performed in prior years and how that might be best used in 2003.<br />The research that has been done into the January effect and the Santa Clause Rally is explained and action points are given. You can use this almanac to time your participation in the rally.<br />On page 52 is the summary of the \\"best 6 months\\" with an actionable strategy that, if it holds, will pay for this book and many others. It is powerful not only because of its simplicity, but because it takes advantage of many not easily noticed trends. This one stratagem makes the book worthy by itself.<br />Of interest are the reviews of a book about trading that the author/editor thought worthy of note. A review by Rockefeller of Trading Classic Chart Patterns is this year's added bonus (it is a reprint of a review from a magazine).<br />The book has a calendar with one week per page. You can use it as a substitute for a daytimer, though there isn't a tremndous amount of room on each day for notes. Imagine that, a daytimer that makes you money.	2003-01-08
US	52621682	R30DYE1MSY6Y5D	1889223026	196994959	Stock Trader's Almanac 2002	Books	5	1	2	N	N	This book can help	I use this book as a personal calender. The timely reminders about the seasonal trades are always before me. It is a resource that I have turned to repeatedly as I try to maximize my investments.<br />Details about triple witching, holidays, seasons and days of the week make this a tool anyone can use.	2002-12-30
US	52621682	R3M8T4FFJ5HWXS	0878337997	522314975	Neil Sperry's Complete Guide to Texas Gardening	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Great for the Weekend Warrior! (in Texas)	Do you need a quick reference full of information tailored to Texas gardening (yes, it is different here)? Look no further. So many gardening references try for a national application, but you won't be able to employ them successfully here. Sperry does a great job in this tome and it is never far from me in the spring, summer and fall. <br />Great advice on lawns as well. I use it for advice on my lawn all the time as well.<br />Sperry also has a great radio show worthy of note.	2002-12-30
US	52621682	R3QAU8E1GQ6EYJ	0895261901	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	5	14	16	N	Y	A year Later ---- It is still TRUE	Goldberg has done this country a great favor.<br />I reviewed this book on the 14th of December 2001. <br />I have spent a year viewing the CBS news looking for the kinds of slights that Goldberg described. Has it had an effect? Yes perhaps, but of late I have begun to see the national news media (ex-Fox) begin to slip back into familiar habits. The Trent Lott situation is a great case in point. I care not to defend Lott because his record speaks for itself. But nowhere have I seen the balance in the national media about the democrats that support(ed) segregation (Sen Byrd) or that the Republican party  is the party that emancipated the slaves. One more chance to get in a dig at the right without balance could not be passed up. Read and Reread this book to prevent the left for deciding on your behalf what is &quot;best&quot; for you to know and start watching Fox from time to time to add some balance to what you take in!<br />Many people have already abandoned the network news for other outlets, look for this to continue until they shape up.	2002-12-25
US	52621682	RWXTFR5CH3GL4	087004110X	277390249	The Art of Contrary Thinking	Books	4	13	20	N	Y	Will this Book make you rich?	Or will it merely make you a cranky loner? <br />I read this book and have learned the value of consistent questioning the validity of my assumptions. I am involved in a business that is on the bleeding edge of technology. You must question and re-question everything on a frequent basis or you will find yourself yesterday's news. Will this book help you to develop the approach to be successful? YES. The rest is up to you.	2002-12-25
US	52621682	R2NWAKKM7YN0CL	1563525666	294691023	The Jewish Phenomenon: Seven Keys to the Enduring Wealth of a People	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Roadmap for any parent	I have many Jewish friends and have always marveled at their verbal abilities. I read this book for some insight into these talents. The details of how to develop these things are missing, but overall it is good for general direction. Every night I question my kids about their day and beliefs and encourage them to explain to me their thoughts. Many reviewers have missed the point of this book, exclaiming that the scope should have been broader. Perhaps more description of Jewish sub-groups would have explained more but that does not diminish the value of this book.<br />This view into Jewish life is interesting as is the Yiddish dictionary at the end.	2002-12-25
US	52621682	R1ITAQFO8LTZ7J	0802438504	226473318	Ryrie Study Bible NIV Hardback- Red Letter (Ryrie Study Bibles)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	I love this Bible	I am a layperson.<br />The depth of the commentary and the fastidious cross-referencing in the margin has made this Bible the gateway for my growth as a Christian. The maps in the back and other commentary at the beginning of each book create a depth of understanding in my Christian experience that I find too infrequently from the pulpit.<br />The commentary has great life application elements and historical references as well. <br />Well Done Dr. Ryrie!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!	2002-12-25
US	52621682	R1AFFWYO388Y3Y	0812929985	441816588	Change Your Brain, Change Your Life: The Breakthrough Program for Conquering Anxiety, Depression, Obsessiveness, Anger, and Impulsiveness	Books	4	16	20	N	Y	After I read this....	This book will make you want to change your brain! Surrendering caffeine was my answer. I would consume coffee or even caffeine pills to get going in the morning. I have surrendered these after reading the good doctor's book. I still consume it in lower doses but have reduced my gross intake considerably. I feel it has made a considerable difference for me. Perhaps it will for you as well.<br />The book presents the results of what was groundbreaking scanning techniques for studying brain function. Dr. Amen compares the brain function of ADHD, chemical abusers and \\"normal\\" brains. The images create a visable difference and that is where the Dr. develops his conclusions.	2002-12-25
US	52621682	R1V7BH5AGKRBF6	0895261901	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Thanks Bernard!	I really appreciate a non-ghost written, first hand account of what really happened. While this book lacks the prose of many offerings, this book more than compensates by pulling back the curtain on a power opinion-builder in our society, the evening national news. He never stoops to \\"prettying reality\\" and shows us the \\"people\\" that shape our national debate. While it may not be intentional, Goldberg shows that national media's liberal bias repeatedly precludes capturing balanced reporting. He also demonstrates how far out of sync the national media is with its audience in \\"fly-over country\\". It also shows how story content selection is driven by the need for ratings, an obvious but ugly reality. BTW Goldberg makes it clear that he is not a Republican and had never voted for a Republican Presidential candidate. He simply deplores the slanted reporting he sees and wants to turn a strong light on it. It is comical how reporters, who make a living investigating and criticizing others, have such a thin skin when the tables are turned. I hope I don't seem to merely be enjoying the discomfort of others in this regard, but I feel this was a book that really needed to be written.<BR>My copy of the book arrived from amazon on December 12 and I haven't been able to put it down.	2001-12-14
