US	52632204	R17O41L96TRZ3M	0761515151	487819966	Positive Discipline for Preschoolers, Revised Second Edition: For Their Early Years - Raising Children Who Are Responsible, Respectful, and Resourceful	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Great advice, but have support	Dealing with preschoolers, as any parent will tell you, is a challenge.  How do you deal with this little being, that is both independent and dependent, at the same time?  Nelsen, et al, have provided a common sense approach to raising preschoolers.    The ideas that are presented in this book, when used properly, are incredibly powerful.  An example of this is recognizing the message being sent by the misbehavior of a preschooler.  If you can identify what the message being sent is, then you have a greater chance of being able to redirect the behavior.  Of course, you have to be willing to take the time to analyze the behavior and define what you are willing to do in response to the behavior.  While the tools provided in this book are very powerful when used properly, they can also be very damaging when used improperly.  If you have someone that can read the book with you and provide support, you will be much more effective at implementing the strategies successfully.    This book provides an idea for raising children without using humiliation or punitive measures to get short term changes in behavior.  If you are looking for support for the, \\"My parents raised me this way and I turned out just fine.\\" mentality, then find another book.  If on the other hand, you are looking for a book that provides a basis for what I would consider to be an improved method of dealing with preschoolers, then this is your book.    The one thing that kept me from giving this book five stars is that it fails to address immediate safety issues.  In many cases the book suggests plans that are implemented after you have had a moment to consider your response.  It would be helpful if the authors provided some ideas as to how to respond to potentially dangerous situations without losing your cool and still treating your child as a human being who has control over their own actions.	2005-09-27
US	52632204	RR6AAFY6WEPFG	0671867423	534494015	Lincoln at Gettysburg: The Words That Remade America	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great Defense of Lincoln	In his book, Lincoln at Gettysburg, Wills creates a picture of Lincoln that illustrates the truly significant nature of the president in American history.  By breaking apart the Gettysburg address and examining not just the words of the address but also the historical context, Wills provides a picture that shows how significant Lincoln was to American history. <br /> <br />In his analysis of the address, Wills does something that I found to be very significant and that is to answer the charges of historians in the vein of Richard Hofstadter head on.  Hofstadter points out that the Emancipation Proclomation really did very little, given which slaves it actually freed, Wills answers this charge directly, which provides a great defense of Lincoln in the end. <br /> <br />Even though in some cases Wills does get a little too detail oriented, his analysis of the text of the address, the analysis of the historical context, not just of the war, but of the social structure of American of society as well, and his defense of Lincoln all make this book well worth your time.  It provides the brush strokes for the portrait of Lincoln that is frequently painted in our classrooms.	2005-05-10
US	52632204	R6SZT2ZQMHYCH	038080560X	150477462	Touching Spirit Bear	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Great Story and Lesson	One of my reading classes read this book as a class and all of us found the book to be spellbinding.  It was an amazing story of redemption that provided some incredible insights for many of my students.  For me, not only was the story great, but the message on a personal and a societal level was incredible.  It's not too often that such an appropriate critique of the criminal justice system comes along in such a readable manner. <br /> <br />Mikaelsen provides an excellent backdrop for learning forgiveness on a personal and on a societal level and that perhaps as a society we need to look beyond vengance and move into true rehabilitation.  His writing is captivitating and as I read it, I found it incredibly difficult to not read too far ahead of my students.  This book is well worth your time to pick up.	2005-04-28
US	52632204	R2BNFX0FSHO31G	0064472132	140262789	Stuck in Neutral	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Captivating	The idea behind this story, that someone severely handicapped is not just intelligent but a genius was something that was very interesting to me.  It's not too often that you see this particular voice used to tell a story and a powerful story at that. <br /> <br />Trueman is an excellent wordsmith and spins a captivating tale for everyone who chooses to pick up the book.  The story pulls the reader in right away and doesn't let up until the end.  The reason I only gave it four stars however is that I was a little disappointed with the ending, although I recognize the ending is actually necessary to fit with the rest of the book, I just was personally disappointed with it.   <br /> <br />Overall, if you are looking for a thought provoking and fun story to read, pick this one up it's well worth your time.	2005-04-27
US	52632204	R1478WYGOSKLLO	1403965382	123042441	What Video Games Have to Teach Us About Learning and Literacy	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Not terribly new ideas, but new approach	As an educator, I picked this book up because I found the idea that video games could teach us about learning and literacy to be very intriguing.  All to often we see that more and more American students are turning off books and turning on Playstations, so I thought that perhaps this was a way to relate video games to learning in an educational setting and in some ways it is.  However, the ideas that Gee presents, such as having students \\"do\\" science is not something that is terribly new.  After all Dewey wrote in the early twentieth century that education had to be more than rote memorization is it was to be meaningful and retained. <br /> <br />Just because these ideas are not new does not make the book worthless.  In fact, by using video games to illustrate these ideas, I think that many education policy makers could gain some useful insights as to how to structure education \\"reform\\".  Teachers could also gain some useful insights in terms of making connections between the quality world of students and the classroom in order to create a means of helping students connect.	2005-04-22
US	52632204	R23GUOB91S5EI9	1594200297	499059352	Democracy Matters: Winning the Fight Against Imperialism	Books	4	4	10	N	N	Excellent Critique, Where's the solution	Cornell West, in an incredibly eloquent fashion outlines for the reader the fundamental flaws in American politics, religion, and media today.  He clearly identifies the prime issues with each group and explains those issues very clearly and succinctly.  Beyond that though, West falls short.  The primary problem with this book, and the reason I only gave it four stars is that there are no solutions to these problems that are clear and concrete.   <br /> <br />The final reason I only this book four stars is that the majority of the people who need to read this book (i.e. those who produce the variant of hip-hop that West identifies as being nihlists) won't pick it up, and while the book is eloquent, a good chunk of the Americans who should read it, simply won't understand it.	2005-04-22
US	52632204	RCO8A0DKTY9GR	0440208351	292798544	After the First Death	Books	1	3	23	N	N	Model of Hollywood Formula	Cormier's book is written for young adults, but in many ways, this writing is insulting to the reader.  There is a distinct level of the Hollywood formula that this book models.  In other words, you have the introduction, you have the climax, you have the descent.  Ok, all plots follow this, but in Cormier's book it is so much a part of the text that it takes away from the story.  Additionally, in this book, the climax is so brief that it really is almost an irrelevant part of the story other than a climax is necessary. <br /> <br />As I read this book, what I pictured in my mind was the book cover being turned into a movie poster.  This shouldn't have been written as a novel, instead it should have been written as a screenplay.  However, in terms of screenplays, I think Battlefield Earth would be better than this. <br /> <br />The basis of the story ties into the modern day issue of terrorists infiltrating the United States and then taking hostages so that certain demands can be met.  As a story idea, it's great, it's the execution of the story that is so disappointing.  The overall dialogue is poor and as you read it, it seems forced.  The use of imagery is ok, but all in all even this is short changed in the book, finally the plot development is less than desirable.  Cormier does try to experiment a little in his writing by bouncing between first and third person and back and forth in time, which is the only thing that kept me reading the story.  All in all, even for young adults that are looking for action, there are much better choices out there.	2005-03-16
US	52632204	R35MWVC90C3IOH	1594200335	844238166	The United States of Europe: The New Superpower and the End of American Supremacy	Books	3	10	16	N	N	Interesting and entertaining	I received this book as a gift and when I got it I was very interested in reading a book that had the thesis that in international affairs, the EU was on its way to becoming the top dog in the world, with the US slipping on the scale of power.  I was, by the time I was finished with this book, a little disappointed.  There are two key reasons for my disappointment with the book.  First, the lack of cited credible sources.  Second, the evidence provided is interesting, but in most instances hardly warrants the idea that the EU is the world's next superpower. <br /> <br />First the lack of cited credible sources.  The author routinely cites sources such as, \\"I had a chance to ask Tony Blair about....\\" As I read this more often than not I thought he was name dropping as opposed to providing support for his thesis.  However, if the personal interviews are accepted as evidence, the second major problem I have with a lot of the evidence the author provides is that there are a grand total of 2 pages of notes that one can look at and check the sources.  There are a lot of claims that Europeans feel this way or that way, but there is no place to go back and check on what the author is saying.  This is a real problem in my mind if you are writing a book about the world's next superpower. <br /> <br />Secondly, the evidence itself is not just suspect, but sometimes not really even relevant to the idea.  Does Europe have a better health care system than the US?  I don't know, maybe, free healthcare would be a great thing, but does that qualify a political entity as being a superpower?  If that's the case, then shouldn't Canada have been listed as a superpower some time ago?  Or for another example, the fact that Europeans can go from London to Paris to Berlin to Oslo without a passport, ok this one is a little more relevant, but so much time is focused on the fact that Europeans are viewing themselves as Europeans that I was beginning to think that I was reading a sociologicalstudy on the growth of the united Europe. <br /> <br />In the end though I did enjoying reading the book.  It was entertaining in the sense that the writer is a good wordsmith and can keep the reader focused on the page, even when you are saying, \\"What does that have to do with anything?\\".  So if you want a serious study of the rise of a new superpower, check out the journal Foreign Affairs.  If you want something entertaining on the slightly more intelligent side of Rush Limbaugh and Alan Combes, this isn't a bad choice.	2005-02-18
US	52632204	R13N5I86LCW5E1	0684807610	438783610	Benjamin Franklin: An American Life	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very Insightful	As I read this book, the one thing that coming to my mind is how unlikable a guy like Ben Franklin really was, but at the same time, because of the nature of the man, I could see how he came to be so immensely influential.  Isaacson provides a look into Franklin's life that truly does illuminate the nature of the man and at the same time then, the founding of the country. <br /> <br />Overall, this book was not as easy a read as McCullough's \\"John Adams\\", but it was still well written, thought out, and researched.  I fully appreciated the level of research that went into this particular text and how well synthesized the research was.  In the synthesis however, the one thing I found lacking was that Isaacson did not have a clear thesis (at least to me) until he reached the conclusion of the book.  In my opinion it's a little more helpful to understanding the work if I know up front where the author is coming from, but I wouldn't let that prevent anyone else from reading it, nor would I let it stop me from reading it again.  All in all this book is worth your time.	2005-02-18
US	52632204	R2WR5AHM26I67Z	1881273156	277335936	The Five Love Languages: How to Express Heartfelt Commitment to Your Mate	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very intriguing ideas	Chapman's book, the Five Love Languages was recommended to me by a friend.  At first I was hesitant to pick up the book because in all reality my marriage is fine.  However, being of the mindset that things can always be better, my wife and I decided that getting the book wouldn't hurt anything. <br /> <br />As I read through the book, a lot of what he had to say made sense in a logical fashion, especially as I thought about my own relationship with my wife and as I looked at other couples we know.  There are different ways of expressing love and not all of those ways are interpreted the same by all people.  It's a matter of determining which actions are going to be interpreted as being expressions and acting accordingly.  When people are acting in ways that will be interpreted as expressions of love, then the partner in the relationship feels love.  In many ways, what it boils down to is how to effectively communicate with your partner that you love him or her and recognizing that actions speak louder than words (unless of course the love \\"language\\" is words of affirmation). <br /> <br />Chapman peppers the book with examples of couples that were rescued from the brink of divorce to illustrate the power of the love languages.  In some cases the examples seem a little too extreme to be true, but even if those examples were false, they still serve an effective function which is to get the reader excited about the possiblity of being able to communicate more effectively with the partner.  So, the examples, while I initially shook my head and said, \\"yeah right\\" in the end made me think that perhaps there is some merit to his ideas.  Ultimately I have yet to have a chance to really try them out and see what happens, but I don't see that there is any harm trying. <br /> <br />There might be some complaints about his basing the ideas in religion and using the Bible to back up certain points in the book.  Personally, I wasn't bothered by the basis in Christianity.  It is necessary to have something from which to formulate the initial ideas and I can see where Chapman effectively used the Bible to support his contentions.  If the mention of Christianity is something that would bother a reader, they probably shouldn't pick up the book, but if the mentioning of Christianity is viewed as either supporting a basic thesis to begin with or is wholeheartedly embraced then the book is something that is worth reading.   <br /> <br />If his contentions are accurate, that we all have different ways of understanding expressions of love, then this book is a must read for you if you are in anyway hoping to improve your marriage.  This recommendation comes with the caveat that if you can't or won't read past a religious basis, then don't pick up this book.	2005-02-03
US	52632204	RC3ZQHKWMRC5B	0765600048	228872813	Why Did the Soviet Union Collapse?: Understanding Historical Change	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Excellent Overview	Strayer's book is more than proposing one particular thesis as to why the USSR is no longer in existance.  His book is more about using the events that happened between 1985 and 1991 (while keeping in mind the context of 1917-1985) to look at how a historian does his/her work.  Rather than proposing one thesis and saying this is the reason for the collapse, Strayer examines a multitude of theses and discusses the pros and cons of each of them from a historians perspective. <br /> <br />I would recommend this book for two reasons, one if you want to know what events influenced the collapse of the USSR, this book does a good job (well documented too) of providing an overview of those events.  From the rise of Gorbachev to the failed coup attempt.  The second reason I would recommend this book is that from the perspective of a history teacher, Strayer gives an excellent opportunity to look at how historians analyze events and try to develop a thesis to fit those events.  This book would serve as an excellent way to look at the historian's trade. <br /> <br />Overall, Strayer has given people several theses and the information to back those theses so that they can make up their own minds as to why the USSR is no longer around.	2004-12-15
US	52632204	R39SYVB0EEKLMO	0393315568	588150650	God's Chinese Son: The Taiping Heavenly Kingdom of Hong Xiuquan	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Interesting text, but not for those looking for a light read	Spence's accounts of Chinese history have always been among my favorite ever since I first read his \\"History of Modern China\\".  The level of detail and the connections that he makes in his writing are usually incredible and to a large degree, God's Chinese Son is no exception to this pattern.  Spence provides a very detailed account of the Taiping Rebellion, stretching from the origins of the leadership to the end result for the Heavenly Kingdom. <br /> <br />The level of detail that Spence provides in laying out what happened as well as why it happened is amazing.  However, in some respects it's this level of detail that was also a drawback at various points too.  Spence provides an excellent account of the story, but at many points I found myself losing the forest for the trees.  Despite this, his thesis is well supported and overall the story is well told.	2004-12-13
US	52632204	R29QEIFPS6Q0TU	013093058X	839504542	Understanding by Design	Books	2	108	151	N	N	Should have quit while they were ahead	Wiggins and McTighe initial idea about preparing final assessments first and then working from there to structure activities and lessons isn't an all bad idea.  There is something to be said for teaching to the material that is going to be tested.  Unfortunately for this book, they didn't stop at that point.  By trying to take the process one step further and discuss what it means to understand material, the authors have created a fundamental contradiction in the text that is never truly resolved.<br /><br />The \\"backwards design\\" idea is a good idea, overall.  Of course there is some danger in this idea too, given that it lends credence to those who think that education should be nothing more than teaching to a test, but overall, the authors have a valid point in that before teachers design activities, they ought to consider exactly what the end goal of those activities is going to be.  Why teach everything about something, when there are only a couple of critical ideas that need to be addressed.  By using this idea, the authors have addressed that depth in content coverage doesn't necessarily mean spending an entire semester on one idea, but rather by focusing on a couple of key points you can work to insure that a realistic understanding of the material is developed by the students.<br /><br />This is where the authors should have stopped.  Instead, the authors continue on to address a basic point in educational theory, that people learn and develop understanding when the material is something they are truly interested in.  In many respects, the authors are bringing up the same point that Gardner addresses in his theory of Multiple Intelligences.  Herein lies the basic problem of the text, by allowing students to gain an understanding of something they are interested in, there cannot be an end goal set by the teacher.  If the teacher is setting an end goal, if there is a critical point that must be understand and all activities are pointed toward developing an understanding of that end goal, the student is no longer pursuing an end goal that is their own.  They are instead pursuing the teacher's end goal.<br /><br />Because of this inherent contradiction within the text, allow students to find the end goal that interests them the most, as long as that end goal is the same as the end goal set by the teacher, I cannot recommend this book as a means of modeling curriculum design.  With the exception of identifying key objectives and understandings and working from there, the book largely creates a problem that is, at this point insurmountable.n understanding of that end goal, the student is no longer pursuing an end goal that is their own.  They are instead pursuing the teacher's end goal. <br /> <br />Because of this inherent contradiction within the text, allow students to find the end goal that interests them the most, as long as that end goal is the same as the end goal set by the teacher, I cannot recommend this book as a means of modeling curriculum design.  With the exception of identifying key objectives and understandings and working from there, the book largely creates a problem that is, at this point insurmountable.	2004-11-30
US	52632204	R2WNF2E3QT81Z7	0375760520	649819248	Paris 1919: Six Months That Changed the World	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Compromise of ideas	Macmillan, in Paris 1919, has presented an excellent narrative of the Paris Peace Conference detailing the events that shaped the making of the Treaty of Versailles.  Her account blends all components of modern history, utilizing biographies, focusing specific events within the peace conference, and provide an excellent analysis, all to bring the reader to an understanding of what helped to set the stage for the beginning of the next world war.  In her account, Macmillan does not leave necessary details out, but presents them in combination with unique anecdotes to help the reader into Paris of 1919. <br /> <br />The thesis of the book is not entirely new, that the compromises that were made within the peace conference between the idealism of Wilson and his inability to push for more of the ideals of the 14 points and the old European order helped to set the stage for a more dangerous European conflict.  In many ways Wilson is presented as an idealist who has an understanding of what is going to happen if the traditional European peace settlement is reached.  However, because of the influence of both Loyld George and Clemenceau he is unable to do what is necessary to prevent the older European settlements from being enforced.   <br /> <br />Macmillan also highlights how both the French and the British because of selfish interests unintentionally (or perhaps intentionally) do more harm than good in establishing the peace that would ultimately fail.  Because the terms that both the French and the British have, the terms of the Peace become contradictory to the desired outcomes and while satisfying the needs of the victors, have diasterous results for the world in the years to follow.  Her explanation as to why this happens is well detailed and well documented, especially given the importance of the new forces of public opinion that all the victors had to face at home. <br /> <br />Her account overall is well written, well documented, and provides an excellent analysis.  The account is detailed, but not in such a fashion that the reader is overwhelmed with information.  It is written in a very accessible manner to most readers and provides an excellent account of a very significant historical event.	2004-10-29
US	52632204	RRCBUNXB3DF9Y	1880418622	871670140	The Dark Tower (The Dark Tower, Book 7)	Books	5	24	38	N	N	Wow	I took a lot of time to think about how I felt about this book after I was done with it.  I have been reading the Dark Tower series since the early 1990s and have been addicted to the series ever since I started the first book, so in many ways the publication of this book was bittersweet for me.  I have been looking forward to seeing how the journey turns out for some time, but at the same the series has been so captivating and I have been so enthralled by the lives of the characters that I hated to see it end.  This book however, is the ideal ending to Roland's journey. <br /> <br />In setting the stage for the end of the journey in the Song of Susannah, King picks up there and lets the readers experience what is happening from the perspective of each of the characters, which initially seemed odd to read the same scene a couple of times, but as I read that more the interesting and intriguing the set up of the story became.  This is until the Ka-tet comes back together and moves on to the rest of the journey which is filled with surprises twists and turns and that I never really expected as I read it, but as I thought about it more, I realized that what was happening was really the ideal event to occur.  What I am really saying here, is that as events unfolded in the story, the reader might have a tendency to get a little upset with King for writing these events.  But, with further reflection upon the events, they are perfect and if one keeps in mind the idea of multiple universes that was set up earlier in the series, the events really make sense and seem to fall into place.  So even if you are getting upset with King, keep reading it's well worth it. <br /> <br />In many ways this is a story of hope.  The hope that all of one's efforts in life will pay off and that efforst will not be in vain.  The question becomes for the reader to decide, is the journey of the ka-tet in vain, or is their hope well founded in the end.  Overall the book reflects the events of lifein general, some days the efforts might not pay off, depending on how you look at it, some days efforts pay off in a big way.	2004-10-26
US	52632204	RX08HA1GGARIE	0140296247	698179978	The Disciplined Mind: Beyond Facts and Standardized Tests, the K-12 Education that Every Child Deserves	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Idealistic, but thought provoking	In the Disciplined Mind, Gardner lays out a basis for what education ought to look like.  Gardner highlights the fact that the societal view of what defines an intelligent person is changing.  In previous eras, someone who knew a lot of facts was considered to be intelligent.  However, in our ever changing technological world, his assumption is that an intelligent person is someone who can think critically about an issue and problem solve.  It is this idea that he uses as the foundation of his thoughts on education. <br /> <br />In line with, Intelligence Reframed and The Unschooled Mind, Gardner points out that there is more to intelligence than the traditional IQ tests lead us to believe.  As a part of this philosophy, he argues that for all children in an educational institution, we need to do more to tap into their different perspectives on the world around us, while still helping them to truly understand some basic concepts. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, Gardner's ideas in this book are so idealistic in terms of structuring and reforming public schools that they will problem do more to discredit his work than to shore up his place as an educational reformer.  Limiting curriculum to only three areas of study is a radical shift in the paradigm of modern education.  The idea he expresses in this book are probably one step too far for not just politicians and parents, but also many classroom teachers.  If there was a way to quantify the end result of how Gardner would like children to be taught, he would be considered the greatest educational reformer of all time.	2004-09-22
US	52632204	R336PNU56JBP4	0385337116	520405863	The Rule of Four	Books	4	12	17	N	N	Redemption?	Caldwell and Thomason have written a very interesting and enjoyable novel about the role of friendships in people's lives and the impact that outside interests can have on those relationships.  In many respects, Caldwell and Thomason have written a fictional version of Krakauer's \\"Under the Banner of Heaven\\".  Not that their book focuses on polygamy, in a literal sense, but there is an element of what exteme passions can do to one's life, especially when a balance is lost.  The overall theme of the story does take a little while to come out, but when it does, Caldwell and Thomason do an exceptional job of painting the portrait of what obsessions can do to people and in some cases what must be done to allow a normal life to continue on without the obsession. <br /> <br />Overall the book was well written.  The issue that I had, that keeps me from giving this five stars is that I had a little trouble with believing that undergraduate students could be so advanced in the field of language and  literature, especially literature that doctors of literature were having difficulty with.  However, this element of suspending reality was not really enough to ruin the book as it might with some.  What kept this book going for me was the fact that they were able to weave an intricate story, that didn't seem to have an obvious conclusion.  Some might have seen the end coming, but for me, thinking about the end of the story was not something that came to mind very often because the meat of the story was keeping my attention. <br /> <br />This is a book, that if you are looking for a story of redemption, I would recommend.  Be willing to wait for the signs of redemption to occur, because it's not going to hit the reader over the head with a baseball bat, but rather takes a more subtle approach to bring the reader to the ultimate conclusion of the story.	2004-09-17
US	52632204	R3NXFI7VCQJ0ML	1880418592	782981224	Song of Susannah (The Dark Tower, Book 6)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Interesting Twist	I knew that the latest volume of the Gunslinger series was supposed to be released in a relatively short amount of time from the release of the Wolves of Calla, but I didn't realize it was quite so quickly, so I was pleasantly surprised as I wandered through a bookstore and stumbled upon this latest part of the Gunslinger tale.  I have been reading the Gunslinger series since King first released the Dark Tower and have eagerly anticipated each release, never to be disappointed with the story that King weaves and this one was no exception to that.   <br /> <br />King focuses on primarily on Susannah in this story, as the title implies, which in some ways I was a little disappointed with as I read the book, but in the end, I began to see it as a more integral part of the overall story.  In the Wolves of Calla, King began to introduce this component of the story, but the significance is not revealed until this story is released, I won't go much further into the significance because to do so would reveal too much of the plot and give away the story.  Suffice it to say that while Roland and Eddie are still key parts of the story, they are not the main focus. <br /> <br />King provides an interesting twist by introducing, as he has done in other books, characters from other stories that he has written.  However, if one hasn't read any other Stephen King except for the Gunslinger series, you won't be lost, because the introduction of these characters is done in such a way that you are fully aware of their significance to this story.  By interweaving these stories, King has provided a much bigger back drop to his story of the fight between good and evil which only makes the whole saga much more interesting.	2004-07-27
US	52632204	R1ZT5A7VTYOERM	069100756X	38302722	Revolutions of 1848	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Superb Blend of Facts and Analysis	The problem with most history textbooks is that all too often the story is left out of the text.  A collection of names, dates, and facts is what is left.  Priscilla Robertson has done an exemplary job of avoiding such a failing.  While providing the necessary names, dates, and places so that one is able to visualize the story being built, Ms. Robertson has provided an outstanding assessment of these events.<br />The story of 1848, as is told in this book, is one of the people recognizing the need for change, but in many cases not being influential enough either in terms of physical power or in terms of political power to affect the change for a long period of time.  In many respects, the story can be viewed as describing the necessity for the citizens to be able to protect themselves from an oppressive government, though in some cases, it can be citizens needing to protect themselves from each other.<br />This book, as is pointed in the preface, does not focus on the details on the constitutions, individual leaders, or battles, but rather provides a rich account of how people when inspired by a dream or a vision, even one that is unsustainable, can rise up and let the world know that change must occur.	2004-05-26
US	52632204	RWSKVDPBZ1JNQ	088240458X	20142688	The Last Light Breaking: Living Among Alaska's Inupiat Eskimos	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Not a traditional Ethnography, but still amazing	When I first ordered this book, I was looking for an ethnography of the Inupiat.  I didn't look that closely at the description of the book, but since it had a five star rating, I still bought it.  The day it arrived, I started reading it and found at that what I received was not what I was expecting...however I still couldn't put it down.  Jans' stories of life with the Inupiat, are amazing.<br />While it isn't a traditional ethnography, Jans still gives some amazing insight into the lives of the Inupiat.  His descriptions are colorful and entertaining while still giving a sense of the seriousness of the intrusion of mining and modern culture on the traditional subsistence of the Inupiat.  There is a degree of fear as to what will happen to them as society marches onward into the remote regions of Alaska and provides a sense of urgency of protection for these people.<br />If you are remotely interested in what life is like above the arctic circle, get this book.  Don't think about it, just get it.	2004-04-23
US	52632204	R1OQIQ2M26Z31C	0824803248	905565735	Shoal of Time: A History of the Hawaiian Islands	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Colorful History	Understanding the history of America's states is an important part of understanding why America is the way it is today and how it can face the problems of the future.  Shoals of Time provides a basis for understanding how one of the two non-contiguous states became a state and more importantly a history of the culture and the problems that the people of Hawaii faced from the time Cook landed on the islands up through the passage of statehood.  As a history text Shoals of Time provides a model of what history is about.<br />First, Shoals of Time gives the background details necessary for the understanding of the turmoil and conflict that emerged when two very different cultures clashed under less than ideal circumstances.  The stories that Daws incorporates into the book to describe the impact of European influence on the vastly different culture of the South Pacific are detailed enough to enlighten the reader as to how and why the conflict occured.  At the same time the details are not so minute as to keep the reader from being focused on the big picture, which is the second asset of this book.<br />History is more than names, dates, and places.  It is a story of people, whether it be told in an economic, political, or social manner, it is the story that matters.  Daws provides a superb story for the reader to follow.  He neither loses the forest for the trees, nor the trees for the forest.  The details shed light and tell the overarching story of the Hawaiian islands and give outstanding insight into the push for secession that exists today in the islands.<br />Hawaii is a beatiful place to visit, but knowing the history of what happened and where in this paradise makes the islands that much more intriguing and that much more spectacular.	2004-04-22
US	52632204	R1PSZOI9OB9FR0	0803261705	956476909	Black Elk Speaks: Being the Life Story of a Holy Man of the Oglala Sioux, Twenty-First Century Edition	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Excellent Primary Source	Black Elk's account of the life of the plains indians at the close of the 19th Century is an excellent first hand account of how the United States forced change on the Native Americans and how they struggled to find a way to save their culture in the face of such a radically different and sometimes violent opposing philosophy. Through out the story, Black Elk indicates a level of sadness at being forced into violent confrontation and forced moves around the upper midwest and into Canada.  As he puts it in, all they wanted to do was to live in the land that was theirs and it was no longer theirs.  His accounts of how the United States routinely violated treaties that were forced on the Native Americans is also a source of the sadness that pervades his account.<br />In addition to providing a great accounting of the injustices that were committed by the United States, Black Elk also gives an excellent insiders view to the culture of the Lakota.  The use of visions, sweatlodges, and dances as a way of promoting their nations is recounted in great detail and provides real insight into how this tribe lived prior to being forced onto a reservation.<br />The writing of Black Elk speaks is also well done.  It is not dumbed down, but at the same time, it was not written over the head of the average reader.  There are some instances where going to the appendix to find a good meaning for some of the native words included in the text is helpful, but this is not in the least bit distracting to the readers.  If you are looking for an excellent first hand account of the close of the 19th century and the US treatment of Native Americans, look no further than this.	2004-04-19
US	52632204	R28Y2EX7YHUIKN	0385509510	418900469	Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith	Books	5	13	22	N	N	Can't stop reading it or talking about it	Krakauer's lastest book, on the surface is very different from Into the Wild or Into Thin Air, though when I finished reading it I found that in many respects it is incredibly similar to his other books.  Under the Banner of Heaven seeks an understanding of what it is in human nature that drives people to do things that are generally well beyond the socially accepted norms.  Krakauer examined not just the murders of a woman and her child, but more importantly why the killers committed the crime, and why were they so up front and honest about what they had done.    In examing why the crimes had been committed, Krakauer provides an intriguing history of the LDS church, albeit one that members of the modern church would heavily dispute.  This history does an excellent job of providing a basis for understanding how the fundamentalists got to the point at which they did and why they continue to practice a belief system that landed most of the members of the church out of the church.    This book provides an interesting insight into the nature of people.  Not just of those who blindly follow the FLDS or the LDS faith, but also of those who chose to abandon the faith as well.  Anyone who is interested in learning more about the history of the LDS church or trying to understand why and how religion has such a powerful hold on people would be well advised to read this book.	2004-04-10
US	52632204	R257ZPVS959HCV	0300069863	240109429	Gold, France, and the Great Depression, 1919-1932 (Yale Historical Publications Series)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Tough but Informative	Johnson's book provides a detailed explanation of the causes of the Great Depression from a monetary policy standpoint.  While the principal agent is the Bank of France, Johnson does not totally let the United States, Britain, and Germany off the hook either.  Differing choices on the part of all four nations contributed to the impact of the decision on the part of the Bank of France that Johnson identifies as the cause of the Depression.<br />While the argument is new and is very interesting, the nature of the discussion almost necessitates a degree in economics to truly understand the whole of Johnson's argument.  If one is not an economist or if one doesn't have a lot of background in the subject matter, it is an incredibly difficult read.  However, if one is truly interested in the causes of the Great Depression and is willing to take time, not just skim, but truly take time to process the material, it can be worthwhile and highly informative.<br />I would recommend reading Galbraith's &quot;The Great Crash&quot; instead of this book, except that the argument is different between the two.  As such, I can't in good conscience recommend the one over the other since there are two differing points of view in the material.  This book is worth the time if you are inclined to take the time to try to process the material.	2004-04-08
US	52632204	R244Q72L6KAAGK	1880418568	446733041	Wolves of the Calla (Dark Tower)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Long time coming	For me, this was a much anticipated release.  Having waited since 1997, when the fourth book in the series was released.  The time it took for publication was my biggest complaint.  In this fifth part of the epic tale of Roland and his ka-tet, the group is met by, what appears initially to be, a distraction to their journey to find the dark tower.  It soon becomes apparent, that this is no segway, but a part of the path they must take, no matter what the danger entails.<br />The fifth book keeps me wondering what the sixth and seventh books are going to be about.  The story, which in some respects can stand alone, but in many respects, if you have the first through the fourth books of the series, fits in nicely.  If you want to read this book as a standalone story, there are parts that might not make a lot of sense to you, but the story overall will still work.  The end will make you want to buy the next in the series when it comes out later this year.<br />At times, the book did seem to drag out.  However, if you can continue through those parts where the story slows (probably a direct result of being a part of the MTV generation, where everything changes rapidly) you will be rewarded by seeing the pieces of the puzzle fit together nicely to complete the whole picture of the other world where the story takes place.<br />All in all, The Wolves of Calla, tells a great tale of how intelligence and understanding of the world around you, and a little luck will enable even the most unlikely of people to become heros in some form or another.  King has created an elaborate world that is separate and connected to this world in a manner that, in time, will be a major contribution to the world of literature.	2004-03-15
US	52632204	R3GI7JPA3Z21CY	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	1	2	N	N	This is thought provoking fun	In &quot;The Da Vinci Code&quot; Dan Brown borrows from and liberally interprets historical events to create a thriller that makes the reader think.  In many novels, there comes a point where you can pinpoint the final outcome, but in this novel, Dan Brown has create a series of twists and turns that keep the reader guessing at what is going to happen next and what the outcome is going to be.<br />While keeping the readers guessing about what is going to happen in the text, Brown has also created a novel that can make you think about how events and people in the past have affected our lives today.  While this book doesn't answer the question, &quot;Why should I study history?&quot; (which I don't believe is the intent of the novel) it does provide some areas of question that makes the reader want to find out more about some aspects of history, that might or might not have been glossed over to promote a specific point of view.<br />By far, in terms of new novels I have read lately, this is one of the most fun that has also made me think.  The style of writing is not an academic style of writing, but it is also not written down to the level of the non educated either.  It is a well written novel that you can read for fun or to really make the wheels of your mind turn.	2004-03-15
US	52632204	R1FJ72WF9RHVVX	0435072374	965080519	Mosaic of Thought: Teaching Comprehension in a Reader's Workshop	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Good, but wordy	Zimmermann and Keene have put together a good overview of some reading strategies to implement in the classroom.  The strategies are generally straight forward, but the anecdotes associated with each strategy pose two major problems in my mind.  First is that they are almost all about elementary classrooms.  I really don't think I can identify one as a middle or secondary level classroom.  The problem with this is that if you are not an elementary teacher, the book is not geared for you.  Second, the anecdotes are all about reading lessons specifically.<br />Given the requirements that many states have regarding standards and of course the notorius reauthorized ESEA or NCLB, teaching across curricular areas is critical for success.  Focusing on reading classrooms is beneficial, but if you aren't a reading teacher, there isn't much in the way of guidelines to help you integrate reading strategies in the content area.  This is the main failing of the book in my opinion.<br />While the authors develop their ideas fully and clearly illustrate the benefits of the strategies through anecdotal evidence, usually depicting the growth of one individual child, the fact that they leave out areas where the book is most needed is problematic.  Anyone can adapt these ideas to their classroom, but you need to figure out where the pitfalls and successes are going to be.  There isn't much in the way of advice to help content teachers.  In many respects the ideas are very similary to the six traits of reading, but like the six traits, one of the strategies can easily take one full day of class time and when you have a specific amount of content to deal with during the course of a quarter or semester, taking one day for a reading strategy or several days out for several reading strategies can be difficult or impossible.<br />Even with these problems I would still recommend this book to a teacher trying to improve reading comprehension for their students.  Ultimately unless we teach ourstudents to comprehend what they are reading, all children will be left behind.	2004-03-02
US	52632204	R3PD0MYTIDQUU1	B000094P5G	623634107	The Great Tax Wars : Lincoln to Wilson--The Fierce Battles over Money and Power That Transformed the Nation	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Taxes can be a taxing topic	While some reviewers have indicated that this book, in addressing the topic of the history of the income tax, is not really taxing to read, the battles of the income tax tend to be some of the less interesting components of the story.  Weisman does an excellent job of providing the historical context in which the battles over income tax take place, and it is this context that is much more interesting than some of the battles that took place in establishing the tax as a permanent component of the American government.<br />What is truly interesting about the battles over the income tax is the almost verbatim arguments that have occured against the tax, extending almost to the supply side economics argument popularized by the Regean campaign of 1980.  This is fairly close to the arguments that were made in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.  Seeing that the basis of the tax argument, on either side hasn't changed much is enlightening when examining current policy debates.<br />Weisman also provides some interesting insights into the administrations of Roosevelt and Wilson and the politics that surrounded both of them, beyond the taxation issue.  Especially noteworthy is Roosevelt's general feeling toward Wilson which extends beyond the issue of raising taxes.<br />Ultimately, for the discounted price the book is worth the time to read.  Buying it at full price, it might not be as worth while.	2004-02-12
US	52632204	R44QV91SQUUV1	0743486226	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Suspense and Fun	When Robert Langdon, one of the main characters in the story gets an odd fax one morning and follows the instructions associated with it, he has no idea how harrowing and exciting his day will be.  The day takes twists and turns that some might anticipate, others might not anticipate it.  Either way, the story is a good one to follow.<br />In Angels and Demons, Dan Brown has woven modern science, ancient history, and religion to create a suspense filled thriller.  His characters are well developed and are people that you come like and care about, or depending the character, not care about.  There are some components of the story that are like an action film, but even these moments of letting belief go by the wayside are not enough to truly detract from the story that he has put together.  I started this book and hated to put it down, even to go to bed and I couldn't wait to start reading it the next day.	2004-01-19
US	52632204	R3F18N7U8U1RQQ	0375505857	279496882	In an Uncertain World: Tough Choices from Wall Street to Washington	Books	5	25	28	N	N	Page turning economics	Robert Rubin, in recounting his years on Wall Street and years in the White House has provided an excellent description of the politics of money, no matter where you are.  Rubin recounts his 26 years at Goldman Sachs and describes how the company rose to great stature.  He then goes on to describe some of the difficulties that they encountered.  In large part, because of politics, not the Washington politics, but office politics.  This part of the story was fascinating and Rubin even manages to make something like arbitrage somewhat understandable to the average reader.<br />The real meat of the story comes when he moves to Washington to work in the Clinton administration.  Rubin describes the problems that he and the administration faced in trying to deal with specific financial crises around the world and the difficulty of solving those crises in a political environment that is filled with ad hominem attacks.  His central theme is that of an internationalist, the United States must work to promote solid economic systems around the world because it is in our best interests to do so.  If we simply sit by and let things happen, the repurcussions will come back to haunt us.<br />There are several examples that Rubin utilizes to make his point, from Mexico to Russia to Indonesia, he highlights the various economic problems that he encountered as secretary of the treasury.  The descriptions he provides of the solutions point to the fact that not all nations can simply pick themselves up by their own bootstraps and make it on their own.  Sometimes assistance is necessary.  In making this case, he also makes a strong case for both the IMF and the World Bank.<br />When I received this book, I had to wonder how interesting the job of the Treasury Secretary could be, especially compared to the Secretary of State, or National Security Advisor, but Rubin makes the role of the Treasury Secretary stand out as more than the person who signs the dollar bills.  His insights into economics, both supply side and Keynesian is the most readable that I have seen.  The explanations and difficulties are covered and even though there is a bias, he is not unwilling to admit that there are flaws.<br />In addition to the clear writing and explanations, Rubin keeps to the topic he is addressing, his role as Treasury secretary or manager of a major company.  He mentions problems that the Clinton administration went through, but only in the context of how it affected his job, which was minimal.  When addressing the issues of working at Goldman Sachs or Citigroup, he stays on those issues and doesn't go off into major tangents.  Finally, he does show that he has a sense of humor and others in the government have one too.<br />When I started reading this book, I couldn't put it down. This is a fascinating insight into the world of finance.	2004-01-18
US	52632204	RCCUZOEG8A85G	0719040582	37659946	The Rise and Fall Of World Orders	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Great Refutation	By examining the rise and fall of the Spanish, Dutch, British, French, and lastly the United States Knutsen, in my opinion, refutes some of the claims that have been directed toward the eventual fall of the United States as a world power.  Knutsen shows that some of the theorectical claims in dealing with why major powers have fallen, and there is a solid basis as to why the theories are not entirely applicable.<br />I do think and wish that to some degree, while he refutes the various theories and points out why they are not applicable in all of the situations that were addressed, that he had proposed a theory that might fit the various situations that were examined.  Overall however, Knutsen's book is well written and even though it does address a serious topic in the realm of political science and international relations, he does make it so that the average person can read it and understand it.  I recommend this book as a good overview as to some of the reasons great empires of the past have fallen and what maybe, we might expect in the future.	2004-01-15
US	52632204	RXACRQJ4UYXMZ	0375505296	518214282	The Dante Club: A Novel	Books	5	2	4	N	N	The Definition of Historical Fiction	Matthew Pearl's novel is an incredible mystery that effectively utilizes the attitudes of the immediate post civil war era of New England to set the stage for his novel.  Pearl has created a first rate mystery that uses accurate history for its setting.  His understanding of the time period is such that I was immersed in 19th Century Boston and didn't want to come out of it.<br />Pearl not only has effectively used history to tell his story, but he also has beatiful writing to tell the story.  The story can carry itself, but the writing that Pearl combines with the story makes it a long lasting picture of what fiction ought to be like.	2004-01-14
US	52632204	R1PNBV9NIG22P8	0867094621	243676189	The SSR Handbook: How to Organize and Manage a Sustained Silent Reading Program	Books	5	12	12	N	N	This is THE Guide	The SSR Handbook, is a compilation and description of 8 guidelines for conducting an effective Sustained Silent Reading Program.   If your school is considering implementing or altering your existing SSR program, don't consider doing it without this guide, if you are using an SSR program in your class buy this book.<br />The suggestions and guidelines that are included are common sense based, but it is a common sense that makes you want to say, &quot;Why didn't I think of that?&quot;.  Success does have a formula and based on the common sense nature of this book, this is the formula.	2004-01-11
US	52632204	R3DHHNA0MLV837	1570719454	433482862	Jefferson's Great Gamble: The Remarkable Story of Jefferson, Napoleon and the Men Behind the Louisiana Purchase	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Easy read, but really a collection of bios	Cerami's book is an easy read.  I read about three quarters of it in an hour and half.  Unfortunately, when I bought it I was expecting the story of the Louisana purchase.  True enough it was there, but you have to sort through the biographies of each of the characters.  I am still not entirely certain how Talleyrand got to the position of foreign minister really impacted the purchase of the Louisana territory, but it was there.<br />The best part of the book was the last chapter.  The story of Jackson's victory at New Orleans was interesting and probably the best piece of history included in the book, but unfortunately, it really came far too late in the read for me.  Had there been more of this kind of history included, in terms of the writing style, the book probably would have kept me going with a greater degree of interest.<br />Finally, this is a small point for some, but the last part of the book includes a series of notes associated with each page.  However, there isn't any reference on those pages as to what the note is dealing dealing with.  You have no way of correlating the text with the notes included, which makes the explanatory notes all the more difficult to understand.  <br />There was some positive to the book however, in addition to the last chapter.  Cerami did include reference to the Treaty of San Ildefonso and to the circumstances that led to it being signed, which then leads us to have an understanding of how Napoleon got the territory.  I include this as a positive because finding much information in the popular literature is difficult.  It's too bad that Cerami didn't choose to focus on the similar aspects of the purchase to improve the overall historical nature of the book.	2003-12-30
US	52632204	R1WFT6ALUSF3YQ	0801481821	82402830	History and the Idea of Progress	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Interesting Critique	When Francis Fukuyama published his essay on the end of history, there was a good deal of controversey about the ideals of liberal democracy and whether or not it was truly the end of human development.  This collection of essays summarizes the critiques that were made about his claim.  <br />As a high school history teacher, it is my firm belief that this book should be a must read for any student of history beyond the high school level.  This collection of essays has established a basis for discussing history, specifically its purpose, which then leads to the purpose of studying history.  While we have all heard and most accept the argument that studying history is a part of being a good citizen of the world, these essays show us that history is more than just being a good citizen of the world, it is more than understanding how we got to a specific point, it is also showing us where we are going and how we are going to get there.<br />Some of the essays can seem esoteric at first, but as you continue to read them, it becomes apparent that the essay is connnected to the general theme of the book.  There are some connections that take some thought to identify and readily accept, but after I reread those specific essays, I see the connection.<br />The editors did an excellent job of providing a comprehensive set of essays to make us question what exactly the end of history really is.	2003-12-10
US	52632204	R3LHI5NPZFDNMJ	1558216847	782333026	The Long Walk: The True Story of a Trek to Freedom	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The true meaning of persevearnance	Whether or not this story is &quot;true&quot; as some readers have claimed it was a fake, in many respects is completely irrelevant to two facts about the book.  First the book reads incredibly well, due to the outstanding writing that encompasses the book.  The second fact is that even if the story is a &quot;fake&quot; it is a story that reminds us of the power of the human spirit.  When truly motivated, we can achieve great things.<br />The narrator of the book/writer of the book develops a true tale in which the reader becomes intimately connected with the perils of crossing the harsh Siberian,Chinese, and Himalayan landscapes.  The tradgedies that besets the party on their travels in many ways beset the read as well.  The triumph and joy that the party experiences is experienced by the reader as well.  As a reader of this book, you find yourself pulling for the success of the party in their ventures.<br />Personally, I believe tha this story is true.  Just because the characters encountered great difficulties in their travels doesn't make it fake.  However, even if you choose to believe it is a falsehood, fiction does provide us with inspiration, which is how anyone should approach this book.	2003-11-29
US	52632204	R3U026IK39E0A3	0521483824	942565282	003: The Cambridge History of American Foreign Relations: Volume 3, The Globalizing of America, 1913-1945	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good Survey of American Foreign Relations	America's shift from isolationism to internationalism can be a difficult transition to understand.  The Cambridge History of American Foreign Relations provides a good foundation for developing the understanding that is necessary to see why the United States acts as it does today.<br />While there are areas of this book that would benefit from some discussion of domestic affairs, specifically surrounding the League of Nations and a couple of other instances, the text is geared toward understanding what was going on in terms of the actions of the United States with respect to the rest of the world.  However, this necessitates a paradigm that foreign relations are conducted  in a vacuum with respect to domestic affairs.  <br />As a general survey of the time period, this book does a good job, but there are elements that could improve the nature of the text.	2003-11-14
US	52632204	R4JUANQB4ENNW	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent Popular History	David McCullough has provided an illuminating biography of John Adams in a way that is more than the standard presidential biography of wars, treaties, and laws.  McCullough offers the readers of this fabulous text an inside view of who John Adams really was and what he truly believed in.  <br />Adams is usually overlooked in history, except to note his signing of the the Alien and Sedition acts.  However, after reading McCullough's biography, it is apparent that we should look more to the character of Adams when studying history.  McCullough shows us an individual who with remarkable intellect, works tirelessly to help shape the country in a manner that would be longlasting and to the benefit of all people.  This text is a must read for anyone who wants to understand the forces that shaped the United States in its early years.	2003-11-12
US	52632204	R3813AKBNBAAVG	0300049706	338132889	The Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem: Redefining America`s Wilderness Heritage	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Not totally for the layman	The essays compiled in this book are an excellent resource for someone who is trying to understand the complex issues surrouding the protection of the Greater Yellow Ecosystem.  However, a number of the essays, in providing evidence to support the arguments are geared more toward the policy maker or toward the scientist who is gathering background information on the issues.<br />Not all of the essays are written in such a fashion that they are beyond the comprehension of the average reader.  Some essays are written clearly and do provide an effective starting point for someone coming into the field to understand the issues surrounding issues such as fire policy or wolf management.  Both of which are still hot topics in the region today.<br />Finally, many of the essays are better for understanding a historical perspective to the issues.  Wolf reintroduction has occurred and now Wyoming, Montana, and Idaho are looking to have wolves delisted.  The essays on wolf management are dated enough that they are a starting point to understand the underpinnings of the issues of today, rather than where we are going in the near future.<br />All in all, if the reader can move past some of the more technical aspects of the book, they will have a better grasp of how and why various management issues are occuring in this wonder of nature.	2003-11-12
US	52632204	R1Q15U9PXLKSMP	0316102490	830916634	Red Ranger Came Calling	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fun for adults and children	The story of the Red Ranger and his encounter that will change his life forever is one of the most hearwarming stories about gaining faith, and regaining faith that has ever been written.  Breathed has taken his ability to write humurous stories with a point to a new level in this book and has given the readers of today and tomorrow with something to believe in.  <br />At the same time his writing isn't at a level that excludes obvioius audiences, children.  His fun story is something that children of any age will enjoy and take delight in reading or having it read to them.	2003-11-11
US	52632204	R27NYJDFMPGSHB	0394555090	951161016	Theodore Rex	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Accessible intelligence	Edmund Morris has written one of the most intelligent pieces of popular literature on one of the greatest presidents.  Morris writes in a fashion that is destined to bring Theodore Roosevelt off the pages and into the mind of the reader in such a way that forgetting this piece of history is something that is just not possible.<br />Morris' well researched account of the life Theodore as president (almost 200 pages in notes) is what is needed in modern accounts of history.  Not only is it factually accurate, but is also accessible to the good readers of society.	2003-11-11
US	52632204	R1YX6IBKRXIYZ8	1930556098	836838792	Dealing With Difficult Parents And With Parents in Difficult Situations	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Excellent resource	The authors of this book have provided excellent insights for educators, both at the administrative level and the classroom level, for dealing with parents.  One of the key benefits to this text is that it provides clear and practical ideas as to how to prevent parents from being difficult to begin with.<br />Most educators are keenly aware of the critical nature that early communication plays in maintaining parental support for the school's role in their child's life.  However, many, due to time constraints don't follow through and things wait until issues have become emotional.  As a result, dealing with parents can be an unpleasant experience.  Whitaker and Fiore show how with a calm nature, teachers and principals can defuse these situations.  Some of the ideas require that the educator remain calm and not become emotional themselves, a difficult task to say the least, but not becoming emotional, as the authors point out, is one of the keys to being viewed as a professional.<br />In my opinion, no teacher education program should let their students get by without having read this book.	2003-10-28
US	52632204	R465UPAYQ8PPU	157110089X	1773752	I Read It, but I Don't Get It: Comprehension Strategies for Adolescent Readers	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Valuable Resource	Chris Tovanni has created a valuable resource for all teachers by providing them with ideas for how to improve reading comprehension in high school students.<br />The one component that kept me from giving this five stars is that it is geared to English/Reading teachers.  What would be a great addition in a second edition would be the inclusion of short example strategies for focusing on a textbook as opposed to literature.  Granted any teacher who plans adequately at the minimum would have no problem adapting the strategies to textbooks, but some textbook direct strategies would be nice.<br />All in all however, this is a resource that as a social studies teacher I reference on a frequent basis.  It helps me to develop realistic strategies to implement in the classroom to improve student comprehension.	2003-10-28
US	52632204	RLIR3QZLK40R7	0805069054	9917067	James Madison (The American Presidents Series)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Concise summary	Garry Willis provides a short, but concise summary of the administration of James Madison.  He gives an overview of problems that plagued James Madison as president.  Even though Madison was extremely effective at the several Constitutional conventions he attended and was an excellent legislator, being the executive proved to be a more difficult task than Madison could effectively handle.<br />The one shortcoming, was that at the end of book Willis notes that the Madison presidency experienced a surge in popularity without really delving into the reasons as to why this occured.  This surge according to Willis prevents historians from rating Madison a failed president or for that matter an average president.  There are some implications as to why this occured, but a more direct address of the issue would have been beneficial.  All in all, however, Willis' accounting of the Madison presidency is a good overview into the administration of this president.	2003-10-27
US	52632204	R39754Z0M1KQ20	0943972736	101215115	Pushed Off the Mountain Sold Down the River: Wyoming's Search for Its Soul	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Prescription for Growth	Samuel Western, in identifying the myths of Wyoming's past, has laid out excellent ideas for how to change the future of the state.  While many residents of Wyoming might feel that the small population is one of the greatest benefits of living in the state, the fact of the matter is, Wyoming suffers greatly not only from brain drain, but also from youth drain as well.<br />The ideas that Western presents are excellent ideas that would enable the state to develop appopriately while preserving its rich wilderness and public lands.  In order for these ideas to take a foothold in the state, it is critical that people reeducate themselves and that the teachers of Wyoming history accept that we have some deep rooted myths that are now accepted as facts.  Until this occurs, the ideas the Western presents, while excellent, will remain in this book, rather than in the actual development of the state.	2003-09-03
