US	52640935	R2IEDVIB1CF85L	B0006C95EE	216965388	Deirdre	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The best retelling of the Classic Irish Story	James Stephens, author of \\"The Crock of Gold\\" and much else, was a master of Irish  wit and English prose. This is never more in evidence than in his version of the famous tale of Deirdre and the Sons of Usnaig (various spellings). Unlike some of his fellow writers(Yeats, Joyce, Synge) he had a deep knowledge of the Irish language and the life of traditional country people; unlike others (O'Connor, O'Flaherty, Flann O'Brien) he had a deep and even romantic love of the epics of the Celtic Twilight. <br />Deirdre is the daughter of a king, and love for her nearly brings about the downfall of the kingdom. It is a magical story with little actual magic and no pookahs or leprechauns or magic crocks of gold-- but magic for all of that. <br />This book may be his most perfect work. It is a good and faithful telling of a famous tale, and such it is appropriate for 10 year olds who are good readers and love an old story, or for 90 year olds who once were 10 year olds who loved a good story.  <br />It seems a shame that this book is not in every library in the country; thanks to Amazon, at least it can be in  yours.	2005-07-12
US	52640935	R1Q9VY163XV05Q	0385113595	365653541	The Siege of Wonder	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A minor classic, sadly out of print	Magic reappeared in the world, and now the Earth is divided into two empires, forever at war: a cold and rigid technocracy devoted to science, and the chaotic kingdoms of magic, filled with dragons and rocs and ruled over by an elite of wizards. After centuries of combat the technocrats have begun to figure out the source of the magicians' powers, and to use that knowledge against them. <br />At the beginning of the novel an agent is sent to the wizards' capital to plant a very special device. The information it will  gather could end the war in a year's time. <br />Geston's novel is the story of that agent; what he did, what happened after he planted his eye in a unicorn, what happened to the war. <br />This work is not typical of Geston, or anyone else. The style is plain, but is more like Jorge Luis Borges than anyone else. The story is told in brief episodes, little flashes of light from the war. This story is not for everyone, being more interested in a love affair or the gleam of starlight on a zombie's armor than with the line of march or the order of battle. <br />I read this book 25 years ago, and it has stayed with me.  The price is cheap enough that you might want to indulge yourself. It remains one of my favorites. A story as far away from doorstopper fantasy work as it is possible to be.	2005-03-02
US	52640935	RCNUXSK179FTP	0618005838	521873182	The Ancestor's Tale: A Pilgrimage to the Dawn of Evolution	Books	5	27	30	N	N	Dreaming of Owles and Apes	This is one of Prof. Dawkins' best books. Unlike some of his recent efforts, which were \\"Dawkins Lite\\", Ancestor's Tale is a witty, detailed look at the development of life, using a Chaucerian pilgrimage as a frame. It shows Dawkins at his best as a scientist and as a prose writer. I will not attempt to surpass the fine and detailed reviews appearing at this site. I will note, however, that Dawkins does not regard Evolution as a Communist plot, and on one or two points he makes sly remarks that some very thin-skinned people have interpreted as insufficiently repectful. The former is a necessity for any detailed discussion of the topic, the latter is an incidental of no great importance. Indeed, the so-called comments that others decry as \\"American-bashing\\" come to no more than 10 words in the whole book, and the only American to be \\"bashed\\" at  any length, is Richard Lewontin. That episode  is unfair, but it is a tiny part of the book.    There is one point I would like to make, something that prospective buyers might want to think about: the book was published in both the U.S. and the U.K., but the British edition, by Weidenfeld and Nicolson, is rather different from the American. With a slightly different title(Pilgrimage to  the Dawn of Life, rather than to the Dawn of Evolution), it has glorious illustrations and a more luxurious format. It will set  you back 25 pounds plus shipping, but if you are thinking of putting this book into your permanent collection, and that is where it deserves to be, you might want to consider making the investment and getting it from Amazon.uk. Just use the link at the bottom of this page.	2005-02-11
US	52640935	R1QH9BT65POXIH	0094700109	765562071	Avenging Angel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An academic mystery	Who killed the promising young nobleman on the eve of his Tripos? His aristocratic kinsman will find out, very much in the tradition of Lord Peter Wimsey. The setting is Cambridge (the time period is vague:some time between 1977 and 1986 is my guess--the references were confused). The local atmosphere is superb, the best evocation of Cambridge in any novel I can think of, and the best Oxbridge feel since Sayers' \\"Gaudy Night\\". I read the book 8 months ago, yet it has not gone to that limbo  in my brain where the plots of most mysteries are consigned. The dialogue is suitably learned, the port is of the finest. <br />Now for the flaws: as a long time detective story reader, I picked out the culprit early on, and the red herrings were a little too transparent. This is a very snobbish Cambridge, much more so than the one I can remember. There is a lot of \\"Yes m'lord\\" and very deferential policemen. Those of you familiar with Appiah's later writings in philosophy and afrocentric litcrit will be very , very surprised. <br /> <br />But the strengths are there , too: solid prose, wonderful atmosphere. If you care, every Cambridge reference I saw here was  accurate, from the steps in Memorial Court to the view down King's Parade.Most murder- on-the-campus novels make me wonder if the authors every went to college, they are so bizarre (Tom Wolfe, you know who you are). Not the case here-- this book could have been vetted by the Vice Chancellor's office, it is so accurate. The characters may be somewhat stereotyped, as they  usually are in mysteries, but they are more interesting than most  (the quiet mathematician with the crush on the victim, the avuncular senior academics), and the author, with one exception, does not telegraph excessive like or dislike but lets the reader make up his/her own mind. <br />Readers rightly hesitate to buy a detective novel sight unseen: do I want to spend this money on a laundromat read? In this case, I am glad I  bought my copy. I expect toreread it some day. As I said, I think many readers will pick out the murderer and the motive early on, but will nevertheless enjoy the ride to the finish. I admit that I was disappointed as  our detective zeroed in on the culprit; I had enjoyed the story and was sorry to see it ending.	2005-01-25
US	52640935	R2M5IV7J08RTEO	039535336X	894781115	HEART OF THE DRAGON	Books	5	6	6	N	N	First  rate- to my surprise	Heart of the Dragon was issued as the companion piece to a BBC documentary series of the same name that was aired in 1984 or thereabouts. Since Alasdair Clayre, the author, was producer, writer and chief director of the series the correlation of the two projects would seem to be perfect: this is no mere tie-in, but an outstanding book in its own right. The connection with the series means that the book is extensively illustrated. That may lead some readers to think that this is a \\"coffee table book\\", but they would  be mistaken. Clayre, in a series of subject chapters (Living, working, cosmology, etc.) sets out a tremendous amount of information. Having read a great deal about China, and traveled there frequently, I expected very little from this book. To my surprise I found it very informative, combining broad overviews and succinct summaries with interesting specific bits of information. The result is a very good textbook of Chinese culture and recent history.  The editorial review above implies that this book is some sort of propaganda piece.  I cannot agree. Clayre is very critical of Mao, and indeed, his assesment of much of 20th century Chinese history is more acerbic than that of my old teacher, Chalmers Johnson. You can't get much more Cold Warrior than that.   <br />I think that the book does slightly overemphasize China's past accomplishments and Western misunderstandings, but this is a very slight reservation. At 20 cents, this is a steal. Buy it or get it from your library. <br />Alisdair Clayre spent 3 years writing and producing this book. A fellow of All Souls' College, Oxford,, and a protege of Isaiah Berlin, he writes beautiful mandarin prose--- oxbridge mandarin, that is. The series went on to win an Emmy, the first foreign series so honored. Clayre did not live to see it. Apparently afraid his work would not be appreciated, he committed suicide a few days before the first broadcast.	2005-01-12
US	52640935	R30QXMW9YCP0K6	0786714883	267767742	The Second Tree: Stem Cells, Clones, Chimeras, and Quests for Immortality	Books	4	7	8	N	N	The Business, Science, and Politics of the new Genomics	Elaine Dewar has written a personal tour through the various catchy projects in contemporary biology: stem cells, Human Genome Project, telomeres, cloning, immortality, immorality. And it is personal in the best sense. Like John McPhee's books, Dewars personal quest to make sense of it all is always in the foreground. A former business reporter, she knows her stock options and her IPO's, but she keeps that side of the science in perspective. This book is not a simple prognostication (this is our furture) nor is it a gee-whiz puff piece( look at the cool things we may be able to do) but it covers those topic in what seems to be to be a balanced way. Her prose is swift and lean:I was able to read the book in one sitting, and enjoyed it. <br /> <br />Because of the personal nature of this book , we approach the issues as Dewar did, which means that two pages of discussion about business opportunities may be followed by a three page description of the mechanics of cloning a mouse followed by two pages on the increasingly cutthroat field, followed by a discussion on What It All Means. Readers willing to follow Dewar are in for a treat, since she writes well and thinks well, but some may have difficulties in switching between topics. This book is Not Cloning for Dummies, and those seeking an elementary primer on the science should read another book first. On the other hand, she always comes back to the science and the issues. Relatively little space is given over to  history or anecdote, and the lives and loves of the great scientists occupy minimal space. In this she differs from McPhee: this is not Biography as Science. <br />All in all recommended. And she liked Brenner, my favorite, always a good sign. I found the references to the Canadian situation informative, and I think many readers will agree.	2004-12-30
US	52640935	R1DJ5U6LQ4HWAU	0520213319	800872936	Operators and Promoters: The Story of Molecular Biology and Its Creators	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	The other definitive history of molecular biology	Hatch Echols was a well-known biologist. He spent years working on a personal history of his field. After his untimely death, his widow completed the manuscript. This book is the result. It is a history of molecular biology from about 1948 to about 1990. By molecular biology he means the attempt to understand biology using the tools of physics and chemistry. It is a superb book, as makes a fine compiment to the OTHER definitive history of molecular biology, Horace Freeland Judson's \\"Eighth Day of Creation\\".  Judson's 1979(I think) book was a detailed account of three or four episodes in molecular biology, and stopped at 1970. Echols'book gives a much broader overview, focusing on the questions that arose and the people who answered them. The margins are graced by line drawings of the the major actors. The result is a fine account of both the science (briefly) and those who made it.  Most of the participants were his friends, and it shows. On the other hand, unlike most books, I am unaware of any animosity or basic unfairness towards any of the participants. Those of you looking for revelations of scandal had best look elsewhere. This is an idyll of discovery. Having studied the subject through textbooks, I enjoyed finding out about the twist and turns, the false starts and blind alleys and leaps in the dark that really lay behind the development of the most exciting science of the last half of the twentieth century. Highly recommended.  This book seems to be languishing in obscurity, and I think Judson's book is out of print.  This is deplorable. Another reason to purchase it is because feel Operators and Promoters is a good book to dip into and read a few chapters here and a few there, so you will want to have a copy about the house.  Worth purchasing?  Definitely	2004-11-12
US	52640935	R2AK7CW4AFV4P	B00005XZ9F	871768970	The witching hour	Books	4	6	6	N	N	3 stories, including &quot;The Magicians&quot;	The Witching Hour is a collection of three stories by Gunn: A short story about a hillbilly girl with telekinesis (think of it as a 1950's cross between The Beverly Hillbillies and Bewitched), a very short piece about the god Bacchus and a brewery, and the novella &quot;The Magicians&quot;.  This last piece, which takes up most of the volume, posits a group of people who have learned how to recreate the powers of magic, using mathematics rather  eye of newt as the basis. I wrote a review of this story under the Magicians, also for sale through Amazon.  The version is this volume is the slightly modified one that appeared in the 1960's. It is much the same as the original story from the mid-50's.  In the mid-70's Gunn went back and expanded and updated the story, and this was published in a seperate volume as &quot;The Magicians&quot;. As of this writing, (June, 2004) Amazon offers both. Both are recommended, although I don't believe that the later additions really contribute much to the plot. Whichever you pick, it is a little gem.  The other two stories made little impression on me, but perhaps they will entertain you.<br />The appeal of the Magicians lies in its using a very standard formula (the Hard Boiled Detective) to introduce something exotic (witchcraft, curses, magic mirrors, teleportation, True Names) which turns out to have its basis in tensor analysis and chalked equations. Think of Harry Potter, where magic is a learned craft.  If you like this sort of thing, i.e., magic with rules and technique, then I think you will enjoy this book.  <br />I am writing this review to save the remaining copies of the book frim becoming landfill, and to provide another reader out there with some of the entertainment I had.	2004-06-17
US	52640935	R2LXKHYZC32GZ9	0755107462	309822719	The House of the Arrow (Inspector Hanaud)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Classic Detective from a  Golden (or silver) age	A.E. W. Mason wrote a good many books, of which his romantic adventure &quot;The Four Feathers&quot; may be the best known today. In his own time,  however, he was famous as a successor to Conan Doyle, and his detective, the great Hanaud, was much appreciated by readers in early 20th century Britain.  Mason chose a different track than some: where other writers made their detectives less eccentric than Sherlock Holmes, Mason went in the opposite direction: Hanaud is French, an egomaniac, a part of the official machinery rather than an aristocratic amateur, and accompanied by as many as two Watsons! In all of this he may have inspired Agatha Christie to make her detective a foreign policeman, Poirot. Making a foreigner the hero was risky in the xenophobic days of Empire, but Mason succeeded.<br />A number of the Hanaud books are currently available, at least used.  The most famous of them, and the best by far, was this book &quot;The House of the Arrow&quot;. In its time it was the most celebrated detective story in English. It still rewards reading by fans of the golden age. I realize that it is out of print. But I leave this little review as a signpost for potential readers. If you like this sort of thing, and you come across it online, in a library, or in a used book shop, by all means pick it up.  It was recommended to me when I was 10, and I didn't find a copy until I was 16, but I am glad I did. Not great literature, of course, and definitely of a later period than the Victorian Holmes, but well done of its type.<br />Good Hunting!	2004-05-28
US	52640935	R3S9W0L6VIYD87	0844664820	199159434	Boy Apprenticed to an Enchanter	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Perhaps Colum's best, and a grand tale!	This is an original tale by the wonderful Padraic Colum, poet. It recounts the adventures of a boy, taken from his home to learn from a rather sinister enchanter, and his attempts to escape from his apprenticeship. Babylon and its fall, Hermes Tristemagus and Merlin and the Western Isles are just some of the people and places he visits on his way.<br />I am pleased to see that Colum's lovely \\"King of Ireland's Son\\" is still in print and attracting young fans. It is a pity that this book is not so widely available. Darker in tone and simpler in structure than \\"King of Ireland's Son\\" this book draws on the traditions of many lands to weave its spell. If you or your child enjoyed Colum's other books, then I can recommend this one without reservation. It is, in its own odd way, a kind of \\"Harry Potter\\" of an earlier generation, with its theme of a lad learning magic.  Similarities end there, of course: the wizard is a malign figure, and the \\"boy\\" is nearly full grown. But when I was 10, I thought this book one of the best there was, and I think it can provide others with fun and excitement. And what other purpose does a tale have?	2004-05-11
US	52640935	R2BID5T94GB7PD	B00005WBWJ	367249533	The magicians	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Magic as a new science- an old favorite	Let me admit that I first read this book in an old paperback when I was 11.  It was a favorite of mine,so I cannot guarantee that everyone will enjoy it as much, but I think many would get a good deal of pleasure out of this perfect little story.<br />The conceit is to take a private eye adventure, turn it into a story about witchcraft, which in turn is revealed to be a tale of a new science based on mathematics and incantations. Casey is hired by a little old lady to spy out a Convention, no, make that Covention, to find out the True Name of one Solomon Magus. He discovers himself in a world of boring receptions and thaumaturgy. This society has rediscovered sorcery.  The laconic hard boiled detective tone suits the material, and the fancy of working magic with tensor analysis as a controlling factor is well worked out. It certainly got me interested in advanced math at a young age!  <br />Although they are fairly conventional characters, the  detective, the young and pretty witch and the old professor are all well done. Even their familiarity works in their favor instead of weakening the story.<br />A note about history and versions. This tale first appeared as \\"Sine of the Magus\\" in the the early '50's. It was reprinted, in a slightly expanded version under the title \\"The Magicians\\". In the late '70's it was further expanded and (slightly) updated-- look for the warlock in the leisure suit-- with a number of added scenes and a much heavier satanic/sexual slant.  I do not know which edition is for sale here, but be aware that there are differences. Whatever edition you buy, it is good fun. One of the  sad things about scifi and fantasy is that much good work goes out of print and is forgotten. This is a good story and a fun concept, recommended for those who like their magic to have rules and be set against a naturalistic background.  Enjoy!	2004-05-04
US	52640935	RVMGOV14DJDPD	0199262861	224026102	A History of the Popes 1830-1914 (Oxford History of the Christian Church)	Books	3	12	15	N	Y	A fun narrative, light and very personal	Professor Chadwick continues his history of Christianity by relating the stories of the 19th century Popes and their largely unhappy coexistence with the forces of science, capitalism, liberalism, nationalism, and the like. Professor Chadwick's dislike of all the above gives him common ground with , for example, Pius IX.<br />The structure of the book is straightforward and admirable. He begins in 1830 and goes to 1914, and stops. He makes few attempts to directly address any overarching themes.  This is not to say that he shies away from generalizations. On the contrary, the book is awash with sweeping statements unsupported by notes. It reads like a very long example of the old Oxbridge weekly essay, and owes a good deal of its polish to the fact that it is not encumbered by the need to see the other side, or to balance one viewpoint with another.<br />The result is sometimes troublesome. We know that Pius IX was not universally popular, but Chadwick is not one to tell us why: he leads us to believe that all who  disagreed with the Pontiff were wicked and stupid. This could be an interesting and refreshing viewpoint if it were supported with facts. It is not. There were a number of factual errors in key places which made me uneasy.<br />Chadwick, in his work on the Victorian Church, produced the definitive text on the subject. I had hoped that &quot;History of the Popes 1830-1914&quot; would be similarly authoritative. It is not that, not by a long ways. I did enjoy it, but I think it a book to be taken with a grain of salt, both for its failure to draw the larger picture, and for its surprising degree of bias.	2004-04-26
US	52640935	R1J2C28KK1JDWZ	0226284158	284826563	A Century of Nature: Twenty-One Discoveries that Changed Science and the World	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A lovely book	Over the past century &quot;Nature&quot; has been the most prestigious scientific journal in the world, along with its less cosmopolitan rival, &quot;Science.&quot; Laura Garwin has selected 21 papers published between 1920 and 2000 to illustrate both the quality of the journal and the development of science in the twentieth century. Each paper is prefaced by a short essay written by an expert in the field, outlining the background and impact of the paper. Some of these introductions cover all of the information necessary to allow someone with even a minimal high school science background to read the following paper with full understanding; others make slightly higher demands. Most of the papers are quite short. As a current reader of Nature, I can testify that Garwin et al. chose papers that are far easier to read than the average.<br />Is this a complete history of science in the 20th century? No, it is very selective, and reflects the fact that much of the best work in theorectical physics prior to World War II appeared in German, while more recent theoretical particle physicists have favored &quot;Physical Review&quot; over &quot;Nature&quot;. You can, however, find the discovery of the neutron here, and the discovery of nuclear fission that paved the way for the atom bomb just a few years later. Plate tectonics and sea-floor spreading, pulsars and planets, DNA and T cells, buckyballs and Dolly, the cloned sheep- all are included.<br />This book has the richness of actual science, with narrative skills of good science popularization. I am afraid I must disagree with the earlier reviewer's ciriticism.  While Steven Weinberg's Foreward is a bit patronizing, the other introductions are all helpful. While some of the papers demand attention, they are all so short that they don't demand your attention for very long. Highly recommended.	2004-04-22
US	52640935	R3CK0JGUGB6E5E	0553240463	410393410	Death Of A Harvard Freshman	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Perhaps the Best Murder on the Campus	In this lovely mystery from the  mid-eighties, freshman Lauren solves the murder of a fellow student. The characters are whimsical but well-drawn, and the setting is done better than anyone else. There has been a steady stream of &quot;Murder at the University&quot; books, all too many set at Harvard. I have read them all, as well as ones set Princeton, Yale, Cal, etc., and I find this book and its sequel, Death of a Radcliffe roommate, to be the best. Lauren is not a great detective,just a fun and sympathetic one, and the mystery is only slightly above average (which still makes it better than most),but characters and the setting take this one to the head of the class. I read this book when it came out, and found it amusing and entertaining. I reread it recently and found  had not lost its charm. The story is told from a student's point of view,  and makes Harvard a significant part of the story, and not just scenery. I have read more than a few detective stories, and most have not made an impression, but this book and its sequel stand out in my memory. Highly recommended.	2003-11-03
US	52640935	R1VG2LJTQK9GSW	1559706848	553361306	Galileo's Mistake: A New Look At the Epic Confrontation Between Galileo and the Church	Books	2	11	14	N	N	Smoothly written, but lacking in content	Wade Rowland has written a journalist's account of the Trial of Galileo Galilei (not the examination by Bellarmine, the actual trial) and concluded that the great Tuscan got off lightly, which fact must be acknowledged if the \\"hegemony of science\\" is to be laid low.<br />This book can lead a reviewer off into examinations of Idealism,Skepticism, Positivism, and the like. I will leave that to others. But I feel obliged to note that Galileo's error, according to Rowland, was to presume that the structure of the physical world might be discovered through observation and experiment, rather than relying exclusively on authority, revelation, and established interpretations of the Ancients. I assume that Rowland would also prefer Lysenko to T.H. Morgan.....he certainly knew more science than the Barberinis.<br />The problem with the book is not Mr.Rowland's philosophy, nor is this book simply an apologetic. We can use better apologetics. It is that he has entered a well-trodden field, without having the requisite knowledge. May I recommend a book, now a half century old, entitled \\"The Crime of Galileo\\"? Written by Giorgio di Santillana, historian, Roman, Catholic, it surveys the problem so much better than this book that it makes me despair for the cumulative progess of scholarship. In addition, the contributions of Biagioli, Sharrat, Koyre and many others seem to have been in vain, insofar as Mr. Rowland is concerned. By all means, attack the method of the natural sciences. By all means, celebrate faith and revelations. But when you come to write on the trial of Galileo, please avail yourself of information that is in your local library.Galileo's trial was the result of so many factors :  It does a disservice to Galileo and to Pope Urban present the matter as Mr. Rowland does. Read this book, but please use it as a jumping-off point for better works.	2003-10-22
US	52640935	RITPDA24RLGLG	0060541644	59964273	A Problem from Hell: America and the Age of Genocide	Books	3	32	41	N	N	A Very Long Op Ed piece	Samantha Powers, former journalist, Harvard Law grad, director of the Carr Center, etc. lays out a history of \\"genocides\\" in the twentieth century. She is fond of the word genocide, and spends a great deal of time on Lemkin, the lawyer who coined it and is, in her view, one of the great men of the last century. Her other theme is the failure of the Great Power (for her, the U.S.A. is the only country that counts) to stop genocide or punish it sufficiently. Despite its reasoned tone, her book is a cry that the U.S. become the policeman of the world in the name of human rights. The numerous five and one star reviews  on Amazon seem to reflect the reviewers' opinions of such a policy.<BR>The book shows her background in journalism: not a beautiful piece of prose, it is nonetheless smoothly written and is a quick  read despite the substantial length and formidable subject matter. Prospective readers should not be put off by the length of the book. It is episodic, and many of the chapters can be read independently of each other. You can skim the parts you know and read carefully the things you don't.<BR>The book consists of a series of case studies: Rwanda, Nazis, the Armenian Holocaust of 1915 and the Safaar Barluk, Kampuchea, Bosnia, the Iraqi Kurds. Each reads like a newspaper report, with vivid descriptions of the tragedy, and not much analysis.<BR>And that is the problem: it is no use stating the problem from hell if you don't treat it as a serious problem. Power has a good eye for a gruesome story, and is excellent at expressing outrage, but her history is shallow, her analysis woefully limited, and her account of U.S. policy mediocre. Even her view of the U.S. as an eternally benign force for good  needs to be supported by discussion. It is questionable whether genocide really is a modern phenomenon: I learned very early about the Israelites in Egypt, and how they escaped destruction in order to go into the land of Canaan... where it was bad luck for the Canaanites.<br />More to the point, she falls short in her three immediate tasks:<BR>1. Description of the case histories, where her sources are few and her view of the situation narrow.<BR>2.  Her analysis of U.S. policy is lacking. Besides considering the question of how the U.S. government can and should respond to a situation where it risks everything to achieve an ambiguous goal, Power fails to consider the fact that often the U.S. has done something (surely FDR cannot be accused to treating Hitler lightly?) and instances where the whole situation was complex: the Kurds, for example , were supported by the USSR and opposed by Iraq and Turkey, supported by the U.S. Anti-Iraqi Kurds became briefly fashionable only after Desert Storm. It is hard to see how the U.S. can be  blamed for the actions of Hitler and the Khmer Rouge, both of whom we opposed with all our might. Moreover, it is not entirely unwelcome for those we dislike to do bad things: it makes us look good by comparison. The subject is far too long to discuss in an Amazon review, but it was not too long for Power to discuss in her book. This she failed to do.<BR>3. She is not illuminating on the subject of genocide in general. To what extent is it simply a result of nationalism, mass politics, and even democracy? Armenia, Rwanda and Bosnia seem to be the direct result of the application of modern ideas  of national identity and democratic politics to  more complex pre-existing situations:the dismemberment of Yugoslavia, which left the Serbs out in the cold;the Turks, having been driven out of the Balkans, felt that they could not endure one more particularist group carving out a piece of Turkey; the Hutu, who decided that Rwanda was a Hutu country and that the Tutsi were best gotten rid of before they took over the whole place, which in fact they did.Once more, this question is far too large for a review, but not for a book.<br />I found much to like in the organization of the book. But it is a book of great length and little depth. I finished it with great disappointment. I expected better of a Pulitzer prizewinner, an HLS grad, and the director of the Carr. Not a bad read, but not essential.	2003-07-08
US	52640935	RG9AYHXLCNKJA	0446610275	348667613	The Confederation Handbook	Books	3	8	11	N	Y	The Book of Spoilers	The Confederation Handbook is a companion volume to Hamilton's massive &quot;Night's Dawn Trilogy&quot;, which was a trilogy in Britain, but not in the USA. It lays out the history and technology of the major cultures, discusses the planets on which the action of the trilogy occurs, and fills in a little background information. <BR>Why is it a book of spoilers? Much of Night's Dawn consists of going through a long series of adventures to find out the quirks of Hamilton's galaxy.  It is the wealth and appeal of his background, and the daring of his conceit- scifi that overtly tackles all the issues usually left to religion-- that make &quot;Night's Dawn&quot; so popular.  With this book  you get in neat summary the information that would otherwise require you to read thousands of pages of the trilogy itself. Indeed, if you read the first volume of &quot;Reality Dysfunction&quot; and would like to know where the story goes, you have only to read this book, skip the next four and a half volumes, and read the last 100 pages of &quot;Naked God&quot;, and  you will have the plot. So this book can be considered the Cliff Notes version of &quot;Night's Dawn&quot;.  Readers who have read and learned all the information provided in the trilogy will find little new here. Since I had read  the six volumes at different times, there were gaps in my knowledge, and this book was wonderful for filling those (somehow, I missed the part where he explained the cause of the reality dysfunction itself). So I enjoyed and profited from this Handbook. Please note that the one thing omitted from the &quot;Handbook&quot; is the Deus ex Machina ending of   &quot;The Naked God&quot;; readers seeking more information about  that phenomenon will be disappointed.<BR>Fans of &quot;Night's Dawn&quot; might want to buy this book as a reference work. It has handy sections on Voidhawk breeding, etc.<BR>Now you can make your own decision.	2003-07-03
US	52640935	RJZZTDR8TU889	057501881X	653037943	The Gaudy (His A staircase in Surrey)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	The first volume of Staircase in Surrey	J.I.M. Stewart wrote literarcy criticism and mainstream novels under his own name, and popular detective stories under the name Michael Innes. The Gaudy is the first novel in a quartet about Duncan Patullo and his return to Oxford in middle age as a lecturer.  Each book in the quartet can be appreciated on its own, but taken together they form a measured portrait of a middle aged scholar in the mid-twentieth century. The Gaudy is the best of the lot, in my opinion, and is usually considered the best novel Stewart wrote.  It is in some ways the antithesis of his Michael Innes mysteries: those are brief and action packed and were written in a week(or so it seems), while The Gaudy and its successors owe more to Anthony Powell and less to Agatha Christie.<br />Duncan Patullo returns to his Oxford college(called Surrey, based on Christ Church) for his year's Gaudy, the Oxonian term for a class reunion. He is a moderately successful playwright, apparently of somewhat old-fashioned taste (there are dismissive references to Ionesco and John Arden). He meets several of his old classmates, including his old friend Tom, now Lord Marchpayne, and spends a great deal of time analyzing his fellow guests. There are scandals and even a bit of excitement, but the plot is really driven by Patullo's interior monologue,  similar to those of C.P. Snow's characters, but rather better thought out and written.  By the end, Patullo has accepted a post as lecturer in Modern Drama and a fellowship at the college, and the stage is set for the rest of the &quot;Staircase in Surrey&quot; novels, which find Patullo  an aging don.<br />This book was a bit fresher in its invention than its successors, and the plot twists that drive the action, such as it is, are much less contrived than in the other &quot;Surrey&quot; novels.  The transformation of a middle aged playwright who has not  thought twice about his old college in as many years into a scholar devoted to the place is marvelously described.Stewart had clearly gotten a subject after his heart, and reaches a power of description unmatched in his other work.<br />Stewart was a Student (fellow) of Christ Church College, and here writes what he knows.  A good work for fans of Powell, or Snow, or Beryl Bainbridge, and a good look at the kind of novel that flourished in England from 1950-1985 or so.	2003-06-02
US	52640935	R3REAP7V08SPCY	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of his best	Crichton returns to top form with &quot;Prey&quot;. This time out his protagonist must deal with an apparent crisis at a fabrication plant in Nevada. Jack Forman is a programmer, and presumably the underlying difficulty is a code glitch, but events seems to implicate the plant's use of nanotechnology, and some mysterious behavior by Jack's wife, a top executive at the fabrication plant.<br />None of these elements would distinguish this book from a hundred other thrillers, but Crichton brings some special ingredients to the mix: fewer cliches than most of his peers, though more than I would have liked; a plausible technology well backed by information; a slick writing style that goes down like ice cream; more attention to character development than usual.<br />As compared with some recent Crichton efforts, notably &quot;Timeline&quot; and &quot;Airframe&quot; this book is taut and quite brief. The characters are better written, the situations much less implausible. This book marks a return to the form of &quot;Andromeda Strain&quot; and &quot;Jurassic Park&quot; Most of the action occurs within a forty-eight hour period, and Crichton does a good job of showing how the limits of time and the characters' knowledge of the situation restrict their choices. I believe that some other reviewers considered these &quot;holes&quot; in the plot, but I cannot agree. Jack would have done things differently had he known what he was getting into, but he plausibly does not know these things.<br />The technology under discussion here, nanotechnology, has been a fixture of science fiction and science speculation for over fifteen years. Experienced SciFi readers might approach this book with a certain amount of reserve, wondering why it took Crichton so long to follow Drexler, &quot;Blood Music&quot;, &quot;Gryphon&quot;, &quot;Nanotech Chronicles&quot;, &quot;Assemblers of Infinity&quot; and &quot;Aristoi&quot;, among others.But Crichton writes thrillers, rather than pure Science Fiction, and his  take on nanotechnology owes as much to population biology, artificial life, emergent behavior, and microbial behavior as it does to K. Eric Drexler. He has clearly read a good deal, his bibliography was lovely, and he only fell into the didactic mode about 5 times during the novel-- not much for Crichton.<br />&quot;Prey&quot; is told in the first person, and the character of Jack Forman dominates the novel.  Crichton invests far more effort than usual in giving Jack depth, and the results are quite pleasing. Much of the early section of the book takes place against the backdrop of Jack's career as a stay-at-home Dad, buying place mats and picking kids up from soccer practice. Some readers, seeking escape from a similar life, will not find this part entertaining. But it does ground Jack's character in a reality different from the technocrisis, a new twist for Crichton.<br />As stated above, the book is quite brief, and seems shorter than it is. The climax and ending come with the speed of a short story, and the resolution seems to make far too little emotional impact on the protagonist.  The emphasis on Jack also drains most of the life out of the other characters--- they are mere acquaintances of Jack's, and it shows.  None of this really detracts from the book, and the refusal to milk the ending may simply show restraint by a seasoned writer.<br />I confess that I am writing this review because I find too many of the other posted reviews unjustly harsh. Comparing &quot;Prey&quot; with recent work by Clancy, Preston and Child, and other work by Crichton himself makes this book look even better. It has definite limitations, to be sure, but within those it has a richness the competition can only envy.	2002-12-30
US	52640935	RF6ZYSEDAOVIQ	0791028798	263168608	John Maynard Keynes (Lives of Notable Gay Men and Lesbians)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A well rounded Maynard Keynes	Escoffier's book, part of a series called Lives of Notable Gay Men and Lesbians, admirably recaps the career of John Maynard Keynes, practical man, entrepreneur, aesthete, homosexual (well, probably)and, least I forget, the most important economist of the twentieth century.<br />The series, so far as I can tell, aims to provide biographies of prominent gay people targeted at bright adolescents. Escoffier's book fulfills its mandate, but does much, much more. In a very small compass it describes the period 1900-1945, discusses the political and economic questions that took up much of Keynes' life, and paints a rather engaging portrait of the Bloombury group. It is also a surprisingly balanced biography of Keynes. Without wanting to denigrate the series, I fear that the rubric under which the book appears will frighten off potential readers who are neither queer nor under 20 years of age.<br />That would be a mistake.  Other than the massive three volume biography, and Heilbroner's witty synopsis of 40 years ago, there is a real paucity of good information about John Maynard Keynes, and an excess of misinformation, maybe even disinformation. This biography can be read in an afternoon, possibly at one sitting, yet it is good enough to recommend to anyone who wants to understand that political and monetary hopes and disappointments of the first half of the twentieth century.  Escoffier is not afraid to call them as he sees them, but the result is surprisingly fair and balanced, even if  I would not have phrased some things the way Escoffier did . His stress on exploitation as the hinge on which  the Edwardian economy turned gave me pause, but it is not necessarily incorrect.  So far as I can tell, Escoffier's views on a number of questions are quite different from those of Keynes, nor is this book a work of hagiography, which makes the overall fairness of the result even more remarkable. In short, I really do recommend that you read this book if  you have any interest in any of its topics: Edwardian Britain, the Treaty of Versailles, economics, Bloomsbury, government finance (the Bush administration seems to be radically \\"keynesian\\" in a way John Maynard might not have approved), or being queer in the first part of the 20th century.	2002-11-30
US	52640935	RTTZY060DRI3P	0786709499	406615423	Allies at War: The Bitter Rivalry Among Churchill, Roosevelt, and De Gaulle	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Gaullist Journalism	Berthon's book studies the conduct of World War II as a reflection of the personalities of De Gaulle, Churchill and FDR. His thesis is that De Gaulle, a noble man of steadfast character and selfless behavior, was badly treated by Churchill and particularly by FDR, who is portrayed as odious and rather stupid by Berthon. Berthon ascribes De Gaulle's post-war prickly behavior to residual hurt over his earlier ill-treatment. The focus is clearly on the war, and not on the later Gaullist governments.<BR>What to make of the book? C'est magnifique, mais ce n'est pas la guerre.  Berthon uses much of the apparatus of TV docudramas, recounting the thoughts and feelings of the participants without any evidence to back up his assertions.He ignores De Gaulle's manifest lack of success at leading resistance, the chief cause of tension between De Gaulle and the allies. His bibliography lists certain Gaullist sources assembled after the war, and some standard histories, but leaves out many vital sources essential for understanding De Gaulle and France,  concentrating on those loyal to the General.  Complex questions are ignored, incidents contrary to Berthon's thesis overlooked. Much of it reads like a press release from Jacques Soustelle, circa 1950. There are numerous errors of fact, most of them unimportant, but unsettling in the context of the book. Berthon does not discuss practical factors, but focuses exclusively on personalities- one emerges with the impression that FDR and Churchill enjoyed the kind of untrammelled personal power that Stalin might have aspired to. It makes his book all the weaker that the portraits of the three leaders do not really agree with many of the sources.<br />I give the Berthon's work two stars because I believe he made a serious effort, and I think too little is known about De Gaulle, who is barely a name for those of us born after 1960. Therein lies  another problem: had this book been published in 1972, there would have been many articulate eye witnesses and many other books in print to which it could be compared and evaluated. As it is, this book,  and the accompanying television series, bid fair to determine the attitude of anglophone countries towards De Gaulle and his accomplishments for the 21st century. And that would be a pity.<BR>The book has good moments, but is too biased and too incomplete to make it sufficient as a stand alone source. There is an old book, 30 years out of print, called &quot;No Laurels for De Gaulle&quot;- a translation of &quot;De Gaulle a Londres&quot;. Written by a French naval officer who knew De Gaulle during the London years, it offers an interesting counterpoint. Sadly, there is no suggestion that Berthon has ever heard of it. And that sums up the strengths and limitations of this book. I recommend the book to those with an interest in French history, but would be afraid to give it to some one without a good background in the subject.	2002-09-27
US	52640935	R3KMA31R9P54CX	0195074815	176341280	America in 1857: A Nation on the Brink	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The year that broke the Democracy	Kenneth Stampp, one of the country's most distinguished historians, focuses on the pivotal year of 1857.  The new president comes into office as a reconciliation Democrat, pledged to unite the country, with  his party in firm control of Congress. Many predict that the new Republican Party will wither away in the calmer times ahead.  Instead of that, events in Kansas, the Dredd Scott case, the panic of 1857,  and struggle within the Democratic Party between Northerners, Unionists and Fire Eaters (proto-Secessionists) wreck the party and leave the Republicans with a clear road to the White House.  The President's rigid response and limited point of view leave his party in ruins. The future seems to belong to the radical Republicans and the Disunionist South.<br />The book is quite well written, and flows like a suspense novel, even though you know how it will end. I read most of  &quot;1857&quot; in one sitting, eager to see what would happen next.  &quot;Nation on the Brink&quot; was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in the year which it  appeared,but lost out in a very strong field. <br />Another reviewer complained that Stampp centered his argument on 1857 and neglected things which came before.  That is the focus of the book, which is not an introduction to U.S. history.  I don't believe that too much background is required, but David Potter's &quot;Impending Crisis&quot; is a good book if you want to study the 15 years before the war, and would provide a good companion to &quot;Nation on the Brink&quot;.<br />Finally, it should be noted that Stampp is reluctant to draw conclusions, spending most of his time reporting the events of the year-- perfect for people who know a little about the era.	2002-08-30
US	52640935	R28P2NQH9K9LLL	0764565133	39767851	Frommer's Las Vegas 2002 (Frommer's Complete Guides)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A well done review	All travel guides have the same problem: how to give the visitor(and sometimes even a resident) up to date information such as phone numbers and opening times, while offering useful maps and general advice, and wrapping it all up in a package that is worth reading. In other words, how to be both a  book and a bulletin board. <br />I think Mary Herczog has done a very impressive job here. The book is marvelously written, a book so funny and informative that you might enjoy reading it even if you live in Vegas or have no intention of ever setting foot there. That is important, because some of Frommer's guides have lots of numbers, but no narrative skills to tie them together.<br />I should point out that two of the negative reviews of this book by other reviewers refer to a previous edition that I have not seen. This book does discuss the new(ish) Aladdin and other topics those reviewers said they could not find.<br />The book spends about two thirds of its length on the Strip and its offerings, and the rest on non-resort offerings around town, which seemed about the right mix for me. Please note that not all hotels are covered, just a selection of the more prominent resorts.<br />I personally would have preferred a general overview of the major casinos; instead the accomodations are reviewed in one section, the shows in another, the restaurants in yet another. All authors must make decisions, though.  It's not all Mirage and Mandalay Bay, either: bookstores, strippers, and gay clubs get their own sections, and much else.  All in a book so well written that you won't want to throw it out in 2003....	2002-08-22
US	52640935	R8IOT07AL0G67	0446530220	622113275	The Cabinet of Curiosities (Pendergast, Book 3)	Books	3	8	10	N	N	A Middling effort from Preston & Child	The skeletons of 36 brutally murdered young people discovered at a Manhattan construction site; a serial killer from the past who begins to kill again; a man impaled on a triceratops horn- what could be better, it is Preston and Child back again! Having said that I must admit that, having read all the other books, I cannot put this one among my favorites.  \\"The Ice Limit\\" was a wonderful page turner based on a paper thin premise.  \\"Cabinet of Curiosities\\" is a rather flat book based on a terrific premise.<br />I agree that the plot is identical to that of an old television movie called \\"The Night Stalker\\" but I don't hold this against the book. Good stories beg to be retold. What can't be overlooked is the lagging plot.  Much of this can be laid at the feet of Pendergast, back again.  In this book he is superior in every way to every one around him, so much so that half the book is given over to scenes of him humiliating other people or showing how much more he knows about everything.  Neither is objectionable in itself, but these scenes slow down the action of the book almost beyond repair,  and Pendergast comes across, not as a man of great intellect, but as a some one who is reading all the answers off of cue cards held by the authors-- and indeed, his abilities are supernatural.<br />As a result of the attention given to Pendergast, interesting people like Kelly and Smithback can only function as sidekicks or buffoons.  \\"Relic\\" worked because it combined a number of interesting characters in a dangerous and mysterious situation where the tension continued to build throughout the book.  In \\"Cabinet\\" the identity of the villain is revealed early on in the book, and the interesting parts are juxtaposed with far too much filler.<br />All of this may sound like a pan, what Preston and Child call a stinkeroo, but that is not my intention.  The elements of a strong story are there, and some of the scenes are as good as any they have done: Smithback in Leng's house, themembership of the early Museum, Kelly in the Archives. These scenes live up to all the praise showered by (most of) the other reviewers in this section.<BR>The whole is sufficiently uneven, however, that I found myself putting \\"Cabinet of Curiosities\\" down and reading other books before returning to it.  I read four other novels between the time I started \\"Cabinet\\" and the time I finished it. That has never happened with a book by Preston and Child before.<BR>Once more, read this if  you are a fan. If  you are new to Preston and Child, may I recommend one of the other books as a starter. And please see their website, prestonchild.com, for much helpful information from Lincoln Child.	2002-08-07
US	52640935	R6J1JURRMTY8F	0684859785	92435896	The DREAMS OUR STUFF IS MADE OF: How Science Fiction Conquered the World	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Personal Impressions of Science Fiction	Disch has written an immensely fun book, a welcome addition to the tiny library of worthwhile sci fi criticism.  It is not really a history or even an organized study of the genre, but a romp through a series of topics that interest Mr. Disch.  For a seasoned reader, it is fun, infuriating, and thought provoking.  It is not a balanced or neutral book, but is as personal and unfair as a letter to the editor of a newspaper.  If you like s.f., you will find much enlightening here, and you will find things so annoying  you will want to shred the book into little, tiny pieces.<BR>Disch uses a lot of ad hominem comments and personal recollections to spice up his narrative, and this can be both the best and the worst of it.  Unlike some other reviewers, I certainly  don't find any &quot;left wing&quot; biases in Disch, but that shows you how personal this book is. His views are his own, and follow his momentary inclinations, rather than any fixed program.<BR>That may be the problem:  in the title and in his opening remarks, Disch addresses a fascinating question: how has s.f. affected the way we (Americans in particular) see the world? To what extent is it the dreams our stuff is made of? How did Science Fiction conquer the world?  For my taste, he abandons that theme way too early and goes off on random fishing expeditions after feminists, strategic gaming s.f., and the Great White Whale, Robert Heinlein. That is why I give this book 3 stars.<BR>&quot;Dreams&quot;  clearly reflects science fiction as it stood around 1990, which is when much of this book was written, I believe. I feel that some of its concerns are a little parochial, in terms of time, nationality (we are not all Americans), and personality. Clearly poor Ursula K. LeGuin said something he didn't like at some point, and I am not sure that Heinlein's every utterance is as important for good or ill as Disch takes for granted.<br />If you are looking for a comprehensive view of science fiction, please read Brian Aldiss; his work is still the gold standard. If you want to be informed, intrigued and exasperated, please read this book. I recommend it as something to share with s.f. loving friends; you will have hours of fun discussing just why Disch is wrong-- and what more can you ask of a book?	2002-06-21
US	52640935	R1333T98N9KB6G	0140057048	14538207	The Memorial Hall Murder: A Homer Kelly Mystery	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Enter Homer Kelly	This is the book that launched Jane Langton's fame as a mystery writer.  She has written much since that time, but I suspect this may be her best work.  It has a light touch, a really interesting mystery, and a nice background of Harvardiana and classical music.  The university setting is well done, which is unusual among \\"murder on the campus\\" books. Current Harvard students may be a bit puzzled (Memorial Hall was completely redone in the mid-'90's, years after this book was published). The plot is expertly constructed, and there is a strong sense of place and time, which allows the reader to care about the action and the characters.  I give it 4 stars rather than 5 because I reserve 5 stars for something like The Hound of the Baskervilles.... This book is disappearing from library shelves, but there are still a lot of used copies about. Buy one now, before they are gone, too!	2002-05-13
US	52640935	R202WYFOC1NY5M	0586205365	387736113	Neverness	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Rich Tapestry	David Zindell's \\"Neverness\\" remains one of my favorite works of science fiction, a well written novel and a spectacular piece of world building, which is what scifi/fantasy is all about. If you are familiar with the book, there is nothing more to say. If you are not, and are reading these reviews to determine whether you want to bother with \\"Neverness\\", let me advise you to indulge yourself and read it.  The influence of Frank Herbert and Ursula K. LeGuin is very pronounced, and if Zindell were not such a good writer his borrowing of plot devices from those two authors might seem derivative. Happily it does not. Like Gene Wolfe, Zindell has a talent for bending the English language to create the feeling of a different age-- but I believe that is the result of two fine writers thinking alike .  <br />The story is episodic, taking Mallory Ringness across a city, across the stars, and across at least two worlds. Readers will have their own favorites among these journeys, but I feel they all mesh rather well. It is this combination of backgrounds (academic infighting, chatting with gods, living the life of Neaderthals on an ice bound world)that give \\"Neverness\\" its rich textures-- the book really is like a tapestry of many bright threads.<br />Zindell was expected to produce a sequel to Neverness in short order. He did not.  What he produced, quite a few years later, was a series of books often called \\"Requiem for Homo Sapiens\\". His feeling about Neverness and the Order of Pilots appear to have changed.  Some of his readers feel that while they are admirable, the subsequent works are not quite up to the standard of the first. Others disagree.  A reader coming to Zindell for the first time can therefore choose to read \\"Neverness\\" as a stand alone novel or as the first book of a story that continues with \\"Broken God\\" and others.	2002-04-24
US	52640935	RMTRH9KES1DFM	1568811411	773358389	The Honors Class: Hilbert's Problems and Their Solvers	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Hilbert's Tour of Twentieth Century Mathematics	At the dawn of the twentieth century Hilbert proposed of list of problems that he hoped would be solved in the coming hundred years. The list, later expanded, proved more successful than David Hilbert could have imagined: the problems became canonical, and those who solved them became members of the &quot;Honors Class&quot;. Yandell has written a charming biography of the problems and the Honors Class. Hilbert had aimed to make his selection comprehensive, and Yandell's book, organized by branch of mathematics rather than by the number of the problem, turns into something like a description of mathematics itself.  The writing is lovely, blending personal information with pithy descriptions of the problems.  I thought the mathematics was handled at least as well as in Casti's books, and the balance between the technical and anecdotal was well done. I thought it much more engaging than most of the popular books I have read in the last few years. Yandell can fascinate the neophyte without boring or offending those with a math background. I don't understand why this book is not as well marketed as those of Casti or Singh (or Sobel, come to that), and I hope that potential readers will find The Honors Class. It deserves your attention.	2002-01-28
US	52640935	R2A0B597REEW45	0393319709	585086142	The Baltimore Case: A Trial of Politics, Science, and Character	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Science and the Politics of Science	Kevles has written a masterful account of the Baltimore Case (Imanishi-Kari Case might be better). I can only second the glowing reviews already on this page.  A few things that might interest the general reader: at the time of this book's publication, Baltimore-bashing was practically a national sport among scientists.  Kevles set out to write a balanced account, and he has done so-- it is a good job all around, as Yale recognized when it gave him an endowed chair recently (Caltech's loss, alas!). Information subsequent to its publication only enhances Baltimore's stature. Unfortunately, like the French Dreyfus case that it resembled at times, too many prominent people said too  many harsh things about Baltimore that they cannot retract. Contrary to at least one of the editorial reviewers, it is clear now that Kevles was too hard on Baltimore and company, but so many people attacked Baltimore(Nature's Maddox, Paul Doty, Jim Watson, W.Gilbert, J Darnell, G. Blobel, and a whole nascent federal bureaucracy, inter alia) that these contemporary anti-Dreyfusards will never be refuted. Be that as it may, read this account to get a detailed study of how scientists and government can go wrong, all while trying to do the right thing.	2001-11-30
US	52640935	RQKVNJQLDUR80	0671685635	207023183	Ghost Story	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Forgive the hackneyed phrase, but this IS a Masterpiece	At the time of Ghost Story's publication, the N.Y. Times (which didn't review horror stories in those days) declared that it was a book bound to succeed in the English Department and at the checkout counter.  Truer words were never typed. This book is  in all likelihood the best modern ghost story, pace Dan Simmons, Stephen King, et al.  Its literary influences are obvious -- the law firm of James and Hawthorne is the pivot of the plot, and one chapter is a thinly disguised retelling of The Turn of the Screw--but its mood of elegant dread is perfect, and its energy never flags.  Shifts in time and perspective are handled expertly.  &quot;What is the worst thing you ever did?&quot; asks the book. &quot;I won't tell you that, but I'll tell you the worst thing that ever happened to me. The most dreadful thing.&quot; This book is perhaps the only true page turner I have ever read.  I read it on the bus, I carried it into the post office and read it on line. I did not sleep until I finished it. Perhaps it was the time, or my  mood, but this is the only contemporary novel that gives me the chill that permeates the best short stories of Poe and Hawthorne and both Jameses (Henry and M. R.).  I believe poor Peter Straub (whom I met a few years ago) felt himself a captive of the success of this book for many years, but who can blame his readers?  The movie Ghost Story is dreadful, and the talented cast only adds to the waste. Please read the other reviews for a synopsis of the plot....	2001-09-12
US	52640935	RWKFUJY4UASAL	155970537X	113934830	The Nobel Prize: A History of Genius , Controversy and Prestige	Books	4	24	26	N	Y	A Fast Trip through the Nobel Prizes	Burton Feldman, hitherto a historian of ideas, here takes a stroll through the history of the most consistently prestigious accolade of the twentieth century- the Nobel Prize. The book is fast paced and gives a nice balance of gossip, information, and speculation, touching as well on the accomplishments of at least some of the laureates.  The Nobels can be used as a cultural history of the last 100 years, or as a straight forward history, or as a gossipy expose-- scandals of the rich and prizegiving!  Feldman tries to give a bit of each. His information on the prizes was accurate, so far as I could tell, and he does an honest job in trying to assess achievement in Peace, Lit, Physics, Chemistry and Econ.  For some one with little background in these fields, he has accomplished a good deal. He misses some of the best anecdotes in Physics and Chem, clearly alien corn to him, but does a decent enough job.  His treatment of the econ memorial prize is fun, but too brief and unfocussed to tell us much, and his comments about Paul Samuelson are both unfair and inaccurate (compared to some other econ prizewinners, Samuelson has been a veritable Tiresias in his predictions).He is fairly good in covering objections to the Econ prize, but never really marshals the reasoning.  Thus his catalogue will cause reflection in those already familiar with the arguments, but will be cryptic to others.  In his section on the Peace prize his choice of anecdotes seems arbitrary, and rather skewed to the political right.  He also misses quite basic information on the prize, including facts given on the Nobel's own website.  He gives the most attention to literature, unsurprisingly, spending most of his time berating the committee  for overlooking various authors.  His attempt to analyze the prize by finding elaborate political motives is  heavy handed and sometimes ridiculous.The old cold warrior comes to the fore in this section. His listing of other worthy authors is admirable, but possibly beside the point.  I must confess that his page and a half paen to neglected German authors, which included all my favorites, was beautiful and had me cheering him on.Any man who appreciates Rilke and Broch has to be pretty sound.  Which just goes to show how personal the choice of greatness is in matters of literature.  Feldman says several things that disagree with the offical Nobel history, and the reader is left to wonder which one is correct, especially since Feldman does not always show that he is familiar with the relevant section. For example, he says that no one in the Swedish Academy could read Tagore in the original, with the clear implication that this made them unfit to give that poet the prize, but the official history states that one member(Anders Osterling- sorry no umlaut) could read Bengali.<br />Despite many quibbles and some serious problems with bias in the sections on Econ and peace, Feldman does a good job in writing a readable,and even  slick,  history of one of the few honors whose luster has only increased with the passage of time. His accomplishment in grasping the basics of at least four alien fields should not be overlooked.  Where else can you get intellectual history and dish-the-dirt gossip served up in such quantaties?  On the whole, a fine piece of work, even if a few passages made me cringe. Feldman has mixed feelings about the continuing prestige of the prize, but is more positive than otherwise.  I am somewhat more sanguine about the prize, and those who win it.  I also feel that ambitious projects like Feldman's should be encouraged. May their succession never fail! And may the Nobel enjoy an even better 21st century.	2000-12-06
US	52640935	R28UMIRPM7SXPB	0674854292	116036272	Summer for the Gods: The Scopes Trial and America's Continuing Debate over Science and Religion	Books	4	9	12	N	N	A good book, but NOT the definitive history	As all the other reviews will make clear to you, Larson has written a strong narrative history of the Scopes \\"Monkey Trial\\".  It is a surprisingly timely issue, and this fact, and Larson's clear writing and apparent neutrality , won him a Pulitzer Prize against a strong field.    The book is strongest in laying out a clear record of how the anti-evolution law came to be passed, and how the case was first brought to trial.  His is the definitive work in this area,far surpassing earlier efforts.  He makes clear that the trial was a farce,  with the whole proceeding grossly biased against Scopes from the outset. Indeed, the verdict was overturned on appeal (so the correct answer to the trivia question is that Scopes was not convicted).  Larson has many thoughtful things to say in his final summing up.         The book has several weak points, however.  The first is that some of the points are made, and better made, in other works.  Stephen Jay Gould's occasional essays on the subject are clearer and better written, and touch the  key issues more deeply.  His essay on William Jennings Bryan is superior to the biography given by Larson.  The trial scenes are not as well done as they could have been.  This was a famous courtroom drama, but a reader of this book gets no sense of the excitement, and the most famous speeches are, at best, briefly summarized, instead of being quoted at length as they should have been. Clarence Darrow is treated very badly, and Mr. Larson's dislike of the man shines through from the beginning.  These deficiencies are serious simply because the case, as a case, is of no importance.Legally it was a nullity.  What was important about the Scopes case was the courtroom drama, and the writing that came out of it, including Mencken's writings, and Inherit the Wind. L Sprague De Camp wrote a book in the 1960s for high school students that captures the whole picture better than Larson's book.   Also left out of the book is the strong Evangelical Christian tradition that came out of the trial, one that was no more accurate than Inherit the Wind, and which the Rev. Jerry Falwell for example, has cited as one of the most important influences on his education.  Larson clearly feels that he is trimming against a pre-existing bias. I am not so sure.  In any case, I recommend this book, but please also read the essays of Stephen Jay Gould, and Mencken, and some of the Evangelical documents as well.  And of course, Inherit the Wind,  a fictionalized account, to be sure, but a pretty fair one, for all that, and a more important work (and event) than the monkey trial itself ever was.  I do recommend this book, for all of my reservations, and I recommend you read it quickly: in my area, the local libraries have already lost most of their copies. Get it while you can!	2000-11-26
US	52640935	R1Z7UW9H3PBD1	0767904966	62767557	The Yamato Dynasty: The Secret History of Japan's Imperial Family	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Neither the best nor the worst...	A prospective reader of this book could be confused by the variety of reviews available at this page, so let me add my voice to the cacaphony. The book covers the history of the Yamato dynasty during the twentieth century.  It has had the misfortune to appear about the same time as the works of several renowned scholars  who tackled similar material, e.g. Herbert Bix and John Dower,  and their fame has dulled the luster of the Seagraves' book. The Yamato Dynasty is gossipy, full of inuendo, contains numerous minor errors of fact, and a paucity of  Japanese primary sources. I must disagree with Daniel Ford; this book is not a rant about &quot;right wing Republican&quot; conspiracies... but parts of it are written in a style more in keeping with (sensational) journalism than with the drier academic style of a Peter Duus or Hebert Bix.  The book is easy to read, then, but is it worth reading? Perhaps it is.  It was recommended to me by several Japanese scholars, and I can see what attracted them:  the ground it covers is not so different from what Dower and Bix cover, and even Iris Chang, and the Seagraves conclusions are not so different from theirs. Not bad when you consider that this book was published before those of Dower and Bix. It may be that in some ways, the Seagraves see the big picture just a little bit better than either Dower or Bix ( please see reviews for Herbert Bix and John Dower if you are not familiar with their work).  Herbert Bix sees the Showa Emperor as being responsible for all things in Japan; the Seagraves put him in perspective. Dower lumps all Japanese officers together and absolves everyone else in Japan of responsibility for the war;  the Seagraves see the situation as more ambiguous.  Their depiction of the tensions in the officer class before the war is  written in annoyingly breathless prose , but it is basically sound and quite succint. So the answer is... maybe you should judge for yourself. The book is certainly brief enough.	2000-11-20
US	52640935	R1BC0C0D1NLVFV	0807847143	553481660	Opium War, 1840-1842: Barbarians in the Celestial Empire in the Early Part of the Nineteenth Century and the War by Which They Forced Her Gates	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Authoritative and  Elegant	Nearly three decades after it was first published,  Fay's book remains the best single volume on the Opium War, and one of the best books on China in the 19th century.  It is easy to read, but is scholarly enough for the most fastidious. Unlike the other reviewer  I had no particular difficulties with the timeline, although that can be a problem with any historical narrative.  Be advised that this is a narrative history and can be read with joy by those who find social or economic histories tedious, but the background of the war is covered in particular detail as well. Fay is not a professional sinologist, and came to this book through his studies of the East India Company,  but the book seems none the worse for his wide knowledge.  It was recommended to me by some very distinguished historians of China, and their enthusiasm was  justified. It is not a weighty tome, like those of Mary Wright or Vincent Shih on China in the 19th century, but it is authoritative on its subject, and like the best of Fairbank, it is great fun to read. Can one say better things about a book? If you are interested in the Opium War, Qing dynasty history, imperialism, or just like reading a good narrative about a war,  please indulge yourself-- and read this book.	2000-11-20
US	52640935	R2PMB94J84ALV9	0060175869	664906388	From Dawn to Decadence: 1500 to the Present: 500 Years of Western Cultural Life	Books	3	27	34	N	N	A Solid Survey of Western Civilization,a triumph for Barzun	Barzun sets out an intellectual history of Western Civilization from the Renaissance to the victory of consumer culture, the &quot;decadence&quot; of the title. In its method, scope and conclusions it reflects the Barzun's  interests and the prevalent ideas of the 1950's when Barzun made his  reputation- readers looking for insights since Will Durant will not find  them. I must disagree with some of my fellow reviewers; this book is  delightful, but it is not unique, and there are other sources for this  information.  That said, I do recommend this book.  Its orientation is not  particularly conservative, as that term is usually understood.  Barzun is  chronicling the triumph of liberalism in all its forms,  and his opponents,  if any,  are the people who have traditionally seated themselves on the  right, at least in this country. If you enjoyed this book, and you should,  then consider going on to Braudel, to Will Durant, to W.H.McNeill  (spelling?),to Lisa Jardine, and to dozens of others. The fun doesn't have  to stop when you finish &quot;From Dawn to Decadence&quot;. Please consider  reading the authors he cites too: there is a lifetime of pleasure in a  bibliography.	2000-07-23
US	52640935	R2UYE16RDNE3S3	0471252867	654603947	Carl Sagan: A Life	Books	2	8	10	N	N	Please compare this book with Poundstone's before buying.	With two Sagan biographies out this year, I recommend looking them both over carefully before buying one.  Of course, you can always read both.  Since you are reading this, may I suggest you click over to the reviews of  the Poundstone book, particularly that submitted by Nathan Cohen? I agree  with it, although my information is of a much poorer quality. Perhaps  neither of these books entirely succeeds in setting Sagan in context, or  explaining his importance in the intellectual life of the late 20th  century. Sagan was, inter alia, a one man refutation of Snow's thesis of  the two cultures, and perhaps the true heir of Vannevar Bush's American  optimism about the endless frontier.	1999-12-11
US	52640935	R1SNVJZ897UMS6	0195002741	625460254	The Crisis of the Aristocracy, 1558 to 1641 (Galaxy Books)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	The classic study of the nobility from Elizabeth to Cromwell	Stone, who died in 1999, established his international reputation with this work, one of the most important books published on Engish history in the last half century.  He examines the  decline of the Court centered  aristocracy as against the provincial squires, with the consequent loss of  Parliament and the country. He also mentions the remarkable sequel: the  Aristocracy regains its power and prestige, this time leading Parliament.   Like all of Stone's work it asks large questions , and dares the reader  to  analyze it independently.  It is a great temptation.  I admit that my own  prejudices incline me to the view that the landed gentry who backed  Cromwell, and the landed gentry who were loyal to the King were not that  different from each other, which is why Cromwell was successful (he could  easily conciliate his former enemies, who were just like his gentry  supporters) and why Cromwells revolution was swept away  in an instant with  no oppostion(the gentry decided they wanted their King back). It is a  testimony to Stone's book that I was forced to think these things through,  and that I am still not sure wie es eigentlich war.    Rest  in peace, Professor Stone. A light has gone out in Princeton.	1999-11-07
US	52640935	RZCIZB7NHKX9B	0393001903	22447653	Essays in Persuasion	Books	5	46	52	N	N	Exquisite mandarin prose and clear argument	John Maynard Keynes at his most beguiling. A series of essays that have not lost their power despite the passage of 70 years or so.  As a prose stylist Maynard Keynes could equal his friends Virginia Woolf and E.M.  Forster, and he does so in this volume.  Perhaps the apogee of essay  writing of the Oxford/Cambridge type, this volume has a charm that is  absent from his longer works (General Theory, Tract on Monetary Reform,  even the Economic Consequences of the Peace). For those people interested  in hard edged macro theory, read elsewhere.  For admirers of logic and  clarity and the British tradition of enlightened common sense, Eureka! You  have found it in this book.	1999-05-30
US	52640935	R2AQTBLXZZW8OQ	1573921394	617290995	The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money (Great Minds)	Books	5	26	39	N	N	The Book that refounded economics	Here it is: the masterpiece of 20th century macro econ,  and one of the last important books in which the argument advances by reasoning rather than by calculation.  An enormous influence on Everybody, it broke new  ground by considering things like interest, inflation, money and  unemployment: all things which had really had no existence in formal  economics before Keynes.  It is NOT Keynes' most accessible book, and no  doubt he would have changed much had he lived, but everyone, including the  new classical economists, owe much of their thought to this volume.During  the '80's it became fashionable to deride Keynes, particularly among those  who had never read him.  Like big purple hair, this fashion seems to have  past. But see review below for a throwback.This is the book that created  macroeconomics... and asks questions that have retained their interest.  What more could one ask?	1999-05-03
US	52640935	R2NWR5GUA6TM9K	0879017112	775184151	Principles of Biochemistry: With an Extended Discussion of Oxygen-Binding Proteins	Books	5	18	18	N	N	a book to use, and a book to keep	Lehninger's book remains the best single text in biochemistry, at least in English. A fine book for undergraduates, it is also the one volume that you may keep on your shelf for years to come, and the best biochem text for  those whose primary specialty is not biochemistry (e.g. medicine, p-chem,  microbio). No text is ever a substitute for the journals if you work in the  field, but this book gives a sense of the whole discipline that is  beneficial for anyone who may become too narrowly fixed on one topic. Its  clear writing is also a blessing, both for those using English as a second  language, and for native speakers with some affection for their own  language	1999-04-30
US	52640935	R349KK8HN8TSV1	0393030172	326095950	Millikan's School: A History of the California Institute of Technology	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	The rise of a great research institution	In this book Judith Goodstein relates the rise of CalTech from its extremely modest origins as Throop to its boom after the Second World War.  Along the way she provides a capsule history of the growth of American  science itself.  The view from Pasadena is slightly different from some  others:  there innovation came well before the Second World War.. and was  not just part of the endless frontier of the Cold War.  Goodstein, who has  criticized scientists' penchant for doing their own hagiography,  writes  pleasantly and unsententiously about a place she knows very well.  I hope  she writes the sequel, as it were, telling what happened to that little  school in Pasadena from the 50's onwards...<br />   Goodstein has been  archivist and registrar of the California Institute of Technology, and  certainly knows whereof she speaks.	1999-01-12
US	52640935	R394DD5FWI7ISE	0521229618	40642572	Slaves on Horses: The Evolution of the Islamic Polity	Books	5	35	37	N	N	The standard text on the emergence of Islam as an empire	It is a pity this book is out of print, because no  other work so clearly describes the challenges facing the early Caliphs (Khalifa) as they were compelled to turn their divinely inspired kingdom into a very earthly  empire with something approaching a regular army. The early Islamic  conquests were made by the entire mass of (male) believers, organized on  tribal lines, responding to the call of the Khalifa...but such a force was  unreliable and as likely to kill the Caliph as defend him.. Crone analyzes  the alternatives pursued as the Caliphs moved from being successors to the  Prophet to Kings in their own right. Brilliantly done-	1999-01-05
US	52640935	R180S8KAT11TRT	0060987103	816790174	Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A very different sort of Oz	So many people have written reviews of this book that another would seem superfluous, but I do want to urge prospective readers to get &quot;Wicked&quot;. Although it is set in the land of Oz and has witches and elves and all that, it is really a modern novel rather than a fantasy and has more in common with Margaret Atwood than with Robert Jordan. It tells the story of Elphaba, the Wicked Witch of the West, but Maguire's Oz is NOT the Oz of the L.Frank Baum books, but a place of poverty, racism and tyranny.  Maguire's feeling for narrative pace and his imagination lighten an otherwise somber work, as does his humor... The Wicked Witch of the West says of her sister, &quot;Say what you like, she's got great taste in shoes...&quot;	1998-06-10
