US	52649455	R2VPNFMC65A899	0451191145	604964480	Atlas Shrugged	Books	2	19	33	N	N	I Shrug My Shoulders	This is political doctrine in the form of a novel. Unsurprisingly, characters are psychologically flat. Everything is way too simple for the author, the people, the values, the economy. If you are a devoted Libertarian and like to indulge in the warm, fuzzy feeling that this young person's philosophy (gun-ho simplistic and optimistic), you will like Atlas Shrugged. Otherwise, you will find it difficult to deal with all the ideology that this book really is. I give this books two shrugs.	2004-06-30
US	52649455	R309U26KJ47550	0465041213	670404372	Made in Texas: George W. Bush and the Southern Takeover of American Politics	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Understanding America and Bush	The book is about much more than Bush and what the author calls \\"Southern Takeover of American Politics.\\" It allows one to better understand American's cultural history, especially that of the South. <br />Lind is by no means an ultra-liberal trying to discredit Bush. On the contrary, some of his sternest criticism is reserved is reserved for extremist liberals and environmentalists with their rigid notions of race, ethnicity, and \\"green\\" politics that hurt ordinary Americans.<br />The books is a valuable addition to a library of anyone trying to understand the politics of America, the most wonderful country in the world.	2003-10-11
US	52649455	R3DDVUB17IWGUO	007282896X	471511592	Beyond Feelings: A Guide to Critical Thinking	Books	4	29	30	N	N	Beyond Feelings is an Effective, Educational Tool	This is a book in informal logic. It initially sets out to explain how our opinions are influenced by our environment (the process of socialization), and then proceeds to explain the logical stuff, which is the core of the book. There is a lot of content here, and every chapter could be expanded upon significantly with further clarifications and examples. However, the mission of the book is to give an introduction to the subject, and it succeeds in this mission. I used this book to teach a critical thinking course. I liked it and so did the students. It may seem a little dry at times, because the content is so condensed, but the book is quite effective nevertheless.	2003-09-23
US	52649455	RH1LBZ2GASWVK	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	28	33	N	N	Funny Stories and Comedians Who Tell Them	This book is very funny, because Al Franken has a sense of humor and facility of expression. Truly, this is one of the funniest books I have read in a long time. I have always been a conservative and still remain one to this day. No, I'm not. Yes, I am. I am not lying. <br />Much of what is said in this book should be taken tongue-in-cheek. And I do not see all the stories Mr. Franken presents in exactly the same light as he does, though I enjoyed reading his version of them. For example, his defense of Al Gore's statement that he took the initiative in creating the Internet is unsustainable. I wrote a book about the rise of the Internet and, considered literally, Mr. Franken's defense of Al Gore does not quite stand up to objective analysis. However, he makes a good point about Al Gore's exaggerations being blown out of proportion by the supposedly liberal media, when more serious exaggerations by right-wing politicians are often left unexamined.<br />I also do not believe that ad hominem attacks is a way to counteract ad hominem attacks, because if one accepts this strategy, one becomes no better than the person who initiates name-calling. This is why I think that, while Mr. Al Franken had come up with a humorous title for a book on Rush Limbaugh (he defends the title in this book; that's why I am bringing this up in this review), his own ad hominem, however humorously intended, is not more elevated than Limbaugh's ad hominem, even if Mr. Limbaugh did use an ad hominem &quot;first&quot; against some callers and politicians he did not like.<br />Then there is also an issue of politics not being about power, but about improving people's lives. C'mon. Is this seriously intended? To be honest, I do not know, since Al has a tendency to kid around so much. But I think he really did mean this. Of course, politics is all about power. However, I admire Mr. Franken's outgoing personality and his ability to connect with celebrities and mere mortals alike.<br />The stories about O'Reilly's saga of Peabody vs. Polk, Hannity and Colmes, and a visit to Bob Jones University are hilarious. They alone are worth the price of the book. <br />In the end, why do I recommend that you buy this book? Because it is good enough, it is smart enough, and doggone it, I like it!	2003-09-22
US	52649455	R187H6AWKAT9KN	0130974625	806801548	Who's Running America? The Bush Restoration (7th Edition)	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Elite View of American Politics	Pretty good book about political elites in the United States. Its strongest point is its empirical discussion of personalities and of groups that have a lot of power in America. Even though the book has been through seven editions, including one following election 2000, some information needs to be updated. This is true, for example, of the discussion about the richest people in America. <br />The theoretical model I found a bit tangled and not one hundred percent persuasive. I am on the side of the author as far as the major thesis, but I think theoretically this is not the last word on the elite theory of American politics, nor is the book astonishingly creative from the theoretical standpoint.<br />I also needed more persuasion as far as some specific hypotheses. For example the role of endowments and foundations was presented as a truly major role. Most textbooks on American politics do not even mention endowments and foundations that support academic and scientific research. Much less do most textbooks on the subject consider endowments and foundations to be key players.<br />Nevertheless, it is a clear no-nonsense book and easy to read, especially if you are interested in politics. I thought it had a nice introductory chapter, paying homage to some of the early great elite theorists, such as Vifredo Pareto, Robert Michels, and Gaetano Mosca.<br />I recommend it to undergraduate students in American politics and political theory.	2003-05-04
US	52649455	R1IKE8E6WYQR6K	0060987197	303485416	Slouching Towards Gomorrah	Books	3	24	48	N	N	Gomorrah or an Imaginative House of Horrors?	This is a very provocative book by Judge Bork. He laments the decline of popular culture and of morality. The two are apparently intimately connected. While there were bad signs going far back in history, the real deterioration started in the Sixties, when students and intellectuals came out to protest, indeed to reject, the fundamental religious and moral values that underpinned America.<br />These spoiled intellectuals and starry-eyed, misguided students began to wreak havoc upon the land of the free with their radical egalitarian ideas and the ethic of unlimited personal hedonism. Our family, government, schools, and religion have all been viciously assailed by these counter culture liberals who, according to Judge Bork, simply hate America and want to bring it down.<br />I think that Judge Bork overstates the viciousness and the Machiavellian intelligence of his ideological enemies. He paints them as anti-American, anti-Western, envious, power-hungry and, at the same time, guilt-ridden. Indeed, Judge Bork built such a House of Horrors that, if you believe all he says, the coming of Gomorrah, the destruction, seems like relief, because it would mean an escape from our present deplorable condition. <br />I dare say that Judge Bork is too pessimistic and too eager to vilify his ideological enemies. Like him, I oppose the excesses of political correctness and sensitivity training, and like him, I deplore indiscriminate historical revisionism that tries to minimize the value of Western culture. But I think one should be careful to distinguish between overzealous pc people and bad historians on the one hand, and attempts to remedy discrimination and create a more harmonious society on the other. I believe that hate speech and hate crimes are legitimate legal categories, and that speech codes are not always terrible. I have to say that personal experiences may have influenced my opinion, but the same is most likely true of Bork's opinions--opinions that are certainly not entirely objective.<br />Judge Bork also seems to think that it is easy to reconcile scientific knowledge with traditional religions. Why? Because science deals with material things, but science has not proven to us that material things are all there is. Therefore, religion rules in that non-material, metaphysical, spiritual realm. <br />OK, there is something to this argument. But since we cannot know scientifically about this intangible, non-material realm, we are dependent on inspiration and revelation to comprehend and interpret it. We cannot rely on scientific rationality or even logic when assuming that such a realm exists. For this realm is scientifically unknowable, and we do not know whether our rules of logic apply to it. This is not an objection to spirituality and to innate, revealed, imaginative way of knowing. But Judge Bork would only concede that much when it comes to Christianity and Judaism. For when he talks about Witchcraft, astrology, and psychics, he attacks them severely because they have no scientific foundation and cannot withstand the careful scrutiny of reason.<br />Judge Bork dreams of the robust culture of the Fifties without the racial discrimination. Alas, this is a strange vision that, at least as far as I am concerned, inspires little hope. One of the hallmarks of American society has been its constant and rapid change. Whatever is meant by \\"tradition\\" in America has never been frozen and unaltered, but always evolving. Even such hallmarks of American life as racism and political violence, which Bork would rather forget, have never had a static expression, but evolved. Jim Crow laws replaced slavery, and they were in turn replaced by unofficial, by de facto segregation and discrimination.<br />The book is not without its insights, and its easy to read. But it offers no real solutions. Judge Bork pins his hopes on the revival of religious conservatives who, along with other conservatives, will recapture American institutions of education and government one by one, by one.... This seems unrealistic to me. Also, I think that Judge Bork resents not just popular culture (I like that culture quite a bit), but television per se. He suggests that television performed an intellectual lobotomy on the people. Apparently this does not include the religious conservatives who are inspired by televangelists and who are supposed to lead this country into a moral promise land. Thus, the book is provocative and it raises important questions. However, the author went so far in his impulse to criticize those who think differently and so overdramatized the situation that many readers will be turned off or fail to take him seriously.	2003-03-17
US	52649455	R151C4H1YI4FYU	0140094385	539733955	Amusing Ourselves to Death: Public Discourse in the Age of Show Business	Books	2	58	117	N	N	The Medium is Not the Message	Marshall McLuhan argued that the medium is the message. And Postman argues that the message of television, our most pervasive medium, is entertainment. Nothing can exist on television, unless it is entertainment. Buried in the maelstrom of his arguments, however, is the correct observation that is some countries television is used primarily as a propaganda tool. He quickly dispenses with this inconvenient fact by arguing it away: in such countries television has not achieved its real potential. If it did, it would be purveying nothing but entertainment.<br />The danger in all this is not entertainment per se, but that people take television programs, especially \\"60-minutes\\" and other information/educational programs too seriously. They fall into the trap of thinking that they are well-informed. But television trivializes knowledge by turning into entertainment, making meaningful public discourse impossible.<br />I cannot agree with this, because it contradicts all existing evidence and common sense. First, television, like books, can be used to entertain and to educate. The fact that virtually nothing on television falls into the category of serious education and analysis is not the fault of television. For the most part, people do not want to delve into deep political analysis, and those who do can watch C-SPAN. Also, programs such as can be found on Discovery Science or the History Channel are very education. Postman wrote before the proliferation of cable, which allowed broadcasters to \\"narrowcast,\\" i.e., to pitch themselves to more narrow, more educated, elite audience.<br />As for the claim that in the past there was some deep sophisticated discourse that does not exist today, I simply do not believe it. Aside from the fact that Thomas Paine's \\"Common Sense\\" sold a lot of copies, Postman gives no evidence that 18th century Americans, reared as they were the \\"Typographical culture,\\" shaped by the written word, were any more intelligent or politically discerning that Americans today. I also don't know what self-selected audiences at the Lincoln-Douglas debates demonstrate about the lack of understanding of major issues today. Jointly, Lincoln and Douglas could speak for the whole day, and there were people there to listen them--also for the whole day, with a major break for dinner, of course. This does not mean they understood politics. Most likely this means that they were entertained by Lincoln and Douglas. They were entertained, and television did not even exist.<br />So according to Postman, there was real sophisticated \\"discourse\\" in which ordinary people could engage. But there was also slavery, bigotry, no electricity, and no running water in much of the country. But who can concern himself with such trivialities, in the face of \\"discourse?\\" Look, if such sophistication existed, Lincoln would not have felt obliged to talk about pushing for a constitutional amendment to make slavery permanent. Yes, he did that when campaigning in Border States. He would not have chosen Andrew Johnson, a former slave owner, to be his vice president, had he not felt the need to appeal to peace-oriented sentiments of the North. Most likely there was less sophistication and less serious discourse then than there is today.<br />I have uncovered this love for \\"discourse\\" not only in Postman, but among humanistic intellectuals worldwide, especially among those who feel they should get a better job or greater status. While they write about social justice and the need for equality; the misery of the proletariat, and the greed of capitalists; all they really want is to have their \\"discourse,\\" that is to think, to study, and to get worshipped for it. To acknowledge this openly is impossible. So the wretched of the earth become a vehicle of choice for gaining power for humanistic intellectuals.<br />More fundamentally, Postman failed to realize one very important truth about politics--politics is a game of power, the crucial word in this assessment being \\"game.\\" And as such, politics is necessarily part of entertainment. The divine comedy unfolding here on this planet, even with its terrible spasms of tragedy, is not to be lamented, but accepted. We do not want to be lamenting ourselves to death. Politics has always been, and is likely to forever remain, a game where surface, superficiality, pretending and dissembling, misleading and backstabbing dominate the appearance of the game. Politics is a game of power and not a discourse about where we should go as a country. I know where I would like the country to go, but not everybody agrees. Many groups and individuals have  different agenda. And no amount of rational discourse will erase the fact that we simply cannot agree. Mr. Postman's thesis is most likely destined to go to the dustbin of political theory.nt being \\"game.\\" And as such, politics is necessarily part of entertainment. The divine comedy unfolding here on this planet, even with its terrible spasms of tragedy, is not to be lamented, but accepted. We do not want to be lamenting ourselves to death. Politics has always been, and is likely to forever remain, a game where surface, superficiality, pretending and dissembling, misleading and backstabbing dominate the appearance of the game. Politics is a game of power and not a discourse about where we should go as a country. I know where I would like the country to go, but not everybody agrees. Many groups and individuals have  different agenda. And no amount of rational discourse will erase the fact that we simply cannot agree. Mr. Postman's thesis is most likely destined to go to the dustbin of political theory.	2003-03-14
US	52649455	R11T26OWS3SOFQ	0895261480	815056968	Breakdown: How America's Intelligence Failures Led to September 11	Books	1	16	35	N	N	Gertz' Polemic	There is nothing new in this book. It basically is a polemic about how &quot;liberals&quot; undermined America's intelligence community using affirmative action to hire underqualified personnel and political correctness to stop promising leads dead in their tracks. The style is rambling and makes your head spin. This book sheds absolutely no insight about the relationship between specific intelligence failures and the events of September 11. Gertz just blames everybody: the INS, the CIA and all CIA directors appointed by a Democratic president, the FBI, the NSA, Bill Clinton, and Democratic senators who have ever dared to question the legality and appropriateness of CIA tactics.<br />This is not even a partisan book. This is a book that uses the tragedy of September 11 to make ideological points. The authour gives policy recommendations in the last chapter of the book. The basis of these recommendations is unclear. He proposes to reorganize virtually every part of the intelligence community. How does Gertz think this will come to pass? Whoever will support these sweeping changes? An unbiased reader can hardly take this book seriously, since it is an ideologically inspired Monday morning quarterbacking, a polemic against liberals, Democrats, and affirmative action, and not a balanced investigation of the weaknesses of our intelligence community.	2002-11-10
US	52649455	R3U42HK4SZRWSH	0521466954	32001017	Rediscoveries and Reformulations: Humanistic Methodologies for International Studies (Cambridge Studies in International Relations)	Books	1	4	12	N	N	Voyaging Between Abstractions Ain't that Informative	The author is concerned with somehow creating connections to the world of humanistic interpretations of international relations and voyaging between these various interpretations and the more formal interpretations of logical and economic analysis. The collection of essays in this book is a republication of Alker's previously published articles. <br />The book makes plain things confusing, which is, I guess, how you become an illustrious academic in the dark forest of irrelevance and obfuscation that some social sciences have become. For example, the Milean dialogue from a well-known book by Thucydides is converted from its plain meaning that \\"might makes right\\" into a pretentious quasi-logical puzzle full of some portentous \\"humanistic\\" meaning. <br />Much of the book is unreadable. And all of it is irrelevant for understanding what is going on in world politics. In reality, the author moved from MIT to Santa Monica; and intellectually he moved from abstract econometrics (which has little to do with the way the real economy works) to abstract analysis of \\"humanistic\\" doctrines (which are completely irrelevant in the real world of politics). This book gives you a sanitized world of concepts that cannot be applied to reality. In fact, there is no reality here. The author worries about things that do not exist in the real world. <br />He is (pathetically) trying to get some mileage out of attacking Ronald Reagan for calling nuclear-tipped missiles \\"peace keepers.\\" Am I the only Danish storyteller who sees that the emperor's new clothes still leave him naked? How can one fail to recognize a typical, stereotypical, hackneyed liberal attack under a highfalutin veil of \\"narrative\\" analysis, or some other such ruse?<br />This book shows just how much out of touch the upper echelon of power within the profession has become.	2002-09-28
US	52649455	R2O4VL57TTC5VJ	0684844419	9851575	The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order	Books	4	4	5	N	N	As Civilizations Collide	This book seemingly acquired new relevance after 9/11. I think, however, that it is a bit overreaching to equate all Islam and Muslim culture with implacable fanaticism and anti-Western militancy. There is no doubt that some strands are vehemently opposed to Western culture as we know it today. But until the 18th century, Christianity, too, demonstrated from time to time tremendous inflexibility and destructive impulses (The Thirty Years War, for example). Thus, it is a bit misleading to suggest that Islam has \\"bloody borders,\\" but the West, and every other civilization, does not. For the West has the bloodiest borders that recorded history has ever seen, and some of that blood was spilled in the name of Christianity. Then there were Hitler and Mussolini. Not known for their Christian devotion, they spoke and spewed about saving Western civilization from communism. <br />The book is not very easy to read, because it contains a great deal of factual information that does not naturally tie into the flow of the arguments. But knowledge and erudition are not automatically a proof of an erudite author's favorite thesis. I also found that the argument abou the Islamic-Confusian nexus against the West is a bit strained.<br />The value of this book is that it contains some interesting historical information for the reader to ponder and that it emphasizes the importance of global cultural differences--things that are understudied and, in my opinion, underappreciated by the general reader in the United States. Western civilization is neither universally accepted, nor clearly invincible. One has to recognize these facts. I hope that Western civilization emerges from its latest crisis even stronger than it was before. But one has to be willing to value and protect it, and at least in that, Huntington is absolutley correct.	2002-09-01
US	52649455	ROXDQTZQOTJWD	0534535682	224547648	California:  The Politics of Diversity	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Politics of the Golden State	This is a great textbook, if you are teaching a whole cooure in California politics, or if you give at least two weeks in your American Politics class to California politics. There is a lot of content here, and some good photographs, too. The book contains more information than Gerston's and Christensen's &quot;California Politics: A Practical Approach&quot; (see one of my previous review to learn more about this book), but Gerston and Christensen make a better use of empirical data than Lawrence. <br />If you feel like going for a lot of information on California politics, then pick up this book. Also, be aware that in addition to facts, this book does theorize from beginning to end, which is something not found in Gerston and Christensen. The book is an easy reas and it puts histroical and political information into a cogent theoretical framework. I certainly recommend it to people wishing to learn more about the politics of the Golden State.	2002-05-18
US	52649455	R2IME1KJ891MCG	0155055216	509614351	CALIFORNIA POLITICS & GOVERNMENT 5E	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Practical and Enjoyable	I've got the latest, sixth edition of this book, and I am very impressed. Relevant, well-organized, and very-well written, this book is a firt-rate primer for those interested in California politics. The book is written in the style I appreciate the most: to the point and matter-of-fact, without needless theorizing and editorializing.<br />This is not an ordinary textbook. It is not boring or pedantic. Gerston and Christensen present a fascinating panorama of California politics. The book has ten chapters, each of which contains valuable insights and interesting details. The authors completely succeeded in presenting factual information, including tables and graphs, in a way that does not overwhelm the reader or make him want to skip over these things. This masterful integration of factual information into the flow of the narrative makes the book truly enjoyable.<br />I have a Ph.D. in Political Science; and I rely on information from this book when I get ready to lecture on California politics in my American Government and Politics course in the college I teach. I highly recommend this book to anyone who wants to get acquainted with California politics. And even advanced students of the subject, will find the up-to-date information in this book a valuable tool for understanding California's politics and society. Pick up this awesome resource today.	2002-05-07
US	52649455	R1U4RA9L2AZH6H	068486214X	889208740	The Worldly Philosophers: The Lives, Times And Ideas Of The Great Economic Thinkers, Seventh Edition	Books	5	9	11	N	N	The World of Economic Ideas	This is a great book about philosophers who layed the foundation for modern economic ideas. It provides a wonderful snapshot of the lives and times of Adam Smith, Thomas Malthus, David Ricardo, Karl Marx, J.S. Mill, Thorstein Veblen, J.M. Keynes, and Joseph Schumpeter, along with a synopsis of their economic thought. Professional economists and economic historians will find this book a bit too basic. The intended audience here is the sophisticated general reader interested in intellectual history, especially as it pertains to economics. I also recommend this book to all students of economics, political economy, public policy, and those studying history of Britain of the last two centuries. <br />Heilbroner is a good writer and brings his subjet to life. Political economy of economically advanced countries is one of my fields of specialization; and I wrote a dissertation on it, using the Internet as an example of a technological field created as a result of cooperation between business, government, and universities. Still, I learned a lot from this book. It has important facts as well as interesting tidbits that will captivate most intelligent readers.	2002-04-06
US	52649455	RMT2BAR1C80QU	0395905613	710565125	California Government	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent, Factual, and Detailed	This is a well-presented, comprehensive account of California government. I use the latest edition of the book in my American Politics class. This book has a wealth of details that are relevant in our politics and society, as well as easy to find and understand. Have you ever wanted to know exactly how many state-wide officials are elected in California and who they are? You will find the answer in this book. What is the structure of the judiciary and how has it been reformed since 1998, when the voters passed the initiative that streamlined the system? The answer is here. I like this book and recommend it to undergraduate students who study California politics and professors who teach the subject on the undegraduate level. By the way, I mean &quot;students&quot; in the most general sense. Even if you are not in college but want to really know more about California politics rather than read a bombastic, sensationalist account of current events, pick up this book.	2002-03-23
US	52649455	R2IJYRZG84E0KA	0226561410	199746905	The Rise of the West: A History of the Human Community; with a Retrospective Essay	Books	5	55	62	N	N	The West Rises	McNeill belongs to that category of historians who not only bring an enormous treasure chest of knowledge, but who present it in a writing style so direct and compelling that the reader cannot help but admire their work. &quot;The Rise of the West&quot; is a monumental book. McNeill's knowledge of histroy, of facts, his erudition--all leave the reader in a kind of suspense and disbelief. Can one man know this much? Apparently he can. McNeill's vast lore is a proof of commitment to scholarship and historical discovery. Whether or not the West has a special status and a claim to a special place in human civilization (as I believe it does) is something that is for you, the reader, to decide. McNeill makes his arguments and then reasses them years later in this new edition; and he is less upbeat about the special position of the West. But that is theory, perspective, possibility, interpretation. Whatever interpretation you embrace, you won't regret reading this book for its facts, its comprehensive narrative, and its gift of widening historical perspectives and imagination.	2002-03-05
US	52649455	R33EMBG8FKQY7F	0312256604	638083645	Why Nations Go to War	Books	4	26	29	N	N	Perceptions, Morality, and War	This very readable book depicts the leadership dimension of modern warfare. It argues, contrary to the dominant view in International Relations, that individual leaders rather than impersonal objective factors are the main cause that determines whether nations will go to war and whether they will continue to fight it to an irrationally prolonged and destructive extent.<br />The case studies are interesting. And I discovered a number of new and important facts, despite my Ph.D. in Poltical Science. The case of the former Yugoslavia is particularly well-presented and easy for any non-specialist to understand. As a narrative about events and personalities, the book is indeed outstanding.<BR>At the same time I have to voice certain reservations. Although the book is well-reserched and portrays historical events accurately and vividly, it cannot &quot;prove&quot; its thesis, because... well, it is unprovable. History is not a lab experiment to be conducted at will. We cannot test would would happen without this or that particular leader, all other conditions being the same.<br />It seems to me (just as it seemed to Voltaire) that it is preposterous that everything in the universe should obey physical laws, while a five-foot-tall creature living on the surface of one tiny planet manipulates history through his perceptions and misperceptions. In fact, Stoessinger's book has a goal that is independent of facts and arguments pertaining to the subject matter--to reassert a moral world-order in international politics and, by extension, in politics in general. My seventh edition has seven case studies; Saddam Hussein is called &quot;the war lover&quot;; both Saddam Hussein and Hitler are &quot;absolutely evil,&quot; while Stalin is NOT (ostensibly because Stalin &quot;had a few decent traits, and he did not love war for its own sake,&quot; but in reality, because Stalin fought against and defeated Hitler, whose concentration camps Stoessinger had barely escaped). The book endsby emphasizing the importance of &quot;moral courage,&quot; especially in &quot;dark times&quot; when &quot;absolute evil&quot; must be confronted. But it seems to me this outlook is precisely what has led the warring parties to misunderstand and dehumanize each other throughout history and to launch wars, whose objective was total annihilation of the enemy. If the other side represents the &quot;absolute evil&quot; to be confronted, there can be no talk of empathy and eagerness for accomodation. Only one thing follows: struggle by any means, victory at any cost. I am not sure that Stoessinger has come to terms with the implications of his own conclusion--in so far as people think about politics in unconditional moral terms, they will always define themselves as &quot;good&quot; and the opposing party as &quot;evil.&quot; This is the way it has always been. I don't know if mankind will ever be able to rid itself of war, but as long as the solution is sought in the concepts &quot;good,&quot; &quot;evil,&quot; and &quot;moral courage&quot; ther will be no progress in internatinal politics, nor in the field of study called International Relations.	2001-11-05
US	52649455	RDH44YKDX5702	0967107717	979254436	A View from the Year 3000	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Year 3000	Dr. Hart presents a unique vision of the future. However, he expects nothing wonderous from artificial intelligence (it is legally banned) and rather little from computers in general. In his world of the future, virtual reality is also banned, but sex change operations flourish--with most people undergoing multiple operations in their lifetime.<br />The system of education, too, is curious. First, it must be truly important, because all of his new entries in this book (I think there are fifty five in all) have attended university for a long time. Today, highly educated people attend universities for years after high school, but in the distant days of the future fantastic described by Dr. Hart, it often takes them decades to do so--obviously this arrangement may be more appealing to academics than the population in general. This protracted schooling takes place despite the fact that direct downloading of information from computers into the brain is possible in that world of the day after tomorrow. Explanation for this paradox: downloading of information provides only the knowledge of facts, but no &quot;understanding.&quot; One wonders how perfect brainwashing (another idea that Hart describes as almost imminent) can be real when &quot;downloading&quot; can do no more than supply the human brain with facts. Also, people generally work between 20 and 60 years before they retire; in fact, his most influential people after the year 2000 go to school for almost as long as they work afterwards--then they either live in perpetual retirement, or perish in some accident (although there is at least one suicide). This vision of the future of long schooling, important intellectual work, and endless retirement is the academic's utopia.<br />One striking feature of Hart's predicitions is that almost everybody who is among the most influential after the twnety-first century comes either from Asia or Africa. As far as I am able to tell, nobody among the most influential people bornafter the twenty-first century comes from Western Europe. Few of the influential people are people are born outside the earth--mostly in sun-orbiting colonies.<br />I think in some sense Dr. Hart's view of the year 3000 is too conservative. By 3000, I expect contact with other civilizations in outer space. (While Dr. Hart states very explicitly his view that life is very rare or nonexistent outside the earth, at least in our galaxy.) I also expect cyborgs, genetically engineered creatures of all kinds, virtually real worlds, and very advanced artificial intelligence, whose knowledge and understanding will surpass by far anything a human being can attain.<br />Having said all that, no one can rule out the possibility that mankind will destroy itself before the fantastic world of 3000 is reached--the world is precarious place to inhabit.	2001-10-26
US	52649455	R3U7AY4UMB9TOA	0385334818	640670565	Living Terrors: What America Needs to Know to Survive the Coming Bioterrorist Catastrophe	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Terror Today	This short book is a very timely treatment of the danger of biological warfare. It correctly predicted a major biological attack on the U.S. and discussed Anthrax as a &quot;brilliantly efficient killer&quot; (page 19). It also correctly described the danger posed by Osama bin Laden and his decentralized al Qaeda network (pages 52-55).<br />Some of the scenarios the book presents are so horrifying that one cannot even contemplate them with anything like calm and rationality--the most grusome and destructive of these is an outbreak of smallpox. At least 10 to 12 countries have the agent that causes smallpox, according to Dr. Alibek, a former leading expert of the Soviet biological weapons program. Alibek said about the virus causing smallpox: &quot;I have one hundred percent confidence that North Korea has it&quot; (page 107). This book is a warning that every government official should heed. Biological terror has already struck, but now is the time to make sure the situation is under control and does not get any worse.	2001-10-26
US	52649455	R3IWKEXJADYC3F	0806513500	315215881	The 100: A Ranking Of The Most Influential Persons In History	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Influential People, Interesting Read	My namesake, Dr. Michael Hart, has written a wonderful book. It is an interesting compilation of biographies of influential people and at the same time an anthology of world-transforming human achievements. It makes for an intriguing and pleasant read. The author is a superbly trained scientist; he knows about methods and methodolgy--I am certain he does not take his &quot;ranking&quot; too seriously. <br />By the way, what happened to Edwin Hubble? He was, after all, a fellow astronomer. Hubble discovered first, that galaxies other than our own exist and second, that generally galaxies are moving apart from each other--the more distant they are the faster they move. Even Harlow Shapley seems to me more influential than some of the people described in the book. (He was the first to make a good approximation of the size of our own galaxy in 1917.)I think the omission of Alan Turing is curious, since he conceptualized the first computer (what Babbage and Hollerith had in mind were essentially arithmetic machines, not computers). I also think that Pythagoras should have been on the list or at least should have gotten an honorary mention. Although less influential than Euclid as a mathematician, Pythagoras was an important influence on Plato. He was also the main reason for the philosophical faith in numbers and in mathematics in general. More recent candidates would be: Tim Berners-Lee (inventor of the World Wide Web, 1990); Larry Roberts (chief designers of the Internet, completed 1969); Bob Kahn and Vint Cerf (TCP/IP, 1974); Friedrich Nietzsche (great deal of influence on Freud, and N. influenced more writers, philosophers and artists in the last one hundred years than any other single individual).<br />I dare to suggest that not enough credit was given to Napoleon. For example, the importance of Code Napoleon is not primarily in its brevity and outstanding lucidity, but that it means something crucial in human history--the rise of the rule of law in modern continetal Europe. Prior to that time, it was the largely arbitrary will of the feudal lord or the king that determined outcomes of human conflicts. With Code Napoleon law becomes much more general, knowable, and, at least in principle, applied equally to all. In Britain, a different legal tradition of judge-made law (common law) has evolved, but the impact of Napoleon's legal reform on coninental Europe is difficult to overestimate. His use of the citizen army (as opposed to mercenaries) with devastating effects for his enemies, led them to adopt the same practice. Serfdom was abloished in much of continental Europe as a result of Napoleon's invasions. Artillery gained an even greater importance in military strategy because of Napoleon, who made it light and capable of keeping pace with infantry, allowing to wheel those guns to the front line very rapidly and to decimate the opponent's frontline of infantry. Napoleon's invasion sparked German nationalism, which lead to the German desire for revenge and the three subsequent major wars with France in a span of two generations (Franco-Prussian War 1970; WW I 1914-1918; WW II 1939-1945).<br />Also, as far as political leaders are concerned, Trotsky is probably more important than Lenin, since without Trotsky there would have been no Bolshevik Revolution, but I don't think the same can be said about Lenin. That said, Lenin was enormously influential, too.<br />I highly recommend this book. I believe that individuals are important in history, but probably less important than actual events and discoveries they help to bring about. The ranking in terms of &quot;influence&quot; on something as big as human history, is almost completely (and just as necessarily) arbitrary. But what any intelligent reader can clearly get out of this book, is the importance of various events and the kind of persons needed to make them real.	2001-10-23
US	52649455	R1NYYSJMTPVQTJ	0684819066	87039745	A Beautiful Mind : A Biography of John Forbes Nash, Jr.	Books	4	33	35	N	N	Unhinged Mind	A very comprehensive biography takes us on a journey from a small West Virginia town where Nash was born to his current state of tentatively sane semi-retirement that he shares with his ex-wife Alicia. This is a biography of one of the most insightful American mathematicians. Nash gave brilliant intuitive and relevant ideas their precise mathematical formulations. The best known of these is Nash Equilibrium. In non-cooperative games (competition only, no coalitions allowed) with perfect information (all possibilities are in principle knowable, even if not in practice known to all competitors) there exists the best strategy leading to a predetermined outcome. This is why games such as chess and checkers are in principle solvable--the outcome is determined even before any moves are made. The reason these games remain interesting (at least at the time of the writing) is because players do not know the most rational strategy and thus make &quot;mistakes,&quot; leading to outcomes that are for practical purposes not exactly predictable.<br />Like many artistic, scientific, and political geniuses, Nash came from a small town and a family that had to struggle finanically. Yet he adopted an aloof and superior approach toward the people he met as a student and later as a mathematician. He was frequently arrogant, aggressive, and inappropriately sarcastic. Morality seemed to him a thinly veiled hypocricy. In this light it is not surprising that Nash admired Nietzsche. Nash behaved rudely and even cruelly toward those who loved him, including his mistress Eleanor (who seems to me to have been his common law wife), his devoted wife Alicia, and both of his sons. I am amazed that after Nash fell desperately ill, many of his colleagues, members of the U.S. government, and his wife remained so loyal, helpful, and concerned.<br />Nash seems to have recovered from paranoid schizophrenia by the early 1990s and was awarded Nobel Prize in economics. This may have been well deserved, because much of the field of economics has been recast in the language of game theory (cooperative and non-cooperative), and Nash was a key contributor whom no one could ignore, especially after the Nobel Committee decided to focus only on non-cooperative games for its 1994 Prize.<br />One may find it challenging to feel very sympathetic towards Nash because of his arrogance, unbridled sarcasm, insensitive put-downs, and downright cruelty towards those who cared about him. Many have noted that during his illness Nash was a better person, even if he could not exercise his mathematical faculties much of the time. After his remission, Nash partly reverted to his old ways, speaking cruelly to his elder son John Stier who tried to reestablish the relationship, and occasionally hurting Alicia with his stupid verbal behavior. Given Nash's personality, it is not surprising that he made the great discovery of the so-called equilibrium that bears his name. Nash abolished players--their emotions, their preferences, their entire psychology, all gone! Only the game remains. Games have solutions, people who play them do not count in arriving at these solutions. The man who was a mathematical genius and who lacked empathy and compassion was fortuitously positioned to arrive at that important formulation.<br />The book is not just interesting, but sometimes gripping. The only minor flaw is that occasionally characters are introduced into the narrative out of the blue, followed by a strangely detailed description of theier appearance and behavior, even when it is not obvious why such a detailed description is necessary. This makes the book a bit choppy. But overall this is an enjoyable, provocative, and educational read. I recommend the book.	2001-09-26
US	52649455	R3E2C8ZT87QRLD	0679725164	143378173	No Exit and Three Other Plays	Books	4	37	52	N	N	This Lack of Exit is in the Eyes of the Beholder	Judging on literary merits alone, these plays are outstanding. The translation is wonderful. I cannot imagine anyone disliking the read. I am not surprised that Sartre was offered the Noble Prize for Literature (which he declined). His plays are more fun to read than his nonfiction. Sartre introduces and manipulates difficult and important ideas with remarkable facility and poignancy. The substance of the plays is more controversial.<BR>Sartre's characters are inhuman. Some of them are cruel to the point of sadism. It is through them--through his characters' words and actions--that he dismisses human friendship and the need for companionship as a private Hell (&quot;No Exit&quot;); through them he indicts human guilt and social order (&quot;The Flies&quot;); through them he slams his intellectual anger against the troublesome reality that politics is about power and compromise, rather than pure ideas and motives (&quot;Dirty Hands&quot;); and finally, it is through his characters that Sartre flings his indignation at the American South of the early twentieth century, its white people, and its communal atmosphere.<br />The plays are a product of Europe of the 1940s, and more specifically, of the German-occupied France of World War II. They were written either during, or very soon after, the German occupation. Sartre's attitude is pessimistic. The flavor of the catastrophic defeat and collaboration still clings to the plays. But one cannot get by just upon such pessimism. When Sartre's dark existentialsim, such as we find in these plays, was no longer psychologically satisfying, when the hurt, anger, and frustration subsided--Sartre turned to Marxism, which is a much more optimistic world view. Unlike the existenitailism of these four plays, it offers hope, it gives promises, it instills a sense of community, it does not allow to give up on other human beings. And in Sartre's own ideological shift, one can read a certain psychological and practical inadequacy of the attitude that breathes through the pages of these plays. For in them, Sartre passes the dysfunctional and the cruel for the normal. He offers no alternative except to &quot;become free,&quot; to will freedom through one's own actions. What does this mean in practice? I don't know.<br />If Sartre means that to become free is to become like Orestes who denies guilt and moral obligations, I do not want this kind of freedom. Besides, I think that a society of Oresteses would degenarate into a rule of thugs with big sticks. And this is what Orestes is, in my opinion--a teenage thug with a sword. To think that many young people are trying to go to college for years, work hard and try to improve themselves, suffer setbacks and frustration, when all they have to do is to become Orestes ans say, like he did: &quot;I am doomed to have no other law but mine. For I... am a man, and every man must find out his own way.&quot; Very grand indeed! And just as hollow.<br />I do not think that Hell is other people and, as Sartre undoubtedly wanted to make it commutative, that other people are Hell. Sartre finds the dark and the scandalous in the human condition, imbues his characters with it, forces them on his delicate sensibilities--and then feels he is in Hell. Very exquisite. &quot;Dirty Hands&quot; is also an excellent play that no reviewer here has specifically addressed. It has good insights into the nature of politics and the character of politicians. I just think that Hugo did the wrong thing, when he completed his assignment for the party, and a truly hideous, stupid thing was the one that he did at the very end. Ay, was Sartre trying to hurt himself again through his hero? &quot;The Respectful Prostitute&quot; is a powerful play. But remember that it is much easier to condemn and preach than to address real policy issues. Oh, sure, depict racism in all its brutality from a comfortable university in Paris, drag &quot;Uncle Sam&quot; and American politicians into it, while Americans are dying to liberate your country from the Germans; and, while you are at it, portray white Southerners as underhanded, street-smart brutes, whose purposes in life are limited to sex and grusome killings of black people.<br />The author of these plays portrays the world and its people from a point of view of a broken and defeated man who once believed in what was good about them--and who still intellectually comprehends that good, if only as symbols and gestures, if not realities--but a bitter man nevertheless, a man who holds something against people, a man who knows resentment. For all their clumsy, stupid, brutal (and, alas, inevitable) ways have violated and scarred his sensitive nature.	2001-09-19
US	52649455	R2W4W6X6GWLXXY	0385479549	311985081	Stalin: The First In-depth Biography Based on Explosive New Documents from Russia's Secret Archives	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Dramatic Portrait	Readable, dramatic, and comprehensive, this book gives a dynamic portrait of Stalin from his scrappy childhood day in Gori to his rule over the largest country in the world. From his youthful days Stalin was a proud and violent person; he learned the true nature of politics only in his late thirties, when he realized that it is all about power, while ideal, ideals, acts of terrorism, and propaganda are only the means. The book does a masterful job of integrating Stalin's life into the political setting of revolutionary Russia.	2001-09-19
US	52649455	R3G96ZW0GXGG4V	0828104859	549805854	Italian Renaissance (American Heritage Library Series)	Books	5	54	56	N	N	Renaissance is about Life	This book is informative, intelligent, and so well written that it can have a strong appeal to the reader sheerly as literature. It is also a funny book. All the intrigues, treacheries, betrayals, and cruelties perpetrated by the pillars of the Renaissance society (popes, politicians, eminent soldiers) are described so naturally, vividly, and, sometimes, unexpectedly that I could not help but laugh when reading about them.<br />Plumb knows how to go straight to the point and give the reader his insights clearly and unobtrusively. He does not preach, he simply states and gives facts so wonderfully that I could not help but admire his masterful style of presentation. Here is an example: &quot;In the darkest decades, there was a froce at work--trade--that was inimical to this world of warriors, priests, and peasants. Trade drew Moslem, Jew, and Christian together; trade fattened towns, sometimes bred them.&quot; Notice with what facility Plumb has just outlined the importance of trade--it mitigates cultural barriers and draws people together on the basis of mutual business interests. Or, here is an example of how Renaissance confronted dogmatism and obsession with getting at truth by deductive reasoning: &quot;The old dogmatic certainties did not vanish at once, and the habit of trying to nail truth down by argument from fundamental principles was not lightly cast aside. Some of the most original minds, however, particularly Machiavelli and Leonardo da Vinci, sought truth not in argument but in observation.&quot; The book is full of such gems.<br />Renaissance was strange, cruel, and full of life and culture. This book gives us Renaissance in all its splendor fitting to a description of the time of revival and vitality.	2001-09-04
US	52649455	R15W4NSUWNMJMM	0306806541	718801342	Hannibal	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Hannibal, Cavalry, and Craftiness	Hannibal was to warfare what Paul Morhpy would later become to chess--the father of strategy. T. A. Dodge wrote a truly masterful account of Hannibal's army and his fight against the staunch Romans. Accurate and detailed, this book is perfectly organized, and each chapter is preceeded by a paragraph in small font that summarizes its content.<br />This book is much more military history than a biography of Hannibal, and what masterful history it is! I was hooked from the very beginning, with author's apt description of the origins of Carthage, its financial strength, and political weakness. The best was yet to come: the second chapter described in detail the type of troops available to Hannibal. Hannibal's army must have been one spectacular sight.  The motley crew of Carthagenians, Spaniards, Gauls, Numidians, and Jews, all sporting different and sometimes stange clothing; the heavily tattooed Africans with shaved heads and small beards, all dressed in red; the extensive use of perfume by much of the army; the strange and deadly Numidian cavalry; all this multi-cultural element was masterfully held together by Hannibal's genius and made into the most effective fighting force of its time.<br />Dodge desribed battles and marches in great detail and he provides black and white diagrams of major battles. Even in connection with the diagrams, the descriptions of battles are not always easy to follow, unless you are trained in military history or have practical military experience, because understanding the dynamics of a battle challenges not only your conceptual intellect but also your ability to visualize events. Yet, I believe that after some effort most people will be able to reconstruct in their mind's eye at least the broad outlines of the battles based on Dodge's descriptions and diagrams.<br />I did not always agree with Dodge. For example, he did not think that Scipio Africanus was a military genius (as he is considered as such by most authorities today). Instead, Dodge believed that Scipio was just an able general, whose victories were at least as much due to good &quot;Fortune,&quot; as to his own abilities. Dodge ranks Scipio below Marcellus and Nero, even though the former won only a minor battle against Hannibal, and was eventually ambushed and killed by crafty Carthagenians. Dodge says that Scipio &quot;did no more for Italy than Marcellus, less than Nero... Had Scipio faced Hannibal when Marcellus or Nero was called on to do so, he would probably have failed&quot; (page 572). I think Dodge is partial to Hannibal and, for this reason, a bit bitter at Scipio, who defeated the great Carthagenian at Zama and put an end to his military career.<br />Finally, I think that the victories that Hannibal achieved were not to such a great extent the result of his personality as Dodge makes it out to be. Although Hannibal's military genius is not in dispute, the other two elemetns--cavalry and craftiness--were at least as important. While the Carthagenian cavalry of Spaniards and Numidians outnumbered the Roman and was vastly superior to it in quality, Hannibal could be assured of victory. When this was no longer the case at the battle of Zama, the Romans won decisively. And, of course, the crafty strategy that Hannibal introduced was another trump card. At the time he appeared in Italy, the Romans had no strategy and very little tactics, so they were frequently misled, ambushed, trapped--and destroyed. It was not simply a matter of Hannibal's craftiness and calculation, but a matter of the enormous difference between this original, thoughtful, and cunning approach and the Roman simple, foolhardy habit to charge at the enemy and try to cut him to pieces with their double-edge swords. Relying on courage, discipline, and well manufactured weapons is just not enough--and that's what Hannibal taught the Romans. As soon as the Romans became more crafty and &quot;strategic,&quot; they took the first step towards defeating Hannibal.<br />Hannibal's genius lay in making the most use of what he had: his superior cavalry, strategy, and tactics. In all these areas the Romans were deficient, and so Hannibal's victories turned out to be so crushing against his comparatively disadvantage foe. There is no doubt that Hannibal contributed immensely to the art of war and gave one of the most convincing demonstrations in history that, on a battlefield, the mind is often superior to brute force.	2001-09-03
US	52649455	R1C6289CAYVF45	0393311120	316067483	The Authoritarian Personality (Studies in Prejudice)	Books	2	30	97	N	N	Authoritarian Personalities Everywhere?	Adorno wanted to explain the catastrophe that was the Nazi regime and WW II. How could this happen in the midst of Western civilization? What of Western education, morality, and cultural achievements? Why did they fail to prevent this disaster?<br />Adorno, while a Marxist, was heavily influenced by Nietzsche. He belonged to the so-called Frankfurt school, a group of German intellectuals, the center of whose activities was Frankfurt, before Hitler came to power, and they had no practical choice but to flee. Adorno was the most psychologizing of the Frankfurt school. He believed that many answers to social and political problems are found in the psyche of the individual.<br />The political debacle that was the Nazi Germany led him to believe that his native country's case was not unique, that all Western societies, the U.S. included, are full of authoritarian personalities ready to follow tyrants at any moment. In fact, Adorno claimed that this is already happening everywhere, but in ways less subtle than in the Nazi Germany. The crisis in not merely German, or European, it is the crisis of Western civilization. The conditions of what he called &quot;late capitalism&quot; produce abundance of authoritarian personalities. There is not much direct coercion in America a la Nazi-ism, because we coerce ourselves internally, we are not really free spiritually and emotionally, so no concentration camps are needed for us--we are enslaved already. I have no response to this, as Adorno's extrapolation from the Nazi Germany to the U.S. of the second half of the twentieth century is absurd. What else can one say about it? He also belonged to a holistic tradition that tied together culture with social and political phenomena. So he argues that our music and our popular culture indicate that we are far on the road to enslavement. Adorno considered jazz as an artistic equivalent of castration, and the fondness for jazz as a desire to be castrated. He believed that surf boards, rock-n-roll, and popular culture in general were fetters of the &quot;late capitalism&quot; that de-spiritualized America and made it not very different socities that are openly dictatorial.<br />By and large, I think, Adorno's insights are not valid. He overgeneralizes. He is too Eurocentric, and especially, German-centric. He did not know great jazz musicians, such as Charlie Parker and Miles Davis, and he did not understand the American popular culture in general. He comes across as too speculative, gloomy, and Eurocentric.k-n-roll, and popular culture in general were fetters of the &quot;late capitalism&quot; that de-spiritualized America and made it not very different socities that are openly dictatorial.<br />By and large, I think, Adorno's insights are not valid. He overgeneralizes. He is too Eurocentric, and especially, German-centric. He did not know great jazz musicians, such as Charlie Parker and Miles Davis, and he did not understand the American popular culture in general. He comes across as too speculative, gloomy, and Eurocentric.	2001-08-31
US	52649455	RFAV1JTT05FMD	0471500305	701670710	Journey through Genius: Great Theorems of Mathematics	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Journey through Genius	This is one of my favorite math books. The chapter on the non-denumerability of the continuum, and especially the section on Cantor's efforts to subjugate the concept 'infinity, takes your breath away. Dunham writes in a style that brings great mathematicians to life, without sacrificing too much mathematical rigor. This book strikes a perfect balance between the nitty-gritty of math and the historical context of its great discoveries. Enjoy the book	2001-08-30
US	52649455	R36RDJ6N6LWP60	0471238473	84112120	A Mathematical Mystery Tour: Discovering the Truth and Beauty of the Cosmos	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Mathematics is Still a Mystery	Why does nature seem to follow certain laws that can be accurately described by mathematics? Is it because nature itself is a mathematical construction? On this imaginary tour Dewdney &quot;talks&quot; to mathematicians and tries to determine why the cosmos is so darn mathematical. The format is unusual, and I think it works. The disappointment is that we are not any closer to the answer after the tour than before we have even embarked.	2001-08-30
US	52649455	R3QRZKFO44WTTA	0471536563	985164768	The Mathematical Universe: An Alphabetical Journey Through the Great Proofs, Problems, and Personalities	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Mysteries of the Mathematical Universe Unraveled	Dunham cites John Locke's opinion of math: &quot;Mathematical proofs, like diamonds, are hard as well as clear&quot; (page 115). The books presents a number of such hard and clear proofs. Dunham's facility as a writer makes this book enjoyable and creates the kind of historical context necessary to appreciate the importance of mathematical achievements. The book is erudite, educational, and enjoyable.	2001-08-30
US	52649455	RJCGRKKSDA7SF	0520054784	39277235	Structural Conflict: The Third World Against Global Liberalism (Studies in International Political Economy, 12)	Books	3	3	11	N	N	The Conflict Ain't Structural	This is an interesting book about the international tension between rich and poor countries during the 1960s and 1970s, even if it never gets to clearly state the problem. Poor countries often oppose free trade and foreign investment because the governmetns of these countries own and operate most businesses. They want to maintain their secure economic position; what they don't want is competiton. For international competition would almost certainly put government-run enterpises out of business.<br />So justifications are invented for economically sealing one's country off from the rest of the world. Some highfalutin phrases and indignation are thrown around (e.g., &quot;unequal exchange,&quot; &quot;exploitation&quot;) and, in the meantime, the governments of these countries continue to impoverish their populations by charging high prices, like monopolistic producers they are. The problem is not the conflict between rich and poor countries; the problem is autocratic rulers of poor countries who, while preaching the gospel of equality, brutally repress their populations, overcharge, take bribes, and hide their wealth in Western banks.	2001-08-30
US	52649455	RBT414H7X6CYQ	038797993X	418244466	The Book of Numbers	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Artful Numbers	This book is excellent. I am not a mathematician; my Ph.D. is in a social science, but my interest in intellectual history made this book worth it for me. The reason that it seems a bit expensive is because the authors use color illustrations. These are really helpful and make the book more exciting. The book is essentially number theory for a lay person. All you need to have is high school level math in order to start enjoying this book, so don't be afraid. Conway and Guy present a fascinating look at what the human intellect can achieve in the realm of abstract thought. Number theory, and mathematics in general, can be mysterioius, artful, and exciting. Highly recommended.	2001-08-30
US	52649455	R3AZMGXZIQNYH7	0860915727	23788238	The Pristine Culture of Capitalism: A Historical Essay on Old Regimes and Modern States	Books	4	1	14	N	N	The Prisitne View of a Humanistic Intellectual	I enjoyed reading the book. The writing is intelligent and clear. The author presents different intellectual perspectives about what capitalism really is, in the very first pages of her book, and then proceeds to develop these ideas in an historical context. The reason I give it only four stars is because at the end of the book she slips into idealism and asserts that socialism at it actually existed on earth is nothing but a &quot;distortion&quot; of the idea. She calls for a renewal of the &quot;democratic project&quot; of socialism, by which she seems to mean employee-run companies, where politics rather than profit would structure working relations. She calls accumulation &quot;wasteful and destructive.&quot; It is this ideological and highly utopian note that Dr. Wood strikes at the end that indicates that she is bitter at the rich and that she continues to wage ideological struggle against them on the side of philosophizing humanistic intellectuals who yearn for power and prestige.	2001-08-29
US	52649455	R3PEGTF2YTL12Z	0805031499	901504133	Escape from Freedom	Books	2	45	94	N	N	Escape into Speculation	While the book has insights into history and psychology, it is problematic in several respects. Fromm is concerned with explaining why people seek to escape from the responsibility and anxiety that personal freedom brings to them. The immediate background for this project is Hitler's Germany and WW II. Fromm was a socialist who fled from the regime, and was, for the rest of his life, under the heavy influence of that catastrophe. Based on this experience, he tends to overgeneralize about the world and makes inferences supported by nothing more than a leap of imagination. As is the case with many works of political theory, the author of this book frequently confounds intellectual history with real history,i.e., actual historical events. He tends to equate human behavior and public policy with nothing more than abstract, esoteric ideas put forth by theologians and philosophers. For him all knowledge about the past--events, actions, policies, and thoughts--is encapsulated in abstract philosophizings of a dozen or so humanistic (no rigorous scientific training) intellectuals. Fromm also tends to psychologize too much, a mark of Nietzschean and Freudian influence. He attributes various feelings and moods to individuals based on little more than conjecture and even proposes unequivocal explanations for these emotions. His thought is full of excessive abstractions of the German intellectual tradition. For example, he introduces such ghosts as &quot;character structure&quot; of man. He also makes vague, mind-numbing statements that could come only from that tradition: &quot;Modern selfishness is the greed that is rooted in the frustration of the real self and whose object is the social self. While modern man seems to be characterized by utmost assertion of the self, actually his self has been weakened and reduced to a segment of the total self--intellect and willpower--to the exclusion of all other parts of the total personality&quot; (page 117). Makes you dizzy, doesn't it? I nearly lost myself in this exploration about the self between the points of the social and individual self. This book has a few insights borrowed from Nietzsche and Freud and applied to the Nazi Germany. This is an old, worn out hat by now. And the price of reading it, is that you have to put up with Fromm's attitude that ideas are facts and philosophizing is science.? I nearly lost myself in this exploration about the self between the points of the social and individual self. This book has a few insights borrowed from Nietzsche and Freud and applied to the Nazi Germany. This is an old, worn out hat by now. And the price of reading it, is that you have to put up with Fromm's attitude that ideas are facts and philosophizing is science.	2001-08-28
US	52649455	R3TMGLZ3U0BO34	0684845776	92755284	Unlimited Power : The New Science Of Personal Achievement	Books	1	27	42	N	N	More Limited than Some May Think	This stuff is common sense, mixed in with several psychological and philosophical ideas. Reading the book will not change your life. I think if you attempt some of the tings here, you will wind up in rather comical situation. Imagine mimicking someone and getting called on it, like this: &quot;Are you mocking me?&quot; &quot;What's wrong with you?&quot; etc. Hilarious, but not very effective.	2001-08-24
US	52649455	R1PQVD85GI6JLX	0679417249	365726027	Oliver Twist	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Twists of Fortune	This is possibly the best introduction to Dickens and one of my Dickens favorites. I like how he sets the right mood from the very beginning. His depiction of poverty and hardship is vivid but not oppressive to the reader. And what Dickens has in this and all of his books, is characters. You meet interesting people in challenging and dysfunctional circumstances, but you know that the writer took the time to developed psychologically-realistic and nuanced personages.<br />Oliver Twist is condemned to a childhood of poverty, but the cold and indifferent world does not crush him. Misfortunes, intrigues, and plots eventually lead to Oliver turning the corner on his miserable existence and assuming a dignified place in society. The character overcomes seemingly unsurmountable odds. He has a lot of staying power. The indifferent world which Dickens paints in the book turns out to be not as cold and inhuman as one may at first think. Oliver does not come out of his situation entirely on his own, he is helped by others. And the bad guys Sikes and Fagin mee their own just end with some help from the justice system.<br />Dickens portrays poverty and the underworld in a truly compelling way. This book also is a perfect example of his stylistic facility--to be able to write such long sentences and keep the reader so desperately engaged in the story is a mark of a great writer.	2001-08-23
US	52649455	RYLHIZ7V4IIL3	1566430399	66544349	Politics in Western Europe: An Introduction to the Politics of the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, Sweden, and the European Union (Comparative Politics & the International Political Economy,)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Organization is a Problem	The textbook contains a great deal of relevant basic information on politics in Western Europe. Unfortunately, it needs to be better organized. This goes for the organization of chapters and organization within the chapters. I used it in my Western European Politics class, but students did not respond favorably. The textbook sometimes picks up a topic without any obvious reason for doing so, and then, having said a few sentences about it, leaves it off, also without any obvious reason. This makes individual chapters hard to follow.	2001-08-23
US	52649455	R1G2S56ET0L9ME	0691010935	705490845	Beria: Stalin's First Lieutenant	Books	4	5	14	N	N	Georgian Monster in Glasses	My only reservation that this book is almost as much about Georgia as about Beria. It portrays the monster of the Soviet police state who loyally did Stalin's bidding and acquired such ferocious reputation that, when Stalin died, the new leader Khruscheve thought it necessary to kill Beria to protect his own power. Well-research, this book is a valuable addition any library on Soviet politics or history.	2001-08-23
US	52649455	R1O67D5MSIJGIP	0140434941	976358997	David Copperfield (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	David Copperfield	This is a book where Dickens' long-windedness catches up to him. He takes a long time to set up the novel and by the time he gets going, I am already impatient to see a resolution. I prefer &quot;Oliver Twist,&quot; &quot;Great Expectaions,&quot; and his unfinished &quot;The Mystery of Edwin Drood.&quot; The first two of these also have boys at the center of the narrative but they are less brooding and melodramatic, and for this reason, more appealing to the modern American reader. &quot;Copperfield&quot; never struck a deep cord in me, maybe in part because the theme of little boy's suffering and discovery of the world feels a bit old and predictable after a while.	2001-08-23
US	52649455	R3W942EIHV8KS	0553213423	365726027	Great Expectations (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	What to Expect in Life	The great English master is at his best in &quot;Great Expectations.&quot; This is a story about loyalty, trust, and, this being Dickens, dark overtones of the human nature. One should not expect something for nothing, that is what this novel makes perfectly clear. Pip, who is the central figure of the novel, a good-natured boy growing up into adulthood, expects to be continously favored by fotrune and his mysterious benefactor who, he thinks, is acting out of the goodness of her heart. Along the way he meets a cast of character who represent the entire range of human nature: devotion, strength, treachery, level-headedness, and brutality.<br />&quot;Great Expectation&quot; is a classic because of its relentless exposure of truth about the human condition--the condition in which decency and sanity are maintained at a high price, and innocence not at all.	2001-08-22
US	52649455	R16RG7L5L5AQC3	0520081161	249671244	The Perspective of the World: Civilization and Capitalism 15Th-18th Century, Vol. 3	Books	2	13	36	N	N	A Contrarian Perspective	Among the reviewers, I am in a minority that does not think this book is such a high achievement. It is a mixture of facts and speculation, with theoretical terminology superimposed upon them. There is no clear criterion why some facts are included and others are excluded, and I have no idea what the lesson of this book is supposed to be. In fact, this is a self-indulgent exercise in historical erudition. I don't care what anybody else says, this is a philosophy rather than history book. The author gives a lot of facts, but he also frequently mistakes logical constucts for facts. The author tries to integrate almost everything under the Sun into this tome, and that is why he ends up with a bloated work that oppresses the reader with needless information.	2001-08-11
US	52649455	R2N1MOKOKI85RE	0764112759	223880332	Finance (Business Review Series)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	High Praise for High Finance	This book is superb. At first, I was a bit hesitant, because at first glance it appears technical and dense. But as I began to study it, I realized that fear and excessive eagerness to understand everything right away in an obstacle when approaching a book like this, and it was my fear and eagerness that caused my initial misgivings. In fact this book is great. It has no excessive verbiage that characterizes many textbooks today. It makes it clear that a theoretical model is just that--a very simplified view of a possible reality, and not a reflection of the real world. It also gives relevant problems and provides the answers immediately. I like the fact that the author introduce key terms for each chapter in the beginning. This sets your mind in the direction of the subject, and you know what to pay attention to when reading through the chapter.<br />In short, a beginner can use this book effectively to learn about finance, while someone more experienced can use this book as a valuable reference tool. I have invested in stocks for many years and studied international political economy at the graduate leve, but there is nothing like a direct, no-nonsense explanation of the basics and intermediate concepts. This book will give you just that.	2001-08-09
US	52649455	R21BDTKD1Y69RC	0679409963	25770343	Doctor Faustus (Everyman's Library)	Books	3	19	35	N	N	Despair in the Rubble	This, Thomas Mann's last novel, is born out of pessimism, which was a natural reaction to the catastrophe that was World War II. What he is despearately searching for in this novel is the same thing that the Frankfurt School was searching for in their social philosophy: why this sudden and bloody collapse of Europe? And being Eurocentric, they also reasoned thus: why this suddent collapse of Europe, which is the collapse of Western civilization, which is the collapse of civilization itself?<br />Loosely based on the lives of Nietzsche and Schoenberg, Dr. Faustus is a writer's attempt to extend the Faustian legend from the individual to society as a whole. It is full of reflections that can best be characterized as social philosophy: a mixture of doctrine, literature, history, and logic. Mann heroically attempts to be the old European writer, meaning, the conscience of the people, the priest, the judge, and the historical critic. And as heroes is general, he is doomed. Such attempts by writers are no longer taken seriously. Mann is searching for profound philosophical answers to existence in the rubble of Berlin and deep in the psyche of artists. This search itself, however, is caught up in the same drama that it wants to untangle. It belongs to a former era which, due to historical idiosyncrasies, receded from the European continet in a particularly grusome flow of the rivers of blood, the smell of burning human flesh, and the destruction of entire cities. Neither music, nor art in general can tell us why it happened and why it happened so drastically.	2001-08-07
US	52649455	R1YZEK33ACDJ1U	0451627989	376253398	Napoleon	Books	2	8	13	N	N	A Military History	This may be a good book on military history. I am not a military historian, so I cannot attest to how sound Markham's research into that subject is. Just know what you are buying. There is almost nothing here about Napoleon as a person, not compared to most other biographies. And the social context which gave rise to Napoleon is not really explored here. I find the first two chapters of the book that deal with Napoleon's genealogy and his early years interesting and well-written. After that the book got too dense and the writing style rather pedestrian. Everything beyond the first chapter of the book is written for a specialist (a scholar who focuses on the 19th century or on military history). At the time of the publication the book received such glowing reviews that I cannot help but wonder what I missed here.	2001-08-07
US	52649455	R2KWLUJGCFJF3F	0415152879	41580708	Complexity and Postmodernism: Understanding Complex Systems (Economies of Asia; 14)	Books	2	11	17	N	N	Complexity and Dead End	The book combines elements of different philosophies: post-modernism, structuralism, and deconstruction. It is a meeting of vague philosophical generalizations and scientific terminology (e.g., neural networks), and as such, it muddles things instead of making them clear. The hope being that, if things look complex and muddled, people will consider the book profound.<br />I have to say that stylistically the book is fairly well written, yet this is not something one would read for entertainment. Bottom line: this is an attempt at some sort of philsophical synthesis which, in reality, is an intellectual dead end.	2001-08-07
US	52649455	R2WXE0HKKQZ527	0679722068	282010593	Death in Venice: And Seven Other Stories	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Life, Death, and Art	When I think of Mann, and of this book in particular, I am caught up in epithets and contradictions: insightful, artistic, polished, brooding, ponderous, pretentious, time-bound, and slow. I cannot think of this book without thinking that it is an expression of a past era, yet an expression with some universal themes about human psyche and behavior. Mann is the highest literary embodiment of Nietzschean depth psychology and his philosophy of the Appollonian-Dionysian duality. He puts this Nietzsche-ism in the dialogues and monologues of his characters. I dare say that all of his *main* characters have been infected by something irrational and Dionysian, which they cannot shake off. Their souls have been skewed. They need to play out their drama, but not before a dose of philosophizing seeps into the story through conversations and reflections. Consequently, in this collection of short stories, the stories are not short at all, and some of them go for over 40 pages.<br />What Mann portrays are characters affected by Nietzschean philosophy and Freudian psychology but in a subdued and cultured way. They are usually not frenzied or overtly irrational. Their layer of normality is rather thick, but beneath that layer, deterioration of the human soul continues. Whether it is an aged artist who is a repressed homosexual pedophile, a brooding young man of mixed ethnic heritage in the nationalist Germany, or the incestuous twins--all of them are living expressions of the breakdown of orthodoxy and dysfunctional life in the labyrinth of human history.	2001-08-07
US	52649455	R1Q4Y6AOA9BNVN	0060929588	485442755	Napoleon Bonaparte: A Life	Books	1	16	20	N	N	A Pathetic Joke	How starved for attention and recognition can people be! But be careful what you wish for. Schom portrays Napoleon as an incompetent, bungling general who simply stumbled into numerous victories, because his enemies were even less competent and very, very hapless. Bonaparte crushed his enemies and became emperor, during some of the most uncertain times in human history, as a result of luck and some intrigue. Sounds plausible? This book is a perfect example of self-aggrandizing, revisionist scholarship. Schom wants to look big by making Napoleon as small as possible, and it's pathetic. What a waste of knowledge in pursuit of vanity!	2001-08-07
US	52649455	R3VEMGQPSRVSZV	0521471311	893499204	Latvia in Transition	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Excellent Overview of Latvia's Transition from Communism	This book is about the early years of Latvia's independence from the communist domination from Moscow. Latvia is a small country, one of the three Baltic republics that were independent in the inter-war period but where taken over by Soviet forces in June of 1940, after Hitler and Stalin secretly devided Eastern Europe between themselves. Baltic nationalism was probably the strongest of all nationalism within the Soviet Union.<br />The book opens with a brief historical overview of the Latvian situation, and then proceeds to the nation rebirth. Then the author tackles the problem of establishing democracy in a country with only modest democratic heritage. He round off the book by discussing the economic situation, and the problem of demographics and ethnic relations. The empirical part of the book is a little dated, which is not the author's fault--events change very quickly in that part of the world. But all the same problems remain relevant. In particular, the status of Russians in Latvia and relations with Moscow continue to be the most contentious issues in Latvian politics.	2001-08-07
US	52649455	R386SO5YRLVARF	0198275897	749465461	Explaining and Understanding International Relations (Clarendon Paperbacks)	Books	2	0	14	N	N	Explaining or Understanding	A ponderous treatment of the question whether international politics can best be studies scientifically--like say physics or chemistry--or by writing journalistic and historical accounts that may not exaplain things as prcesicely as scientific theories, yet provide a lot of real &quot;understanding&quot; of politics. The two authors take opposing views and drag out this pointless discussion to the point of no resolution.	2001-08-04
US	52649455	R3NKAWWPGPS23F	014024364X	933995871	A People's Tragedy: The Russian Revolution: 1891-1924	Books	3	11	18	N	N	A People's Tragedy	Dr. Figes writes well and knows so much about the subject that one cannot help but admire his erudition. This book also contains many valuable black and white photographs from the revolutionary times. But it suffers from its excessive historicizing, i.e, too many details thrown at the reader without any obvious justificiation for many of them. This is a dense historical account written for a specialist, and it is much more descriptive than analytical.<br />I would like to take an issues with Dr. Figes' cavalier dismissal of the existence of Ukrainian nationalism in 1919, when Bolshevik's took power in that country and incorporated it into the Soviet Union later. He depicts peasants as lacking political consciousness and being hostile to the nation state. He does not give evidence for this. Apparently, his conclusion is based on some theoretical precepts about the way the peasants generally are. He is not correct, as Petl'ura's and even  the anarchist Makhno's fight against the Bolsheviks had grass roots support and bore a nationalist character. To crush Ukrainian nationalism, Stalin starved millions of people to death only a dedcade later. Of this there can be no doubt. When did Ukrainians develop their nationalism then? Only in the years 1919-1929? I doubt it.<br />This is a tremendous book and looks like a labor of love by Dr. Figes, but ultimately it is weakly organized and bloated.	2001-08-04
US	52649455	R1B3ZJLSGJP73S	0399523138	25236871	Science Class You Wish You Had...: The Seven Greatest Scientific Discoveries in History and the People Who Made Them	Books	4	19	24	N	N	Excellent Science Class	I enjoyed reading this book very much. The first two chapters are out of this world. They provide a factual, easy-to-read account of the development of physics, and cosmology in particular. Although history of scientific ideas in the political context is one of my specialties, I found these chapters educational. Everything is laid out in such a way that it is easy to understand which scientist made which contribution to the development of our understanding of the universe. <br />The only reservation I had about this book is that it has its dogmatic moments, for example when the authors claim that the theory of evolution is not a &quot;theory,&quot; but something above it, because it has been &quot;proved.&quot; One of the authors is a practicing attorney, which may be the reason for this approach. Scientific theories are not &quot;proved&quot; the way mathematical theorems are, or the way one proves things in a court of law. Scientific theories are always tentative, provisional, hypothetical. Science includes facts. For example that a coin can land in three ways: hads, tails, or (incredibly) on its side. This is not a theory, but a fact, and it can certainly not be &quot;disproved.&quot; If the authors want to call evolution a fact, they are free to do so. But science is not a court of law--it does not prove things.	2001-08-04
US	52649455	R2LB0USG6HPMVC	0691089825	115625930	After Liberalism: Mass Democracy in the Managerial State.	Books	4	24	25	N	N	Enslaving Us Softly	This book is poignant and disturbing. It shows how modern liberals have created the &quot;managerial state,&quot; which is author's euphemism for the &quot;welfare state.&quot; This state has been expanding throughout the twentieth century, reaching frightful proportions. What is most troubling is not its recurring inefficiency, but rather the power that the state has acquired vis-a-vis society. The pretext is protection of the individual set adrift in the industrial society, the rhetoric is that of compassion and assistance, the reality--an ever more powerful state that crushes individuality.<br />The author notes how cunning the proponents of modern liberalism have been by not talking about things as they are and substituting the rhetoric of compassion for a plain statement of facts. &quot;The uninterrupted exercise of its power may depend upon not talking plainly about such unclean matters. Yet, it is worth the effort to look beyond euphemism to see how political power is exercised. Behind the mission to sensitize and teach 'human rights' lies the largely unacknowledged right to shape and reshape people's lives. Any serious appraisal of the managerial regime must consider first and foremost the extent of its control--and the relative powerlessness of its critics.&quot; This assessment is right on target.<br />This book is written primarily for other scholars and graduate students, and the reading can get dense and heavy on proper names and references to ideological doctrines. Yet, the political bias in academia being what it is, I am a university press agreed to publish this book. I found this book perceptive, erudite, and enjoyable. Pick it up today.	2001-08-04
US	52649455	R3QQG8220LJ4EK	0671778773	463539565	Why Americans Hate Politics: The Death of the Democratic Process	Books	3	19	28	N	N	Why American Politics Works	E.J. Dionne, Jr. gives us an informative journalistic account of modern American politics, and I learned many facts from this book. I have reservations about his thesis, however. If I understand it, Mr. Dionne argues that Americans are presented with false (rather extreme) choices by leaders of the two main political parties. This polarized and polarizing rhetoric turns people off. Most people are at the political center, and accept some premises from one party and its ideology and other premises from the rival party and its ideology.<br />This is my problem. I do not think that Americans who are turned off by politics are turned off because of this perceived extremism. They are either bored by politics, or consider it a waste of time to try to understand it in depth. In fact, this perceived &quot;extremism&quot; is part of the sensational theater of politics without which Americans would pay even less attention to it. Let us face it: politics is both theater and business. Politician have to compete for attention with America's mind-boggling entertainment industry and American people's own challenges and travails. How does it do that? From time to time, both parties exaggerate and sensationalize their differences. Truth be told, the differences between the two main parties are almost nonexistent, as they always are in two party systems. And a two party system naturally results from a single-member district, simple plurality electoral system, i.e., first past the post system. Many people do not know that rhetorical differences between most Republicans and most Democrats are minor, because they lack a comparative perspective. In many countries of Europe, the rhetorical debate is quite ideologically wide-ranging. Moreover, when it comes to practical/policy differences between Democrats and Republicans, such differnces pail to insignificance.<br />In short, elites play up rhetorical differences to make politics more, not less, interesting for most people. A cold empirical analysis shows that real policy differences of the two parties are marginal. This, by the way, is what in large part accounts for our political stability and public policy continuity. The genius of the system lies in its ability to adjust to the times without major political upheavals. And this is made possible by political elites whose verbal battles belie real and continuous cooperation.	2001-08-04
US	52649455	R33Z79Q9FR46K	0881322156	413961606	American Trade Politics	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Useful and Informative	I found this volume useful and informative. It deals primarily with how Congress and the president shape American trade relations. It also considers the role of other domestic factors, such as interest groups. Destler explains various general approaches to the study of how American policy-makers arrive at a particualr type of trade policy. The main target audience is graduate and undergraduate students in public policy, American politics, and international political economy,	2001-08-04
US	52649455	R2AYD3GEWFUATM	081336812X	10956607	The Congressional Experience	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Congress from the Inside	Price tells the real story of how the Congress works. What happens to a new member upon arrival to the Capitol Hill? Many people have a picture in their mind that gives a simple, mechanical explanation of how the Congress works: a representative is elected and works for his/her constituency. Price show the inner power dynamic of Congress, with its system of seniority and committee assignments. This is a valuable, readable, and very informative contribution.	2001-08-04
US	52649455	RKUWQJTWL50I9	0674000781	673421525	A Theory of Justice	Books	1	0	1	N	N	Poetic Review of an Irrelevant View of Justice	John Rawls would feign profess<br />That over power his does not obsess,<br />And that his first principle, <br />(if he is to have principles at all)<br />Is most exstensive equal liberty for all.<br />But I doubt this is really true.<br />For what he wants for me and you<br />Is to be veiled, simple bots<br />And see ourselves as just have-nots.<br />For in that placid state of &quot;dumb&quot;<br />Ambition<br />(Pink Floyd, forgive me)<br />Would grow comfortably numb.<br />We all would cheerfully choose<br />The beating of the socialist drum.<br />The welfare state would grow immense<br />And cradle us in its kind hands.<br />And if you missed this poet's brew,<br />I will explain in prose for you:<br />Rawls imagines that all of us have to imagine ourselves being both ignorant and have nots. And having imagined ourselves as such we would adopt a socialist public policy. His philosophizing is absurd and irrelevant. &quot;A Theory of Justice&quot; is one of the most overrated books of the twentieth century.	2001-08-04
US	52649455	R1E371CWXCMSDT	0816611734	20260121	The Postmodern Condition: A Report on Knowledge (Theory and History of Literature, Volume 10)	Books	2	40	99	N	N	The Irrelevant Condition	This ponderous mix of the philosophy of art, science, and politics leaves you with a headache and the irrelevant conclusion: &quot;Let us wage war on totality; let us be witnesses to the unpresentable; let us activate the differences and save the honor of the name.&quot; Huh? This conclusion has as much practical value as the entire book.<br />Lyotard seems to think that scientific validity is something similar to government legitimacy, and is thus based on doctrines, dogmas, and the degree to which people subscribe to them. He thinks such validity can be created and undone with what he calls &quot;language games.&quot; Economically advanced societies are under what he believes to be the language game of &quot;performativity&quot; which, in common sense terms, means the desire to be efficient. Lyotard theorizes and philosophizes in such general terms that his postmodernism bears striking resemblance to the &quot;totality&quot; and holistic perspective on which he would wage war. No, Mr. Lyotard, all scientific theories are not created equal, not equally valid. And this postmodern masterpiece seems less relevant every day.	2001-08-03
US	52649455	RXOQFBLNNG4V6	0195051807	525111510	The Harvest of Sorrow: Soviet Collectivization and the Terror-Famine	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Terror and Sorrow	This book is a model of historical reseach: detailed, precise, and analytical, it also conveys the human element of one of the great tragedies in history. Millions of people starved to death as a result of communist despotism under the dictator Joseph Stalin. Conquest does not pull any punches: &quot;This was the climax of the 'revolution from above,' as Stalin put it, in which he and his associates crushed two elements seen as irremediably hostile to the regime: the peasantry of the USSR as a whole, and the Ukrainian nation&quot; (p.3). More people died in this war of communists against peasants than the total number of people who died for all countries in World War I (p.4).<br />It becomes clear when you read this book, that Marxist ideology, which depricated both peasants and nationalists was not the only thing responsible for the tragedy. Marx dismissed rural life as &quot;idiocy&quot; and believed nationalism to be a form of false consciousness, but it was Lenin and his henchmen who took that condescending and dehumanizing attitude and turned it into a brutal policy of repression. This book is a walk through a house of horrors. In comparison to real events described in this book, even &quot;Grimm Tales&quot; really do seem like child's play. In their dogmatic fight to extinguish the market, the communists who came to power in Russia annihilated millions of people, perpetuated nation-wide poverty, and humiliated and denigraded ethnic minorities. And what an irony this is, given that almost everyone who belonged to the revolutionary communist elite also belonged to an ethnic minority group, i.e. was not Russian. Conquest calls Bolsheviks &quot;a highly doctrinal and theorizing sect.&quot; I not only agree with this finding, but would like to add that for me the main lesson of the Ukrainian famine lies in the danger of dogma and ideology which do not scruple to sacrifice real people for the sake of visions and utopias. Growing up in the Ukraine in the 1970s and 1980s, I merely heard something about the famine that Stalin orchestrated. The full nature of the heinous crimes committed by Stalin was not known, even though Khruschev, who was ethnically Ukrainian, criticized Stalin's &quot;personality cult&quot; in the 1950s. This is because the Soviet regime that brought Stalin to power and which he epitomized for 29 years, until his death in 1953, was then still in place. Adherence to untested dogma also leads to suppression of factual information.<br />The Ukraine was devastated by Stalin's satanic policies, whose real goal was the continuation of his and his regime's power. The book gives us hope, because it suggests that truth, however horrible and well-conceived, cannot be hidden forever.	2001-08-03
US	52649455	R9CNDYDQYU6NB	0393304167	967021122	Execution by Hunger: The Hidden Holocaust	Books	5	54	65	N	N	Ideology of Execution	This gripping and disturbing eyewitness acount of Stalin-orchestrated famine in the Ukraine leaves me horrified. Human beings and their governments can be so dogmatic and cruel that they are ready to destroy anything and anyone who stands in theier way.<br />The book is preceeded by a wonderful introduction written by Adam Ulam, an expert on Soviet and Eastern European politics, and a brother of the world renoun mathematician Stanislaw Ulam, whom I, as a historian of scientific and technological ideas, consider one of the co-creators of the hydrogen bomb. The book itself is written by Miron Dolot, a pen name of a survivor of Stalinist famine in the Ukraine. He vividly describes decisive actions of the communist regime against the Ukrainian peasants. These actions are underhanded and heavyhanded at the same time. No trick, no deceit, and no brutality was spared to crush the peasants and Ukrainian nationalism. The Soviet elite, almost all of which consisted of humanistic intellectuals, despised private property and the markets. They wanted to destroy every vestige of peasant independence, and they dispossessed them by forcing them into government-owned collective farms. These kolhozes were exmamples of inefficiency and apathetic attitude. In the meantime, the hunger that resulted from dispossesssion and vicious persecution of somewhat-well-off peasants who were called &quot;kulaks&quot; and &quot;enemies of the people&quot; devastated entire villages. The regime rewarded productivity and initiative with death and exile to Siberia.<br />This book strongly suggests that utopias do not work. They are concocted by resentful intellectuals who have no technical training (writers, historians, lawyers) and who despise what they cannot understand: the markets, rural life, international finance, and major corporations. When power is acquired by a small group, everybody outside this group is a potential victim. No more ominous sign of the truth of this statement exists than theSoviet government's successful attempt to starve millions of its subjects in the name of ideological slogans and visions.	2001-08-03
US	52649455	R2ZXR4MGKAAYG8	0029334357	641946596	Lenin: A New Biography	Books	4	17	22	N	N	Finally, Lenin as a Man	Now I have read a lot of accounts of Lenin's adventures, because I was born and raised in the Soviet Union. But in those accounts he had no character, or rather his character and the characters of everyone described by official sources, was a series of slogans: modest man, friend of the workers, trusted by the people, dedicated to the revolution. In this book fact come out, and the real Lenin does, too. Like many powerful political leaders, Lenin was born in a small provincial town, belonged to a minority or mixed ethnic group, and had a personal vendetta against the system he wanted to overthrow.<br />Lenin's genealogy is complex and tangled. But this book finally reveals his multiplicitous ethnic origins: Russian, German, Sweedish, Jewish, and Kalmyk. Of this, as you might imagine, not a word was breathed in the Soviet Union, a country where ethnicity has supposedly become irrelevant (what a sad ideological joke!). To amount to anything in life Lenin needed to overcome his provincial roots, prejudice against minorities, and the stigma of being a brother of a criminal, who unsuccessfully tried to assassinated the Russian tsar.<br />Lenin was a single-minded, driven individual. His life's goal was to overthrow the Russian government, ostensibly for the benefit of the workers and the downtrodden.  He spared no effort, no political trick, and no cruelty to achieve this goal. Before he died in 1924, the civil war in Russia was won and the new Soviet state established. Lenin sowed the seeds of totalitarian dictatorship, using Karl Marx as ideological God, and himself as his chosen son who came to Russia to save the world from the evil of capitalism and to build paradise on Earth. When Lenin died, a special tomb was constructed to preserve his body and put it on public display, where it still lies, never mind Lenin's request to be burried next to his mother in a cemetery. In life Lenin was a dictator, and the only person who effectively stood up to him was his mother-in-law. His own wife was less successful and had to put up with Lenin's long love affair with Inessa Armand.<br />The book is very factual and tends to bog down in details. But it is also full of valuable information and dispells any myth of Lenin as god-like, flawless human being that communists made him out to be.	2001-08-01
US	52649455	R27WY7P4L8M13V	0140182934	634719596	Ten days that Shook the World (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	It Sure Shook the World	Reed's exciting and excited eyewitness account of the Russian Revolution of 1917 is a valuable historical contibution to understanding that momentous event. Reed was &quot;into&quot; the revolution more than any foreign journalist at the time. As an active sympathizers, he was full of nervous energy that comes from the expectation of something wonderful and inevitable. The Messianic hope of Marx was to be realized. Communism was supposed to triumph and usher in a totally new era of human relations.<br />Reed does get bogged down in details at times. For example, when he describes the multitiude of Russian political parties that operated in 1917 in a fragmented society that was coming apart at the seams. Reed would later die of typhus in Russia. His ashes were interned in the Kremlin wall, an honor reserved for the select few friends of the government or those who contributed towards its establishment or strength.<br />Reed succeeded in conveying the atmosphere of anarchy, ferment, excitement, and struggle. I think that the ideological promise of the Revolution--classless society and workers' paradise--was a hollow hope. Yet it did accomplish an important historical transition: old political structures (monarchy, tradiditional aristocracy) were wiped out, and after the civil war, the new industrial society was born. The Russian Revolution was a transition to the modern world, which is full of struggle and tragedy, and not a portal to Earthly paradise as Reed and communists had hoped.	2001-08-01
US	52649455	R1QSWDLZPCV9Q0	0684871122	920034841	Autopsy For An Empire: The Seven Leaders Who Built the Soviet Regime	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Factual and Informative Political History	This is one of the most informative books ever written about the people who ruled the Soviet Union. Being a highly centralized, totalitarian state, the Soviet Union acquired and lost much of its character as its rulers came and went. And the rulers were General Secrertaries of the communist party. Stalin brought crush indurstrialization, famine, and purges--millions of innocent people died, inclduing some of the most devoted communist revolutionaries. Khruschev tried reform, with some success in political liberalization, but his agricultural policy failed miserably. Brezhnev was compromise incarnate and, in his later years, aloof and passive. Andropov had a vision of reform based on social discipline and strict control, and economic accountability. Chernenko, who was a tireless bureaucrat in his youth, was simply a cripple almost the moment he assumed power. Then came Gorbachev and changed the course of history.<br />The book makes for a fascinating read. The leaders of the Soviet state were all too human, with this exception, that perhaps they craved power more than ordinary people do and could play politics like Paganini could play the violin. However, Stalin's lust for power, combined with his paranoia, may put him in a qualitatively different category--that of the world's most cruel dictators.<br />The book can be challenging at times, because it presents so many facts. Its highly archival nature does disrupt the smooth flow of the narrative. But for the fact starved Russians at least this may be a welcome change. The Soviet Union, outside the most elite circles, was almost devoid of any meaningful information about politics and political history. Ideology and propaganda ruled. Rhetorical arguments and logical exercises always came before fact, and before feelings of real living Soviet people. Thus in a way, even Volkogonov's factual excess is a welcome change.	2001-08-01
US	52649455	R1NELUR0NE3YFG	0684829495	339554706	Inside the Third Reich	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Speer's Faustian Deal	Albert Speer was at one point considered second only to Hitler in the Nazi hierarchy, and it was rumored during the War that Speer would become Hitler's successor, should the dictator die. At the same time Speer was not much of the hierarchy at all, because he was not a military man, and everyone who was anyone in the Nazi elite was somehow connected to the military. This strange situation resulted from Hitler's conscious efforts to keep the hierarchy fluid, and while his own position was secure, nothing below him was secure and power and responsibilities were liable to change.<br />Speer takes us on a journey from his youthful days as an artistic, young middle class man who married early and needed to support a family during troubled economic times. He admits that he fell under the spell of Hitler's rhetoric and chose to ignore its negative aspects--the rantings against the Jews, democracy, communism, and international conspiracy against the Aryan race. Speer was Hitler's architect and was appointed the Minister of Armaments during the war, after his predecessor died in a plane crush under mysterious circumstances. Speer had a unique perspective, being an insider, and he probably knew Hitler better than anyone who was still alive after the allies executed top-ranked Nazis following war crime trials. Speer was spared, because, among principle defenders, he alone admitted both responsibility and guilt for the actions of the regime. Also, he was not directly involved in atrocities. Thus he got only 20 years in prison, amid objections form the Soviets, who wanted him executed.<br />Speer shows how, thinking only of their immediate circumstances, people close their eyes to evil. They get seduced by demagogues who promise them heaven and give them a job, and then, of course, send them to the front and cause their cities to come under bombardment from several countries at the same time. <br />Also at the same time, millions of people perish in concentration camps for being &quot;biologically&quot; different from some supposed ideal, while millions more are taken into slavery. It is for the use of slave labor during the War that Speer was convicted and sentenced. He had six children and was very concerned that the victors would use them the way the Germans used conquered peoples. Hence his concern about the blame &quot;falling on the leaders&quot; to avoid punishing the whole nation. Thus, even in admitting responsibility and showing remorse, Speer remained self-serving. And this may be the grim lesson for us all: people almost always think of themselves first and look for ways to shore up their economic situation, social status, or the well-being of their children. We simply do not love our neighbors as we love ourselves. Speer is one of the archetypal man of the twentieth century: a man who makes a Faustian deal to get a cushy position in troubled times. He is also the man who gave us the best insider's look into the demonic workings of the Third Reich and the character of its obsessed leader.	2001-08-01
US	52649455	R3VUBWN1TMH8WP	1565843118	123815237	The Mexican Shock: Its Meaning for the United States	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A Well Written Shock for Some People	This book is informative and well-written. It argues that the economic problems of Mexico, and the 1994 financial crisis in particular, have deep political roots. I recommend this book for anyone who wants to learn more about Mexcio or international political economy. I only have one gripe with the book. Cataneda argues that Americans have always misunderstood Mexico. I think that this is true of many people, but not of everyone, and certainly not of American political elites. They may have presented Mexico as a long-standing problem for the U.S., an economically backward country which nevertheless is nearly democractic. But in reality, they understood the dynamics of Mexican politics quite well. I do not think that this book presents a revolutionary and shocking perspective. But those not very familiar with Mexico, or those who think that it is a democracy will find the book an eye-opening experience.	2001-08-01
US	52649455	R19F4AE5ESP8HM	0883550555	653228566	Russia in the Shadows	Books	5	8	9	N	N	In the Communist Shadow	I consider this one of Wells' best books. Seriously. Wells was a Fabian socialist and thus had some sympathy with the cause of the Bolshevik revolution of 1917, although he did not share the Marxist pretence to science, nor the Leninist dogmatism.<br />Wells is specific and perceptive in this book. It is almost shocking just how level-headed this scifi and utopian writer could be when he wanted to. It is a typical British analysis: empirical, rational, and sedate. There is no Germanic high abstractions and needless philosophizing, no French or any other utopianism, no Russian maximalism and rigidity. On his trip Wells met many people and visitied quite a few places. He came away from this experience pessimistic about the future of Russia, noting that it was slipping into anarchy and even greater backwardness. He did not, however, that the Russian communism and Lenin in particular left some hope for creativity and imaginative government. The book depicts the grim situation of Russia during the civil war. I urge people to read this book to understand the desperate historical conditions under which communism has come to power for the first time in human history.	2001-08-01
US	52649455	R1K44ENB0NUO2J	0761507183	487592432	Stalin: Triumph and Tragedy	Books	5	18	20	N	N	The Monster from Georgia	This is the best biography of Stalin there is, in my opinion. Volkogonov simply had the access to the kind of materials no one else had. This book takes full advantage of them. It correctly depicts Stalin as a great actor who sold his image to the masses, the image of benevolent and infallible ruler. In contrast to his fascist counterparts, Hitler and Mussolini, Stalin did not have a good speaking ability, and often read his boring speeches monotonously. But his self-assured and reassuring monotony came to have a hypnotic effect. His smile and almost goofy mustache and eyebrows covered the soul of a despot.<br />Stalin was a single-minded individual: for him, power came before everything else. A Georgian nationalist who called himself Koba in his youth and resented Russian rule over his people, he rose to become Stalin (man of steel) who ruled over the new Russian Empire called the Soviet Union. Volkogonov gives us the most factual biography yet of the man who slaughtered millions in the name of the workers' paradise and future generations; the man who feared and obsessed over Adolph Hitler and who ultimately defeated him; the man whose cruelty and destruction are a warning to all future generations not to lend a sympathetic ear to promises of future earthly utopias in exchange for absolute power and elimination of civil rights.	2001-08-01
US	52649455	RANVJ49DA47J1	0375750231	880915462	Resurrection: The Struggle for a New Russia	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Excellent	This is an excellent book about what took place in Russia during the 1990s. It is perhaps a bit too detailed and focused on personalities a bit too much. But overall, it is an informative read. I particularly enjoyed the chapter about Russian writers. I recommend this book to anyone who wants to know more about the characters who shaped the post-Soviet Russia, and about the character of Russia itself.	2001-07-31
US	52649455	RFRGC37SMPQ1F	0887845304	673623208	The Real World of Democracy (CBC Massey Lecture)	Books	1	5	31	N	N	Not Real, Not Relevant	MacPherson was once an internationally-acclaimed thinker. He won much praise in Canada and abroad for his books. &quot;The Real World of Democracy&quot; is a short, dated book, full of irrelevancies and preposterous logic. Here McPherson argues that work in a society where free markets exist, even work in the public sector, involves dehumanizing &quot;transfer of power&quot; to those who own capital. He further assumes that such &quot;transfer of power&quot; does not occur in communist countries. This book contains almost no facts. It is one trecherous web of anti-market and anti-private property propaganda, delivered intelligently and rather carefully. The book illustrates much that is wrong with this type of political theorizing: untestable generalizations, one-sided arguments, selective avoidance of facts, etc. At the end of the book, he goes so far as to implicitly equate the power of the Soviet state with the power of individuals living in the Soviet Union. Absurd.<br />MacPherson's ideology differs very little from that of Marx. He considers private property evil, even if he does not use the word. The conclusion of his book degenerates into utopian and absurd musings about what he calls &quot;abolition of scarcity,&quot; and about the &quot;moral advantage&quot; that communist countries were supposedly enjoying in the 1970s. In the penultimate paragraph he finally loses his cool and his starched pretense to objective rationality and raves about how the world has reached the era when &quot;morality and power will coincide.&quot;  He then says that he knows he gave no practical (only theoretical) solutions, and, as a last gasp, offers a nutty advice to write &quot;your politicians,&quot;  urging them to give &quot;nothing less than massive aid&quot; to poor nations. And mercifully, it is all over.	2001-07-31
US	52649455	RI5VOJ4RVMDZD	0028636392	816680228	Complete Idiot's Guide to Understanding Catholicism	Books	5	4	12	N	N	Incredibly Informative	This book is full of information, all of which is presented well. I really enjoyed reading it. Even though I am not new to Catholicism, I foudn this guide enlightening. I first read all the chapter through without reading the &quot;Sister says&quot; sidebars. Yet these sidebars are useful for quick referene of main points, when you return to the book at a later time. Appendix A through D is very uselful, as is the index at the end. This is a wonderful book.	2001-07-29
US	52649455	RDIEHMRE6XUGQ	0471193623	122076108	Einstein: A Life	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Einstein in Detail	Based on recently released archival material about Einstein, this biogrpahy presents facts that make it clear that Einstein was all too human and reserved most of his passion in life for scientific investigation, while in personal relations he could slide into being aloof, or even callous.<br />The biographical information is very detailed. This is one of the most thoroughly researched biographies I have ever come accross. Stylistically this may pose some challenge to the reader, because the book becomes very fact-laden and slow about a third way through. <br />This is a conscientious and detailed examination of Einstein's life. You will probably find out more facts about Einstein from this biography than from any other.	2001-07-29
US	52649455	R277R7DX2JQK4X	0451628810	78796814	The Federalist Papers	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Political Philosophy of Durability and Power	These papers plus the Declaration of Independence constitute the core political philosophy upon which America and its political institutions were founded. Heavily influenced by the ideas of Locke and Montesquieu, the three writers of the &quot;Federalist Papers&quot; developed potent political rhetoric designed to persuade as many politically-involved people as possible that a new constitution was needed. These men knew much of history and political philosophy, and they were not blindly led by either to embrace some narrow dogma. They had an open mind, and their sagacity told them that in order to endure the new country has to remain open to fresh ideas and experiments. Their scholastic knowledge, in short, did not lead them to abandon their practical wisdom.<br />These papers combine polemics and analysis, history and conjecture, hope and caution. Every American should read &quot;The Federalist Papers,&quot; for they are the ideological &quot;stuff&quot; of this country. Read them, appreciate them, and think for yourself. &quot;The Federalist Papers&quot; are a heritage and a challenge. They endure and intrigue. They are a part of the foundation under the magnificent construction that is the United States of America.	2001-07-29
US	52649455	R18Y81RWLQYYJN	0879758104	58494397	The Essential Epicurus: Letters, Principal Doctrines, Vatican Sayings, and Fragments (Great Books in Philosophy)	Books	4	24	30	N	N	Epicurus Lives	I find Epicurus intriguing. He did not believe in life after death. Thus he did not hope for eternal reward in heaven, nor did he fear eternal punishment. On earth, he just wanted to live for the day, and &quot;epicurian&quot; in our sense of the word he was not; rather than aimimg at frequent pleasure as our &quot;epicurians&quot; would do, he did not want extreme emotions and wanted to avoid pain. So he lived secluded in his garden. He lived modestly and wrote three hundred &quot;books,&quot; some of which are believed to be extremely short and would not be publishable as &quot;books&quot; by our publishing industry. Still, he was very prolific. None of his writings survive complete. All we have are a few fragments. And most of what he know of his though comes to us by way of Diogenes Laertis, who lived in the third century A.D., thus separated from Epicurus in time by about 500 years!<br />Some of Epicurus' thought is of course dated--for example, his chemistry. Also, since it is hard to construct a book from fragments and other people's interpretations of what the author said can make for a less than smooth read. Epicurus, however, is a major figure in the history of Western thought. And I recommend this book.	2001-07-28
US	52649455	R2YSNWKFM3Z4AC	0879757035	573200149	Enchiridion	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Terse and Poignant Stoicism	This short book is a gem of Stoic philosophy, whose origin is the ancient Greece, but whose most powerful expression is achieved in the Roman Empire at the time when it was already on the decline. Epictetus gives us terse and to the point Stoicism--a philosophy of unperturbed mind and calm rationality. The book is written aphoristically, yet it is a smooth read. You can also clearly see similarities between the Stoic and Christian world views after you read this book. I highly recommend it.	2001-07-28
US	52649455	R1ZCXMGGMKHX3T	0195130863	331877020	Wall Street: A History	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Dense, Enlightening, and Relevant	The book is dense, but well-written and very educational. Dr. Geisst wrote a wonderful history of Wall Street from its early days of the late 18th century until the mid 1990s. Most of the colorful movers and shaker that Wall Street has seen throughout history are here and their exploits are lucidly, if not grippingly, described. From Geisst's accurate historical narrative it becomes clear just how speculative and wild Wall Street had been, until the Depression era regulations. This book is valuable for anyone interested in U.S. history, financial history, and world economic history. Pick it up today.	2001-07-28
US	52649455	RCDMSCOUE9T0M	0804704864	309636005	The Complete Essays of Montaigne	Books	4	7	32	N	N	The Original French Essayist	Some authorities consider Montaigne the first essayist. His writing style is clear and his thought has common sense. Yet he is still encumbered by the classics. The ancients weigh on him like a stone. The celbrated erudition he displays in nearly every essay by quoting classical authors and envoking their names frequently is impressive but also distracting. I know that in expressing this opinion I differ from the majority of Montaigne's readers. But I believe that he had to much reverence for the classics.	2001-07-27
US	52649455	RLXYNGDJ75S1V	0321048318	232853660	Contending Theories of International Relations: A Comprehensive Survey (5th Edition)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A Superb IR Anthology	&quot;Contending Theories of International Relations&quot; is an excellent book. It reads more like an anthology than a textbook, but that can be viewed as one of the nice things about it. I very much like the organization of this book. I used it in my international relations courses. This is a wonderful summary of theoretical thought about international politics	2001-07-27
US	52649455	R25866SWZRM2GP	0451527100	201213691	The Communist Manifesto (Signet Classics)	Books	2	8	15	N	N	Messianic Hope, Wishful Thinking, and Social Racism	&quot;The Communist Manifesto&quot; was originally written at the request of a small group of radicals known as the Communist League. Fate decreed that it should become the most influential statement of Karl Marx's views. Although Marx and Engels put both of their names on the finished product, the ideas are mostly Marx's, as Engles himself acknowledged. However, Engels polished the Manifesto, ensuring brevity and clarity, for Marx is known to go off on a tangent and wax philosophical using obscure references and turgid language. Thus &quot;Manifesto&quot; is not meant to be the deepest expression of Marx's thought, but rather its brief summary and a call to arms.<br />Marx boldly declares: &quot;The history of all hitherto existing society is the history of class struggles.&quot; What about class cooperation? It seems to me cooperation was far more frequent than struggle. But Marx would not hear of empirical analysis, he could not resist the temptation to generalize on the grandest possible levels. For him, facts came second to abstract propositions. Marx was 30 years old when he wrote &quot;The Communist Manifesto,&quot; yet he had no doubt that he had all of history figured out already and knew how it was going to end. Marx was Messianic, believing that communism was unavoidable and that it was his role to be its herald.<br />Here Marx shows a lot of wishful thinking. &quot;The proletarian movement is the self-conscious, independent movement of the immense majority, in the interests of the immense majority.&quot; Wow! How did he arrive at this? The most glaring example of wishful thinking and ideological delirium, however, would be this: &quot;National differences and anatgonisms between peoples are daily more and more vanishing.&quot; Exactly the opposite was happening. National antagonisms were only gathering momentum. Thirteen years after Marx wrote this, Italy became a unified country, a decade after Italy, a single German state emerged. Then came World War I, whose main cause was nationalism, and Austria-Hungary and the Ottoman Empire disintegrated because of national antagonisms. The Armenian genocide took place during World War I. Then came the Holocaust during World War II. And a mere seven years ago five hundred thousand people were slaughtered in Rwanda within three weeks in an outburst of violence between Tutsis and Hutus. The former Yugoslavia remains a cauldron of national antagonisms. So Marx was completely off base. He merely philosophized: &quot;In proportion as the antagonism between classes within the nation vanishes, the hostility of one nation to another will come to an end.&quot; This proved to be the hollow hope of the modern world.<br />And as for social racism and bigotry, Marx was rich on that, too: &quot;You must confess that by 'individual' you mean no other person that the bourgeois, than the middle-class owner of property. This person must, indeed, be swept away, and made impossible.&quot; This is incitement to class genocide. This and similar statements is what gave Stalin an ideological excuse to exterminate class enemies, or &quot;enemies of the people,&quot; as the official propaganda labeled them. Middle-class people are to be wiped out! This is what Marx wanted. I have no patience for self-serving philosophizing of Marx's apologists who say the Soviet Union and similar communist states were not &quot;real&quot; Marxist states. No, my dear philosophers, that WAS reality. Everything else is wishful thinking and pleasant self-delusion, or to put in in Marx's terms--the ideological opium of the people.	2001-07-27
US	52649455	R46WVYTARQGQP	0679760806	778351106	The Master and Margarita	Books	5	28	32	N	N	An Amazing Book, A Wonderful Translation	This is Bulgakov's magnum opus. &quot;Master and Margarita&quot; was written in the years 1929-1940. It was completed months before Bulgakov's death. The book was posthumously published in the Soviet Union in the mid 1960s, with some provocative passages censored by the paranoid communist ideological machine. This is one of the most imaginative allegories I have ever encountered. Bulgakov's imagery and satire ran a scathing trace along the fabric of the Soviet society, oppressed by totalitarian institutions and bureaucratic narrow-mindedness. There is here also a story within a story--a retelling of the confrontation between Jesus and Pontius Pilate. Bulgakov's raises the issue of meaning of love, faith, forgiveness, and human decency. This also is a funny novel. And I think that to truly appreciate all of its nuances one should read it in Russian, and I am privileged to be able to do so. However, this book is not beyond the average English-speaking reader, on the contrary, most people will enjoy reading it for its sheer humour and inventiveness, even if they are not familiar with the society which is allegorically depicted here.<br />I prefer this translation to other translations. It feels accurate and natural. The flow of narrative is smooth and enticing. In the real world, Bulgakov seems to show, love does not always conquer all, but it remains unconquered even in the face of oppression and tragedy.<br />Michael Hart	2001-07-27
US	52649455	R2U22T6FZ4LUVW	0321005392	701542163	Ideals and Ideologies: A Reader	Books	5	4	6	N	N	I Love This Reader	I reread this wonderful collection of seminal works of political philosophy often. I used it in my course on ideology. Students will find it challenging to work through, if you assign selections indescriminantly. That is why this reader is meant to complement an equally wonderful textbook written by the same authors. The scope here is awe-inspiring. We begin with Euripides and Pericles in the ancient Greece and end with the latest crypto ideological movements, such as feminism, animal rights activism, green politics, and the end of history thesis. I think that all selections are enlightening. This should be a must book for anyone specializing in political theory, intellectual history, or anyone who wants to understand or effectively employ ideological rhetoric. Great book.	2001-07-27
US	52649455	RDXTZH22JL8JF	0849558476	812328864	Men Like Gods	Books	2	11	22	N	N	Another Misguided Utopia	I like Wells' SF books. This one has a SF aspect to it, but it is primarily a work of social philosophy. British travelers are accidently transported into another dimension, where human beings live a life of productive labor, sociability (no one is too introspective), lack of private property, and almost complete nudity. According to Wells, this is paradise, and people here are not much different from Gods. It turns out that in this dimension, civilization had taken almost exactly the same course as it did on our Earth. The differences are superficial. Then at some point during the industrial age, a great transformation began to take place. Over the course of a hundred or so generations, private property in all but personal things was abolished, there were no more sexual preditors, and people have become open with strangers in their thoughts and actions. They have also become much taller, stronger, much more beautiful and intelligent.<br />This utopia relies on the Lamarckian misconception of biological evolution, where acquired improvements are transmitted to the next generation, culminating in a generation of God-like human beings. It also relies on the misconception that private property is at the root of societal evils and that people would want to get rid of it for good.	2001-07-27
US	52649455	R39FCCXN3L08Y1	0226561607	115323185	History of Western Civilization: A Handbook	Books	5	52	62	N	N	One of My All-Time Favorites	This is one of my favorite books of all time. I consider it in the top one percent of all books I have ever read. The sheer scope of this work makes me almost gasp with incredulity and amazement. To think that one man could have accomplished this is mind boggling. This is the eighth wonder of the world. From prehistory and until the late 1980s, this book covers politics, economics, science, and arts. McNeill's generalizations are wonderfully and cogently supported by facts at just the right places in the narrative. To produce a handbook of this scope that is also so pleasant to read is an incomparable achievement.	2001-07-27
US	52649455	R2HN87BBXF8LQG	0811213641	237405218	Omon Ra	Books	4	1	2	N	N	An Outer Space Nightmare	This is one of Pelevin's best: a tale of delusion and false hope about the space race in the Soviet Union. The setting serves as a metaphor for the absurd state of things in the Soviet Union, its overly-glorified space program, and the damage done to entire generations of people who found that their country could send people and objects in outer space, but could not produce disposable diapers or disposable syringes. Pelevin aims for the grotesque and the absurd and, in this book, he is rather successful.	2001-07-26
US	52649455	R2PUJ2P4KMTEGU	0802150594	732933939	Heart of a Dog	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Dog of a Man	Bulgakov's poignant satire of the Soviet man, made him a pariah in official literary circles of the Soviet Union. Sharikov, who is nothing but a cur becomes a human being who presumes to take a job on the purge committee in charge of getting rid of the udesirable social element, in this case, the cats.<br />This brave allegory is one of Bulgakov's best works. The author came from a long line of Russian priests, was trained as a doctor, and gave up medicine to write full-time. He chose not to leave Russia after the Bolshevik revolution of 1917, and led a rather miserable existence in Russia until his death in 1941. At least he avoided Stalin's purges. In this book, and in most others, Bulgakov shows his &quot;theological heritage&quot; by being very concerned with values, moral issues, and the like. The new man, whose advent was so loudly heralded by communists turned out to be a loutish, arrogant, semi-educated creature. This new man, with his old habits and simplistic views of life, assumes power and presumes to know how everybody should live. This is a well-executed allegory about one of the great tragedies of human history, when intellectual arrogance presumed to postulate the &quot;new man&quot; as false hope, as a promise of communist paradise on Earth.	2001-07-26
US	52649455	RKSJYKYN7OQFA	0896225151	866413429	Catholic Customs & Traditions: A Popular Guide (More Resources to Enrich Your Lenten Journey)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Informative	I really liked the book. It definitely informs. If you are new to Catholicism, all the details in this book may seem to be a bit overwhelming at first, and you may sense some lack of structure. But this is a very good manual of Catholic practices and traditions. The analytical level here is basic and accessible. I am sure that those who have been practicing Catholics all their lives will also learn something new in this book, especially about the history of their religion. Sometimes the things that are close to you are the least understood ones. Read it today.	2001-07-26
US	52649455	R4AMWRI5D5A55	0345350499	627223385	The Mists of Avalon	Books	1	15	28	N	N	Tedious	This lengthy book is tedioius and uninspired. The style is awkward and the recurring italics are destracting. I have never seen so much brooding packed in a single book. Do we need to know all of Morgaine's thoughts?<br />The characters are cardboard cutouts and love scenes exude no passion. I fail to see what so many people think is so great about this book. I approached it with a lot of goodwill, almost all of it dissipated by page 60, then I read on a bit more and that was that. I continued to turn the pages, reading passages here and there, but it was the same thing. I found no new insights here about Christianity or the pagan beliefs of pre-Christian Britain. Sadly, I cannot recommend this enormous volume for its educational or entertainment value.	2001-07-26
US	52649455	RMBGKA8V4ENZH	0867161019	185462283	Why Be Catholic?: Understanding Our Experience and Tradition	Books	3	17	44	N	N	Unexpected	This book has the element of the unexpected. For example, &quot;At bottom the Catholic tradition is in touch with the goodness of the world and the joyfulness of life&quot; (p. 6). The authors paint Catholicism as altogether too optimistic and care-free and try to support that using a contrast with Puritans. This is an intellectual slight of hand, rather than a sound intellectual argument. Puritans arouse against what they saw as corruption of the Church as it really existed at the time of Renaissance, not against the universal Christian tradition as it should exist. The Bible is very pessimistic about human nature and the New Testament is also pessimistic about life on earth in general, seeking salvation in the world Beyond. To continue this theme of the unexpected, the authors turn decidedly Nietzschean in their historical criticism on page 41, when they discuss Christianization of Germanic peoples: &quot;They were, as the Romans called them, barbarians. They were crude and illiterate. They were wild and uncivilized. They were often at war with one another. Christianity tamed their barbaric instincts.&quot; But immediately following this, the authors become true believers: &quot;It gave them a higher standard of morality. It gave them a deeper purpose and a broader vision.&quot;<br />Half way through, the book begins to wear on, warily reaching the end. It does not present a compelling argument for being or not being a Catholic. It just tells you somewhat haphazardly what Catholicism is about and presents questions at the end of each chapter for your consideration. This book is not like other books about Catholicism, so it is worth taking a look at.	2001-07-26
US	52649455	RGPGTFUEN6D6G	0674055454	834640095	Avatars of the Word: From Papyrus to Cyberspace	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Original, Well-Conceived and Well-Produced	This book I found very enjoyable. It connects the past and the present in a sensible and imaginative way. The dream of the virtual library is an ancient one, the author tells us. O'Donnell is knowledgeable about world history and about his particular Irish heritage. I enjoyed reading the chapter for academics very much. I think that many peopel will find this book engrossing and educational. Bravo O'Donell!	2001-07-26
US	52649455	R2ILHI3NZ4R8OQ	0671791540	850378543	Awaken the Giant Within : How to Take Immediate Control of Your Mental, Emotional, Physical and Financial Destiny!	Books	2	35	46	N	N	Good Sales Pitch	Tony Robbins is a gifted salesman. He has boundless energy, optimism, and knows how to set goals. If his books and tapes were as effective as his sales prowess, we would all have been immensly successful and deliriously happy long ago.<br />Robbins pivots his approach around Thorndyke's Law of Effect that, briefly, states that behavior that gives rise to a pleasurable state of affairs tends to be repeated, and behavior that gives rise to a painful state tends not to be repeated. Then Robbins shifts into Watson's and Skinner's behavioralism and pushes operant conditioning, saying that every problem is a behavioral problem. He then shifts gears once again and talks about the &quot;power of focus,&quot; which is his spin of Gestalt psychology. When this brew is delivered optimistically, it has some effect, especially if you listen to Robbins on tape.<br />There are some more serious issues. For example, I believe that his nutritional advice is harmful to all but those with a very unusual metabolism. His motivational material can also build up unrealistic expectations and set you up for frustration when you don't even come close to meeting them. So much in life does not depend on you and me, so much is other people's doing and blind fate, so many insights and ideas come to us to late. This book has insights, but it is not great.	2001-07-26
US	52649455	R1OHP6XZT1EM2B	0140279725	295339833	The Life of Insects: A Novel	Books	2	3	11	N	N	Original, Gloomy, At Times Disgusting	Pelevin is was born in 1962, if I remember correctly, and is now considered one of Russia's best writers by many authorities. One thing about his approach in general: Pelevin's characters are phantoms, they are just not there, not developed. I am sure that the author would make no apologies for this. That's just his style. So this is not Charles Dickens. Do not look for well fleshed out real-life characters here. It is all abstraction and imagery.<br />Pelevin achieves some originality in this Kafkaesque, Chapek-like remix of insects like human beings allegory. I found this novella a bit too pessimistic, dark, and dismissive. According to Pelevin, everything is &quot;dung.&quot; People of Russia are caught up in a life inside the filthiest toilet that has ever existed. That's how Pelevin sees things. I don't agree.<br />Most characters, if this is an appropriate term for Pelevin's phantoms, are stereotypes, e.g. Sam, the American businessmen, Natasha, an adolescent Russian girl... I grew up in the Soviet Union. I think this maximalist attitude and go-for-the-gusto pessimism that Pelevin dispalys is somehow very Russian. It is rigid and uncompromising, and wrapped up in despair. It craves something drastic. A revolution perhaps, or maybe anarchy. I don't know.	2001-07-26
US	52649455	R2TPQK22RIVEA7	1856491560	633860309	Ecofeminism (Critique Influence Change)	Books	2	11	78	N	N	Environmental Communism	.... It is short on hard analysis and long on slogans and ideological assertions. The following example may illustrate the point: \\"The continuation of the industrial growth model can only lead to further ecological destruction and to greater inequality, deeper poverty. And the first to be affected will be women and children. If this is to be avoided, and the aim is to put 'women and children first' in a different benevolent sense, then the industrial, world-market- and profit-oriented growth model must be transcended\\" (p.252). Note the bold prediction in the beginning and a decidedly non-Marxist dislike of industry. The solution offered seems to be a grass roots movement that would persuade people to change their life-styles. Corporations would have to give way to much smaller, locally-based units of production motivated by ecological sustainability and economic self-reliance; men would have to change their identity and become more women-like and less macho, and they would have to care for the sick and the elderly as much as women, so that they would have less time for war games (p. 257).<br />If much of the preceeding sounds like irrelevant philsophizing to you, you are not alone. The two social activists who wrote this book, and who oppose intellectual property rights, have nevertheless copyrighted the book in both of their names. Almost everything this book proposes is unrealistic and silly. It is laden with philosophical absurdities stemming from logical deductions that remind me of passages from \\"Alice in Wonderland.\\" And the conclusion of the book is a brief manifesto, which is vacant and unimaginative. I gave the book two stars, because it is readable and its inane propagandistic \\"analysis\\" is mildly amusing.	2001-07-26
US	52649455	R3UO4VPK4ZUVBO	0380633132	677758129	We	Books	4	13	16	N	N	A Tale of Total Oppression	Zamyatin wrote this book in the early 1920s, allegorically depicting what the newly-born Soviet state was becoming at the time. Stalin did not allow the publication of the novel, but allowed Zamyatin to leave the country. This dystopian book paints a grim picture of society governed by One State (Stalin's &quot;socialism in one country&quot;), which having consolidated intself, intends to carry its principles and ways of life into other places in the universe (the part of the world outside the Soviet Union) in a spaceship called &quot;Integral&quot; (all-encompassing doctrine of Marxism-Leninism).<br />This book is the precursor of well-known dystopian novels &quot;1984&quot; and &quot;The Animal Farm.&quot; Zamyatin's book is not polished: the narrative is repetitious and excessively brooding. But the theme is powerful and poignant: human aspirations to create heaven on earth (and beyond) lead to de-spiritualization and total oppression. The rebelious and creative are destroyed. Human beings are turned into organic automata that serve the State for the benefit of perpetuating its existence and its power. This grim, potent, and pseudo-mathematical narrative is a warning and a sad prophecy of totalitarian miseries of the twentieth century.	2001-07-26
US	52649455	R1KC3V1GNPPLXJ	1559270667	182280380	Connections	Books	4	8	12	N	N	Overstates Remote Connections	I have to say that I like the premise behind the book: seemingly random events leading up to a coherent pattern of invention and innovation. I also appreciate all the implications this has for long-term conscious planning by governments and individuals. However, I think that Burke understates the role of great geniuses in scientific and technological history. Not everything we have is primarily due to remote connections. I think that &quot;The Day the Universe Changed&quot; is a better written and more interesting book. This one, however, is also worth reading.<br />The first part of the book about interconnectedness and mutual dependence for survival in the modern industrial society should be required reading for all types of back-to-nature, anti-technology, sustainable-development eco feminists. It shows that we are not at liberty to simply adopt a Rousseau-esque, crab-like movement back into &quot;natural,&quot; pre-industrial world. So for this reason alone, the book is worth the price you pay for it.	2001-07-26
US	52649455	RGOZM5CWZAKOA	0446393606	760890932	American Samurai	Books	1	2	12	N	N	Amusing Sensationalist Nonsense	Sure, it is easy to criticize it now. So why not? The thesis of this book is on page 2: &quot;American business is fat, overweight, slow, and failing fast.&quot; Besides such amusing propositions, the author gives lots of tables and figures, most of them absolutely meaningless because they do not belong to any specific context. The Japanese are beating us everywhere, claims the author, and it is only getting worse. This book was written during the recession of the early 1990s. It exists somewhere between total boredom and farce.	2001-07-26
US	52649455	R196K9DRQHIS6W	047117758X	798279687	Getting Started in Options	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Excellent Introduction	I like this book. It is accessible and well written. All the relevant details are here. I only wish the publisher assumed more type setting expenses and gave us some more color for the interior of the book. All text, graphics, tables, and sidebars are in green. I do not trade options anymore, because I think such things are best left to professionals. And timing the market is like playing with a financial time bomb: one wrong move and a substantial portion of your investment disappears. But for those who need to learn about options, this is an excellent start.	2001-07-26
US	52649455	R3AT6G6U0JZKTX	0811213552	202704683	The Yellow Arrow (New Directions Paperbook)	Books	3	1	6	N	N	Toward a Ruined Bridge	People are traveling on a train toward a ruined bridge in this long story or short novel (whichever it is) by one of Russia's top writers, Victor Pelevin. I won't give away the plot. Suffice it to say that the whole story is an allegory about life in the post-Soviet Russia. The story is pessimistic with melodramatic overtones in the end. I don't know what the conclusion of this story means and would like to find out. What I take from the whole book is that Russia is racing towards something indefinite, which may not be so great a destination when it is finally reached. Is this a new spin on Gogol's troika? I do recommend this book, however. It takes you a little bit inside the &quot;Russian soul,&quot; it gives you a sense of the pessimism of the 1990s Russia, and it is concise and easy to read.	2001-07-26
US	52649455	R1EA38LLFR8CLE	0805211187	265926689	The Multiple Identities of the Middle East	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Interesting and Useful	I found this book enlightening and easy to read. I also used it in my upper division course on Asian politics that I taught in north-western Louisiana, and the response to this book was good, even though the students were new to the subject. The book is not overly technical and is accessible to any intelligent general reader. I am not sure that I can endorse the entire thesis, which seems to state that until very recently religion was the most important thing about one's identity in the Middle East. So much so, that other characteristics almost paled in significance. I am not an expert on ethno-cultural history of the Middle East, but it seems that the role of such factors as race, region, and ethnic and tribal origins has been a bit understated. Overall, I highly recommend this book.	2001-07-26
US	52649455	R3A0X3NQZXOSJ1	0321004930	692043506	Politics in Russia (Longman Series in Comparative Politics)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Comprehensive Text on Modern Russian Politics	I used this book with some success in my upper division course on Russian politics. The book addresses Russian politics after the implosion of the Soviet system. The book is comprehensive, but its attention to detail does not destract the reader from main points. This is important, because textbooks often become unreadable due to excessive irrelevant information. This in not the case with Remington's book. The writing style is rather pedestrian, but for a textbook, it is more than adequate. This book cover events in Russia up until 1997, so this book, or at least this edition is a bit dated. Events in Russia are changing very fast, and the author is not responsible for not being able to churn out a textbook that is 100 percent up to date. For a more popular analysis of events in Russia afer 1991 see David Remnick's &quot;Resurrection.&quot; I recommend this textbook for any undergraduate class in Russian politics.	2001-07-26
US	52649455	R11LE7FKJPZWNJ	0486289125	745130256	Nordic Gods and Heroes	Books	5	53	53	N	N	Perhaps the Best Introduction	I liked this book because it is very accessible. For childeren and young adults this may be the best introduction to Nordic mythology. This book contains no bibliography, index, or glossary, yet its emphasis on the basics is also what is makes it attractive. Every story is preceeded by a black and white graphic that represents the main idea or characters of that story.<br />The book is divided into four parts. The first is concerned with the stories about the Nordic pantheon and the daily interaction betweens gods and giants. The second part focuses on Odin and his travels and accomplishments. The third part focuses on Locki, the most crafty off all dwellers in Asgard. The fourth and final part sets up for the twilight of the gods and presents a resolution at Ragnarok. I definitely recommend this book.	2001-07-23
US	52649455	R2GHCCMWEF6OSR	0486273482	852718742	Myths of the Norsemen: From the Eddas and Sagas	Books	5	25	30	N	N	A Must and a Classic	This book gives you something other books on Norse mythology do not. It contains 64 superb black and while illustrations which, for those who love mythology, are worth the price of the book alone. Also, this volume contains the most dramatic and compelling retelling of Ragnarok I have ever found.<br />In this book, the myths are partly stories and partly explanations of what stories and their characters mean. So it does not feel that you are actually reading tales. For a more &quot;direct&quot; reading of the tales I use Crossley-Holland's &quot;The Norse Myths.&quot;<br />Also, I thought that too much was made of similarities between Greek and Northern mythology at the end of this book. Some comparisons feel artificial and strained. But one should keep in mind that this book was originally written in the 1920s, when linguists were very impressed, some would say &quot;scandalized,&quot; by the apparent common origin of most European and some Asian languages. These languages, which today include all but three European languages, belong to the so-called Indo-European or Indo-Aryan group. It does appear that a number of characters in the Greek and Northern myths had a common Indo-Aryan prototype, but as already said, some similarities are farfetched and artificially constructed. The book contains a comprehensive index.	2001-07-23
US	52649455	R2KC3DOKYOSIEQ	0394748468	826962040	The Norse Myths (The Pantheon Fairy Tale and Folklore Library)	Books	5	114	118	N	N	Comprehensive and Contemporary	The book brings Northern mythology to life. Kevin Crossley-Holland retells the myths in a flowing, easy-to-follow, contemporary style. This is also a very comprehensive collection of myths that includes thirty two stories, some of which cannot be found in more slender volumes. The book also contains an introduction, notes, glossary, bibliography, and index.<br />The introduction is probably the most helpful of all introductions I found in books on Northern mythology. It starts with the role of geography in the shaping of Northern myths and proceeds to explain the cosmology and the pantheon of the ancient Anglo-Saxon peoples. It even contains a graphical representation of the mighty world tree Yggdrasill, which is very helpful in understanding the structure of various realms of the world of Northern mythology.<br />I cannot tell enough good things about the myths themselves. And the only way to appreciate them is to read them. The first myth in the book is the myth of creation, and the last myth is, of course, Ragnarok. The notes complement the tales and can be read after you are done with all the myths. I find many notes enlightening. I highly recommend this book	2001-07-23
US	52649455	R12DK19EWK5F1M	0810112442	470193894	Pretender to the Throne: Further Adventures of Private Ivan Chonkin (European Classics)	Books	5	5	12	N	N	Satirical Bombardment	World War II is on and Chonkin is imprisoned in this sequal to his extraordinary adventures. Chonkin figures less prominently in this sequal. I think, the major character here is the social system itself. Voinovich does not spare anyone or anything: Joseph Stalin, the Soviet military planning, and the prison system--all are criticized. Bumbling bureaucrats continue to bludner like there was no tomorrow. For example, they capture and execute an honest junior officer as a spy, while the real spy continues to work undisturbed. And the bumbling of this sort is pittance in comparison to what has just gone on--the 1937/38 terror. Most outstanding people have been destroyed on no greater basis than wild accusations and Stalin's paranoia. It turns out that the most potent weapon in the war on the cream of society's crop is a simple pencil! Write an accusation on someone who works hard in his field and has his head in the clouds, not paying attention to politics, and that person is soon arrested and executed. Given this absurd atmosphere of repression and the pressure and fear put on the government by war, Chonkin must languish in prison on suspicion of being a descendant of a noble Russian family which is trying to overthrow the government and open the gates to the Germans!<br />Voinovich's satire is right on target. This book is funny and educational. If you live in a Western democracy you will, at a minimum, reap one important benefit from reading this--you will appreciate even more what you have in your country today. I assigned a number of Russian writers in my Modern Russian Politics class last year, and this is exactly what the impact was. Read Voinovich--his books are humorous and different.	2001-06-25
US	52649455	R7M50T2R40QHB	0316117048	714891706	The Day the Universe Changed: How Galileo's Telescope Changed The Truth and Other Events in History That Dramatically Altered Our Understanding of the World (Back Bay Books)	Books	5	37	42	N	N	Very Informative, Well-Conceived and Wonderfully Illustrated	Psychologists tell us that people often tend to see patterns and connections in situations where none really exist. At first, I had reservations about Burke's book for this very reason. But I found the book informative, intelligent, and a real pleasure to read. The author is very pesuasive in his thesis that unexpected connections and new knowledge really alter the human condition and our understanding of the universe. I learned a lot from this book and would recommend it to anyone who is interested in intellectual history, the history of technology, science, and medicine, or the relationship between political economy and the human condition.<br />Because the scope of Burke's book is so wide, brevity is a must. For this reason, some important connections had to be stated only in general terms, without deep explanations that may be necessary for a reader who is not already familiar with many major figures and events of the past. But no one should be intimidated. You can still enjoy the book, even if you do not already have the knowledge of technological and scientific history. Another challenge that is posed by the wide scope of this project and the subsequent terseness that it requires, is that 1) some statemets are subject to dispute because of their breif nature and generality; 2) a number of relevant causes and connections remain unexplored. I do not think there is a way around this. For example, Burke unequivocally states that John Locke supported slavery. This is debatable. True, Locke had invested in a slave-trading company, but his political philosophy rejected slavery in principle, allowing it only in the very special circumstance of prisoners of war. (Locke believed, for whatever reason, that prisoners of war could rightly be killed, and therefore if they chose to live, their captor could enslave them.) Also, Burke makes much of Locke's defense of private property, ignoring, as many authors have done before him, the fact that by &quot;property&quot; Locke meant to include all of these: life, liberty, and estate. And by &quot;estate&quot; Locke meant what we mean by private property today. But explanations of this sort, while providing a more balanced picture, would take up too much of the book, whose time span includes millenia of technological history!<br />I think that a greater challenge is posed by the complex nature of technological progress itself. Burke explores some connections and remains silent about others. This makes the methodology a little weak. For example, he practically argues that the weather was responsible for the industrial revolution, which began in Great Britain in the eighteenth century. I do realize that it is the unexpected and unusual connections that are the focus here. Still, I was left wondering, what about other factors?<br />I also have a difference of opinion on the philosophy of science. I do not think the universe really changed that much, perhaps not at all, based on the discoveries we as the human race made through the centuries. Only our understanding of the universe has undergone changes. Furthermore, not every understanding is equally valid. Some are much more scientific and accurate than others. The universe did not really change because Galileo discovered the moons of Jupiter and Newton the 'laws' of all mechanical motion. What changed is the level of our scientific sophistication in regards to the question, How does the universe work? Also, I do not think that Burke's optimism about making science a true item of public domain is altogether justified. On the last two pages of the book he seems to suggest that the general public should dictate which direction science shall take, and what in the end counts for science. This is an interesting populist move. But one should not deceive himself. Science is not that democractic. One does not establish validity of scientific theories based on a vote. As to the direction that science will take, well, that is likely to be decided by scientists, corporations, and all those unexpected connections and unintended consequence that are so important in history, as Burke himself demonstrated.<br />I enjoyed the book a great deal. Everybody should read the chapter on medicine as soon as they get a chance. It makes you feel grateful for what you have in an economically advanced country. Finally, &quot;The American Internet Advantage&quot; owes much to the spirit that is also the spirit of this book--the spirit of exploration, perseverance, and strange connections.<br />Michael Hart	2001-06-25
US	52649455	R1LFKLINPXNK9B	0810112434	232828724	The Life and Extraordinary Adventures of Private Ivan Chonkin (European Classics)	Books	5	16	21	N	N	Intelligent and Hilarious	Voinovich was expelled from the Soviet Writers' Union, because of his poignant satire. The guardians of the communist order could not stand his free, humorous exposition of the follies of the Soviet society. &quot;Private Chonkin&quot; is his masterpiece. Voinovich shows much that plagued the Soviet society: pervasive alchoholism, bureaucratic intransingence, sychophantic officials, horrific abuse of power, and the spread of pseudo-science (much fun is made in the book of Lysenko's approach to evolution.)<br />Voinovich is not bitter or angry. He finds a place for good-natured humor, even amid the appalling conditions of Russian's brutal rural communism. This book is invaluable to all those who want to be acquainted with the character and spirit of communist despotism in Russia in the twentieth century. But in the end, one does not put down this book feeling discouraged and sad. Orwellian gloom does not prevail here. And why is that? Because people retain the ability to laugh at themselves and at the life around them, not taking too seriously grave doctrines and events. Chonkin survives the advent of terror, and his simplicity and good nature prove superior to dogma and repression, suggesting, at least to me, that a single human being is generally more valuable than all utopian doctrines and insane plans for implementing them.	2001-06-25
US	52649455	R3NFR8545IPS4P	0394716787	675970766	The Complete Tales and Poems of Edgar Allan Poe	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Horrors of Poe Make You Crave Them Some More	Macabre, enticing, and fantastic, Poe's stories reveal a first rate intellect and an out of this world imagination. Poe was the first or one of the first authors of science fiction--his claim to this achievement is his story &quot;Ligea,&quot; which is a must read, underrated story. &quot;The Devil in the Belfry&quot; reveals Poe's comic talents, as does the delightful &quot;X-ing the Paragrab.&quot; These two stories reveal the light, almost playful, side of Poe, which is usually obscured by the dark side of his macabre horror stories and brooding poems. Speaking of which, his horror stories are some of the best ever written. I still fell the tension, reading them for the nth time in my life. Poe is also the originator of the detective story. Poe's intellect is evident in the story &quot;Mellonta Tauta,&quot; where he humorously explains the difference between the Aristotilean/deductive reasoning and Baconian (Hog-ish!)/inductive reasoning. In his stories he also demonstrated some understanding of the theory of probability, foresaw the philosophical approach known as perspectivalism, and raised the question of sanity/normalcy that would become one of the major social questions of the 20th century, when power-hungry manical and clever madman came to power in some countries with the full intent of eventually ruling the world.<br />I consider Poe one of the most imaginative people ever and one of the most insightful people of the 19th century. By today's standards, his life was short. But the legacy he left influenced and inspired so many people that he should be regarded as one of the greatest writers of short stories who ever lived, and as someone who belongs in the pantheon of many 19th century geniuses.	2001-03-25
US	52649455	R1HRO8JBQ4VBT8	0385074077	236471423	Complete Stories and Poems of Edgar Allan Poe	Books	5	21	23	N	N	The Horrors of Poe Make You Crave Them Some More	Macabre, enticing, and fantastic, Poe's stories reveal a first rate intellect and out of this world imagination. Poe was the first or one of the first authors of science fiction, when he wrote &quot;Ligeia,&quot; which is a must read, underrated story of his. &quot;The Devil in the Belfry&quot; reveals Poe's comic talents, as does the delightful &quot;X-ing a Paragrab.&quot; These two stories reveal the light, almost playful, side of Poe which is usually obscured by the dark side of his macabre horror stories and brooding poems. Speaking of which, his horror stories are some of the best ever written. I still feel the tension, reading them for the nth time in my life. Poe is also the originator of the detective story. Poe's intellect is evident in the story Mellonta Tauta, where he humorously explains the difference between the Aristotilean/deductive reasoning and Baconian (Hogian!)/ inductive reasoning. In his stories he also demonstrated some understanding of the theory of probability, foresaw the philosophical approach of perspectivalism, and raised the questions of sanity/normalcy that would become one of the major social questions of the 20th century, when power-hungry maniacal and clever madman came to power in some countries with the full intent of eventually ruling the world.<br />I consider Poe one of the most imaginative people who ever lived and one of the most insightful people of the 19th century. By today's standards, his life was short. But the legacy he left influenced and inspired so many people that he should be regarded as one of the greatest writers of short stories who ever lived, and as someone who belongs in the pantheon of many 19th century geniuses.	2001-03-18
US	52649455	R11I0RUZ2OKQCP	0062731025	7474984	The Cartoon Guide to Statistics	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Statistics and Fun	I liked the book a lot. The cartoons accomplish exactly what they were meant to accomplish--to make the book an entertaining read and thus to facilitate the study of statistics. The characters of de Mere and the guy with a chronic math phobia are so funny that more than once I laughed out loud, looking at them. Difficult statistical concepts are not explained in great detail, so this book should be supplemented by a more conceptually-oriented book to help the beginner. But as a tool for review, this book is perfect for intermediate users.	2001-03-06
US	52649455	RTHXO02716VUW	0822053497	36727522	CliffsQuickReview Statistics	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Statistics Made Comfortable	One of the best summaries of basic statistics: this is how I see this brief book. It gets straight to the point without unnecessary verbiage and irrelevant exercises cooked up by authors of some enormous volumes on statistics that serve to confuse and intimidate rather than teach. This book won't give you detailed explanations of statistical concepts, but there is enough here to supply any beginner with a lot of good understanding of basic statistical techniques, and the book will give an intermediate user a nicre refresher course.	2001-03-06
US	52649455	R200ITU2OS6AP9	0020165803	858463211	Professor Dowell's Head (English and Russian Edition)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Believ is a Giant of Russian SciFi	Beliaev was one of the great Russian scifi writers. In this novel he foresees technology that would allow the brain to function without the body. This compelling narrative sounds an important warning for the future, which is more relevant today than ever before.	2001-02-28
US	52649455	R1BKYP2HG6X0A7	014044176X	198612908	A Hero of Our Time (Classics)	Books	4	1	4	N	N	A Hero of Russian Literature	This semi-autobiographical novel is strongly influenced by the romanticism of Byron. Lermontov is one of the greatest Russian writers of prose and poetry. After writing this novel, he would soon perish (at the age of 27) in a brutal duel he fought at the mountains of North Caucasus.	2001-02-28
US	52649455	R3IKLFXIQEYSQ0	0460874993	761903849	When the Sleeper Wakes (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A Terrible Awakening	Another of Wells' dark futuristic visions, this novel is about a man who falls into a deep sleep in the Victorian age and wakes up early in the 22nd century. Wells predicts much of the technology that would be invented in the 20th century. This story is not just a fascinating read but a poignant social commentary.	2001-02-28
US	52649455	R1UETJ6OZUZ9ED	0816611246	228988003	Major Poetical Works: Translated from the Russian With a Biographical Sketch and Introduction and Commentary (Minnesota publications in the humanities) (English and Russian Edition)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A Hero of My Youth	Lermontov was a hero of my teenage years. His poems, heavily influenced by Byronic romanticism are an example of expressiveness and melancholy of the Russian soul. Lermontov was one of the greatest Russia poets ever, whose life was tragically cut short in Pyatigorsk in the North Caucasus, when he was not yet 28.	2001-02-28
US	52649455	R11CMCELLIQWHP	0812504674	691093854	The Invisible Man (Tor Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Invisible Man	Here Wells develops the original notion of, well... being invisible. An unknown scientist is obsessed by the idea of becoming invisible, and he manages to pull it off. But the potential for power and mischief that come along with being invisible trigger very anti-social behavior. This book, in addition to being a superb sci-fi story, is a commentary on human nature. The invisible man is defeated only because of his impatience and carelessness. Both are caused by his newly acquired feeling of power. Thus this book is also a warning about the destructive potential of new and radical technologies. Not long before his death in 1946, Wells commented that reality took a page from his book and made it into an even more desperate and dark nightmare.<br />There have been modern adaptions of this book, most recently by Hollywood in a less than impressive &quot;Hollow Man.&quot;	2001-02-28
US	52649455	R2ZK6N32C9FJHH	0812505158	691093854	The War of the Worlds (Tor Classics)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Bad Boys From Mars	Martians land in England and later pretty much everywhere on Earth. They find it rather easy to defeat its armies and proceed to establish total domination. Wells developed this original idea of an apocalyptic alien invasion in the last year of the 19th century. It would be copied endlessly in the 20th century. Orson Welles scared millions of Americans out of their wits with his 1938 radio adaptation of the story, except that his aliens landed on the East coast of the U.S. The Hollywood movie version differs significantly from the book.<br />Wells deserves credit for originality, facility of expression, and subtle observations about human nature found in the book. The idea of the ultimate defeat of the Martians due to a virus to which they had no immunity was recently adapted for the computer age in the movie &quot;Independence Day.&quot; And the Martians' feeding method was adapted in the recent box office hit &quot;The Matrix.&quot; Read this book. It may feel a little dated in its description of technology, dress, and manners. But all the essentials of a truly good book are there.	2001-02-28
US	52649455	R10EJRTZ7AWT84	0803252137	472696719	A Modern Utopia	Books	3	36	45	N	N	Perhaps a Modern Dystopia	Wells imagines a world that resembles our own, but is much more humane and rational. In this utopian world everyone has a job to go to, everything is well organized, and peopel are well-mannered--a kind of full-employment Victoria era with central planning and plenty of monorails.<br />I find Wells' sci-fi works more compelling than his straight social commentary and vision, such as found in this book. He imagines human beings and the conditions of the modern world as being much simpler than they really are. And in this he is not alone. He is tempted by the sin of all utopians from Plato to Thomas More, to Karl Marx to believe in a simplistic schema of a solution for all social ills. Wells rejected Marx, but he was a Fabian socialist. He saw mcuh hard work and injustice in his life and sought a remedy, but his &quot;modern utopia&quot; is not the solution. He puts altogether too much faith in the rationality of the government and expects too little of all kinds of unpredictable events and unintended consequences.<br />I find that in the utopia he described life would be boring and imagination severely limited. I doubt that after a few months of life in his own utopia Wells would still want to stay. The world is not perfect, but it would be worse if it were more like &quot;modern utopia.&quot;	2001-02-28
US	52649455	R1JFSMMO8FNMMT	0321005414	819101549	Political Ideologies and the Democratic Ideal	Books	5	8	14	N	N	A Super Textbook on Ideology	This is a superb textbook. I used it in teaching ideology in upper division and lower division classes. Students find it accessible. Yet the book has the nuance and sophistication that are rare for a textbook. I higly recommend this book not just to those who teach ideology or poltical philosophy, but to any political scientist or historian.	2001-02-28
US	52649455	R3H6IS3WMDWCBT	0394707141	570256949	The Captain's Daughter and Other Stories (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Master of Russian Literature	Pushkin greatest renoun is based on his poetry. But I like his short stories very much. They are crisp, intriguing, and educational. These stories are a treasure of Russian literature. They combine mystery and realism, persuasive language and simplicity--all trademarks of Pushkin's genius.	2001-02-28
US	52649455	R1IMVRRV9ZYTMD	0486290271	389889394	The Island of Dr. Moreau (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	0	3	N	N	New Timeliness and Aimlessness of Existence	Wells commented that this book was in a way an exercise of youthful balsphemy. Perhaps. Wells, like every other intelligent human being of Victorian England, could not escape Darwin's theory of evolution with all of its implications. But the ideas go deeper. What is the meaning of human existence? Is the world just a place of aimless suffering and a mere survival through a series of trials and errors?<br />The book has now become more timely than ever, with the completion of the Human Genome Project which, along with possibility of improving our lives with better drugs, opens the possiblity of engineering mutant beings based on human genes. In a somewhat related development, human organs are already grown on/in the bodies of other animals. Cloning, genetic engineering, and harvesting of organs is a warning that our entire world may become an island of Dr. Moreau. Scary stuff.	2001-02-28
US	52649455	RRLSFK5DY3E0U	0812505042	691093854	The Time Machine	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Time Travel and Social Commentary	H.G. Wells was a modern utopian socialist. This sci-fi suspense is not only about the possibility of time travel, but a warning about the bleak future of mankind, created by extreme class divisions. Workers develop into nocturnal humanoid creatures who pray on defenseless and simple Eloi, also humanoid creatures and descendants of the 19th century upper classes. A decade after this book was written, Einstein's theory of relativity suggested that time travel was perhaps more than a mere sci-fi idea. But that evolution follows class lines in an unlikely, although interesting and original, idea.	2001-02-28
US	52649455	R1LE9KE6CQQVZR	0192838997	160552858	Eugene Onegin: A Novel in Verse (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	3	11	N	N	Byronic Pushkin, The Founder of Modern Russian Literature	Pushkin's Byronic novel in verse, this is one of the masterpieces of Russian literature. Pushkin is the founder of modern Russian literature. Before him, the Russian language was considered unsuitable for great literature. Although no translation can give the exact flavor of its original Russian, this one is pretty good. This is a story of love, melancholy, and human longing for happiness. To the extent that the themes are derivative from Byron, one may be tempted to give only four stars, but considering what service Pushkin had done to Russian literature, Eugene Onegin easily deserves all five.	2001-02-28
US	52649455	RZ5NGCY6D34ZP	0140185909	487321275	Collected Short Stories: Volume 2 (Penguin 20th Century Classics)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Short Story Classic	Maugham's style is perfectly suited for short story writing. His facility of communicating all kinds of ideas is truly amazing. Thus his stories feel like a light read, but they also often give you pause--Maugham is trying to pry deep into what makes people think and act the way they do. He wrote his stories a century ago, and the mark of the time lies firmly upon some of them. It is clear that he was influenced by psychological insgihts and ideas that have penetrated intellectual circles of his time. Read these stories for their ease of communication, ideas about human nature, and vivid images, such as those of the South Pacific and the industrial landscape of the rising American giant.	2001-02-27
US	52649455	R1E1441EIIHFC3	0810115735	810324444	The Man with the Black Coat: Russia's Literature of the Absurd (European Classics)	Books	4	25	26	N	N	Fragments of Russia's Literature of the Absurd	The key to understanding this book, I think, lies in starting with the subtitle: &quot;Russia's Literature of the Absurd.&quot; Kharms and Vvedensky are pen names of Russian/Soviet writers who are known in their home country for their children's books. This is because their more serious and creative writings did not agree with the Stalinist conception of proper art. Hence it was almost impossible for them to publish what they wanted. The editor George Gibian compiled in this volume the stories of Kharms and Vvedensky that have been preserved by their friends or simply lovers of literature. Some of my favorites in this volume are &quot;Cashier&quot; and &quot;Power.&quot;  I also enjoyed Kharms' poem about melancholy, which is printed in English in the Introduction and in its original Russian at the end of the book.<br />All stories are short, many less than a page long. They can finally take their proper place among important works of Russian literature. I cannot say that I was captivated or dazzled by this book, but it has interesting moments that will be appreciated by anyone interested in Russian literature or the literature of the absurd.	2001-02-26
US	52649455	R3EDJYNFMXIBBO	0801313074	306171806	Empirical Political Analysis: Research Methods in Political Science	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Solid and Accessible Textbook on Methodology	The book is clearly written, and I am using it this semester for an undergraduate class I teach. I am not a big fan of textbooks in general, as I rarely use them myself, and when I do, it is mostly for concrete and breif reference purposes. This book is very accessible. I especially liked the chapter on focus groups. The chapter on content analysis is also good, because it conveys very clearly the problems that one faces with this particular method, but at the same time the chapter is not mathematically deep. I find that most of my studnets find this book easy to use. As a book on statistics, it is not very powerful, and the presentation of even the basic methods could use better organization. But overall, this is still a useful text.	2001-02-25
US	52649455	R1L5ON3A8JI1IG	0805053719	422766842	Getting It in the Head: Stories	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Dark, Grotesque, and Nicely Executed	A postmodern orgy of lust, sacrilege, and murder: this is the world painted by a talented young writer Mike McCormack. I liked this book, because the human element is never lost, despite the nearly ubiquitous and sometimes graphic description of atrocities or grotesque situations. This is McCormack's first book, and it reads like an auspicious start. In brutal detail, McCormack gives us his account of the tortures of the young soul.	2001-02-25
US	52649455	R2N7SIXJ2F9D1J	0486200108	256812943	Language, Truth and Logic (Dover Books on Western Philosophy)	Books	3	5	17	N	N	Anti-Metaphysical, Ambitious, and  Arrogant	I had higher expectations of this particular book. Somehow it feels too personal to me, and on that personal level I cannot connect with A.J. Ayer. This is supposed to be a grand account of the philosophy of logical positivism associated with some of the major figures of the Vienna Circle. Ayer is on a mission to save philosophy from the morass of metaphysics. He wants to make philosophy serve science by analyzing meaningful concepts and getting rid of the meaningless ones. But alas, he missed some scientific education. If Ayer were to be taken literally by scientists, much of science would stop dead in its tracks. He seems to think that clear definitions are key to good science. I disagree. Newton has only an operational definition of gravity (i.e., he says what it does), and even that seems to be implicit. Einstein's simultaneity, which is Ayer's own example is also not something marvelously defined, but simply the result of the core of the theory. And simultaneity is a figment of our imagination, since time is relative.<br />Another problem is that one logically has to conclude that literature cannot teach you anything meaningful because it is peppered with the kind of metaphysical concepts that are dismissed as meaningless by logical positivists. Is literature, painting, and music nothing more than a play on human passions? A mere portal to a state of emotional excitement. Please! I will take Shakespear, Gauguin, and Motzart over this kind of philosophy any day. I would rather listen to the raspy voice of Toto Cutugno any day and hear his foreign words, some of which I do not understand, than to read again young A.J. Ayer's &quot;Critique of Ethics and Theology.&quot;	2001-02-25
US	52649455	R1PMJXP0TXQMAA	0394704371	572787164	The Will to Power	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Obsession with Biology and Power	&quot;The Will to Power&quot; is a compilation of N.'s notebooks from the last six or seven years of his sane life. This is one of the two books (the other is &quot;The Anti-Christ&quot;) that the Nazis could put to their own philosophical use. N. continues his interepretation of life a process driven by evolutionary biology, and sees theories about compassion and selflessness as signs of degenration and decay. I found N.'s ideas on the demise of socialism interesting and insightful. But overall he is obsessed with biological factors, what he calls &quot;life&quot; and overestimated the detrimental effects of preaching selflessness.	2001-02-24
US	52649455	R2J22YSK5OZNQX	0192831380	316876787	Twilight of the Idols: or How to Philosophize with a Hammer (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	10	21	N	N	A Philosophy of the Hammer	In this book, Nietzsche is concerned with bringing about the end of those idols that have the &quot;feet of clay.&quot; Much has grown hollow in the light of modern discoveries, and the old idols must fall. We are not to worry too much about what shall replace them, because Nietzsche's hammer is impatient to speak. And new values need room before they can flourish, so it is out with traditional (mis)conceptions for Nietzsche.<br />This book is an interesting insight into Nietzsche's, if not the human, psyche. He reveals the insecurity that must stalk those who fancy to be significant people (are you really the ideal/person you represent to be, or just an actor?) This book is also the origin of the famous &quot;what does not destroy me, makes me stronger&quot; maxim. It's a terse and impressive statement, but it is clearly not always true. You may not come out stronger out an illness or a psychologically traumatic experience. Nietzsche overvalues hardness and overestimates the power of the subconsiouss to motivate our actions. As a short and insightful book, however, this is still a great read.	2001-02-24
US	52649455	R2UUVEUMXGHLQS	0140445145	909088894	The Twilight of the Idols and the Anti-Christ: or How to Philosophize with a Hammer (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	21	29	N	N	A Test of Western Civilization	The two books nicely translated by Hollingdale are among Nietzsche's last four books. The other two being &quot;Ecce Homo&quot; and &quot;The Case of Wagner.&quot; But it is this volume that presents Nietzsche's most blatant challenge to the foundations of Western thought, namely, rationalism and Christian values of love, hope, faith, and compassion. Nietzsche is in his most strident in &quot;The Anti-Christ.&quot; He clearly saw himself as a world-transforming figure, who was to supplant the figure of Jesus, as he is presented in the Bible.<br />&quot;The Anti-Christ&quot; poses a difficult challenge to the critic. What aspect of the book is the most important one? By Nietzsche's own account, it is his desire to revaluate all values. If that is the ultimate goal of the book, then Nietzsche fails rather miserabley, as his version of new values offers little more than ruthlessness and principled denial of anything that stands in the way of raging power. However, if viewed as historical criticism, &quot;The Anti-Christ&quot; stand up as an interesting and, at times, insightful, read. Nietzsche continues to probe the psychological depth of the human soul, just as he did in the &quot;Twilight of the Idols.&quot;<br />All in all, this is a must read for any student of philosophy, history, or politics. And here you will see an insightful philosopher and a literary master who, scandalized by the imiplications of Darwin's theory of evolution, constructed a nightmarish visions that would be used and misused by his pseudo-disciples, including the Nazis, to justify cruelty and absurdity. Of all 19th century philosophers, Nietzsche has the greatest impact on the intellectual developments in the humanities in continetal Europe. These two books will give you a taste of the strident and uncompromising genius, tortured by narrow-mindedness and abusrdities of the world, as well as by the bitterness that comes for the total lack of recognition.	2001-02-24
US	52649455	RRPZZR7153QY0	068482292X	635801792	What Remains to Be Discovered : Mapping the Secrets of the Universe, the Origins of Life, and the Future of the Human Race	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Superb Overwiev of the Known Mysteries of Science	This book presupposes some scientific background. If you want to feel comfortable with every chapter you read, you need to have broad (but not deep) understanding of the sciences. I am a social scientist, but found almost all of this book highly readable. Maddox, who was knighted for his contribution to science, presents the known mysteries that are yet to be solved. Among these are the workings of the brain, the exact origin of the universe and its exact nature (e.g. what is dark matter and where is it?), and the origin of life. These are important questions to which we do not have (completely) satisfactory answers. This goes against the &quot;end of science&quot; thesis postulated a few years before by John Horgan and others. Of course, Maddox can only deal at length with those things which we know are unanwwered, but these mysteries may not be the only ones there are. Perhaps new deep mysteries will arise, and perhaps some are so deep that even the relevant questions that have to be asked about them are forever beyond merely human intelligence. Maddox gives a vast overview, and it makes you awestruck at the sight of this grand world and the sheer power of science and technology that continue to probe ever deeper into its mysteries.	2001-02-24
US	52649455	R2V7KWOBVWA99M	0679724621	22000986	On the Genealogy of Morals and Ecce Homo	Books	4	14	25	N	N	Genealogy and the All-Too-Human Prophet	&quot;On the Genealogy of Morals&quot; is called &quot;a polemic&quot; by Nietzsche himself. He is not trying to hide his dislike for traditional values and his contempt for early Christians, whom he holds responsible for the rise of these values, is very evident. &quot;Genealogy&quot; besides being a polemic, influenced later developments on the ideas of guilt and bad conscience. Nietzsche clearly anticipates Freud (who was 12 years his junior) in explaining guilt as not something that comes from above as a punishment for wrongdoing, but as the aggressive impulse directed inward, against oneself.<br />&quot;Ecce Homo&quot; is Nietzsche's philosophical autobiography that attacks the unselfish ideal, metaphysical abstractions, and traditional views of morality. N. predict wars &quot;the like of which have never been seen on earth,&quot; but this is probably not due to his as much to his seeing powers as to his recollection of the Book of Revelations. Nietzsche cannot get away from his Christian background and from the intellectual atmospher of 19th century Europe, try as he might. Purely as a writer, he is more talented than any major philosopher I know. He is also the first major philosopher to make serious investigations into subconscious motives and processes. But in retrospect, he overestimated the impact that the theory of evolution and the general process of secularization would have on Western societies. This led him to overestimate his historical importance as a prophet. In the end, he was a creative and insightful man who rose against standardization and blandness of his age, and againt unquestionable beliefs in traditional values, though as a prophet he has the usual shortcoming of being all-too-human.	2001-02-24
US	52649455	R30VSWOQOI2Z77	0394719859	901867030	The Gay Science: With a Prelude in Rhymes and an Appendix of Songs	Books	4	15	23	N	N	Mature Philsophy of Nietzsch Takes Its Shape	Most of the concepts of Nietzsche's mature philosophy can be found in this book. Nevertheless, the book is not overly serious or dull, Nietzsche is trying to be ticklish and light-hearted, hence the title &quot;The Gay Science.&quot; As with most of his other works, N. succeeds in being psychologically insightful, but also has some of the ideas that do not resonate well with modern readers. For example, he philosophizes about &quot;health&quot; and implies that his contemporaries are not healthy enough for Plato's insights and philosophical courage. At one point, he also implies that physics explains everything, and therefore, &quot;long live physcis!&quot; But he himself has never tried his hand in it, nor is it obvious that physics does in fact explain everything.<br />In this book, Nietzsche is not yet as shrill as he would become in his last four works, written in 1888. He seeks joyful wisdom and can give plesure to his readers and insights for the curious mind.	2001-02-24
US	52649455	R3AEAAOGCZZAZD	0486285154	922733443	The Birth of Tragedy (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The Problem of Cultural Origins and Apt Metaphors	This work is Nietzsche's first major publicaiton. In it, he is not yet the philosopher he would become a decade later. &quot;The Birth of Tragedy&quot; presents an interesting account of the tragedy of the Greeks--its origins and function. Nietzsche's contention seems to be that, in addition to being rational and rationalistic, the Greeks were strong enough to face the irrational, or Dyonisian, element of life. And they used tragedy to embrace that necessary element. As a powerful metaphor, Nietzsche's account of tragedy is compelling, but I do not know whether this can be regarded as the real cultural origin of the tragedy.	2001-02-24
US	52649455	RZYFZM5Z2RG5F	0521397340	240016635	Institutions, Institutional Change and Economic Performance (Political Economy of Institutions and Decisions)	Books	4	15	22	N	N	Institutions, Common Sense, and Economic Performance	An intriguing book on the so-called neo-institutionalist approach by one of its long-time proponents, Douglass C. North. Written without accessive jargon, this book is accessible to any intermeidate level student of Economics and Political Science. North argues that institutions (laws, rules, regulations) in their fromal and informal varieties determine economic performance. North has an almost guru-like status in the eyes of the World Bank. Third World countries remain poor, argues new institutionalism, because their institutions foster corruption and distort incentives. But what is the solution?<br />It is hard to imagine that one can graft institutions. How can the rules that function in the U.S. function under all kinds of social and political circumstances? The other troubling point is that it is still hard to integrate this approach with mainstream economics. A serious economist today is trained to shy away from anything that cannot be mathematically modeled. More troubling, however, is the following: neo-institutionalism argues that rules, laws, and regulations structure incentives, which in turn determine economic performance. A thoughtful person probably guessed this a long time ago based on common sense--one does not need a scholarly approach to advocate this position. &quot;Incentives are the underlying determinants of economic performance,&quot; says North (p. 135). It is hard to disagree.	2001-02-19
US	52649455	R21KOUNJ4V68C2	0486287319	304026032	The Moon and Sixpence (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Art Promises You the Moon	The novel, based on the life of the French painter Paul Gauguin, is a very absorbing and easy read. Maugham's style has such fluidity that you can read the entire book with great interest in a single day. The main character, Charles Strickland, gives up a comfortable life of a financier to pursue his passsion for painting. Strickland is a man possessed, who is willing to sacrifice his well being and that of his family to fulfill the call of his inner voice to paint his vision of the world.<br />I like the novel and highly recommend it, but I do have a few criticisms. First, Strickland is portrayed as too inhuman, which makes the character unrealistic. Many artists are driven and single-minded, but Maugham is so concerned in making his Strickland appear a hard and uncompromising creator that he makes him crude. Strickland is taciturn, though he occasionally spouts Nietzshean phrases and tries to project Nietzschean haughty indifference to everything except his art. Not surprisingly, Strickland is condescending toward women and does not hesitate to let us know about it in his rare but obnoxious commentary. If the real Gauguin, or any artitst of significance, were as incensitive as Strickland, he would not be able to feel and to paint what he did. And this, in a nutshell, is the problem with Maugham's novel. He started from a stereotype and ended with the main character who was not particularly compelling.	2001-02-18
US	52649455	R1QJ6DCNCZLK6J	0316082422	627086926	The Artful Universe: The Cosmic Source of Human Creativity	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Evolutionary Psychology, Art, and Science	This is a good book for a beginner, e.g., an undergraduate student in philosophy, psychology, or art. It can provide some solid basic understanding of the issues involved in interpreting and reproducing the world(s) around us. The book's thesis is that we are hard-wired by the process of evolution to interpret the world a certain way and that same process limits the kinds of art and science we are able to create. Those already familiar with this thesis will find little that is new in this book. Also, I was a bit disappointed that the book contained only black and white illustrations, it would seem that the subject matter chosen cries out for some color. The topics covered in the book are diverse and hang together loosely, which can be a challenge to a reader accustomed to a more focused and sustained discussion.	2001-02-12
US	52649455	R193YUVMOTBG6Z	0679751513	496423833	Down with Big Brother: The Fall of the Soviet Empire	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Vivid and Compelling Narrative	This is a compelling and vivid description of the events that led to the toatal disintegration of the Soviet Empire, from the collapse of its East European satellite states to the impolosion of the USSR itself. Dobbs was an eyewitness to many events described in the book, and he writes accurately and convincingly. The beginning of the end of the Soviet Empire is traced to the final years of Brezhnev's rule, with its stagnation, over the hill, senile politicians, and the tragic decision to invade Afghanistan. <br />Because this is a very rich journalistic account, the reder should be prepared to deal with a myriad of Eastern European proper names that occur throughout the book. Still, this is a very sophisticated, historically-informed journalism, and if you want to know about the collapse of communism in Eastern Europe, you owe it to yourself to read this book.	2001-02-11
US	52649455	R2ZBAEYPQXHHZL	0674107454	85309079	Randomness	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Clear and Useful	This book is a mixture of mathematical history and basic statistics and probability with examples of their use. Bennett writes lucidly and succinctly. I would have liked to see some topics, such as paradoxes of probability (e.g. the Simpson's paradox) explained in greater detail. Sometimes the book tackles a topic very briefly and then drops it rather abruptly. As a result, it may be difficult to grasp the importance of a topic and to see the connection between topics. All in all, however, the book is a very good reference manual for a beginner. This is essentially a handy long encyclopedia article on a fascinating and important subject.	2001-02-11
US	52649455	R1D2OYW3O9TDV	0534261361	704488107	Comparative Politics: Notes and Readings	Books	5	1	3	N	N	One of the Best Collections of Classical Poli Sci Articles	An outstanding summary of many of the classical articles in Comparative Politics and Political Theory are gathered in this volume by some two of the most experienced political scientists. This book is classic reference material that every political scientist should own. By 1996 the book has been through eight editions, which is a testemony to its popularity and value.	2001-02-11
US	52649455	R3NPJ5JY1OZ92P	071904944X	501150873	Italian politics today (Politics Today MUP)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Broad Overview of Italian Politics	This is a good primer on the basics of Italian politics from the unification to the present. The book is not written primarily for scholars, but for the educated general public. It is easy to read and free of needless citations. The weakness of this work is that it is essentially a broad summary of facts about Italian politics and society, and as such, it necessarily comes up short on originality. But I enjoyed reading this book and would definitely recommend it to beginners and intermediate level students of Italian society.	2000-11-25
US	52649455	R285YH4YLZXKX7	0023456108	85395907	History of Rome	Books	5	95	100	N	N	A Tour de Force in Roman History	I think this book is brilliant. Michael Grant does not leave the reader wondering &quot;What happened in Rome?&quot; All the basic historical information that a beginner, or even someone more sophisticated, may want to know about Rome is here in this book. This is not as much a textbook, as a sophisticated popular history of Rome, which in my opinion is the strength, and not a weakness, of this volume. It's easy to see throughout the book where the facts are narrated and where their interpretation begins and ends. I do not agree with all of Grant's interpretations. For example, he occasionally induldges in amature psychology, i.e., attributing to the Romans a sadistic side to their national character. I do not think this has anything to do with &quot;national character,&quot; but rather it is more likey to be, at least latently, present in the human character in general. I also disagree with his assessment of Cato the Elder and his argument that Carthage was destroyed primarily out of revenge that was fueled by Cato's personal enmity to Carthage and by the scars left by Hannibal in Rome.<br />Overall, the book is an easy and entertaining read, covering military, political, artistic, and religious sides of Rome. Although I have a Ph.D. in a social science, I have refreshed my knowledge about Rome in this book and learned a number of new, interesting facts. Definitely recommednded for anyone who wants to know more about Rome.	2000-10-14
US	52649455	R1KF5FPLE7YI3S	0156528207	781565906	The Little Prince	Books	5	1	1	N	N	French Classic	A touching fable of an interstellar guest. It makes you reflect upon  society and its problems. The end is sad and foreshadows the tragic end of  Saint-Exupery's own life. Sensitive, expressive, and pessimistic, and  therefore distinctly French, this book is a must read classic.	2000-09-19
US	52649455	RHDSRB8QJ5T2	0415045401	131277847	002: The Book of the Thousand Nights and One Night (Vol 2) (Thousand Nights & One Night) (Volume 1)	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Enchanting and Entertaining	This is a wonderful collection of tales that reflect the greatness of Arab  Islam. The translation is very modern: it is easy to read, yet it somehow  conveys the flavor of the old times and exotic places. The tales are  enchanting and entertaining. Some are very sensual. Originally they were  intended as entertainment for the masses. But they have come to be a  monument of world literature and a reminder of the glory days of the rising  Arab culture.	2000-09-09
US	52649455	R339NU1P1IUU03	0415045401	131277847	002: The Book of the Thousand Nights and One Night (Vol 2) (Thousand Nights & One Night) (Volume 1)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Enchanting Classic of World Literature	Poetic, enchanting, and sometimes hilarious, the tales told by Shahrazad  during 1001 nights of her captivity, are a classic, an enduring testament  to the great culture of Arab Islam. The tales were really compiled over  several generations and were thought to be a perfect item of appeal to the  prurient interests of the lower classes. But as history demonstrated, the  tales can entertain and enchant virtually anyone, regardless of class,  ethnic origin, religion, or regional ties. These are culturally distinct  tales with a universal appeal.<br />The language and subject matter is  sometimes very adult. Hence Disney's and Disney-like versions that expunge  the offending content. But this version is complete. All the entertainment  is here. And the language is so natural, so easy to read, you may forget  just how far back in history these tales have originated. These tales  possess art and vigor, and the kind of confidence that is born out of  faith. (And those who have interest in psychology may notice that although  Shahrazad is waiting to be executed, she has no &quot;death row&quot;  syndrome whatsoever. On the contrary, she epitomizes common sense and calm  demeanor.) Reading this is hours of entertainment and relaxation, with some  new knowledge also thrown in. But the only way to truly know these tales is  to read them. So open the book now.	2000-09-04
US	52649455	R130NJ1JZ5EIOZ	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Nightmarish Society	In a terrifying atmosphere of totalitarianism, Winston meets Julia, and a  romance begins. What follows is a description of the triumph of human  depravity. The government, which seeks power for its own sake, destorys any  human relationship that can be interpreted as a conflict of loyalty.  Everybody must be made to love Big Brother, even if the cost of this love  is the loss of dignity, freedom, and common sense. Based on Stalinist  Russia, Orwell's novel certainly has broader implications and is a warning  against complacently accepting what is being presented to us as real by the  powers that be.<br />The book starts slowly. Orwell tries to set an ominous  mood for his readers. Unfortunately, Orwell is best when he does not try to  write around too much and goes straight to the point. So I recommend that  you press on, even if at the outset the book is not terribly exciting. You  won't find many characters in this book, but those you do find are done  pretty well by Orwell. The thrust of the book is, of course, social and  political. It makes you think. For example, why can't something like this  really happen, let's say in 2084? The answer to this, in my opinion, is not  simple. Orwell gave us a warning. We would be fools not to heed it.	2000-08-29
US	52649455	R3D6CH0QF1ZN4H	0451526341	380925201	Animal farm: A Fairy Story	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Animals Come to Power	This is an allegory based on the early years of life and politics of the  Soviet Union. But it can be viewed as a general warning against polemical  and all-too-optimistic utopian visions. I grew up in the Soviet Union, and  I think Orwell was somehow able to capture the spirit of life there as  precisely as a writer can.<br />Led by their liberators, the pigs, oppressed  and over-worked animals take matters into their own hands and expell their  human masters. What follows is funny, at times, and tragic in general. This  short and beautiful book is a must read.	2000-08-07
US	52649455	RB3M19V6ERCYV	0060929871	949556910	Brave New World	Books	5	18	22	N	N	An Ominous Vision of the Dystopia to Come	Set in a dystopian futuristic society, this novel warns about the dangers  of technology, standardization, and excessive government control. Huxley  wrote during the Great Depression, when many people around the world  worried about having basic necessities, yet he looked beyond the immediate  problems and saw a hyper Fordist world, in which mass production and wealth  eventually lead to a rigid and boring society--a society where no one has  the right to be unhappy. Huxley's weakness as a writes is character  development. His characters usually do not evoke much sympathy or interest.  But this book paints such a vivid and unique picture of a dystopian life  that may come that it easily deserves five stars. Also, Huxley anticipates  the use of genetic engineering to shape the character of human beings. In  its portrayal of a possible ominous tomorrow, the book is in the same  league with Orwell's &quot;1984&quot; and Burgess' &quot;A Clockwork  Orange.&quot; If you never read this book, you owe it to yourself to read  it as soon as you have free time.	2000-08-07
US	52649455	R27BS8BHZNYVQB	0553371010	404758592	The Complete Fairy Tales of Brothers Grimm (A Bantam trade paperback)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Grim, Entertaining, and Strangely Insightful	The brothers captured much about the German spirit in theircollection of fairly tales, including those aspects of it thatresonate with human nature in general. Most of the tales have German folk origins, some are remakes of French tales, and a few, well... may have been invented by the women who supplied the brothers with fairy tales. The Grimms were academics. Cultured and urban, they did not hang around the villages, pestering peasants for fairy tales. Rather they obtained their material from middle class and aristocratic women who visited their home and related the stories. The women themselves got their material from their mothers or nannies. Wilhelm and Jacob, however, produced an inspired collection of tales with their own distinctive character and flavor. Perhaps they were prodded by the erotic impulse to do that. The tales have certainly withstood the test of time.<br />There is a lot of good natured, blue-eyed German innocence in these tales; strange, dark, and grotesque imagery and symbolism can surely be found; and of course, anyone reflecting on these tales, cannot help by think of all the grusome violence. For some of the most graphic examples of violence check out &quot;Fichter's Bird&quot; and &quot;The Robber Bridegroom&quot; in the first volume. Strangely enough, children do not seem to be disturbed by the violence of these tales. I read this book for the first time when I was seven or eight, and I was fine--perhaps I wasn't old enough to realize what was really happening. Of course, my experience is typical of the way children respond to these tales. I am more disturbed by Grimm's tales as an adult. Their violence, combined with dark imagery and symbols of darkness (ubiquitous forests), irrational behavior (read &quot;Clever Hans&quot; or &quot;Katy and Freddy&quot;), strong pagan themes (&quot;Gambling Hans&quot;), all this combined with certain naivte and matter-of-factness makes you fear that culture and people a bit.<br />&quot;The Complete Fairy Tales of the Brothers Grimm&quot; is a masterpiece, as revealing of the times and culture, as they are imaginative and grim in their images and storylines.ry Tales of the Brothers Grimm&quot; is a masterpiece, as revealing of the times and culture, as they are imaginative and grim in their images and storylines.	2000-07-11
US	52649455	R2GY8LAIX8NA25	1890817023	716477524	The Keeper of Ugly Sounds	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Become a Keeper of This Book	This really is an outstanding book for children. The story issuccinct and remarkable. And I would suggest that many adults would benefit by reading it, too. All the nagging, surly people in the world could benefit by having to sort ugly sounds themselves, by feeling what it is like to be on the receiving end of whining and complaining.<br />The illustrations are a treat.  Vlad Guzner is an international sensation in the world of illustrations, with a lot of experience in working for such prestigious publications as The New York Times. If you have children ages 4-9 and you don't have this book, then you should definitely get a copy. If you are an adult and you want to remind yourself or your loved ones to hold useless whining and concentrate on the positive, acquire the book and keep it handy.	2000-07-09
US	52649455	R2TZV83XBFXZPK	0393312836	483124263	A Clockwork Orange	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Violence and Redemption	In this highly original, graphic, and powerful book, Anthony Burgess, endows his main character, Alex, with a futuristic slang, in which Russian words play a major role...Alex's first person narrative flows so smoothly and naturally that, oh my brothers, I really  felt the horror that comes from realizing just how natural violence is to  us...Alex undergoes a moral  transformations, in the chapter that was originally omitted when the book  was published in the U.S. Ultimately, moral transformation can come only  from within. And the possibility of this transformation is a redeeming  element for Alex--and for human nature in general.<br />Russian is my native  language, so the book flowed fairly easily for me after just a few pages.  But beware that this new addition has no glossary. If you do not know  Russian, it may take a little longer to get into this book. But it is very  much worth the effort.	2000-07-08
US	52649455	R1YZ3SH58BZF11	0688168949	215861877	Strange Brains and Genius: The Secret Lives Of Eccentric Scientists And Madmen	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Strange Geniuses	This is one of the best of Pickover's books. The subject matter is enriched by the stories of important scientific characters. The connection between mental disorder and borderline mental disorder and genius has been  a subject of discussion among historians, psychologists, and  psychobiologists for a long time. Unfortunately, for various reasons a lot  of important data that could establish a more precise scientific  connections between genius and mental oddities is missing and unobtainable.  However, the case studies in this book are very interesting and they  strongly suggest that many, if not most, highly gifted people are either  quirky or have a mental disorder. The book also makes you think about how  we judge each other and how sometimes a curse can be a blessing in  disguise. Pick up this book.	2000-07-07
US	52649455	R1YXGET6QXIGBM	0684818221	984295817	About Time: Einstein's Unfinished Revolution	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Astounding Astrophysics	&quot;About Time&quot; is a wonderful popularization of the of the problem of time as it is found in physics. Davis takes us step by step from a brief overview of how traditional philosphers dealt with time to the modern  understanding of time that emerged as a consequence of Einstein's  relativity.<br />It turns out that modern physics has so far not been able to  give definitive answers to the most interesting questions about time: Is it  in some sense independent of the observer, or is it all in the head? Why  does the arrow of time always point toward the future? Is time travel  humanly possible? We learn along the way, however, that contemporary  physics has begun to close in on these questions, and the insights come not  only from relativity, but also from thermodynamics, statistical mechanics,  and quantum mechanics. Einstein's revolution is still unfinished, partly  because the mainstream of physics since Einstein has been preoccupied with  areas other than general relativity. But now this detour from relativity  may prove very productive, as findings from these other areas have the  potential to contribute significantly to our understanding ot time. The  theoretical possibilities described by Davis are astounding. I read the  section about antiworlds four or five times, for I could not believe my  eyes--it was that fascinating. We live in a universe that is still largely  undiscovred, and there may be an infinity of universes in existence: some  similar to ours, others as different as one can imagine. Astrophysics today  is a field pregnant with earth shuttering discoveries. And Davies' book is  a superb introduction to the field and the concept &quot;time&quot; in  particular.	2000-07-05
US	52649455	R2XL8P9RWRFRFW	0553211757	755691955	Crime and Punishment (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Conscience, Guilt, and Punishment	Dostoevsky takes a look at a poor young man, a student whose morality is wrecked in squalid and stifling conditions. Raskolnikov, who is only 24 when the novel begins, cannot live as he wants to, so he is left to his own  thoughts, to unhealthy and endless brooding. He begins to yearn for blood  and rationalizes his primordial anger and hatred as some sort of  premonition of greatness. And the means to achieving greatness are not  alwasy good--after all, did Napoleon lose much sleep over the people who  fell victim to his military campaigns? Raskolnikov decides to start with a  robbery, but when things do not go according to plan, he commits two  murders. In the end, his conscience turns against him, so that he hasn't a  moment of peace. He cannot function normally because of his guilt and feels  the need, well, almost the right... to be punished.<br />The novel is a  gripping look at a moral catastrophe and all its reprecussions, including  guilt and punishment. This is a classic. I highly recommend this book.	2000-07-03
US	52649455	R306VC7L6XEA80	0312067860	407019004	World Power and World Money: The Role of Hegemony and International Monetary Order	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Hegemony Vanishes	Andrew Walter's important book explains how neither Britain, nor the U.S.--purported hegemons during different times of history--could ever dictate their policy choices. Instead, they relied on cooperation,  manipulation, and exchange of favors to accomplish as much as they could  realistically desire. Walter argues that by some measures of economic and  political power, Britain could not truly be called a hegemon, even at the  height of its power in the 19th century.<br />The hegemonic stability theory,  which is brilliantly undermined in this book, is the International  Relation's version of game theoretic ideas, first developed by  mathematicians and elaborated on by economists. This is essentially the  prisoner's dilemma, mutated into public goods and then applied to  International Relations. In a situation where valuable benefits have to be  available to all, it makes no sense to contribute to them, because you  cannot be excluded anyway. Just like in the prisoner's dilemma, the  rational choice is to defect. Based on this reasoning, some IR scholars  argued that an enforcer is necessary to make countries cooperate for the  common good, just as within countries we have a government that forces us  to pay taxes and to obey many rules designed to attain and maintain the  common good. Then, the reasoning goes, since it makes sense to defect, but  the countries often cooperate, this must be due to the presence of a  hegemon (enforcer) that makes them to. A search for a hegemon begins, and  the usual suspects surface. Well, based on historical facts, Walter argues  that Britain and the U.S. could never impose their priorities, and  cooperation was more due to the trading of favors than hegemonic  enforcement.<br />I was a student of the author's in the mid 1990s, when I was  in grad school, and he was a visiting professor at USC. This book got him  tenure at Oxford, and I think he has since moved on to become an Associate  Professor at the London School of Economics. I remember his as a first-rate  teacher. He wrote many article for prestigious scholarly journals, but I  did not hear of any more books. Give us another book, Andrew.	2000-07-03
US	52649455	R3SH8OI0BCTZW8	0451523822	178013325	Fathers and Sons	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Insights Into Nihilism and Its Implications	In this novel, Turgenev names, defines, and discusses the concept &quot;nihilism.&quot; This book belongs in the same league with Dostoyevsky's &quot;Crime and Punishment&quot; and Camus' &quot;The  Stranger,&quot; as a masterpiece that successfully marries literature,  philosophy, and valuable psychological insights. Through the character of  Bazarov we also get a whiff of the character of the Russian society--and  not just of the mid 19th century, but also of the Russian society today--a  society chosen by history to be a place of drastic measures and extremes.  It is no wonder that since Turgenev's time, Russian society and its  intellectuals have oscillated between anarchy and tyranny, idealism and  cynicism. Turgenev, who came from a wealthy family and never needed to  write to make a living, nevertheless was a prolific author, and with this  novel he made a significant contribution to Russian and world literature.	2000-07-02
US	52649455	R105ZFGEQ701Y9	0671201581	635633775	A History of Western Philosophy	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A Brilliantly Written Measured Analysis of W. Philosophy	This is one of the best books I have ever read. Over the years, I have enjoyed reading and reareading it, learning something new all the time. Russell's writing is superb. His analysis is based on the commitment to  consider the facts carefully and to reason about them logically and  responsibly. In writing my own reviews, I often keep this book in mind as a  model.<br />Although Russell always includes a personal commentary on a  particular philosopher, this does not undermine the objectivity and value  of his analysis, because it is fairly easy to see where a summary of what  the philospher had to say ends and Russell's interpretation begins.  Russell's erudition is truly impressive. I agree with almost all of his  assessments of philosophers in this volume. Russel was a logician, not a  scientist--there is a big difference. The book was written in 1943, yet  Russell seems unaware of Popper's falsifability criterion for statements  that purport to be scientific. But generally, the book is very close to  perfection. This is philosophy in context and ideas brought to life from  one of the best writers and one of the most brilliant minds of the  twentieth century.	2000-07-02
US	52649455	R1ZONBUQ2DUX1S	1563241420	878227759	Political Ideologies: A Comparative Approach	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An Excellent Summary of Ideologies	This is a very good summary on the subject of ideologies for undergraduate students. The book assumes no prior knowledge of the subject. It is easy to read and very comprehensive. It's a pity it has no photographs of at least  a few major political leaders and ideologues. I sometimes use this book as  an encyclopedia of ideologies to refresh my memory about the basics of the  subject, even though I have tought ideology to different kinds of students  for some time now.	2000-07-02
US	52649455	RZBMQC21AOVN9	0060928247	115675811	The Re-enchantment of Everyday Life	Books	4	32	35	N	N	Bringing the Magic Back In	Moore addresses a very important question: How can we bring back magic into our lives? We are used to living in a rational, practical society, argues the author, with the result that we have neither time, nor ability  to stop, think, and savor the strangeness and beauty of things. We have  over-rationalized our existence to the point where spirituality suffers.  Some things, the authors counsels are, well... not very practical. Can we  really afford to keep old and dilapidated buildings because they can  enchant us when we intentionally romanticize them? But the utility of  Moore's book lies in learning how to accept what is and endow it with  spirit, magic, and meaning. Even if we must grow up, we need not give up  the romantic spirit that makes life fascinating.	2000-07-02
US	52649455	R135WFI29MZ3IX	0521567041	426290981	Nietzsche: Human, All Too Human: A Book for Free Spirits (Cambridge Texts in the History of Philosophy)	Books	4	31	45	N	N	Nietzsche: A Precursor to Existentialism	This is Nietzsche's first, and in some ways the best, philosophy book. Prior to Human All-Too Human, he penned The Birth of Tragedy and Untimely Meditations. But it is only in this book that Nietzsche comes into his own  as a philosopher. The book was written soon after his retirement from  teaching, due to ill health, and Nietzsche suffered a lot from physical  pain, while writing the book, having to take hashish to relieve it. The  book contains opinions on almost everything under the Sun. Although it is  clearly broken down into distinct chapters, the thoughts within chapters  are not arranged systematically. This is intentional and represents  Nietzsche mistrust of grand theorizing and excessively systematic thinking.  He retained this aphoristic writing style till the last days of his  productive life. Thus in his approach, Nietzsche anticipates both  existentialism and post-modernism. He views life personally, passionately,  and with distrust to grand system(narrative) building. Thoughts slither  through the labyrinth of human life, revealing strartling insights and  forcing us to reconsider received opinions and conventional wisdoms.<br />By  Nietzsche's standards, the perspectives presented in the book are fairly  measured, and the author's voice is not nearly as shrill as it would become  ten years later, in his last books. Because Nietzsche settles at a high  level of generalization, some opinions do sound narrow-minded and  prejudiced. In this, Nietzsche was also a victim of his time and culture:  his comments on women and &quot;the youthful Jew of the stock  exchange&quot; are not intellectuals gems, to put it very mildly. Some of  his other opinions, on marriage, for example, also strike me as strange.  Overall, this is a book by an all-too-human philosopher, yet it is a  path-breaking work, a precursor to existentialism and post-modernism,  written in a style that can appeal to the reader sheerly as good  literature.	2000-07-02
US	52649455	R3JQLE7HI5YU8U	0060922249	12294410	Care of the Soul : A Guide for Cultivating Depth and Sacredness in Everyday Life	Books	4	4	11	N	N	Insightful and Thoughtful Perspective	Moore addresses a very urgent subject: the loss of the soul in the modern society. His discourse is insightful and, at times, inspiring. I also found that a lot of practical advantage can be derived by just accepting many  things as they are, or at least, by not being in such a rush to change  them. Haste makes waste, to say nothing of occasional tragedies.<br />However,  Moore perspective should be complemented in, my view, by a scientific  approach, whereby some intervention and change in the real world can occur.  I am not surprised that Moore is rather negative on Henry Ford. But we need  more efficiency, more material wealth, and more change. Mankind is not  condemned to a soulful resignation to its condition of recurring neurosis  and misery. In short, I accept many of Moore's insights and the message of  gracefully and artistically accepting our conditions for the moment, but I  refuse to give up the hope that in the future things will be greatly  improved. I may have to accept many illnesses, dysfunctions in the family,  and a string of failures at some particular time. But better days will be  here again, thanks to science and technology, and optimism.	2000-06-29
US	52649455	R1DSP6T2ISCFVO	0062508865	527800309	Muhammad: A Biography of the Prophet	Books	4	97	124	N	N	A Good Starting Point	This book may be a good starting point for a Westerner who knows little or nothing about Islam and its prophet. The book is fairly easy to read, as it is not saturated with excessive details or citations, but the tone does get  monotonous quickly. Armstrong may have been very interested in the subject,  but if that's the case, her passion and interest do not really come through  and fail to make a deep impression on the reader. At times, I felt bored.  The title is a bit misleading, too. This is not really a biography of  Muhammad, but a kind of interpretation of Islam, its origins, and the  character of the prophet--all intertwined in a single book.<br />The sources  for the book are English-language secondary sources, and the author was  relatively new to Islam at the time of writing. I give it a generous four  stars, but strictly speaking this is not really a biography of the prophet,  nor a particularly gripping account of the rise of Islam. For a secular  interpretation of Muhammad, you may want to see Rodinson's book, and for  the faithful, perhaps Martin Lings'. Armstrong's book is best for those who  are curious about Islam but afraid to wade in with both feet. Also, the  book has an absolutely beautiful cover.	2000-06-24
US	52649455	R3KCB5V2BE7PVE	0899681476	543411005	Count of Monte Cristo	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A Romantic Story of Vengeance and Faith	In this romanitc novel events do not develop quite as quickly as in another very famous Dumas classic, The Three Musketeers. A young Catalonian sailor, Dantes, is unjustly accused an imprisoned--his enemies believe for  life. However, he gets an education in prison from Faria who also reveals  to him the secret of the enormous treasure hidden, of all people, by  Ceasare Borgea. The young sailor miraculously survives his daring escape,  obtains the treasure, and uses it to inflict dreadful punishment on his  enemies and to reward those who tried to remain loyal to him. Dantes, who  morphs into Count Monte Cristo and, along the way, into a cast of  supporting characters, sees himself as an instrument of vengeance in the  hands of God, whose name he constantly invokes (too often perhaps). But his  faith is peculiarly non-Christian, since he harbors earthly hatred and a  burning desire for revenge, and has no intention of forgiving his enemies,  until they have been reduced to utter misery. Hence all the trappings of  the Orient in Monte Cristo's retinue, his furnishings, and even his eating  habits--remember he refused to eat when he met his once beloved Mercedez.  He is not ready to be merciful and forgiving. Dumas mentions, kind of  warily, that Dantes at one instance, toward the end of his vengeance, did  reflect that perhaps he has gone too far, but overall, it's still a nice  romantic story of love, hate, and ambition where God and faith intervene on  behalf of Earthly justice.	2000-06-23
US	52649455	R3FE4HB4335W0A	0553212788	604725626	The Prince (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A Guide to Power, A Question of Morality	Machiavelli is here at his best: terse, poignant, and profound. His insights into politics and his practical advice apply not just to autocratic princes of Italian city states, but to anyone who has authority  and wants to maintain it, as well as to all those who want to gain  authority. True, the book is an excellent attempt to describe politics,  which is pervasive in the world, the way it is, and not the way that  sanctimonious characters want it to be, but at the same time it raises one  of the most difficult and even painful questions that a thinking being can  confront: What does it mean to be moral in a world where cunning, cruelty,  and underhanded methods of all kinds are sometimes the most effective, if  not the only, way to achieve what you so passionately want? The Prince is a  superb confrontation with reality, revealing, perhaps inadvertantly, the  courage of human intellect.	2000-06-23
US	52649455	R2HYIJW8HRHTGF	0192835750	557004951	The Three Musketeers (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Fabulous Romantic Story	This was one of my favorite books, growing up. Dumas created a fast-paced, intriguing story of passion, friendship, treason, and politics. Who could forget the irresistible force of the four friends: the clever hothead  D'Artagnan, so young and full of initiative; the cunning and calculating  Aramis; the naive and good-natured Portos, with his superhuman strength;  and the wise, disillusioned Atos, still full of inner strength amid his  drinking. The main love story of the book is not that compelling. It  somehow pales amid all the action. There are also a few chronological  inconsistencies in the book that resulted from Dumas' neck-breaking pace of  writing books. But these can be easily overlooked along with a somewhat  unrealistic course of events. This still is a fabulous, entertaining story.  The book's strongest appeal is to the readers in their teens.	2000-06-23
US	52649455	R3Q8JPM1N56EYN	0393970833	254415890	Statistics, Third Edition	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Clear, Systematic, and Detailed	I found this book very useful in obtaining a solid conceputal understanding of statistics. This is exactly what a beginner or an intermediate student has to master. The first chapter that clearly explains  the difference between experimental and observational studies and describes  the randomized controlled, experimental method is a gem, and all others are  very solid, too. Anyone who is trying to understand statistics and has  found himself frustrated by extra dry, formula-laden books on the subject  will find this text refreshing and very helpful.	2000-02-04
US	52649455	R3GS5QRC8JGFK6	0195116992	793389530	The Ascent of Science	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Informative, Intelligent, Interesting	I liked the book. In some chapters the science and its great personalities really come alive. Silver's high level of intelligence comes through quickly and forcefully, and he shows himself to be a rational, thoughtful  person--also someone who is astute and realistic. He has compassion and a  sense of humor; his irony is sharp but appropriate--he does not come across  as a condescending high-brow academic.<br />All this said, the book is not  without its challenges. Some chapters could have been presented in a much  more interesting fashion. This is true, for example of the chapters on  chaos theory and relativity. There is something else. This book contains,  especially in its first half, a muffled protest and anger against religion.  Not everyone may have noticed that: Silver was trying to be measured and  objective, but his numerous examples of abuses and mistakes perpetrated by  religious officials and the context in which these examples are used say a  lot for those who can listen. In the second half of the book, these hits on  the head of religion practically disappear, but Silver the person comes  through a little bit too strongly for a book that is supposed to be about  the rise of science. Although I believe he was a very good and intelligent  man, he gives us too much of himself for this particular type of book.  There are some minor points as well: for example, I am certain he  misinterpreted Bertand Russell's criticism of Pragmatism. Overall, if you  are interested in many different areas of science and curious about how  they have emerged, buy this book.	2000-02-04
US	52649455	R1DQXE2ZHCI848	0674763270	777343675	A Requiem for Karl Marx	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Marx the Man and His Communism	This is a wonderful reading about Marx the man and his particular brand of &quot;scientific&quot; socialism. It reveals Marx's insecurities, self-loathing, bigotry, and financial failures, as well as his life as  essentially an attempt to burry all that in a heavenly vision of a new  society, which Marx constantly nurtured through intense intellectual  persuites.<br />This is a portrait of Marx, a humanistic intellectual, as he  is revealed in his correspondence with Engels and his actions in a  Victorian/Dickensian London. This is a man whose idealism and a feeling of  being discriminated against led him eventually to adopt the attitude of  suspicion and contempt for almost all human beings, this is Marx-Halevy  trying to escape his own roots and ending up planting seeds of communist  revolutions in backward, agrarian societies for which he had so much  contempt.	1999-11-27
US	52649455	RWG8STV4XXGZ1	0517141361	59878497	Scientific Genius: The Twenty Greatest Minds	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Great Reference on Great Scientific and Mathematical Minds	This book provides an accessible summary of some of the greatest scientists and mathematicians that ever lived. It contains nice illustrations, too. The book's main strength is its ability to convey the  spirit of two and a half millenia of human achievement is a relatively  brief and compelling manner. I spend a few nights reading it, going over  some sections again and again. This book is interesting and useful.	1999-03-22
US	52649455	R1IFSZQ5W8D5JK	0449902803	92755284	Unlimited Power	Books	3	7	13	N	N	Some Glimmers	I did take something useful out of this book. Basically, it heightened my awareness about how to communicte effectively with different personality types. Not that this is something particularly new--I doubt there is anything new in the book--but I found it useful to present information differently to introvert and extrovert types, and I also practice occasional &quot;mirroring&quot;. The advice on diet, however, is in my opinion, flawed. This book will not change your life, but it is an easy, and sometimes informative read, even if most proposed solutions are manifestly too facile to be true.	1998-07-27
