US	52654796	R366XY4I01NQSJ	1576753492	827368820	Insult to Injury: Insurance, Fraud, and the Big Business of Bad Faith	Books	5	22	23	N	N	One of the most disturbing exposes I have ever read	If, like the average American citizen probably does, you view the insurance industry as a benevolent protector that exists to serve its' customers, you are in for one rude awakening. Ray Bourhis, who served as plantiff's counsel in the case detailed in the book he later wrote, confronts the awesome duplicity of his adversary, one of the largest insurance underwriters in existence, a company that seemed determined not to honor its obligations at any cost. Bourhis describes the unending legal gamemanship, the obdurate refusal to settle, the psychological brutality of a company that appeared to prefer to destroy a policyholder than pay a claim on the agreed terms. The jury was not deceived and awarded Bouris' client a $7.7 million judgement a compensation for the egregious bad faith demonstrated by the insurer. This is an absolutely revolting story of an \\"ends justify any and all means\\" philosophy run amok at the senior management level and the terrible human cost exacted from the trusting and powerless who had believed their policies would protect them in times of dire need, when illness or injury rendered them unable to work. If you ever plan on purchasing a long term disabilty insurance policy from any insurer, you MUST read this book first; you have no idea what you may be setting yourself up for.	2005-08-17
US	52654796	R14YPQQAOWDSTP	1580627560	916830225	Why Men Love Bitches: From Doormat to Dreamgirl―A Woman's Guide to Holding Her Own in a Relationship	Books	1	35	42	N	N	intensive psychotherapy may be appropriate if this is your..	model of a successful relationship. I heartily reccommend Albert J. Bernstein's _Emotional Vampires,dealing with people who drain you dry_ as one of the best, if not the best study of different personality types and precisely how they make your life miserable. Read Bernstein, and compare your partner(s) with the behavioral checklist. Are you drawn to narcissists, passive-aggressives, histrionics, or paranoids ? Learn to identify these types before they contaminate your life and learn how to defend yourself against them. Men DON'T love bitches. Not successful, intelligent, emotionally healthy men. Men don't like being manipulated, bullied, or symbolically castrated. If you think you can rescue your relationships with a facile, one dimensional model of personal interaction, you will be setting yourself up for and endless round of lifeless, loveless control games that will eventually leave you exhausted, disgusted and broke. \\"Holding Your Own\\" means knowing exactly what you are dealing with, and having precise responses. Get Bernstein, read it and take notes, then come back and revisit this silly book, and compare the amount of solid information you can take away from each one.	2005-03-04
US	52654796	R1OLFLQMDHEIJH	1559272678	213754452	PowerTalk!: The Power of the Human Paradox	Books	3	1	1	N	N	thinking about the power of Certainty and Uncertainty	Overall, the Powertalk tape series gives you a tremendous bang for the buck. This isn't true of all TR products on the market. The single topic format is particularly effective because it keeps Tony in a tight groove where he can unload all of his thinking permitted within the running time of the tape. <br />On this one, Tony will focus on Certainty, a state that can be either/or. Either super empowering or super destructive. I think he should have prepared his material more carefully instead of going full out *ex tempore* when his brilliance at communication does ocassionally drift into ranting.<br />I think one area of particular concern here is that the tape was made in the mid 1990s when less was known about the AIDS virus. Tony gets a little unhinged on side 2 of the tape when he comes close to suggesting that the HIV virus is not the cause of the AIDS syndrome. At one point he flat out says this.<br />On the other hand, he gives powerful, inspiring stories of how he refused to give up on a participant at one of his seminars who was stricken with a heart attack and given up for dead by medical professionals. That alone makes this tape worth listening to.<br />Because of the dubious claim (to put it mildly) that there isn't a conclusive link between HIV and AIDS, which could be reinforcing some of the most wrongheaded beliefs in the high risk segment of the population, I feel that, as excellent and inspiring as this tape is in many areas of its presentation, it should be immediately withdrawn from circulation and reworked based on our present understanding of the HIV virus.<br />message to Mr. Robbins. Redo the tape. Develop your themes more carefully. Practice once or twice on a run through. Reissue.	2004-02-15
US	52654796	R28DU3C68RYWHB	0671791540	850378543	Awaken the Giant Within : How to Take Immediate Control of Your Mental, Emotional, Physical and Financial Destiny!	Books	2	0	11	N	N	There but for the Grace of Elivis go Eye !!!	Ahoy Me Mateys!<br />Ahem... (mentally clearing throat sound)...<br />For a couple of reasons, this poor unwashed reviewer suggest that if you like this here tome on personal change strategies you'd do much better to listen to Anthony's *Powertalk* tape series. Tony is a competent hypnotist, he uses his vocal range and tonal shifts to good effect. Little of this &quot;installation by Tony&quot; effect happens when you read the book (which I supposedly didn't read, but lets create a big mental movie of me (however you imagine me to be) reading the book, so you'll find what I'm saying more congruent with your (wildly innacurate) PRESUPPOSITIONS....) Ok ? nice pretty movie all done ?... goody...<br />   So, azz I was saying, you'll get a LOT of useful mileage out of his Powertalk series, Tony's good stuff served straight up with a bare minimum of static... the book's treatement of &quot;asking the right questions&quot; is boring and dry, but the Questions Powertalk is really smokin' good when Tony breathes life into his subject... when you go back and reread the Questions part of the book (which I supposedly did not read, so run your head movie here at the sound of the imaginary BEEP), you think, ech, I should LISTEN TO THE TAPE AGAIN... (hint)... Tony feels that the Question &quot;piece&quot; is the most central to his success strategy, hence if you want to bypass a lot of the phluph and get right to the hot'n'heavy core of what makes this dude tick... listen to the Questions tape, like everyday for a week until it soaks DEEPLY into the white matter of your brain...<br />Once you got that rooted in better than a twenty year old oak, listen to his tape on REFERENCES, another thing that in the book is blaaaah... his trancework isn't as hot on References, and he does push the idea that doing the Firewalk is a Reference you just can't do without. Nice little embedded command Tony, but thanks just the same. Seminar plugs aside, References is a real mind opener and probablyout to be distributed free in high schools to make kids a little less grossed out by the idea of education.... again, in the book it's, OK, great, got it, next, uh  what ?<br />  A third one I thought a lot of was the Six Master Steps to Change which is out of print but you can get them used here on Amazon. Six Steps is another good case of cutting through the hype and doing good changework. Really the nut of what Tony's change technology is all about. Plus he uses one of good old Dave Dobson's moves, happens real quick, but it is a goodie. Scramble pattern well presented, amazing little piece of business to move you strongly away from liking chocolate (har! nice!) and an interview with Mark McCormick (what the didn't teach you at harvard business school...for you business types)...<br />Anyway, in my considered opinion, Tony has his warts but he's got a lot of good stuff, and he's got a lot of filler, padding, and whatnot too. The smart move is to get the Powertalk tapes which is the best concentration of real work, the book by comparison is a total snooze.	2004-02-13
US	52654796	RG6U72YFAPAMD	0671791540	850378543	Awaken the Giant Within : How to Take Immediate Control of Your Mental, Emotional, Physical and Financial Destiny!	Books	2	0	11	N	N	&quot;There But For The Grace Of God Go I&quot; : analyse this phrase	Curious statement to make, NLP/NAC wise, innit ?<br />How does one do a thorough NLP &quot;metaperspective&quot; on this statement ?<br />What are the presuppositions here ?<BR>(there but for the Grace of Tony go I ?) (Tony=God ?) (Tony=State of Grace ?)  Hmmmmm....<br />What is the author telling us by the structure of his thinking ?<br />(is there an internal representation of a &quot;here I am&quot; track which is related to a state of Grace, and a second, parallel track, the, um, &quot;there but for&quot; track ? How do these two state dependant tracks relate to one another ? Would it be possible to perform a thought experiment and visualize or whatever a third track where unexpected, but really interesting things happen that aren't directly related to the Here and the There track ?)<br />Could Tony do some interesting things with it, personal changewise, should he be so inclined ?<br />(what images/thought processes cause the speaker to reject/move away from/ experience anxiety/aversion to the &quot;There&quot; track ? What places the &quot;other person&quot; on the There track ? Is it possible that bridges between the two tracks could exist that allow for constructive information flow ?) (if not, what thought processes prevent this from happening ?)<br />Meta-Beliefs, anyone ? That's your ticket to ride.	2004-02-10
US	52654796	R3BTP8OK32IK74	0671791540	850378543	Awaken the Giant Within : How to Take Immediate Control of Your Mental, Emotional, Physical and Financial Destiny!	Books	2	9	23	N	N	Awaken the Frog Within	before winding up my arm for a brief sermon on the effectivness<BR>or sometimes effectiveness or sometime non effectiveness of NLP ideas, however they are packaged....<br />An NLP joke that was making the rounds in the trainings. There are two kinds of people in the world. Those who think there are two kinds of people in the world and those that don't. Get IT ?<br />No ? Didn't get it ? Wait a minute... this isn't The Forum, this isn't EST, we don't get IT around here.<br />But this much is true. Every decade or so there is a new face in town, the man with the answers, the guy everybody, male or female has a crush on, the figure we identify with as our big enlightened thousand watt smile hero. <br />Once it was Billy Sunday, once it was Krishnamurti, once it was Werner Erhard, you can fill in the blanks in your free time.<br />This isn't to say that Tony is doing bad stuff... its OK stuff, decent quality, functional stuff, but it isn't the Second Coming or anything... there are still lacunas, incomplete areas, tough ideas that have been watered down to be suitable for mass marketing purposes.<br />Then there is this small but nagging issue of Meta-Belief. And another called Congruity. <br />Well fine and dandy, last one first. Congruity. The master teacher on the subject of Congruity is a man, still alive but elderly, who lives and works in Friday Harbor, Washington State, across the sound from Anacortes, and to this day teaches seminars on Congruity. His name is David Dobson and he is spoken of by some as a living Milton Erikson.<br />Anybody here ever taken the touble to locate Dobson and study with him ? Anybody here ever heard of Dobson ? Tony Robbins sure did. He was scheduled to attend the same trainings with Dobson that I was... Tony got distracted doing infomercials or something and broke off at the last minute, sent one of his people on ahead. Did Tony ever get around to serious face time with Dave ? No way to know. <br />Tony sure talks a lot about Congruity, but he tosses it out there like another groovy idea, some mental secret sauce, instead of boring in on the deep levels of understanding Congruity, its significance, the distinctions of congruity and incongruity, and the near mystical levels of human interaction Dobson calls Other Than Conscious Communication. Dave is out there to this day. You want to get a tight bead on Congruity ? See Dave while he is with us. Then carefully compare Tony's understanding of Congruity with Dobson's<br />Ah yes, Meta Beliefs... I think that I was the first person in NLP to start talking about Meta Beliefs, and then there was a kinda sorta tentative acceptance of this distinction... to etherial for certain types who like to ground their mojo in crisp pictures and plangent bell tones...<br />Meta Beliefs are &quot;beliefs about beliefs&quot;. The previous reviewer, who evinces a strong faith based worldview, has a powerful Meta Belief that informs his thought processes. Is that good or not so good ? Lets examine.<br />His Meta Belief is that strong, unshakable belief (although he doesn't say exactly how this belief is represented in his thinking.... movies ? sparkly pictures ? echo chamber type sounds ?) is the prime determinant of success or failure. To assert &quot;change your belief, and you will change your reality accordingly&quot; is, in itself, a potent meta belief that could, potentially, be liberating, self limiting, or not much or either, depending on the context and circumstances.<br />Could his Meta Belief be refined to give him more real world effectiveness ? Undoubtedly so. Many early peoples, or pre industrial peoples had intense faith in their gods and totems, yet they were wiped out by smallpox and modern weapons regardless of their ghost dances and visits to the spirit world.<br />The Cherokee, on the other hand, were darned smart, they kept elements of their faith, but they studied the European ways that made them successful and emulated accordingly. They were the only Native American to develop a unique alphabet , Sequoian, based on Hebrew, Greek, and something else, published newspapers in Sequoian, learned to fire hard brick, trained lawyers who argued before the US Supreme Court, and sadly, unnerved Andred Jackson sufficiently (he was afraid they'd form an alliance with the English) that Jackson wiped them out and stole all their possessions. <br />The Trail Of Tears aside, one could say that the Cherokee had much more sophisticated Meta Beliefs than their plains bretheren.<br />They could analyse and choose when faith in the old gods would be of benefit, and when careful analysis and consideration of costs vs. benefits of material actions could alther their fate.<br />Tony falters, in my opinion, when he dives right in and insists that you change your belief system. He should take more time to closely examine Meta Belief and how it brings belief systems into existence. Once you gain leverage at the Meta Belief level, although you must be exceedingly careful with it, profound change becomes available.<br />Other parts of the world today, obviously those riven with strife and deprivation appear to be suffering from either a complete loss of belief in anything (Nihilism), i.e. the Meta Belief that nothing can be worth believing in except immediate survival, or hyper intensified Meta Belief,(Absolutism) i.e. the more anything causes me to doubt my belief, the greater that proves the power of the Dark One... thus feeling of doubt, questioning, or curiosity about the Outer Realms are in and of themselves evidence of seduction into the ways of Error... quite a gummy thought loop to find oneself mired within, like those super sticky glue traps....<br />However, the great advances toward modern thinking were precisely great Meta Belief shifts, as when Martin Luther insisted that each man and woman be responsible for his or her relation to the Creator, which required a great social innovation, universal literacy so any person could read the Bible and make up his mind for himself as to what it meant.	2004-02-09
US	52654796	RH5U5M1C6VB5A	0671791540	850378543	Awaken the Giant Within : How to Take Immediate Control of Your Mental, Emotional, Physical and Financial Destiny!	Books	3	3	8	N	N	First Things First : know yourself well before proceeding !!	Here is a book that is predicated on a somewhat Aristotelian concept of the Potential Self. Robbins posits that there is a Potential Self for each of us that is far greater than our presently experienced Actual Self.<br />What he doesn't say, nor does he appear inclined to say, is that this could be true, however the Potential-Actual Self gap varies dramatically from person to person.<br />This poses difficulties for those who are feeling around for the outlines of their true Potential Selves from the relative smallness of their Actual Selves.<br />Robbins' suggestions in this book will probably be most effective for those who have a firm, realistic grasp on who they actually are, what their limitations consist of, and what the opportunity costs of transcending said limitations will likely be.<br />Try as most of us might, and believe with all our hearts, it is most doubtful that we will morph into a Richard Branson, a Mohammed Ali, a Barry Diller, a Sean John Combs, a Bill Clinton,<BR>a Bono, or a Brittney Spears.... nor, once we fully understood the costs that these luminaries had to pay for their greatness, would we necessarily want to.<br />The question hinges then on how well we do know ourselves, and perhaps more challenging to our self fantasies, how willing we would be to see ourselves as others see us, to have a significantly objective evaluation of our strengths and weaknesses put before us in an undeniable way?? Such is the hard path that a minority is inclined to follow.<br />For whatever it is worth, the genetic lottery is still the number one game in town. Some of us will have more grace, some will be beautiful, some mediocre, some seriously flawed. Life will be easier for one person than it is for another.<br />Those who have first come to terms with those limits may be in the best position to transcend them as they may make the best evaluation of how much effort, how much time, how great a portion of their mental life will be consumed in the quest.<br />What percentage of the readers of Awaken The Giant have contacted a first rate testing service and had psychological and aptitude profiles run on them, spoken with a qualified psychologist or counsellor about their strengths and weaknesses,<BR>compared their temperaments to their goals to see if they are suitably matched ? 1% maybe ? .1% more likely....<br />All that said, if you have done the prerequisite groundwork, you have a realistic assessment of who you are and how great the Potential-Actual Self gap is in your specific case, you could possibly derive great value from this book by Mr.Anthony Robbins.<br />Tony might come back and say that this personal realism is nothing more than a self limiting belief that you must get out of your head at once if you are to awaken the giant within. I would say in reply that Tony couldn't be more wrong. One of the most liberating pieces of self knowledge one can have is to know one's natural limits and do one's best being what one can be, instead of burning endless hours, hopes, and dollars trying to be what one cannot possibly be. As samuel Johnson said, no man is so ridiculous as when he attempts to be what he cannot possibly be.<br />Of course, there is always the other side of the argument. One could also be saddled with falsely limiting beliefs as to who one is, how far one might go, what the world has to offer, how one can maximize ones gifts and minimize one's weaknesses. <br />To add to the frustration, but hey, this is life we're talking about, many of us overestimate ouselves in some areas and underestimate ourselves in others. Massive egotists are stuck with a heavy dose of overestimation, depressives with a massive dose of underestimation. For the majority of us, we're like wheels that are out of balance, a little too much here, not quite enough there.<br />I would definitely consider Tony's thoughts, techniques, and so on, useful steps in direct proportion  to one's self knowledge. With the lack of self knowledge, they may lead to a state of dissatisfaction. Why isn't this working for me ???<br />If it is working for you, congratualtions, you've done your homework and you can put the tools to good use. If it isn't working for you, move back a step, get to know yourself and where your head is at for real, then try again.	2004-02-03
US	52654796	R2DOBAWOYQR43T	1899836322	827681878	The User's Manual for the Brain (Vol 1)	Books	2	31	65	N	N	the book is not the map is not the territory in not the.....	After years of NLP study with anybody who was anybody in that day and age, I reluctantly came to the conclusion that the NLP model was critically flawed. In some cases it would produce results, in too many others the results were ambiguous or transitory. John Grinder took it to mean one thing that was wildly different from what Richard Bandler took it to mean, and the divergences proceeded apace. <br />NLP itself is founded on deep presuppositions. For reasons unknown, likely that no parties involved want to rock the boat too hard, rather typical late phase conceptual institutional silt up of previously free running energy ducts... for instance, there is a operant model that the mind uses distinct <BR>submodalities, (a grandiose term for the way you represnt your thoughts) that have crisp distinctions between Visual, Auditory, Kinesthetic, Olfactory, Gustatory, etc... &quot;presentations&quot;.... however, these modes never were as cleanly delineated as the instructors held that they were...much thinking appeared to be a shifting organsism that had elements of these categories, but were not purely and distinctly one or the other.<br />  The entire NLP Establishment has failed, in my personal view, to adequately question the accuracy of this piece of NLP gospel... are motivations, prejudices, beliefs, attitudes, self image, REALLY so neatly encoded and so easily manipulated ? <br />  I rather suspect not. The brain appears to be remarkably dynamic and elusive.  Certain internal sensations-orientations, as those generated by the Vestibular system, seem to have an essential part in the organizing of the personal world, by vestibular work has been relegated to a more or less insignificant corner, as neither trainers or trainees have much idea what to do with it. <br />  Obviously, this nattrering could continue at length. The most trenchant criticism of the idea of a Users Manual For The Brain is that the descriptive power of the model does not equal the pretensions ofthe model. The model implies a &quot;last word&quot; understanding of how the mind does what it does. The truth is that this is a limited, dated technology that may have value as one possible cluster of techniques within a larger universe of methods.	2004-01-29
US	52654796	R2ANXPHFL0NHQ9	0671316451	92755284	Unlimited Power Featuring Tony Robbins Live!	Books	2	24	57	N	N	this thing had been lying around the house for years	My wife had got it into her head that she ought to get more unlimited personal power and so on by studying these audio tapes... I gave it a shot one night and was not impressed... no, not...<br />What do I know ?...could possibly work for certain folks at some level, overall lacking in substance. Pumped up isn't the same as wised up. Attitude isn't the same as knowledge. Intent isn't the same as experience. Mental gaming isn't the same as hands on interaction. There's some hokum that originated in NLP land that the brain doesn't know the difference between a fantasized simulation and really being there... now that's just hopeless baloney... in real life there are unexpected variables that you can't predict, for one minor quibble among a whole bunch of others... silly, dorky stuff all the way down...<br />You want to read something cool, stands the test of time, brief, and based on some hard won real world mojo...<br />Read this... Why You Win And Lose by Fred C. Kelly, all about stock market speculation on the surface but deep observations about life, illusions, and thinking straight. Just do it, OK ?	2004-01-28
US	52654796	R31VZ1MBD80UO8	0446529575	309646525	Thinking for a Change: 11 Ways Highly Successful People Approach Life and Work	Books	3	22	32	N	N	think right = read Thinking Strategically	subtitled: The Competitive Edge in Business, Politics, and Everyday Life.<br />The moral of this tale is: read specific works that are written by those who are experts in one of these 11 dimensions. Maxwell is superficial. He kinda has to be, as he is in the business of writing many books in the knowledge lite category. He may point out useful directions to follow up on. It's up to YOU to get the hint and follow the trail. Also suggest that you read Don't Jump To Solutions (cognitive psychologists call this problem &quot;rush to structure&quot;), by William B. Rouse, or Games, Strategies &amp; Managers by John Mc Millan and of course, The Logic Of Failure by Dietrich Doerner.... soon enough you get the idea that strategic thinking is A. both a science and an art, and B. one heck of a lot of hard work to do well, and C. inspiration doesn't hurt, but perspiration wins the day..<br />Still hot to trot ? Bramson and Harrison's work on the dominant thinking styles in western cultures, Analytic, Idealistic, Pragmatic, Synthetic, and Realistic remains better than almost any other typology, perhaps more significant and elegantly simple than the Briggs-Myers system...<br />You've been warned, fellow students. Maxwell is the threshold, not the full structure. Don't make the mistake of thinking that Thinking For A Change is enough. You need more, a lot more.	2004-01-27
US	52654796	R1FA2EAQT59ZN	0671791540	850378543	Awaken the Giant Within : How to Take Immediate Control of Your Mental, Emotional, Physical and Financial Destiny!	Books	2	6	14	N	N	while yer at it, read The Power Of Negative Thinking  by....	Gerald Amada....<br />I studied with the same guys that Tony studied with and a whole lot more to boot. Did all the Erhard based trainings. <br />Tony doesn't necessarily have more skills or more raw I.Q. than a lot of the originators, he is a lot prettier, has more stamina, and the man knows how to work the stage with the best of them.<br />Go for it if you think it will help you make your way through life more elegantly. It may, it may not.<br />Be smart. Consider the other side of story. Negative thinking is a survival necessity. The more Tonified you get yourself, the more you need to balance your scales. Learn about making a useful alliance with your negative thinking. Positive needs Negative, Negative needs positive....<br />Like, what is the sound of one hand clapping? Nothing. Doh.	2004-01-25
US	52654796	RWDE1P7ITI7VU	1899836101	786914472	Figuring Out People: Reading People Using Meta-Programs	Books	2	29	68	N	N	Egad... like reading a field manual for army truck repairs	Information, information everywhere and yet the boards did shrink... information everywhere and not a drop to drink.  <br />As far as NLP literature goes, and that isn't saying much as NLP *qua* a socio-scientific discipline has never gotten much farther than a self sustaining cottage industry with tedious mediocrities and their tediously mediocre books which say the same boring things over and over again, redundantly, forever, ad infinitum, ad nauseum, ad eyerolleum, this is definitely one of the better catalogs of NLP distinctions of thought processing styles....or as they say with typical pomposity, Meta-Programs!.... as if the term &quot;Meta&quot; confers some special status to otherwise banal groupings of stylistic dichotomies...<br />A crucial, rather rude, and potentially enlightening question is...envelope please...where is the evidence that these assertions are true ? What controlled experiments were done to<BR>validate this work ? At which universities ? <br />Regrettably, none appear to be cited or referenced. This material is presented as settled fact when it is conjecture... is this how people really think ? Do they KNOW what is going on in anyone's mind at a given moment ? Doubtful... And ,then, how closely do these distinctions conform to the actualities of mental functioning ? We should take the author's word for it ?<br />OK... how did he test these models ? What was his methodology for determining these categories of thought. Can we rely on his questionable theory of how different cultures represent time ? How does HE know how cultures influence the representation of time ?  And on, and on, and on....<br />Not all that deep.	2004-01-24
US	52654796	RJW59D25JXPDK	0722534426	938178400	The Art of Systems Thinking: Essential Skills for Creativity and Problem Solving	Books	2	18	21	N	N	poorly designed book: not adequate for its' subject	It's hard to know what to say. There wasn't enough juice to this book that it kept my interest. The writing style is dull and pedantic, the examples are trivial, the illustrations useless. There is something fundamentally wrong with this entire genre of *thinking skills* books. The authors usually show little ability to relate complex, real world problem solving to higher models or theories. It appears that there are two classes of writer: those with much practical experience and good war stories who rely on instinct and intuition, and those who read like they have been up in their ivory towers and do nothing but trade academic papers back and forth. For some reason the two never meet so we are forced to choose between guys who don't know how to translate the thought processes behind their actions into words OR guys who have no idea of how they could bridge their concepts into profitable, concrete action. This book, regrettably, falls squarely into the second category of think-a-mush. Completely uninspiring. Typical of books that are forced on unfortunate college students. Save your money for something better, whatever that might be.	2004-01-24
US	52654796	R2JTBMPQVG0QN1	091122629X	423743231	Change Your Mindand Keep the Change: Advanced NLP Submodalities Interventions	Books	2	16	30	N	N	another shallow pointless NLP book	disclaimer: I studied with Steve Andreas when he was at the top of his form and I think it was the best general experience of NLP that I have experienced, perhaps with the one exception of Richard Bandler in a peak moment.<br />having said that: NLP must have the worst literaure ever generated by a discipline which imagines that it should be taken seriously. <br />This book is simply awful, not much more or less awful than every other NLP book out there. Whatever NLP is, it doesn't translate to the written word... maybe no more than Jimi Hendrix transcriptions translate Jimi Hendrix... this detritus, and that's all it should be labelled as, this compost of concept, has all of the impact that hearing Voodoo Child played on an insipid string synthesizer at half tempo in a bloodless shopping mall out in the midwest somewhere... only much less interesting...	2004-01-24
US	52654796	R3KACV75MHJKVK	0312092962	395460704	Outrageous Betrayal: The Real Story of Werner Erhard from Est to Exile	Books	5	116	165	N	N	Dancing with the listening in a conversation for possibility	EEEEEEEEEyyyyyyooooowwwww!!!<br />It all came flooding back to me, the EST training, followed by a communication seminar, an advanced communication seminar, the Six Day training (where we were to become &quot;commandos&quot;, were required to watch some, er, &quot;offbeat&quot; movies, and talk about real personal stuff), then Mastery Of Empowerment, where we did Zen like meditations, repeatedly acknoledged that Werner was Source (of ??? not exactly specified), and got a jolly good vibe going.<br />Oh yes, there were also seminars with Fernando Flores, an interesting fellow who was once the finance minister for Salvador Allende, heavily into language and information theory... once upon a time Werner's left brain, so to speak, who inexplicably wasn't there on Mount Olympus one day...<br />Needless to say, there's a lot of stuff, many narratives woven together that many self proclaimed Forumites don't know about, weren't there when it happened, all of which got simplified and cooked down into easy to digest tales of days gone by.<br />Let me tell ya something. It never is so simple, never was, never will be. Pressman's book Outrageous Betrayal rings true as pure coin to my ears, it succeeeds in capturing the flavor of the 70's into the 80's hustle, the strange blend of improvisation, amateurishness, needfulness, as well as the intensity, the drive, the self deception, and the absurdity of that era. Werner was kind of an uber-manifestation of all that.<br />Somewhere along the line I found myself growing. The sense of community and shared purpose that once was sustaining and uplifting turned stale and oppressive. It was time to move on,<BR>grow up another notch, leave the great psychodrama behind for another generation to project it's unresolved collective issues on.<br />Reflecting on it, there is no way that something as intense and nutso, while mind expanding and challenging too, could have possibly happened had Werner Hans been a normal run of the mill dude. You couldn't get there from here without the sound and the fury.<br />Its that complexity, trickster archetype, puer aeternus and senex stuff that James Hillman talked about that Pressman can't wrap his mind around, 'cause he's treating Werner as just another scandalous mountebank when he was much more than that.<br />I still loved reading the book, no qualmes with the truth telling approach, Pressman is right on with what he says, only too bad he couldn't fold it in with the larger story, which isn't all that sweet and perfect either, just larger, weirder,  more glorious, and kinda creepy too...<br />To this day I ask myself, what the heck was THAT ???<br />The I discovered a fantastic little book written in 1895 by Gustave Le Bon titled The Crowd... most highly recommended for anyone thinking about LGATs or mass thinking of any kind. This incredible book put it into perspective for me. I think it should be required reading for every college student in America.<br />If you are considering any large group spiritual or self help-transformative seminar, please take the time to read Le Bon's masterpiece carefully, and read it twice, and take notes, before you sign on the line.<br />Bon Voyage kiddos... life can surpass any fiction ever written	2004-01-24
US	52654796	R2ED5WMKW6Z7ZM	0967286247	301872494	Conquering Deception	Books	4	13	15	N	N	owes a huge debt to NLP techniques but still pretty good	this book could have been titled &quot;NLP in fieldwork and the kinesic interview&quot; and we would have had a much more accurate idea of what it was about. I did enjoy tasting how Nance blended NLP technology with the problems of information gathering under adverse circumstances. It is also a good way to introduce those with no NLP experience to the idea of NLP's value in negiotiating and questioning processes where there is an adversarial relationship. He drops a few interesting tidbits from the inside, such as  20% of career police may fit the sociopathic personality style... takes one to know one it seems...<BR>  All the same, if I wanted to gain a little more edge in my negotiating style, I would nead this book. I seriously doubt I'd be able to &quot;instantly spot when others try to manipulate you to get their way&quot; as the cover manipulatively claims for itself...	2004-01-22
US	52654796	R6AQAQSUJPZQX	0870340565	447907964	Speculation As a Fine Art and Thoughts on Life (Fraser Publishing Library)	Books	1	3	24	N	N	a ludicrous hunk of junk	Nothing more than a list of semi insightful maxims by a guy you never heard of nor have any reason to. A total waste of time. What were they thinking ?	2004-01-22
US	52654796	R2MIHPKAR4Q0WA	0446529575	309646525	Thinking for a Change: 11 Ways Highly Successful People Approach Life and Work	Books	3	19	27	N	N	an underachiever of a book.... could, should be much better	Maxwell has a good structure. These 11 thinking styles are all invaluable, and he is to be credited with bringing them together in one place.<br />That said, he does not dig nearly enough to bring his points to life. The tone throughout is homiletic when it should be far more concretely informative.<br />His grasp of creativity and creative processes is weak, if not trivial. Did he bother sitting down with specialists in this field, reading its literature, or considering the many ways that creative thinking opearates on multiple planes of abstraction ? Doesn't seem like it from reading this middle brow arglebargle.<br />I mean, c'mon... &quot;creative thinkers celebrate the offbeat&quot;. Ya, that looks self evident...&quot;creative thinkers don't fear failure&quot;.. no kidding...&quot;creative thinking challenges the status quo&quot;...stunnning revelation there..and of course, you should &quot;embrace those who are creative&quot;... just not too closely... GAAAAAAAK !!!!!! <br />Then we could proceed apace to &quot;Release The Power Of Strategic Thinking&quot;... oh yes, indeed, we should do that, but how sir ?<BR>Ah, &quot;develop your plan&quot;....has this guy ever heard of Arie de Geus and Royal Dutch Shell ?, Peter Schwartz ?, scenario planning ?, critical path method ?, NLP beyond a passing reference to Tony Robbins ?, and of course, there is a strong whiff of Edward de Bono's earlier work on thinking strategies, Six Thinking Hats... as a matter of fact, in his 79 cited references at the rear of the book (which has no index for cross referencing by the by) Edward de Bono isn't mentioned, although there was at least one brief quote by de Bono in the book.<br />A mediocre, intellectually lazy piece of work that will be of moderate value to beginners. Its basic points are valuable to those who have not been exposed to this structure, but it sorely lacks depth, committment to its subject, or the information value to hold the interest of a reader of above average mental capacity.	2004-01-22
US	52654796	R1GI4XMH8J81E8	087004110X	277390249	The Art of Contrary Thinking	Books	1	16	49	N	N	an instant candidate for the round file	Another abysmal reprint of mind numbing market lore from days gone by. Not worth the time to open. Read Gustave le Bon and learn something useful. Line the birdcage with this.	2004-01-22
US	52654796	RPRPEMFUD51T8	093158034X	768189090	Life 102: What to Do When Your Guru Sues You	Books	5	36	38	N	N	essential for understanding the psychology of devotees	Life 102 is something of a specialist's text. The average reader in search of juicy scandal might be overloaded with the level of detail in Mc Williams' book. <br />Contrasted with Steven Pressman's expose of John Rosenberg who became Jack Frost who became Kurt Wilhelm Von Savage who became Werner Hans Erhard in the book _Outrageous Betrayal, The Dark Journey Of Werner Erhard From EST to Exile_, McWilliams' treatement of his subject is far more personal, nuanced, and interior.<br />Both Pressman, a reporter who sought to unravel an objective fact pattern that existed behind the &quot;Werner&quot; persona, and McWilliams, a self help author, describe on an identifiable psychological type, the Narcisstic Charismatic.<br />Sinclair Lewis' fictional creation, the preacher Elmer Gantry, <BR>is in all probability the best extended meditation on the Narcisstic Charismatic. Life 102 often reads like a surreal retelling of Elmer Gantry with a dollop of Flannery O'Conner's _Wise Blood_, a goodly helping of Madame Blavatsky, some fringe science fiction, and a shot of daytime television game shows seen under the influence of mind altering substances.<br />A very useful and compact work, _Hypnotic Leadership_ by Micha Popper, will be necessary reading for those who wish to have a better psychodynamic grasp of this subject.<br />McWilliams appears to be in the last throes of ambivalence with Life 102, as he has neither Pressman's journalistic ability to tightly edit his thoughts, nor Popper's academic clarity, nor Sinclair Lewis' gifts as a storyteller.<br />He does, however, offer an exceptionally detailed study of the thought processes which animate the Leader figure as well as those of the Followers. McWilliams has found himself in the unique position of being able to look both ways, how does the Leader impose his will on his group, and how the group enables and empowers the Leader. One soon detects the outline of a dialectical process of the Leader and the Follower creating and shaping one another in a stable, hermetic &quot;reality maintenance contract&quot;.<br />The major task before this field is that of shifting from the idea of the Leader as an alien force that captures unsuspecting souls in his tractor beams to that of appreciating that the Leader is more a creation of his Followers (who then willingly transfer their inner authority over to him) than the Followers are a creation of the Leader.<br />The Narcissistic Charismatic appears to be a disturbed personality type who might otherwise be marginalized or ridiculed, but under certain social circumstances discovers the perfect fertile soil for his &quot;gift&quot; to bear fruit.<br />Peter McWilliams has done an excellent (thorough to the point of tedium) job of capturing many salient details that other writers have glossed over as mere noise or simple too much effort to belabor. However, in paying close attention to these datails, much like examining a good specimen under a microscope, one can indeed fill out one's mental portrait of the Narcisstic Charismatic personality type, his tactics of &quot;thought judo&quot;, his obsession with loyalty and betrayal, the gradual hardening of the personality, the wish to invent a parallel reality in which one is a deity or a superbeing, the gross discrepancies between the way the Followers perceive the Leader (his hygeine, his idiosyncracies, the meaning of his behavior and utterances) and a more objective, indifferent observer would.<br />For these reasons Life 102 is highly recommended for all students of the Narcisstic Charismatic personality, not as great literature, but as a highly detailed blueprint of this style and how it operates.	2003-12-21
US	52654796	R2XH27CB3MQDHE	0962836605	169488097	Kalev Mark Kostabi: The Early Years	Books	1	11	20	N	N	most apalling idiocy ever disdorged	Mistah Kostabi, he yesterday's boiled cabbage. This book, laughable monstrosity, as weird and uncategorizably nutty as a momument built by Kim Jong Il in praise of himself, or Nero forcing Roman nobility to listen to him warble, or perhaps Rupert Pupkin kidnapping Jerry Langford so he could insist that America to listen to his jokes. This massive display, and massive it is, of egotism and lack of proportion, could only have happened in the unhinged atmosphere of the '80s, when folly and excess ran amok, and the general level of taste in all things aesthetic hit a once in a millenium low point, most probably as a result of the sunspot cycle interacting with transits of Pluto, or something equally beyond human comprehension. To give Markie some credit, the context of his moment was aptly described by Hunter Thompson's title, &quot;Generation Of Swine&quot;, an understatement if there ever was one. Once the wild pigs had stampeded elsewhere, to tear up the earth with their SUVs and bloatburger homes, the general public lost all interest in the Kostabis of the world, those silly quasi celebrities who confused being in the right place at the right time with actually having chops. The day of the locust having passed, all that remains are bizarre momentos such as this. In the intervening years since it was published, Kostabi's market moved from the upscale art collectors world to the gamey sweathog underlayer of poster shops and schlock galleries, and from there to total oblivion as far as anyone can tell. There really is no nostalgia for Kostabi's '80s ; the age of Tina Brown, wads of loose cash, Vanity Fair profiles, Reaganomics, post modern tastelessness and incomprehensible academic detritus, Deconstruction or Whatever. Kostabi was fond of Beaudrillard, the great contemplator of the Simulacrum. If Mark had a philosophical bent, which I think he did, it was directed towards the commodification of all human conduct. He obsessed over the alienating and dehumanizing effects of money, yet he was ruled and imprisoned by those same obsessions. He would not be an artist, but a Simulacrum of an artist, like Andy Warhol declaring that he wanted to be a machine. Kostabi the Warhol simulacrum, as it were. In the final analysis, he was removed from the game by his sheer tastelessness and complete lack of subtlety in human interactions. Early Years was the gambit to be art's Comeback Kid. Instead he became a confirmation of Scott Fitgerald's quip, &quot;there are no second acts in American lives&quot;. That's not a universal truth, witness the many comebacks of the real article, such as Frank Lloyd Wright. It is true, however, that America has a fascination of Icarus figures, especially as they fly too close to the sun. Julian Schnabel could pull himself out of free fall with a brilliantly acrobatic career switch, from painter to director of films about artists. Kostabi has proved himself no such an adept counterpuncher, soldiering on with the hope that the old magic will strike again. Perhaps his one hope is that Schnabel will make a film about him, which is about as likely as the sun rising in the west. The likelihood is that he will be a case study or a footnote in the history of his time, but little more than that.	2001-08-02
US	52654796	R2KM2MBQ7T9EDW	006097060X	503205979	Metal Men: How Marc Rich Defrauded the Country, Evaded the Law, and Became the World's Most Sought-After Corporate Criminal	Books	4	11	14	N	N	fascinating look below the surface of events	The brevity of Copetas' book allows it to be mercifully readable. On the other hand, Metal Men is so condensed that federal prosecution of Marc Rich (who managed to become a Spaniard in order to avoid extradition) and Pincus Green (who became a Bolivian for the same reason) is difficult to follow.    The best sections of the book are the juicy nuggets that leave the reader whetted for more information. This is especially true when Marc Rich's relationship with Henry Kissinger and Kissinger Associates is discussed. Marc refers to the good doctor as &quot;K&quot;, perhaps an allusion to Franz Kafka's narrator in the book Schloss. How appropriate. Clearly there was, and perhaps still is, much mutual benefit in the relationship between two master players who operate at the same level in their respective games. Copetas would not be faulted if he enlarged on this particular topic.   One might wish for more background on the peculiar relationship the wholesome country of Switzerland has had with mobsters, white collar crime of a certain calibre, and kleptocratic despots over the past decades, if not centuries.   The enchanting Canton of Zug emerges as an especially infested banana republic within a national governmental system that sees all money as created equal, and equally welcome into its banking system, regardless of provenance. This is a far cry from the Switzerland of alpine cheeses, pure air, teutonic ski bums, and clinics for the super rich. More the Gnome Switzerland of secrets and Croesus grade wealth and grey teflon coated bureaucrats.  Then there hints at generally unreported connections, such as a strong, if not well known, presence Swedes in Thailand. Swedes in Thailand ? We would like to know more.    Perhaps additional insight into the underworld of international arms trade, which figured in some of Rich's dealings, as with the Ayotallah Khomeni. Somewhere in here we expect to find the thread of Iran-Contra, but that subject, too, is left to mere suggestion.   Considering what Mr. Copetas appears to know, but has edited out for the sake of brevity or marketability, there is a much larger and more enlightening book waiting to be composed from his files.    One doubts that such a work would be welcomed with open arms by much of the political establishment, but by golly it would make eye opening tome.	2001-06-27
US	52654796	R18MDLP476KDH7	037540130X	166912833	The Money and the Power:  The Making of Las Vegas and Its Hold on America	Books	5	30	31	N	N	The history you don't know, and would never know	This book should be categorized as American History instead of being assigned to the social niche of Las Vegas gangster lore. The implied dynamic between uniquely American styles of Good and Evil is expressed in Miltonian terms, where Evil is more than simple badness, it also is endlessly energizing and fascinating. Denton and Morris propose what few Americans would willingly admit. The Mobs and sub Mobs in this country are not a thing apart, but very much part and parcel of who we are. The suggestion is here that we must grow past the _light on the hill_ fantasy of American purity and exceptionalism and accept the harsh truths of the real America without flinching. The secondary suggestion I think Denton and Morris put foreward is that America has operated in an atmosphere of denial. The psychology of denial was one of the consequences of the cold war era, when overt criticism of the American system was judged as seditious or unpatriotic. The Las Vegas mechanism was, as the authors illustrate, connected to the McCarthy period, red scares, xenophobia, atomic testing ( guests in Vegas hotels paid premium to have views of the desert bomb tests )in a morbid symbiosis. The shadowy figure of Meyer Lansky haunts the entire scene as the mastermind who may have so effectively compromised J.Edgar Hoover that virtually none of the mob activities would be admitted to, much less prosecuted. This book is In Your Face history, not abstract chin stroking. Too controvesial for your average university, where it is the very book that ought to be assigned. You won't be able to get a complete handle on the American condition without taking The Money an The Power into consideration. If you can find it in the used section of your local bookstore, read Dark Victory : Ronald Reagan, MCA and the Mob by Dan E. Moldea too. The picture will begin to flesh out.	2001-06-08
US	52654796	R3GXT2MK64BIZ8	0135915120	806824504	Fuzzy Logic and NeuroFuzzy Applications in Business and Finance	Books	4	1	1	N	N	If you plan on learning the Fuzzytech program, you need this	As a user of the fuzzy logic program that von Altrock's company makes, I have found that this book is absolutely necessary. The truly weird thing is that Inform, the software publisher, doesn't tell you about this book, when it should be included with every Fuzzy program that they sell. The manual that is included with the program is wretchedly bad; dull, confusing, and pointless. Only worse. Once you discover this book, much of the operational confusion surrounding Fuzzytech will be cleared up. However, von Altrock cannot resist a certain measure of obscurity. NeuroFuzzy applications is direct and clear, but leaves plenty of understanding gaps between one implementation and another. Von Altrock needs to expand this text and provide a wider range of specifics and details. For instance, until very recently, Fuzzytech suffered from a limited ability to read data files. This placed the program far behind the curve of contemporary usage. This is badly needed information; how does the progam really work ? Since this is the ONLY readable volume on the subject, von Altrock and Inform would be well advised to do a more thorough job of linking theory to practice.	2001-03-03
US	52654796	R1EVSTBB9IGMRZ	0942540239	95680388	60 Minutes and the Assassination of Werner Erhard: How America's Top Rated Television Show Was Used in an Attempt to Destroy a Man Who Was Making A Difference	Books	2	31	80	N	N	The life and times of John Rosenberg, I mean Werner Erhard..	have been either celebrated by a fawning and uncritical Pro-Werner faction or excoriated by the anti-cultists. The truth itself is painfully hard to get at. The EST organization as I remember it was just about the smuggest, most self congratulatory, and secretive group I ever encountered. The &quot;trainers&quot; were alternately cruel, seductive, and relentlessly manipulative. However, the majority of the trainees liked the adrenaline rush of having their minds played with by these entertainer-preacher pseudo father figures. Films of Werner got excruciatingly messianic, with Werner photographed in soft focus that made him seem to glow, or radiate spiritual light, while his trainees were photographed with harsh, high focus light. Clearly the message was that Werner is on a different plane from ordinary mortals. It was a profound narcissism the the EST people took pains not to dispel, and covertly attached their own narcissistic thought processes to.    Given the tragicomic dimensions of this circus, and also given that Werner and EST did bring something beneficial with them as well, the capacity for self examination and the will to move beyond one's &quot;act&quot; or life story, one might reasonbly conclude that Werner is a man of complex, if not contradictory, motivations.     Realities being realities, not what acolytes would hope them to be, the downfall of Mr. Rosenberg was, as he himself might put it, &quot;a catastrophe waiting to happen&quot;.      Jane Self, Ph.D., I fear, cannot bring herself to acknowledge that Rosenberg's own personality was far more instrumental in the unfolding of this bizarre tale than the mere  venality of television journalists or the machination of well connected Scientologists.     They well may have taken advantage of what appeared to be the perfect opportunity to settle old scores, but it was his strugle to lose. Ultimately, Werner did Werner in.      I lived near Mr. Erhard/Rosenberg in San Francisco and often recall passing byhis house. I didn't know it was his house at the time, other than remembering there was something unsettling and offputting about its design. The vibe was alien and menacing. The place really gave me the creeps, but I was never able to settle on exactly why.       When I saw the 60 minutes segment that &quot;assassinated&quot; (by the way, Jane, isn't using language like &quot;assassinated&quot; what Werner would decry as &quot;making them wrong&quot;.... for those of you uninitiated in EST lingo, it is saturated with these quasi-philosophical catchphrases that sound deep and wise until you ask the trainer what they mean. Don't expect a coherent answer !) Rosneberg or Erhard or whoever He is these days, I immediately recognized that house and the pieces clicked together. That place, That person, no wonder.     In closing, I feel that Werner betrayed the hopes and trust of his disciples, ran out on those who had given their lives and ideals to him, and never adequately &quot;took responsibility for creating his reality&quot;. Nor do I feel that Dr. Self has managed that all important step of emotional disentaglement from a deeply troubled but powerfully inspirational man. She hasn't quite found the objective &quot;space&quot; outside of Werner's reality to put the bad and the good, the sublime and the ridiculous, the vainglorious and the transcendent, in their proper places, with the appropriate degee of emphasis, to fully understand this man or the fate that befell him.	2001-02-08
US	52654796	RQD0MSHISEAG6	1568581904	997316547	Running Scared: The Life and Treacherous Times of Las Vegas Casino King Steve Wynn	Books	5	3	6	N	N	a flawed but necessary book.	The negative reviews are fair enough. The book reads like National Enquirer grade journalism. On the other hand, how many writers have had the guts to approach this subject head on ? Smith is most effective at bringing the reader into the environment that surrounds Wynn. One you begin to realize how seamlessly the world of hard core criminality has blended with ideals of &quot;family life&quot; and high culture, thanks to the inventive minds of the gaming industry, you might take a step back and ask what we are inadvertantly turning into. Have we been complicit in handing over  popular culture to well tailored goombahs ? One might begin to reach that conclusion. One might begin to consider the consequences of an amoral money-power fascination that has taken hold in America. Does Wynn represent the emergence of a new type of hero, the wiseguy who gets over ? Yo, Wynn got over, America bought in. Is this who we are destined to become ?	2001-02-03
US	52654796	R1FHTDDRL6VQWO	0393049566	144018507	Socrates Cafe: A Fresh Taste of Philosophy	Books	5	18	31	N	N	ought to part of every university curriculum	dispense with flatulent slogs through Zen And The Art Of Motorcycle Maintenance, bloated icon of hippie intellectualism.<br />Read this instead. Have your kids read this. Have your students read this. Have your church groups read this.<br />It's about two things, the social life of the mind and the mental life of the community. How you think for yourself while thinking with others. <br />Powerful, necessary, humanizing. Can you be rigorous without being a prig ? Can you have convictions without being a constipated moralizer ?  Can liberalism coexist with conservatism, or have both gone off the rails ?<br />You won't find answers here, but you will find the path to knowing how to ask questions, and why you should.<br />&quot;The unexamined life isn't worth living&quot; -Socrates<br />&quot;The unlived life isn't worth examining&quot; -Robert Hughes	2001-02-01
US	52654796	REJM9ZR1Y3867	038549503X	65095566	One Market Under God: Extreme Capitalism, Market Populism and the End of Economic Democracy	Books	5	16	23	N	N	Tom Frank is telling the truth ; ditch the hokum, folks.	A surprising, long overdue return of thoughtful dissent. After years of being stuffed like turkeys with economic and cultural dishonesty, not the least by academic shills pretending to supply &quot;us&quot; with objective analysis, Tom Frank emerges as a cross between Jeramiah and Cool Hand Luke. &quot;What we have here is a failure to communicate&quot;. Quite, sir.    If O.M.U.G. is somewhat on the tight and chewy side, you'll find that &quot;A Massive Swelling: Celebrity Re-Examined As a Grotesque, Crippling Disease and Other Cultural Revelations&quot; by Cintra Wilson is equally relevant, loose as a goose, and a perfect companion to this book. Read 'em both. You won't be disappointed.	2001-01-14
US	52654796	R2I3EOA0JOME11	0670891622	197999044	A Massive Swelling:  Celebrity Re-Examined As a Grotesque, Crippling Disease and Other Cultural Revelations	Books	4	8	9	N	N	a tangential analysis of putrid american mind rot	Madame Cintra hath hit the nail on the head, tiny and misshapen as that head may be. The central issue here is the mutation of Fame, once an aura that cloaked the highly accomplished as an epiphenomenon, has now become a purely mundane commodity, like sterilized cow manure. CW focuses her incredulous disgust at the most shameless of perpetrators, but one suspects her real targets are not the megelomaniac freaks on the stage, but the mindless legions of zombies that consume the fetid swill as if it were ambrosia of the gods.     Fame is now the &quot;radioactive beef&quot; that moronizes both the performer and the audience, in differing ways and in differing degrees. Of course, lurking in the shadows is the implicit recognition of the Corporate absorbtion of Everything into one great happy, megamerged obedience school for lobotomized work-a-trolls who should be thankful for a pizza with The Works as a reward for good company boy self abasement.     Corporatism isn't directly assaulted in this book, undoubtedly because Madame Cintra has the acumen to fly under the radar of hidden forms of censorship. But have no doubt, Corporatism is the cause, as it needs to reduce everything it touches into a return maximizing, clearcutting, fume belching money machine.    But, know the disease by its symptoms. Superstardom that has evolved into a different Ontological category; Audiences as mass consumers of plasticized crud, the Media as docile and cuddly PR pets, who will say or do almost anything if the price is right.    Ms. Wilson, for all her hyperbole and contortionism, is essentially right on in her analysis of the situation, and just about the only person on the scene with the guts and wit to tell it like it is, without shrivelling into the typical careerist bet hedging gooey eyed flattery spewing baby talking goo goo neurotic greasy pole shinnying imbecile.     My hat goes of to her. More power to ya, babe.	2001-01-14
US	52654796	R19UI88D9ZXURW	0140195742	77932234	Tripping: An Anthology of True-Life Psychedelic Adventures	Books	4	8	9	N	N	mandatory reading for passage through an absurd time	Tripping, the book, is a collection of brief but compact, and often intense explorations of the meaning of Being. Here is the classic mid-journey text that has outgrown the initial amazement of psychedelic enlargement but still retains the open endedness that much remains to be learned. Tripping, the experience, is presented without gloss as the unpredictable state of consciousness that may be kissed by the angels, interrogated by the demons, or simply incredibly weird. Some experimenters record life changing moments of psychic integration and movement to a higher plane, as a lifelong clarification, others describe the possibility of sinking into the *schlomuss*, or state of spiritual desperation. A worthy and honest book such as this one should make us concerned to know which circumstances are most likely to promote change of great value, and which may lead in another direction. The author himself, to his great credit, begins the narrratives with a questioning note much like this. As Tripping will be a heavily referred to text in the upcoming Mind States II conference, readers should also consider The Elementary Particles by Michel Houellebecq , a moderately difficult but highly important work that might have been titled UnTripping. I read Hayes and Houellebecq side by side, a couple of narratives from Tripping, then a chapter of Elementary Particles. The combined experience is not easy to absorb intellectually, but once all has settled, the whole is much greater than the sum of the parts. If I had to make one recommendation , it would be to read these books together and treat them as a single masterpiece that no sigle mind could have imagined.	2000-12-31
US	52654796	R1TCAH0V8CCVXX	0375407707	185430326	The Elementary Particles	Books	5	9	9	N	N	wicked , accurate, literate, funny as all get down	Houellebecq goes for throat. In a cultural landscape polluted with trivial blather elevated to the status of literature, the shock of reading an author with a real message hits one like an energy pulse. His most unpalatable thesis, from the soft center of the overripe intelligensia, is that many of the directions explored as liberating alternatives in the decades of the sixties and seventies, were poisonous seed crystals dropped into the historical flux. The narcissism and insidious narrowing of the self energised a relentless project of converting public life and public space into a hyper-aggressive marketplace. The aggressivity, insistence, and spiritual coldness of the petty demanding individual became the template modern life was erected on. For Houellebecq, the liberations into pleasure, the Sex, Drugs, and Rock'n'Roll of it all, as George Trow would put it, led directly to an autistic void that only the strongest, most refractory or creative could resist. For the *reste* , the pinkish brown mass of fleshapoids, life was to become an endless successions of inane spectacle, freeze dried fantasy, halfwit cults, new age phantasmagoria, cosmetic surgery, how to books, and a generalized liquification of the western project. All of which would be unbearable if he wasn't so horselaugh funny, but, he blessedly is. I never knew the decline of the west could be construed as stand up comedy, but it has been well served here. Most highly recommended.	2000-12-30
US	52654796	RIAQY3WG196DN	0140195742	77932234	Tripping: An Anthology of True-Life Psychedelic Adventures	Books	3	3	8	N	N	a piece of the whole: compelling anecdotes seeking context	As is, Tripping is a welcome improvement in the genre of psychedelic adventure writing. Ecstatic experiences have been acknowledged and accepted in all the major religions, so we must accept that the ecstatic is an integral part of human development. The great metaphysical frameworks we often call religions do also incorporate ecstatic states into wisdom culture and the stabilising presence of elders and the resevoirs of knowledge that elders represent.     An ecstatic experience needs the grounded rootedness that comes from long experience of life and human struggles towards consciousness, including the awareness of illusion, wrong turns, and misunderstanding of intense experience and how to integrate it into normal life.    Tripping succeeds at pointing in this direction, even if it does not fully make the connection.    One should also consider that the historical moment that made tripping as a consciousness option also opened up multitudes of other pathways that may or may not have included chemical substances.     How did human potential movements and seminars like the Erhard Sensitivity training fit into all of this ? Or Neuro-Linguistic Programming, or the language work of Fernando Flores ?     Was tripping a matter of personal interior experience, or did it have important political implications as a form of Counter-Consciousness that made it possible to resist the encroachment of the media empires into the private reaches of the mind ?     Did it change our understanding of what sex meant ? Were there new ways of experiencing sex that conflicted with the culturally defined ways that one was expected to manifest sexual energy ?    Or did it make sex irrelevant when one could have a mental experience of greater than orgasmic intensity ?    How were other contextual matters affected, such as long term family dynamics, or parent child relationships over several generations, or the sorts of people one was now attracted to or found oneself moving away from ?    And of course, how does the user balance the drive to the Pleasure Principle (escapism, denial, mindlessness, rationlization) with the Reality Principle (responsibility, realism, mindfulness,confronting problems head on) ?     Tripping is an encouraging start, let us hope the adventure continues with intelligence and consciousness.	2000-12-28
US	52654796	R5KJ4UONW0JUK	0671041282	851448745	Power Money Fame Sex: A User's Guide	Books	3	11	19	N	N	a ridiculous, tacky puff pastry : good fun, minimal depth	this is yet another repackaging of the lets pretend we're big deal machiavellians school of recipe books. An unspecified hero is rising to the top with rocket boosters of money, fame, sex and power, and we can hitch a vicarious ride. Welcome to the horrid little soap opera where everything is done with perfectly buffed ulterior motives. Did anyone stop and ask why people who actually life according to these theories of life end up miserable, isolated, distrusted, and heavily medicated ? Could be that what you sew, you reap. Generally what goes around has gotten tenfold more extreme by the time it comes around, and then you sit down to a big steaming bowlful of your own folly. Since the author quotes from Edith Wharton, it should follow that she understands the lessons Wharton drew from life. A few novels by Anthony Trollope may serve as a partial antidote to the absurdity and naivete of such dubious advice. Provided the reader has the mind to uderstand the difference. Obviously the writer doesn't.	2000-10-19
US	52654796	R22IJKMYMGI32A	0684853779	999464161	Bobos in Paradise: The New Upper Class and How They Got There	Books	3	4	8	N	N	fun, breezy, soft around the edges like overripe brie cheeze	The author tries, but not too hard. Comes across like Hegel for Dummies. Broad analytic theme: '60s rebels meet '80s yuppies, Thesis meets Antithesis,and presto ! Synthesis ! Bobos. Look more closely, and it's not  so simple. Multiculturalism and superficial inclusionism may be masquerades  of new and subtle forms of domination. Whoops. There I go again, sounding  like a disaffected polarizer. Now we know that all right thinking people  have resolved their conflicts, and nearly the worst kind of mindset you can  have is contentiousness, doubt, or the hardheaded inability to get with the  program and massage every substantive issue in sight with cocoa butter.  Perhaps the nurturing of a hipped up corporate culture is in fact a way of  disguising the fact that your employer has found more subtle ways of  encouraging you to work yourself to death, or the compulsive shopping  binges may be poor trade offs for arrested emotional or spiritual  development. Maybe. Who knows, maybe arrested development is a great thing  if we'd only learn to see it in the right light. But, then again, the  author might have concerned himself with issues like time poverty, as  opposed to money poverty, or what the differences between deep, slowly  acquired knowledge compared with instant information might add up to , in  the long haul. He appears to be mildly ill at ease with the hollowing out  of social life, but sees this as remedied by a felt need to return to  traditional forms of community. But he neglects to consider what the  differences between utilitarian rule following and real culture, whether  literary, filmic, theatric, or musical, might add up to. An orderly 'burb  tucked away in the evening hypnotized by television or pecking away on the  internet, regardless of how many ethnic and spiritual doohickies and badges  of cultural pretension they may have hanging around, is not the same as  people discussing Bergman or Proust. Maybe it's the difference that Charles  Tart noticed between brains and minds. The Bohos, at the best, had minds.  The Bobos appear to have their share of brains, but not much mind. Their  spiritual lives,if they could be called that, seem like a commercialized  pantomime of mindfulness, knowing all the words but not catching the tune.	2000-07-03
US	52654796	R13GI1KJNGSCFN	1585420182	34286366	The Age of Access: The New Culture of Hypercapitalism, Where All of Life Is a Paid-For Experience	Books	5	7	18	N	N	you have to read this book now	Definitely. Rifkin put his finger on it. Or the multiple its that make up life today. Yup, a lot of the disconnected noise of life has strong background patterning. Massive corporate consolidation has turned culture  into so much balogna, to be sliced off and piled on your plate in uniform,  homogeneous portions, as long as you keep forking over the moolah. No pay,  no play. Rifkin dilates on the long term consequences of life as the  perectly made franchise outlet meatball. Otherwise perfectly nice people  become, eh, Protean. Protean ? Did he mean Cyborgs, perchance? Logic gives  way to impressionistic, fashion'n'fad driven consumerism of the most banal  sort. Public spaces now feature mental airlocks that keep out the most  determined non-rent-paying zealots and petition waving blue faced  did-not-get-with-the-program types. And the people love it! Oh, you have an  opinion, do you ? Isn't that charming !  Well, fugedabowdit. Nobody has an  opinion any more. Not allowed. Against policy, ya see. Why don't you go buy  yourself a trinket. Like I said, you have to read this book.	2000-04-21
US	52654796	R3DQS7ZH9UWYV	0316316962	226933679	The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference	Books	3	34	40	N	N	chatty and plausible, but where's the evidence ?	actually, I liked the book as a mental stimulant, but found the know-it-all tone both naive and pompous. Three personality types are posited, Communicators, Persuaders, and Mavens. What hard evidence does the  author have to demonstate the validity of these categories ? Did he just  dream them up because they sounded like good copy, or is his work based on  well researched personality theory ? No mention is made of chaos theory,  which provides a mathematical perspective on non linear phenomena (i.e.  &quot;tipping&quot;). Whither the numbers? Next we are intoduced to the  elusive concept of &quot;stickyness&quot;. This chapter needs considerable  thought and extra effort before it qualifies serious work. How is  stickyness to be measured or defined in a mobile adult population (as  opposed to children responding to distraction scales in artificial  settings) ? Are we talking about long term memory potentiation,  associational webbing, or what, exactly ? Does this somehow related to  Weber's &quot;charisma&quot; ? Then onward to behavioral cueing, or  &quot;the power of context&quot;. A good intoduction to the subject, but  again, doesn't refine its gradients. At what point does an environmental  cue initiate a behavioral change ? How does a subject read an environmental  cue ? Is a broken window all it takes, or do you need other elements as  well, such as presence of debris, or lack of lighting ? So on and so forth.  Suggestion from the peanut gallery: go back, know your subject better,  spend some time with first rate sociologists, and rewrite the book.	2000-04-08
US	52654796	R1V8KBDLNN8MDM	0375405046	761338189	NoBrow: The Culture of Marketing - the Marketing of Culture	Books	3	9	15	N	N	hypnotized by the Void, we soldier on through the crudscape.	Sorta. Hard to imagine taking all that MTV pseudo-culture even half seriously. Snoop Dogg is sooooo cute ! O Wow. Mmmmmm. chapter six. Sunday in Soho. Lets take a walk with John Seabrook and be fascinated with all the  groovy stuff he finds fascinating. Saith he: &quot;These cultural equites  rise and fall in the stock market of popualar opinion, and therefore one  has to manage one's portfolio of investments with care. No value endures;  everything shifts through the marketplace of opinion&quot;. Cripes. Reads  like the essay of a precocious high school senior. Earnest, intellectually  uncoordinated, insightful in spite of itself, rather like a companion  volume to Glamorama. Then you realize that Andy Warhol said it all so much  better.	2000-04-08
US	52654796	R1936U8JXM9FRJ	0679457542	418762857	The Operator: David Geffen Builds, Buys, and Sells the New Hollywood	Books	4	15	19	N	N	you've got to be kidding	How did a book like this come to be written about a living person of Geffen's power, with Geffen's cooperation ? The Operator opens up endless hidden layers of world class mind games, shameless confabulation,  breathtaking intelligence, and inexplicable weirdness. One leaves with the  sense of the entertainment business as one great dysfunctional family,  loves spinning out of control into hatreds, and mutual disgust converting  into strategic alliances.   On some level this must have disturbed David  Geffen, who sought self understanding through therapy and the EST movement.  Yet Geffen was able to move with ruthless prescision in spite of his inner  conflicts. He emerges as a disturbing but fascinating man, both  compulsively driven to succeed and bored by his successes, everywhere and  nowhere, having it all and living in a platinum emotional vacuum. One  criticism of the book is that it should have provided more detail on the  structures of the businesses Geffen moved within. We should know more about  the way the contracts were designed, negotiations orchestrated, the way  distribution channels were controlled, how the agent interacts with  the  broadcast media empires to get maximum airplay, and related drill downs  into the hard knuckled fine points of the deal.	2000-03-13
US	52654796	R1C620HKAO7AOT	0823663450	1727744	The Talent for Stupidity: The Psychology of the Bungler, the Incompetent, and the Ineffectual	Books	5	14	14	N	N	essential for understanding the human condition	This is a technical work, and assumes at least a passing familiarity with Freud and Psychoanalysis. However, it is one of the most important missing pieces in understanding motivation and interpersonal dynamics. As most  psychiatry has been reduced to a moronized adjunct to the pharmaceutical  industry, we begin to appreciate the necessity of Bergler's contributions.  In this book, Bergler explores the possibility of incompetence as a  strategic choice. The incompetent, or as we ought to distinguish, the  pseudo-incompetent (as opposed to the ignorant, uninformed, or confused)  uses his or her intelligence to sabotage the flow of events. Bergler sees  this sabotage as a form of self abnegation via masochistic need for failure  and shame. Others may feel that incompetence may serve as a conciously  chosen  pseudo-identity in order to escape responsibility. After all, one  cannot ask much of one of whom little is expected.    Bergler's theories  are thus useful and necessary, but incomplete. Both the intrapsychic  dynamics of the punitive super-ego and the masochistic, shriveled,  insect-self (see Kafka, Metamorphosis) AND the real world environment of  power dynamics must be taken into account to develop a well formed  understanding of a person's true life situation. Nonetheless, anyone with  pretensions or intentions of being well informed in this field must read  Bergler thoroughly.	2000-03-02
US	52654796	R97KMPLMECL7L	0670881465	184172254	The 48 Laws of Power	Books	2	4	9	N	N	too simplistic, little insight into organizational dynamics	This book fails to recognize that power dynamics are now far more organizational and structural than they were in the times that most of this books examples have been drawn from.<br />This is not the age of city-states.  This is the age of the massive orgazization.<br />You'd be better off reading  &quot;Corporate Cults: The Insidious Lure of the All-Consuming  Organization&quot; (by Dave Arnott) to get a clear understanding of the way  environments are shaped socially and informationally.This is closer to the  real world that we must operate within.<br />You'd also have a clearer insight  into power if you read the book &quot;Toxic Sludge is Good For You&quot;.  Toxic Sludge may be the clearest, although dated, study of how power of  human lives is expressed through the media and &quot;the engineering of  consent&quot;, by controlling which images and stories the public is  allowed to see in oder to form its idea of what reality actually is.	2000-02-25
US	52654796	R1JYQ4RVO6J2TH	1573221155	908876211	Coercion: Why We Listen to What "They" Say	Books	4	6	6	N	N	an excellent survival manual,; it exposes the methods used	the writing style is still a little on the young side. Nobody is going to confuse this with great literature, but that's not the point. After being  through some sales head trips, I've wondered, how did that interaction work  out the way that it did ? After reading this book I have a much better  understanding of exactly what is going on in the sales psychodrama and I  feel like I am in a superior position to control the outcome. That's  valuable knowledge. Reading Coercion hasn't made me any more cynical, but  it has honed my vigilance and helped me focus my attention on what is  really going on, versus the scripted illusions of what the interaction  appears to be. Was I shocked or surprised ? No, I expected it to be the way  things are, but this book gives enough specific information to make the  sell side more transparent. Which is exactly what they don't want. I had  already read Toxic Sludge Is Good For You,a really disturbing book about  public relations and the shaping of public opinions, so Coercion felt like  a natural extension of that line of thought; things aren't as natural as  they seem to be. This book is a must read for any young person setting out  in the world, because the young are especially vulnerable to the  manipulative techniques that Rushkoff exposes. Forgive the book's  imperfections because they don't detract from the good points in a  meaningful way.	1999-10-27
US	52654796	RJXP326T1DAD2	0670881465	184172254	The 48 Laws of Power	Books	2	13	24	N	N	if these guys know so much, why aren't they powerful ?	Will Rogers said that it is better not to know than to knowsomething that ain't so. If this book is so packed with wisdom thenwhy don't they give us plenty of examples from recent history, or the here and now. I am supposed to employ spies, eh ? Where do I get these spies ? the yellow pages ? A detailed account of corporate espionage would be handy, but instead we'll be told that cows use their sense of smell, and brahmins used ancient texts, and princes uses spies. You swear ?  I have to both regal in my own unique way and also conceal my intentions ? No problemo. I'll saw off the Rolls hood ornament and tack weld it to the hood of my pickup truck. Cool.  best of both worlds.	1999-10-22
US	52654796	R2363BS2SMIZSH	0964287064	604905386	Pricing Strategy: An Interdisciplinary Approach	Books	2	13	13	N	N	good as an elementary text,  but simplistic and narrow	not at all bad as a way to get your feet half damp in pricing theory. Engelson depicts pricing and markets as if they were commodities, thus his models are out growths of commodity pricing models . If this were the case,  life (an pricing) would be a lot simpler, and probably a lot less  interesting. However, this isn't the way the real world works. Reality is  full of discontinuities and irrational (or semi rational) behavior that a  person in business who intends to survive has to think about. Engleson  acknowledges some of these difficulties, and then begs off, saying the  discussion of such topics is too broad, or too deep. Could be, but Engleson  could put more grit and insight into this book, such as case studies and  comparisons across different industries.     The pricing problems in the  retail clothing industry, the automotive industry, and the software  industry would be fascinating, and valuable, to see compared. So would  issues of product differentiation, where two premium products each have an  exclusive technology that offers different, but very desirable benefits.      His chapter on Strategy reads like a high school textbook: c'mon,  &quot;Planning,Thinking,Act,Strategic,Behavior&quot; !, this kind of dumbed  down language is truly insulting to the intelligence. How about discussing  some real strategy in action ? Like the tradeoffs of removing  intermediaries in distribution channels ? Or the effects of increased or  decreased regulation ? The best and worst thing that can be said about  Pricing Strategy is that it is mediocrity at its most mediocre, and Mr.  Engleson, mediocrity may have cut it twenty years ago, but the world has  changed greatly since then. Get with it.	1999-10-15
US	52654796	R22GUHGPQAPZAH	0385094027	863310726	The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life	Books	5	69	76	N	N	one tough, smart cookie of a book:  observant and brilliant	I had to re-read each chapter two or three times to get a full sense of what Goffman was driving at. His ability to get at the inner workings of human interactions is, if not unique, darned rare.  This book will repay  the effort it takes to read it many times over. Often he'll take up a  subject that other writers try to grapple with but don't quite nail, and  he'll land a bull's eye so clean and square your head spins.    The  examples may be dated by the 1950s world Goffman was describing, but the  fine details still ring true, as in &quot;Similarly, at middle class  American funerals, a hearse driver, decorously dressed in black and  tactfully located at the outskirts of the cemetary during the service, may  be allowed to smoke, but he is likely to shock and anger the bereaved if he  happens to flick his cigarette stub into a bush, letting it describe an  elegant arc, instead of circumspectly dropping it at his feet&quot;    It's  that fine grained detail that Goffman picks up on, that's what's missing in  so many page a minute recipe books of cheapo wisdom. And he writes better,  too.	1999-10-05
US	52654796	R2CQTTJHIXR371	1572304510	459490876	Without Conscience: The Disturbing World of the Psychopaths Among Us	Books	4	33	36	N	N	read it now or pay later !	right on, to the point,and no wasted words. it's a very good book, and it could be a much better book.  Hare implies that the world is divided into two camps, psychpaths and normals. In other words, he establishes a  polarity between the good guys and the bad guys. After you've been around  the block a few times, you realize that there are plenty of shades of grey  in between. Hare gives this group the designation &quot;sub criminal&quot;,  but even that's simplistic. There are probably more people with borderline  sociopathic personalities, or those who manifest some of the antisocial  traits, but are far from being full tilt psychopaths. It's this in between  group of personalities that Hare loses in his either/or model.     Also,  Hare speaks to normal parents who have psychopathic children, but he  ignores the family dynamics of normal children born to psychopathic  parents. What happens to them ?      Still, a fine introductory book that  anyone can benefit from reading. It deserves to be expanded and refined.	1999-09-18
US	52654796	R8Z4QJQ4PHP9Y	0670881465	184172254	The 48 Laws of Power	Books	2	10	11	N	N	this book should be read with other literature	if you are willing to buy and read this book, you should also get Without Conscience: The Disturbing World Of Psychopaths Among Us by Robert D. Hare; Games People Play : The Psychology of Human Relationships by Eric Berne;  and The Art Of Worldly Wisdom by Balthazar Gracian	1999-09-18
US	52654796	R19C2Z6RVM2EN1	0670881465	184172254	The 48 Laws of Power	Books	2	18	23	N	N	a half baked pseudo-scholarly middlebrow comic book	this book isn't so much a rigorous examination of the dynamic interplays that get lumped together under the vatic, ever enticing, and marketable concept of Power as it is a catalog of mediocre observations and trivial  truths glommed together with pretentious layouts, typefaces, and a faux  machiavellian tone guaranteed to wow the audience.     However, real power  is a far subtler business transacted on a daily basis by those who have  been through this stage of intellectual adolescence and moved on to higher  levels of the game.     Power also has a genuinely ethical dimension; a  positive, constructive, life ordering nature. The author(s) miss this  essential point. Power is not so often &quot;seized&quot; as it is granted,  and that granting of power can be undone or reversed if the one given it is  seen as no longer worthy.     Where this book implies that Power is a one  way street, where the power seeker must debase his or her values, attain a  cool nihilism, reject the common good, wallow in paranoid bogs of misstrust  and betrayal, many others would suggest that power may derive from adhering  to better values, finding dignity and reward in ordinary life, struggling  for common betterment, and above all, rising above the pettyness,  cheapness, small mindedness, sterility, and grubbing creulty of lost souls  going at each other like rodents in a bucket.     Power may have a  demonstrative, exemplary, transformative potential. The real question isn't  whether we can grab power, or not, but what we choose to do with power in  those moments when we experience it.     The power of a Nelson Mandela,  Franklin Roosevelt, Ghandi; this stands in the starkest contrast to  author's model of power.      Woe betide the naive seeker who imagines that  the book Power is anywher near a complete accounting of the phenomenon. It  is a partial and simplistic depiction. Within the confines of its'  partiality and oversimplification, it has solid enough points to make. A  few of the sketches are entertaining and some are mildly instructive. If  there is any lasting value to all of this, it may be to alert one that  there are those out there who will take Power's theories to heart, and one  eye has to be kept open for such creatures.    If you insist on reading  Power, do yourself the favor of Marcus Aurelius who will help you  understand the limitations of power, and Erving Goffman's &quot;The  Presentation Of Self In Everyday Life&quot;	1999-09-02
US	52654796	R1AF1BUROB34OS	1567510604	29980185	Toxic Sludge is Good For You: Lies, Damn Lies and the Public Relations Industry	Books	5	6	7	N	N	don't read this book !	Don't read this book ! A glib, one sided, condescending screed, this book  nonetheless is one of the most important of the decade. Required reading  for students of government, political science, or media. One of the more  unsettling revelations is the extent to which the public relations industry  operates our Orwellian memory hole. You will never look at singing raisins  the same way, not to mention disgusting fertilizer products manufactured  from municipal sludge and sold to home gardeners under all sorts of  eco-friendly names. Few books have made me feel as physically ill as this  one has.	1998-08-14
