US	52658228	R1PH9321JGQR9I	0805431829	330112979	Bye Bye Bertie	Books	5	3	3	N	N	LaFlam is a Fruit Loop	\\"Bye Bye Bertie\\" is far more comedy than mystery, loaded with Christian living observations which call for a grain of salt. I enjoyed it and look forward to Dewhurst's next book.<br /><br />In this one, Joe LaFlam is nut-case. A thirty-something self-declared private detective, whose biggest case is the one he gave himself probably more than a decade ago, that of finding a wife. Of course, if the Lord wills, he would follow the call to become an itinerate preacher so that he wouldn't have to work anymore. Until then, he's a P.I. by day, reluctant taxi driver by night, and despondently single.<br /><br />Of course, the single part may change if his latest client-babe can be persuaded into casting her lot with a fruit loop who is constantly running down mental tangents silently voiced with 1940s detective lingo, probably in a Bogart accent. \\"Things are never so bad they can't be made worse.\\"<br /><br />Which may be the reason I wanted to slap Joe a few times while reading Rick Dewhurst's hilarious account of about one week of his life. Joe is a Christian. I don't doubt his sincerity; but every time someone asks if he is Joe LaFlam, he replies, \\"In the flesh,\\" and that's how operates throughout the book. \\"I had the money. I would get the girl.\\" Unless the conspirators get him first.	2005-07-25
US	52658228	RKN6URKS3ZMFR	1576832600	746604865	Spirituality and Leadership: Harnessing the Wisdom, Guidance, and Power of the Soul (Designed for Influence)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Good thoughts, useful format	Lately, we've heard a lot of talk about leadership, probably because the world needs good leaders in the midst of rapid change. Columnist and Author Alan Nelson says we do need leaders, spiritual leaders who direct primarily from a strong character, not from their position. Leadership is like a chess game in the modern world, Nelson says, and leaders are both players and pieces. They have unique strengths and weaknesses and while they must plan ahead, the complex playing field changes with each move.<br />In this book, Nelson explains his terms and answers a long list of questions. \\"Leadership is a social relationship in which people allow individuals to influence them toward intentional change,\\" he writes. Spirituality is that metaphysical dimension which relates to God and the soul, a dimension which includes everyone. So in combining the two, he says, \\"Spiritual leaders rely on God, lead to serve, take risks out of faith rather than ego, and listen to the Sprit regarding timing, decisions, and relationship issues.\\"<br />\\"Because of the inherent conflicts between leading and being authentically spiritual, few genuine spiritual leaders exist,\\" he observes. \\"The temptations of strong leaders and the process of leadership are often the opposite of what makes a person spiritual.\\" But it can be done, if the leader will yield himself to God.<br />The book is organized for skipping around. Each chapter loosely groups several questions, helping you find the sections which interest you most.  It easily accommodates group discussions with a moderator who has read it through. Nelson addresses 57 questions, including:<br />* Why does the Enemy target spiritual leaders with failure and discouragement?<br />* Why is it so hard for spiritual leaders to pray?<br />* How are talent and gifting adversarial to spiritual leading?<br />* How does a spiritual leader best use team members?<br />* How do spiritual leaders create a culture that nurtures the soul?<br />* How does a spiritual leader handle betrayal?ndle betrayal?	2004-06-03
US	52658228	R1LN3RFKT8FKLV	0736909672	318523771	After Anne (Coming Home to Brewster)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Close Friendship Well Told	My sweet wife read After Anne and told me about it. The story describes the friendship of Olivia and Anne, both in their thirties, who meet during a high school football game. Olivia instantly dislikes Anne, but Anne is attracted to Olivia, whom she calls Libby despite Olivia's attempts to dissuade her. Because Anne's husband travels and they are new to the town, Anne prays for a friend. She hopes she has found that friend in Libby.<br />Opportunity for building acquaintance comes when Olivia's daughter Emily wants to learn the piano and Anne is the only piano teacher in Brewster, North Dakota. Olivia gives Anne as much distance as she can, but Anne's friendliness and generosity eventually win her over, and they become friends as close as sisters.<br />My wife says the book is set up in a weird way, jumping first person viewpoints between the two main characters; but that doesn't disrupt the story. Henke writes well, keeping my wife's interest more than she thought she would. Sarah was with me in having a low opinion of Christian fiction.<br />After Anne depicts that kind of friendship every woman craves. Henke reveals her character's deep emotions without caricature. &quot;The emotion doesn't seem fake,&quot; my wife said. It rings true and penetrates emotional calluses a reader may have raised through suspicion of the genre (that being contemporary Christian). But &quot;it's a woman's book. A man would not appreciate or enjoy it.&quot; Well, we'll see about that when I get around to reading it myself.	2004-05-21
US	52658228	RUZ3N1RUFWO1U	1581343523	846284665	The Creation of Wealth: Recovering a Christian Understanding of Money, Work, and Ethics	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Still Good for Discussion	While Sir Fred Catherwood has plenty of experience for a book like this-a CEO of an international company, a member of a government trade committee, and a member of the European Parliament for Cambridgeshire, England-he hasn't written a strong book.<br />From his preface, he purports to examine the reasons some countries are wealthier than others. \\"It is easy to see why Christian respect for the dignity of the individual could lead to democracy; but why, when Christians are taught not to set their hearts on riches, is Western society ten times richer than the rest of the world? Why, too, after half a century of aid, have poor countries not even begun to catch up?\\" He points to the Bible commentaries of John Calvin for revealing Scriptural truths to Western countries in a more applicable way than the Catholic church had done-perhaps even more than it currently does. The Bible teaches principles such as the holiness of common work, trust and honesty in the marketplace, and our duty to care for the poor, orphans, and widows among other things. Those are principles even modern Christians need a better handle on.<br />In his chapter on wealth, Catherwood describes his core principle. &quot;Practicing Christians are likely to be richer than their neighbors. We are taught to work harder, be more trustworthy and responsible, and develop our talents to the full; we are not to gamble or waste our money on conspicuous consumption-it would be odd if all this did not put us ahead. And looking around the world, the Western democracies, rooted in this ethic, all have personal incomes far greater than anywhere else. If those with the skill overspend, leaving no capital to invest, then the rest of the world will suffer. The West is the dynamo of the world economy, and we have no right to squander all the wealth on ourselves. The rich should not get richer by making the poor poorer&quot; (p 40).<br />As a practicing Christian, I agree with his estimate, though there are many believers who are not following even these simple principles. I also agree that some American businessmen are increasing their wealth off the backs of poor and middling-waged workers, both domestic and foreign. But I don't agree that our general working environment helps the rich get richer while pushing the poor to be poorer, especially using the definitions often used by those who employ these words. Based on this assumption, Catherwood argues that employers must protect their workers and treat them fairly so that wealthy businessmen cannot build their empires on the bodies of poor laborers. He reminds us that 19th Century Christians fought for laws which would guarantee some safeguards for workers against employers who may exploit them. But I throw out a caution flag when such mandated protections become overbearing on the employer. They cease to be worker protections at that point and become the entangling entitlements of a socialist state. Is it not better to keep such protections at a minimum and enable workers to protect themselves to best of their ability, thereby freeing both employer and employee to use their incomes wisely?<br />Using income wisely is another of Catherwood's themes. In the above quote, he says the world will suffer if the West squanders its wealth instead of investing it; but elsewhere in the book, he explains why foreign aid doesn't work. \\"Corruption is the main single reason why income per capita in most countries is only a tenth of that in the industrial democracies\\" (p 54). Without the moral basis for good business and sound government, foreign aid will continue to throw good money after bad. So, why does the author generalize about squandering wealth? Maybe he is encouraging us to give generously to those ministries and organizations that teach a moral basis.<br />Generosity is one of the good ideas present in The Creation of Wealth along with frugality, saving, and investing. With them, however, the author praises the American media for itstruthfulness, urges Christians to \\"protest\\" the environmental misuses causing global warming, and calls for supporting the taxation needed to fund public education and health care. I doubt these latter reasons will sit well with many conservative Christians and will prevent them for recommending the book to their friends.<br />Writing about money, work, and politics is controversial ground without trying to apply biblical concepts, so I suppose I should anticipate conflict when reading this book. And I think that controversy, if not the subject alone, inhibits the book's wider acceptance. I have no doubt there are thousands of Christian businessmen who do not have an adequate understanding of how to apply God's Word to their specific business decisions. This book may not be the one for them. It may be one for non-Christian, though religious, businessmen, but I'm not sure about that either.truthfulness, urges Christians to \\"protest\\" the environmental misuses causing global warming, and calls for supporting the taxation needed to fund public education and health care. I doubt these latter reasons will sit well with many conservative Christians and will prevent them for recommending the book to their friends.<br />Writing about money, work, and politics is controversial ground without trying to apply biblical concepts, so I suppose I should anticipate conflict when reading this book. And I think that controversy, if not the subject alone, inhibits the book's wider acceptance. I have no doubt there are thousands of Christian businessmen who do not have an adequate understanding of how to apply God's Word to their specific business decisions. This book may not be the one for them. It may be one for non-Christian, though religious, businessmen, but I'm not sure about that either.	2004-05-21
US	52658228	R2LBRX3IKSR8BZ	0310225450	680472679	Epiphany	Books	3	0	0	N	N	The Epiphany That Could	This book is a nice little fantasy about a father of three grown children, who dies in the first chapter and watches them from the spirit world. They come to grips with their lives and expectations, eventually learning that they didn't know Dad like they thought they did.<br />Publisher's Weekly says, \\"Filled with thoughtfulness, wry humor and the occasional touch of magic,\\" which is more than I would have said. I like everything I've heard from McCusker. He has written many strong scripts for radio, and he has been awarded for his children's literature. Epiphany is definitely a good little story, but it isn't deep. There isn't a stirring headspace from the characters. Only their words and the perception of Richard Lee, the father/narrator who dies and lives to tell about it. A few times the dead narrator trick is taken too far.<br />The big revelation which changes two of the character's perspectives on life was not as stunning as it should have been. I would believe that the trouble swelling within the younger son's heart was enough to drive him to his life-changing moment; but the story uses a small fact about the father's life as the catalyst. The son says, \\"I barely knew who Dad was,\\" all because of this little detail. I'd sooner believe that he forgets that detail in the swirl of his passions.<br />I knew from page one this tale would have a happy ending, and I wanted that. But I think I would have been more satisfied if one of the characters had continued to be the disillusioned egocentric he was in the beginning. Still, there's a place for novella's like this, I suppose, but I think, for Christmastime, I'd rather reread Tolstoy's \\"Where Love is God is.\\"	2004-02-11
US	52658228	R6V2I4X3U7Z3S	1576833739	81819111	Executive Influence: Impacting Your Workplace for Christ	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Good Teaching by Example	In this light, accessible book, Authors Crane and Hamel give us fifteen stories of unique Christian professionals who understand that their business practices can bear a stronger testimony to their faith than their words. Some of them formed their businesses with these convictions; others learned how to apply their faith in the middle of their careers. Each of them have zealously pursued serving God in business and community. Like Merrill Oster says, they now consider it &quot;normal to serve God in every situation.&quot;<br />The book opens quoting Dallas Willard's The Spirit of the Disciplines. &quot;Possession and direction of the forces of wealth are as legitimate an expression of the redemptive rule of God in human life as is Bible teaching or a prayer meeting.&quot; On that premise, Crane and Hamel offer fairly uncritical descriptions of Christian executives striving to honor the Lord through business policy and personal leadership. If concepts like this are better taught by example, then this book hopes to give its readers ample exposure to several examples of God-honoring professionalism.<br />Those examples often follow a theme of respecting people--employees, vendors, and customers--as valuable in themselves, not as means to profit or self-glory. The people in a company, whatever their role, are to be loved as neighbors who bear the image of God, even if they are uninterested or hostile to the gospel. One example focuses on deliberately building a diverse work force in order to live Christianly in front of those on the other side of our natural dividers, that is, of different ethnicity, education, or social understanding. Another example describes an assisted living community started out of love for senior citizens by a couple who &quot;had seen the dark side of eldercare.&quot; Though some admit to overzealous witnessing and personal failures, the majority of those interviewed relate their successes, both big and small, over the years.	2003-07-08
US	52658228	R1SVGWLEZ9PL5F	0395873460	669379389	The Hobbit	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great Illustrations! A Beautiful Book	Whereas other reviews have focused on Tolkien's excellent story, I want to recommend Alan Lee's fantastic illustrations. Lee was one of two Tolkien illustrators called by Peter Jackson for the making of the trilogy film, The Lord of the Rings. His brilliance shines through in the recreation of Rivendell and the warm feel of Hobbiton. As a life-long fan of the Lord of the Rings, I have never been disappointed by Lee's interpretation of a scene or character. His artistic skill hits the mark dead center every time on every concept. In fact, this is one artist of a few (if not the only one) who are officially recognized by Tolkien's estate as a bard of Middle Earth. Therefore, the illustrations in this beautiful edition of a great book by the 20th century's best author are bound to appeal to you as you read it. In this book, the arguing trolls are just as I've imagined them, and the dwarves are like real people, not plump bodies with noses the size of their heads. The eagles, too, are glorious. I heartily recommend this edition of Tolkien's wonderful fantasy!	2003-04-19
US	52658228	R4JUL9PFAPGKM	0310925525	742500137	Face to Face: Praying the Scriptures for Spiritual Growth	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Great Devotional Meditations on Scripture	The idea for this excellent compilation of personalized Scripture couldn't be more natural. \\"Praying the Scripture for spiritual growth,\\" as the subtitle says it, can nurture a person's faith like no teacher's commentary can.<br />Author Ken Boa has advocated meditating on and personalizing Scripture for many years. In this book, he offers his own translation of many Bible verses, adapting them into a first person or second person perspective. In this way, a reader dwells on the Words of God offered as direct praise. Instead of reading, \\"Hear, O Israel: The LORD our God, the LORD is one. You shall love the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might\\" (Deut. 6:4-5 ESV), he reads, \\"O Lord my God, You are one. I want to love You, Lord my God, with all my heart and with all my soul and with all my strength.\\" Instead of reading, perhaps passively, these words from Proverbs 23:4-5, \\"Do not toil to acquire wealth; be discerning enough to desist. When your eyes light on it, it is gone, for suddenly it sprouts wings, flying like an eagle toward heaven\\" (ESV), Boa urges the reader to dwell on its personal application: \\"I will not wear myself out to get rich; I will have the understanding to cease. I will not set my desire on what flies away, for wealth surely sprouts wings and flies into the heavens like an eagle.\\"<br />For devotional use, the book offers Scripture meditations in five categories for each day of a three month period. The categories are \\"The Attributes of God,\\" \\"The Works of God,\\" \\"My Relationship to God,\\" \\"The Character I Want to Cultivate,\\" and \\"My Relationship to Others.\\" With a couple mediations in each topic, Boa encourages the reader to follow a 93-day pattern of thoughtful consideration and prayer, praising God with His own words and being confronted by His demands on our character.<br />That's the first half of the book. The second half is a topical guide to Scripture's affirmations of God's character and the Holy Spirit's work in us. Divided into the same categories listed above, this guide lists many more verses than are printed in the devotional section, which could facilitate longer meditation on God's glorious character and His teaching. For someone in the habit of reading through the Psalms and Proverbs every month, this book or it's companion, Face to Face: Praying the Scriptures for Intimate Worship, would be a great alternative.irit's work in us. Divided into the same categories listed above, this guide lists many more verses than are printed in the devotional section, which could facilitate longer meditation on God's glorious character and His teaching. For someone in the habit of reading through the Psalms and Proverbs every month, this book or it's companion, Face to Face: Praying the Scriptures for Intimate Worship, would be a great alternative.	2003-04-16
US	52658228	R2IZQOO56YRIHO	0829416455	740919274	The New Faithful: Why Young Adults Are Embracing Christian Orthodoxy	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Encouraging Report on Gen X Spirituality	More often than not, reports on the Christian faith of Generation X are negative, citing trends of tolerance and pluralism for low commitment to church membership or religious understanding. Believers who understand that God has no grandchildren may wonder if the winds of faith seen in isolated areas will dissipate into the doldrums of apostasy reported in and encouraged by prominent media outlets. Journalist Colleen Carroll doesn't believe it will happen.<br />  &quot;With conservative churches attracting committed Christians, liberal churches hemorrhaging members, and young believers working overtime to spread their faith, the future of orthodoxy in America looks bright,&quot; she writes, concluding her 294-page report on people within her generation who have dedicated themselves to the teaching of Jesus Christ. This optimistic book, heartily recommended by Charles Colson and Nigel Cameron among others, records dozens of stories of young Catholics and evangelicals who define themselves by God's unchanging truth, not their careers or their politics. They are interested in meaningful traditions which shun the world and the trappings of consumerism. That's why students at Harvard and University of Chicago start their own Bible studies, and then ask certain teachers to lead them. That's why medical students from St. Louis gather to discuss how God's call to be a doctor or nurse changes the way they will practice medicine.<br />  Boston College philosopher Peter Kreeft is quoted, saying that these students are rejecting &quot;the old, tired, liberal, modern&quot; mindset in favor of a more orthodox one. &quot;Even though they know less history or literature or logic&quot; than students ten or twenty years ago, Kreeft said, &quot;they're more aware that they've been cheated and they need more. They don't know that what they're craving is the Holy Spirit.&quot;<br />  That should be encouraging to some of us, who may be wondering if Generation X can hear the true message of the gospel through a rattling of tolerance. Carroll writes that many young professionals have obtained a high level of wealth much earlier than their parents and consequently realize that material success doesn't foster personal contentment or joy. So the Spirit of God draws them into faith communities where Biblical truths are taught clearly and accompanied by opportunities to practice them. And some reach out to their peers.<br />  Simon Baker, a banker in San Francisco, holds informal parties for his Silicon Valley associates where a prominent Christian thinker, like Os Guinness or David Aikman, discusses or debates Christian ideas with the guests. He was nervous at first, because liberal distrust of Christianity and natural self-reliance dominates his city; but his parties have been well-received. Baker, who came to the Lord during the financial success of the 90s, hopes the recent economic decline will inspire his colleagues to reconsider the purpose of living.<br />  Carroll believes the reason stories like these are not reported on by most journalists is that they don't understand why a younger generation would react to the doctrines of liberalism by returning to long-standing traditions. Though trained to look for emerging trends in society, liberal reporters don't view a return to timeless truths or an embracing of orthodox Christianity as progress. They may see it as the very repression they broke from in the 60s returning to repress a new generation. That's why Carroll wrote this encouraging account of the people she calls, &quot;The New Faithful.&quot; Despite the reports or lack of reports in our newspapers on the spiritual interests of young adults, there are many stories of hope to tell.essage of the gospel through a rattling of tolerance. Carroll writes that many young professionals have obtained a high level of wealth much earlier than their parents and consequently realize that material success doesn't foster personal contentment or joy. So the Spirit of God draws them into faith communities where Biblical truths are taught clearly and accompanied by opportunities to practice them. And some reach out to their peers.<br />    Simon Baker, a banker in San Francisco, holds informal parties for his Silicon Valley associates where a prominent Christian thinker, like Os Guinness or David Aikman, discusses or debates Christian ideas with the guests. He was nervous at first, because liberal distrust of Christianity and natural self-reliance dominates his city; but his parties have been well-received. Baker, who came to the Lord during the financial success of the 90s, hopes the recent economic decline will inspire his colleagues to reconsider the purpose of living.<br />    Carroll believes the reason stories like these are not reported on by most journalists is that they don't understand why a younger generation would react to the doctrines of liberalism by returning to long-standing traditions. Though trained to look for emerging trends in society, liberal reporters don't view a return to timeless truths or an embracing of orthodox Christianity as progress. They may see it as the very repression they broke from in the 60s returning to repress a new generation. That's why Carroll wrote this encouraging account of the people she calls, &quot;The New Faithful.&quot; Despite the reports or lack of reports in our newspapers on the spiritual interests of young adults, there are many stories of hope to tell.	2003-04-01
US	52658228	R10M6001Q9CON0	0618126988	619220705	The Silmarillion	Books	5	34	34	N	N	Exciting, Beautiful History of Middle Earth	I've been reading this tome aloud to my wife, and I'm surprised I love it so much. Having enjoyed The Lord of the Rings and the Hobbit since I was a boy, I thought the history of the Silmarils, which is the meaning of the word Silmarillion, would be interesting, if not overly tedious. I confess after the first four chapters, the text bogs down; I skipped ch. 14 all together. But the stories I now understand, the history of certain characters, the doom of the elves, and the full tale of their songs, I wouldn't want to have missed.<br />I love the Ainulindale, the story of creation, where Eru, whom the elves call Iluvatar, sings through the voices of angelic beings to create the world and foretell its history. It's a beautiful spin on the Genesis story. Once the official history of the Simarils begins, the details begin to pile up; but worthy is the reader who perseveres for the tales that follow build in excitement. For Lord of the Rings fans, are you curious about the doom that plagues Elrond and his family? Did you know that Galadriel was hundreds of years older than Elrond and was born in Valinor, the western haven to which the elves go in their white ships? Do you want to know how Sauron become the Dark Lord, and what Gandalf meant by covering the land in a _second_ darkness? All of those answers are in this book.<br />Tolkien gives us a powerfully beautiful world in Middle Earth, and this book magnifies the wonder seen in the Lord of the Rings. Why do Dwarves and Elves distrust each other? It stems from the bloodshed over the Silmarils, jewels crafted by Feanor, the most gifted and most headstrong of any elf who made by God. The jewels captured and radiated the light of the two trees Yavanna planted to give light to the world. They captivated the heart of anyone who saw them, and when one of them was set amid the Dwarf-cut gems of a spectacular necklace and worn by Luthien, the most beautiful elf to ever live, the light of heaven shone radiantly on earth for a short while. That and many more stories await you in this exciting history of elves and men in Middle Earth.hort while. That and many more stories await you in this exciting history of elves and men in Middle Earth.	2002-11-13
US	52658228	R2OLFCZW6W0DFJ	0740728946	330800394	Groovitude: A Get Fuzzy Treasury	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Funny (occasionally cute) comic!	I learned of this strip when Scott Adams, who writes Dilbert, recommended it on his website as \\"the funniest comic strip about talking pets.\\" It took me a few days to get into it, but now I look for it everyday.<br />Bucky (the cat) is a self-centered, mean-spirited animal who won't confess to having a softer side. He's often trying to scam money out of who he believes to be the gullible public (or Satchel) or make the next hot seller. His grasp of English is never perfect, so he may say a word he thinks is cool, but actually insults him. Satchel, on the other hand, often proves that he's simple and dim-witted, but he can come up with some great puns and verbal zingers.<br />One of my favorites in this book shows Rob asking whether Satchel had made fresh coffee. He said he had, but the beans gave him a little trouble. Behind the action, the artist has creatively shown us that the beans Satchel used were baked beans, and Rob is now gagging in the sink.<br />Ha! I know, you probably had to be there; but seeing these guys is much better than reading about them. Darby Conley is brilliantly funny! Get Fuzzy is one of the best comic strips in print.	2002-09-30
US	52658228	R8O45VPBO3QNX	0395595118	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Stunning Illustrations: Best of Show!	Whereas other reviews have focused on Tolkien's excellent story, I want to recommend Alan Lee's fantastic illustrations. Lee was one of two Tolkien illustrators called by Peter Jackson for the making of the film. His brilliance shines through in the recreation of Rivendell and the warm feel of Hobbiton. As a life-long fan of the Lord of the Rings, I have never been disappointed by Lee's interpretation of a scene or character. His artistic skill hits the mark dead center every time on every concept. In fact, his is one artist of a few (if not the only one) who are officially recognized by Tolkien's estate as a bard of Middle Earth. Therefore, the illustrations in this beautiful edition of the best book of the 20th century are bound to appeal to you and inspire you as you read it. I heartily recommend it!	2002-09-28
US	52658228	RIRD2S5BN3SES	1559496401	949986955	Ireland	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Gorgeous photos	I had last year's version of this calendar, and if the quality remains the same, this one has beautiful photos of that wonderful, old country. I was reluctant to part with these vivid photos at the new year. One of the Giant's Causeway is stunning, and a castle in Connemara, County Galway, is breath-taking. Smaller photos on the calendar page itself allows for a little more of a taste of the county than just the large images; so you receive at least 24 photos for your money. Photographer Robert Kaufman expertly handles his camera to take these gorgeous shots.	2002-09-28
US	52658228	R3UWHE1XAMBG5G	0395873460	276015944	The Hobbit	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Gorgeous Illustrations: Best Design!	Whereas other reviews have focused on Tolkien's excellent story, I want to recommend Alan Lee's fantastic illustrations. Lee was one of two Tolkien illustrators called by Peter Jackson for the making of the trilogy film, The Lord of the Rings. His brilliance shines through in the recreation of Rivendell and the warm feel of Hobbiton. As a life-long fan of the Lord of the Rings, I have never been disappointed by Lee's interpretation of a scene or character. His artistic skill hits the mark dead center every time on every concept. In fact, his is one artist of a few (if not the only one) who are officially recognized by Tolkien's estate as a bard of Middle Earth. Therefore, the illustrations in this beautiful edition of a great book by the 20th century's best author are bound to appeal to you as you read it. In this book, the arguing trolls are just as I've imagined them, and the dwarves are like real people, not plump bodies with noses the size of their heads. The eagles, too, are glorious. I heartily recommend this edition of Tolkien's wonderful fantasy!	2002-09-28
US	52658228	R3M9D22GMEL8A0	0883680106	925826190	Let Go	Books	5	40	41	N	Y	Worthy of small group discussion	This stirring, easy-to-read book ought to be passed out in every English-speaking church in the world. The author, Francois de Salignac de La Mothe Fenelon, has written letters to people within the court of King Louis XIV on the practical matters of living out their faith in a secular world. Excerpts from those letters are translated in modern English for this book. The preface reads, \\"Consider turning to this book not primarily to expose your mind to idea, but rather to seek to enter into companionship with this friend of God.\\" That statement hints at the mystical quality of these letters. Fenelon urges us to live by faith through the empowering grace of Jesus Christ and to avoid loving knowledge to the extent that we may know more truth than we live. One letter is titled, \\"Our Knowledge Stands in the Way of Our Becoming Wise,\\" and in another letter, he writes, \\"We are in danger of evaluating our spiritual maturity on the basis of the amount of knowledge we have acquired.\\" That hits hard for someone who is more inclined to learn rather than to act. Fenelon says that the Lord is the God of truth and love, and we must act in love on the truth we know.<br />  But there's more in the book than this. Other titles include, \\"Advantages of Humility,\\" \\"Death of Self,\\" \\"The Sight of Our Imperfections Should Not Take Away Our Peace,\\" \\"True Friendships Are Founded Only in God,\\" and \\"Beware the Pride of Reasoning.\\" Don't pass up meditating on this inspirational book.	2002-09-26
US	52658228	R2TBC4EU53SRFU	0801097304	361112047	God Isn't in a Hurry: Learning to Slow Down and Live	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Easy-reading on normal Christian living	This pleasant little volume shouldn't knock your socks off with inspiration if you've been a Christian for any length of time; but it's full of practical advice, great stories, and well-grounded encouragement for believers. I found it encouraging, witty, and thoughtful. Wiersbe has been a wonderful pastor and Bible teacher for a long time, and it shows in his writing. The whole book comes across as an enjoyable sermon from a fatherly man who loves you and wants you to succeed.<br />The theme of the book, \\"learning to slow down and live,\\" may be the thing you need to hear most as a modern believer. Don't let your job, the television, or your neighbors set the pace of your life. Slow down. Be patient, because God isn't in a hurry to accomplish His plans. He wants you to enjoy Him, glorify Him, and rest in Him through normal Christian living. Of course, Wiersbe describes what \\"normal\\" is. Here are just a few of his insights:<br />1. \\"We're prone to walk by sight, not by faith.\\"<br />2. \\"In whatever man does without God, he must either fail miserably or succeed more miserably.\\"<br />3. Four fallacies about God's Will are that it is dangerous, difficult to discover, distant, and divided.<br />4. We must be open-minded enough to consider other thoughts which may conflict with our own without feeling the need to \\"correct\\" them.<br />5. The File-Card Mentality: Avoid \\"categorizing everything\\" so that you no longer think about it.<br />In short, this is good, solid teaching which could be valuable to a young Christian and help guard him against heresy. Enjoy!	2002-09-17
US	52658228	R1ZPLWT56TNKTX	0830823174	150023311	Scribbling in the Sand: Christ and Creativity	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Solid inspiration for artists of all kinds	Here is a beautifully published, inspiring work by a great musician who is a fountain of insight into God's heart and our imagination. Michael Card focuses primarily on Christ in this book on Christ and Creativity, and by doing so, directs our attention to the source and objective of our artist efforts. We, as Christian artists, are Christ's own possession, Card says, living for Him and through Him to accomplish everything by His inspiring strength. With personal, encouraging words, Card writes a wonderfully sound book that should be read by artists around the world. It isn't loaded with practical advice for building or working out creativity (though there are bits here and there), but the chapter of letters to young artists from a diverse group of accomplished, godly artists reads like Proverbs, line after line of memorable advice. That chapter and the bibliography of works on imagination and creativity are worth the price of the book.	2002-09-16
US	52658228	R1IQQOGN3Y75BM	157972034X	315060290	Intimacy with the Almighty	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Classic	If every Christian followed the principles in this book, the world would take notice. No American Christian should neglect meditating on the truths Swindoll delivers in this short audio book.<br />Coming from the premise in Ecclesiastes, &quot;God made us plain and simple, but we have made ourselves very complicated,&quot; Swindoll suggests four principles to overcome ourselves for a better, more God-honoring life. Simplicity is a discipline 21st Century Christians need, and we aren't going to find it at the mall or in many other Christian books.	2002-09-14
US	52658228	R8GGTGXTO23Q0	0881101540	367953342	There's a Mouse About the House!	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Very Popular among Usborne Books	I'm told this book and its companion about the squirrel are very popular among Usborne Book buyers. I know my children, ages 3 and 1, love the book! They push the durable, laminated mouse with a yarn tail through the slot holes in each page, run it along the dotted trail, push it out the back cover, and return to the front for another go. My oldest quotes the words after only a few reads (though Mr. B. scares her--maybe the mouse running down his nightshirt is too intense for her). Want a plot summary? A mouse runs through the B. family house looking for some food. He avoids the cat, learns that other mice have already eaten certain items, is announced by the parrot, scares Mrs. B., narrowly avoids Mr. B and his broom, and finally escapes the cat again after a bite of cheese. It's cute and fun!	2002-09-03
US	52658228	R1L1CTJB6WXJ5M	0891075836	278125958	Recovering the Lost Tools of Learning: An Approach to Distinctively Christian Education	Books	4	55	59	N	N	Good for Every Christian School	Wilson has delivered a great book for anyone who sees nothing wrong with public education and wonders why some schools don't measure up or why the education reformers are complaining. He also challenges every existing Christian school to a high standard. First, he establishes his belief that public school is pitiful and brief addresses suggested reforms, and then he writes at length about a thoroughly Christian education. He says that a cleaned-up \\"public school\\" education within an environment where prayer and chapel is allowed does not make a Christian education or even a good secular education. We must raise the bar dramatically in order to allow all students to learn the most they can. What does that mean? It means teaching a classically structured curriculum or the Trivium. Wilson advocates training our students to engage \\"the great conversation\\" of the past by reading the Great Books of the Western Canon, as recommended by Mortimer Adler.<br />  Personally, I think he's exactly right, but this book didn't scratch my inch as parent wanting to teach my children a classical education at home. In fact, Wilson doesn't think homeschool classical education is an achievable goal for the average family; but he doesn't advise against it. He warns that while it may be better than public school, it may not be as good as it should be, considering historical standards of education, not measuring it against currently failing public schools. For my needs, this book helped me only a little. The greatest help to me would have been in its appendices which can be found online at ... There are three: Dorothy Sayers article on the Trivium is of great help; a description of Logos School's classical curriculum provides good details on what to teach; and a history of education.	2002-09-02
US	52658228	R20N34HC9W99N7	0736908218	805057455	Lord, Teach Me to Pray in 28 Days	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Good study of prayer! Very helpful.	This short Bible study delivers exactly what it offers, applicable teaching on prayer. It's an excellent study for anyone, but if you have teenagers, get them into this foundational material. Focused on the Lord's Prayer (or as some call it, the Disciple's Prayer), Kay teaches on glorifying God, confessing our sins, and submitting to His will through our daily prayers. She uses Scripture almost exclusively to direct your thoughts through the study--that's the inductive method. One of the best!	2002-08-07
US	52658228	R2OIFZYG79EW7X	080106340X	755579774	The Last Days according to Jesus: When Did Jesus Say He Would Return?	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Important part of the prophecy discussion	Regardless whether you agree with his conclusion, Sproul delivers important questions on Jesus statements in Matthew 24, Mark 13, and Luke 21. What did Jesus mean when he said the temple would be destroyed, Jerusalem sacked, and that He would return all before the generation to whom He was speaking would pass away? Sproul argues that we cannot play &quot;linguistic gymnastics&quot; with the meaning of words (i.e. was His predicted return referring to His transfiguration soon afterward or did &quot;generation&quot; mean Jews throughout history, not the ones who heard Jesus words at that time).<br />This book attempts to reintroduce the Biblical view of prophecy that Christians have believed for centuries, but has been forgotten in recent years; yet it doesn't spend time discussing the validity or problems with other equally Biblical views. Sproul targets his arguments primarily against the complaints of liberals who take Jesus's words at face value and believe was wrong (meaning, Jesus said he would return but hasn't). In doing so, he ends up &quot;placing in doubt the conclusions of many contemporary evangelical prophecy enthusiasts,&quot; as Kenneth Gentry said.<br />In short, Sproul gives us a great introduction to a view call Partial Preterism, meaning that some, not all, of the prophecies in Scripture have been fulfilled, in part if not in full. A challenging, thoughtful book that must not be ignored.	2002-06-15
US	52658228	R57KN65S3DC2W	0802491995	383052130	Who Said That?: More than 2,500 Usable Quotes and Illustrations	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good, personal quotes on Christian faith	George Sweeting is a Bible teacher and former president of Moody Bible Institute. He has had a five minute radio show called &quot;Climbing Higher&quot; for many years. He collected these quotes to use in sermons, radio talks, and other speechs. Many of them are very familiar, some are fairly obscure, and some are by Sweeting himself (perhaps by the encouragement of his publisher). Being a Christian myself and interested in expressions of faith and statements about God, I enjoy this collection. I would guess I couldn't find most of these in Bartlett's Familiar Quotations. Here's a sample: C.S. Lewis, &quot;If you are thinking of becoming a Christian, I warn you, you are embarking on something which is going to take the whole of you, brains and all.&quot; Carl Jung, &quot;I have treated many hundreds of patients. Among those over 35, there has not been one whose problem is the last resort was not that of finding a religious outlook on life.&quot; D.L. Moody, &quot;Where one man reads the Bible, a hundred read you and me.&quot; That's good stuff!	2002-06-15
US	52658228	R3JWCKVNM8B2Z5	1581344031	14472253	God at Work: Your Christian Vocation in All of Life (Focal Point Series)	Books	5	58	59	N	N	Inspiring theology of ordinary life	You may believe you are called to a job or to a non-profit ministry, but do you think of yourself as called to every other part of your life? Skilled Author Gene Edward Veith points out that an idea presented in the Protestant Reformation, that of the priesthood of all believers, teaches Christians to see all of life as God's call to glorify and enjoy Him. As a citizen, a parent, a spouse, a worker, and a church member, you are called to certain holy responsibilities and benefits. Veith writes, &quot;Every kind of work [including fathering and mothering] . . . is an occasion for priesthood, for exercising a holy service to God and to one's neighbor.&quot; Therefore, our lives aren't on hold when the boring parts seem to hold up the enjoyable parts or when business seems to hold up ministry. It's all part of our multiple calling. We have God-given vocations meant to honor and enjoy God in everything we do whether it's in the back office, in the discipling process, or on the ball field.<br />More than this, the author draws from Martin Luther's writing on vocation to describe God's hidden role in our work. The Lord works through our activity, even the most mundane, to further His kingdom and glorify Himself. Understanding this results in a comprehensive &quot;theology of ordinary life.&quot; &quot;Most people seek God in mystical experiences. . . To find Him in vocation brings Him, literally, down to earth, [and] makes us see how close He really is to us.&quot;<br />God At Work is inspiring. It's a well-written handling of an important subject, increasingly important as the world urges us to segregate faith from all public life. Veith argues that God didn't establish secular work apart of the sacred. He designed everything as sacred.	2002-06-12
US	52658228	R2Z2M19J8H6A6C	0785274642	807333786	Rembrandt: The Christmas Story	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Gorgeous Gift Book	This beautiful, 72 page book is a great gift for art lovers and Christians. Its introduction explains Rembrandt's possible inspiration and some details for each work. The text of the KJV Bible gives the book a devotional quality. Both text and art make for good meditation during a busy Christmas season. My favorite is the drawing on the book's cover, shown in full on page 27. It's a tender portrait of Mary and Jesus, possibly modeled by Rembrandt's wife and first child. I think knowing that the child died after two months makes this drawing all the more poignant to me. Jesus, God Almighty incarnate as a human, was just as frail as Rembrandt's first born.	2002-05-18
US	52658228	R3N1JK0JBW0P12	0849996201	149952912	Hope for Each Day: Words of Wisdom and Faith	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Nice for display, gifts, or work breaks	The warm-hearted evangelist has given us a pleasant little book of thoughts which often encourage and sometimes challenge the reader toward a better devotion to God the Father. Being a book lover, I was attracted to the page designs, the nature photos, and the padded cover; but as a reader, I could have consumed the whole book in an hour. I don't think these kind of short, pretty books make the best daily devotionals, but as gifts or as a workday break to spur your thoughts toward heaven, Hope for Each Day is probably one of the best.	2002-05-18
US	52658228	R3CPC33NH94PCW	1565079957	603721780	A Moment with God	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Gift book	This sweetly written mini-devotional is a nice book to give to a busy woman who doesn't feel she has the time to sit still and think about God. With the writing space provided on each page, it could also be a prayer journal. The brief daily thoughts are written with Kay's special touch which makes her a favorite author of thousands of women around the world.	2002-05-18
US	52658228	R53IBGEO6ESN8	0740721984	732274271	Fuzzy Logic Get Fuzzy 2	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Very Funny! Dilbert Recommended!	When my friend and I have tried to explain the characters in this comic strip collection, a frequent response was, \\"Oh, like Garfield.\\" Nope. Bucky, Satchel, and Rob are not like Garfield, Otis, and Jon. Honestly, they are much funnier.<br />I learned of this strip when Scott Adams, who writes Dilbert, recommended it on his website as \\"the funniest comic strip about talking pets.\\" It took me a few days to get into it, but now I look for it everyday.<br />Bucky (the cat) is a self-centered, mean-spirited animal who won't confess to having a softer side. He's often trying to scam money out of who he believes to be the gullible public (or Satchel) or make the next hot seller. His grasp of English is never perfect, so he may say a word he thinks is cool, but actually insults him. Satchel, on the other hand, often proves that he's simple and dim-witted, but he can come up with some great puns and verbal zingers.<br />I love the series that explains why each of the animals aren't allowed outside alone, Satchel because he's so innocent he'd take up with anyone who fed him, Bucky because his sassy mouth would get him killed. (This from the cat who's never won a fight in his life.)<br />A classic strip shows Bucky watching a TV that's not on. Rob asks, \\"You know that TV is off, don't you Buck?\\" \\"No, I don't, and how do you know it isn't one of those reality shows that just makes it look like a blank TV screen?\\" To which Satchel says, \\"Wow! That's the best one I've seen! The screen _really looks_ off!\\"<br />Another one I love shows the two pets watching late-night TV info-mercials with a phone in hand. The caption reads, \\"Why late-night TV ads are so effective.\\" A wide-eyed Satchel exclaims, \\"Man! I need that. I don't know what it is, but boy, do I need it.\\" Bucky hands him a credit card and tells him to put in on the yellow one, since the green one stopped working over an hour ago.<br />Ha! I know. You probably had to be there, but seeing these guys is much better than reading about them.<br />Darby Conley is brilliantly funny! Get Fuzzy is one of the best comic strips in print.ing about them. <br />Darby Conley is brilliantly funny! Get Fuzzy is one of the best comic strips in print.	2002-05-02
US	52658228	RAUTVXXY9L919	0786881887	546321406	The Book of Atrus (Myst, Book 1)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Beautiful book. Interesting Story.	Every reader who enjoyed the Myst and Riven games ought to look at this book, at least for a few chapters. The story of Atrus, his grandmother Anna, and his father Gehn is very interesting albeit slow-paced and a little shallow. The quality of writing is not Grade A, but I wasn't disappointed by any bold errors. I merely wanted to read more depth in everything: in the beautiful scenery and in the characters. As an amateur writer myself, I think the story could have been told at the same pace with much more interesting depth built into every sentence.<br />This is the story before Myst, the first CD-Rom game and still one of the top ten best adventure games ever. It won't explain why Sirrus and Achenar become the upstanding characters they are in the game, but it does show Catherine and Atrus initial contact with each other and the relationship that blooms from that adventure. It also paints Gehn in interesting colors and shows how Atrus proves the strength of this character.<br />I do recommend this book to fantasy readers, especially Myst and Riven fans, despite my stylistic complaints It's a wonderful fantasy to ponder.	2002-05-02
US	52658228	R4PG47Y76W35L	0060652950	94824058	The Great Divorce	Books	4	30	33	N	N	Heaven is more real than Earth	A friend told me that this book opened his eyes to the fact that some people don't want answers, only debate and politics. He couldn't believe people would think that way, but then he went to college and experienced them for himself.<br />Lewis has written a fun, memorable story about going to hell in a dream (or vision) and taking a bus tour of heaven. The ghostly figures that file timidly off the bus are barely visible in the bright light of heaven, and the grass is so much more real (or true) than they are it hurts their feet. One man tried to steal a golden apple, and he may as well have been trying to hiest a boulder. Lewis himself, writing in first person, feared a coming rain may pummel them into the ground.<br />But after the initial shock of a world more real than he could imagine, he watched the other tourist interact with heavenly friends who had come to greet them. Some of them were friends from earth, some just kind-hearted people. Again and again the hellions (if I may call them that) choose to hold on to their worthless pride or foolhearty beliefs rather than humble themselves to the truth. Pride manifests itself in a hundred subtle ways as these pitiful souls whine about perceived injustices or irrational motives. Thankfully, a few tourists do humble themselves, become transformed into marvelously real beings, and remain in heaven. But most don't, about which the great Scottish author George MacDonald, Lewis' heavenly guide, says, \\"They may not be rejecting the truth of heaven now. They may be reenacting the rejection they made while on earth.\\"<br />This book has curious insight into our human hearts and teaches a few Biblical ideas in very memorable ways. I enjoyed reading it myself and again aloud to my wife. Lewis has a nice, readable style. 4 stars, only because a guy can't give everything good five stars.	2002-05-02
US	52658228	R368F8LDNKG22R	1565079515	30105200	Eternal Impact : Investing in the Lives of Men	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good book on making disciples.	Every man dreams of leaving a legacy. In Eternal Impact, Phil Downer shows how men can leave a legacy that will endure forever-the lasting fruit of spiritual reproducers.<br />This legacy is built through discipling and mentoring, helping men discover Jesus Christ's role in marriage, fathering and relationships, and then become effective in fulfilling His command to make disciples. Eternal Impact offers men a realistic, step-by-step guide for building men to become change agents in the world around them through discipleship.<br />It's filled with dynamic examples of discipleship in action, straight-forward advice, and genuine openness. Each chapter is followed by questions for discussion, ideal for in-depth personal and small-group interactions...<br />I can't give it five stars because there's a little fluff in it, but the main message is strong. As C.S. Lewis said, it's okay to skip over pages while reading a book.	2002-04-29
US	52658228	R3THJYSHOCN9O0	1576738396	92425726	A Godward Life: Savoring the Supremacy of God in All of Life	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent Worldview &amp; Devotional Reading	There are many devotional books on the market, some of them sold as new editions of the Bible, and in my experience, they are mostly fluff. Not so with _A Godward Life._ These 120 readings, 2-3 pages each, spill over with inspired thoughts on the whole gamut of Christian living and Biblical thinking.<br />Piper explains his intent for these readings in the introduction. He doesn't want to tempt us away from reading the Bible; he wants to inspire us to a greater passion for God Himself and to take that passion to our reading or studying of God's Word and to our living by faith through His grace. To that end, he gives us 120 brief readings on God's character, His awesome grace, life in a secular world, loving our enemies, killing the sin within us, defending the truth, and more.<br />These are far more than readings geared at giving you a good feeling about God over your morning coffee. They may challenge your understanding of Scripture and will certainly help you live to God's glory throughout the week. A great book for college students, especially if they are attending a secular university!<br />I recommend this book as good Biblical teaching; but more than that, it enables you to spend time with a passionate man of God, full of love and life.	2002-04-29
US	52658228	R3DHH8GBIMKX6A	1578564409	404568571	Lord, Heal My Hurts: A Devotional Study on God's Care and Deliverance	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Great study God's faithfulness	1 Corinthians 6:9-11 - \\"Do not be deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor homosexuals . . . shall inherit the kingdom of God, and such were some of you; but you were washed, but you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ.\\" That's the powerful healing revealed through this excellent Bible study. You can be cleansed of anything. In a world where we spread around the pain more than the joy, this book could open your eyes to the real forgiveness and peace that is available to you through Jesus Christ.<br />This book will lead you through a powerful, yet light-weight, study of various important Bible passages. Formatted for your daily devotions, you should plan to spend thirty minutes or so each day to understand the material. If you're using this book in a small group (excellent idea, by the way), you may want to call Precept Ministries to request either the audio or video teaching tapes. They add another level of spiritual depth to your group's study. You may even want them for yourself.<br />The book doesn't leave you with some decent platitudes and wishful thinking. Kay Arthur is a woman of compassion who has endured pain and befriended the hurting. The beginning each week is almost a personal letter from her. She wants you to have the peace God promises for those \\"whose mind is stayed on Him.\\" In the study, she teaches on God's character, His love for you, and your role in God's family. Then she deals with the importance of forgiveness and how to deal with anger and bitterness.<br />Don't let your past ruin your future. Study the Bible with this book, and be free in the truth of God's unfailing love for you.	2002-04-22
US	52658228	R2QGOHSM3BBQFT	1578564395	575402123	Lord, I Want to Know You: A Devotional Study on the Names of God	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Excellent Study	Studying the names of God is a great way to increase your love and devotion to Him, and this easy workbook will help you. Kay style of teaching allows you to discover the truth from Scripture for yourself instead of taking her word for it. The result is an exciting, multi-week focus on the God who gives us life and peace. He is worth knowing intimately!<br />There's also a beautiful coffee table version of this book, re-edited for crisper text and illustrated by Timothy Botts. If it's still in print, it's worth seeking out.	2002-04-22
US	52658228	R2Y6CTROLJU88C	1578564387	235183810	Lord, Where Are You When Bad Things Happen?: A Devotional Study on Living by Faith	Books	5	9	11	N	N	This doesn't need to be a quesiton for you.	Can the Almighty really control everything or do some things slip through His grasp? Of course, there is the devil, and he is just as powerful as God, isn't he? Perhaps, he gets the upper hand on God, catching Him off-guard. Aren't they fighting constantly for control of the world?<br />Maybe God doesn't want to do anything about evil the world. Perhaps, He has a dark side that doesn't care about human suffering, or even enjoys it. Can He be trusted to do what's best for the world?<br />In this book, Kay Arthur answers your questions concerning evil in the world. She leads you through Habakkuk and many related texts to show you who God is and why we should trust Him. Learn the truth about the God of the Bible from the Bible itself. Discover how God will deal with evil and injustice, and what He's already done to curtail it.<br />Establish yourself in the truth of God's Word. Christianity's #1 problem needn't be a problem for you.	2002-04-22
US	52658228	RX2J9AFYAQRF1	0736903704	479531001	Israel, My Beloved	Books	1	7	20	N	N	Long and dull	Honestly, this book doesn't cut it. Several interesting things happen, but they are muted by scene changes and poor dialogue. The one thing that infuriates me the most about the book (which I closed mid-way) is that whenever a good conversation begins one of the characters has to leave. I don't know how time-driven ancient Israeli culture was, but I doubt people were checking their watches and running to the synagogue. I wish Kay had been more character focused and less history driven when she wrote this.	2002-04-22
US	52658228	R3C7XJKYRZFMG3	0736900160	581071525	The New Inductive Study Bible	Books	5	50	51	N	N	Good for personal study	I'm under the impression that most of us read the Bible in short spurts, perhaps a few verses along with a devotional or a set portion designed to usher us through the Bible in one year. We're encouraged by some of it and confused or bored by the rest. Certainly, we aren't taught most of our beliefs by these brief readings. That comes from our Bible teachers. So, if that's true, what good was the Reformation and all the work that's gone into translating the Scripture in English? Not much, if we don't read it so as to understand it.<br />You and I could improve our understanding of God's Word and It's impact in our lives by doing two things. First, we could read a whole book of the Bible at a time and re-read it soon afterwards. Second, we could buy this Study Bible in order to learn how to deeply study Scripture for ourselves.<br />This Study Bible comes with an valuable introduction to the inductive study method so that you know what to do with the liner notes. To boil the method down to a sentence: Read a whole book carefully, ask questions, and take notes. The introduction explains how you may want to mark keywords, make lists of subjects, and outline a book. (I highly recommmend outlining a book chapter by chapter! It's one of the best ways to remember the subjects taught in it.)<br />The rest of this oversized Bible contains margin space for your notes, background information on each book, and recommended topics to pursue in your study. It avoids doctrinal teaching, like what you'll find in other Study Bibles, in order to focus your attention on understand specific verses in light of their context.<br />This Bible and the inductive study method are strong resources for every Christian, and through the teaching of the Holy Spirit and Godly teachers throughout the church, you and I can understand and love God more and more everyday.	2002-04-22
US	52658228	R1SH9TI6KWDEK5	0736905448	989539990	How to Study Your Bible: The Lasting Rewards of the Inductive Method	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Very effective method of Bible study	Through this book, by the grace of the Holy Spirit, you will understand what you believe and why you believe it.<br />This book will open to you the living Word of God. You'll learn how to hear God's guiding voice, how to understand verses in context, and the refreshment of re-reading the Word. Readers say, &quot;Why didn't I know how to study this way sooner? I learned more in three days than I've learned in the past thirty years.&quot;<br />Christian philosopher Blaise Pascal said, &quot;People are generally better persuaded by the reasons which they have themselves discovered than by those which have come into the mind of others.&quot;<br />Do you read a few verses to get a warm, devotional feelilng before taking on the day? Then, dare to prepare yourself to sit at the Master's feet and dwell on His empowering Words. If you wonder how to know God, learn how to study your Bible.	2002-04-22
US	52658228	R4UFF0X11IW73	1578564379	616137914	Lord, I'm Torn Between Two Masters (A Devotional Study on Genuine Faith from the  Sermon on the Mount)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Do you enjoy life or do you obey God?	How do you plan your time? Do you ask yourself what you would enjoy? Or do you ask God what He wants you to do? They aren't mutually exclusive. They can be the same thing, depending on who your master is.<br />A man serving the Lord may go to a ball game, wanting to relax from his work. A man serving himself may go to the same game, wanting to avoid his family. Both are doing the same thing, but the Lord will approve the first and condemn the second; because what you do isn't as important as why you do it.<br />If you struggle to know what God wants from your life, or if you would describe \\"seek first the kingdom of God\\" as being too heavenly minded for earthly good, discover the one true master through this book.<br />This workbook is an inductive study of the Sermon on the Mount (Matthew 5-7). You'll learn the true meaning of the oft-quoted phrase, \\"Judge not, lest ye be judged.\\" You'll understand God's intent behind his commands not to murder or commit adultery. You'll see how to focus your efforts on seeking the Kingdom of God. You'll discover the deadly consequences of serving riches over the Almighty.	2002-04-22
US	52658228	R1WAG2IQRABIYU	0060652934	963630731	The Screwtape Letters	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great Devil's Advocacy book (literally)	If you didn't have the benefit of taking a general theology class in college or you want to grow in your faith, read and discuss this book with a few friends. Lewis's elder demon Screwtape can teach us a lot about ourselves, about God, and about contemporary culture. Lewis writes in an easy-to-read, quotable style which is sure to challenge our modern thinking.<br />In one sense, it's a primer on how to sin. The book is full of \\"advice\\" on how turn a good thing into a sinful one. I remember my wife being challenged by the discussion of gluttony. According to Screwtape, it works both ways, by eating too much or too little, because the key is flattering your pride. All sin stems from our natural, self-honoring pride, and Screwtape gives many examples of how to insert that pride into everything we do.<br />Of course, it isn't as if you are reading letters from the devil himself, every word corrupting your spirit. This book praises God's grace in a Christian's life (in a back-handed sort of way). And it's funny. I love it when Screwtape gets so mad he morphs into a worm, and his secretary has to finish the letter. I also love his description of the coup Lucifer led against God Almighty before he and the angels who supported him were kicked out of heaven (becoming the demons they are now).<br />It's a great, little work of fiction, loaded with applicable truth.	2002-04-19
US	52658228	R2QFSOC5VN73GR	1576731839	92425726	A Godward Life: Savoring the Supremacy of God in All of Life	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent !	I can't top the great reviews already written here, but I can give you a personal opinion. I love this book! I've borrowed it again from a library, and I have a difficult time returning it. I suppose that means I'll buy it and the sequels someday soon.<br />I dislike many devotionals. They are too light-weight. This one is challenging and heart-stirring. Piper's thought are worth memorizing and repeating to others. His theology is practical and loving. This book should be on everyone's shelf, in every church library, and every pastor's study.	2002-03-20
US	52658228	R3A4ST017CZMVK	0672318636	984303142	Sams Teach Yourself Active Server Pages 3.0 in 21 Days	Books	3	7	9	N	Y	I'm not a programmer, but I play one in the office.	I enjoy the tone of this book and Mitchell's website, 4guysfromrolla.com; but as a non-programmer, I haven't learned ASP in 21 days. I've had a difficult time applying my knowledge.<br />The book is definately for beginners, but of course, not all beginners are created equal. I, for one, didn't need to spend two days looking over HTML code for making forms. I know how to do that part. What I don't know is how to collect the information and do something with it. And I seem to be slow picking up that understanding.<br />In short, this is a good book for beginners, but it strays a bit from the point. To give you more of an idea (since you can't just flip through the book right now), I'll summarize the book subjects for you:<br />  Week 1 starts off with the easy stuff, discusses VBScript functions and control structures, and deals with variables and objects. The final chapter on the Response Object is the best of the seven.<br />  Week 2 has a couple light chapters on forms before getting into the Request Object, Session Object, and reading or writing to the server. One chapter is on components, another on error handling.<br />  Week 3 starts easy again with a few words on databases. It moves on to the Connection and Recordset objects for three chapters, and throws in SQL statements and other techniques at the end.	2002-03-20
US	52658228	RFHWSABL43KIN	0025969706	850855975	New Testament in Modern English (Student Ed)	Books	4	16	17	N	Y	Good alternative Bible reading	If you're a long time Bible reader, this paraphrase will awaken you to new perspectives on familiar Scriptures. When I read it, I find myself thinking, &quot;Oh, I never thought of it that way,&quot; or &quot;Well, I don't think I agree with his take on that verse.&quot; Either way, I enjoy this straight-forward reading of Scripture a little more than the NIV. Honest.	2001-07-17
US	52658228	R1X7OIYGYRP2NA	0375500146	983075537	The Hunt Club: A Novel	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	Good Strong Mystery/Literature	I picked up this book because I had read about the author, a literature professor at Chapel Hill I think, and I wanted to read something from him. I enjoyed the mystery which was strong and well-conceived. I felt that I had visited Charleston because of the rich detail Lott gives. I'll read the sequel, if he writes it.	2001-07-10
US	52658228	R2MSM172GFPNWD	0684846969	811486002	Your God Is Too Small	Books	5	66	71	N	Y	Wrestle with your conception of God	Do you struggle to understand why God didn't answer your prayer?<br />Are you convinced that He will like you more if you do the right things?<br />Or do you think God is a lovable papa bear in the sky who only wants you to be happy?  Reading Phillips' classic may disturb you into a proper understanding of the real and living God, a mystery whose ways are higher than our ways, whose thoughts are unfathomable.<br />In this pocket-sixed book, Phillips deals with incorrect ideas about the God of the Bible.  He's not a cosmic policeman or a divine grandfather.  Neither is He a bellhop, a tottering old man, nor a fire-breathing despot.  He is a God who loves the world for His own glory and calls everyone to repentance for their sins against Him.  Does that fit your understanding of God?  If not, you may be deceived.  Don't let yourself exist with a God too small for your life.<br />Read this book.  Come to know the infinite Almighty.	1997-12-08
US	52658228	R2MA635APVB77P	0849913330	315060290	Intimacy With the Almighty: Encountering Christ in the Secret Places of Your Life	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A classic for perpetual mediatation	If every Christian followed the principles in this book, the world would take notice.  No American Christian should neglect reading and studying the truths Swindoll delivers in this 80-page volume.  His message is subject enough for conversation throughout your life.<br /> Coming from the premise in Ecclesiastes, &quot;God made us plain and simple, but we have made ourselves very complicated,&quot; Swindoll suggests four principles to overcome ourselves for a better, more God-honoring life.  This is a book for everyone discipling someone else.	1997-12-08
