US	52657217	RU5GEYH9SZP8C	0752872125	49971605	John Peel	Books	1	2	2	N	N	Sloppy writing, but an easy read	I read this book on the beach in little more than a day, and felt afterwards I knew very little more about the man. This book's bulk is made up by lists and direct quotes from the valedictories of other writers, rock musicians and BBC people -- as much as is legally possible without having to get permission from their publishers.<br /><br />As other reviewers have written, this is a pretty shabby book, exploiting the fact that Peel had apparently written little of his own autobiography before he died. There are many clues to the speed with which this book was rushed out. For example, on one page Wall says that T Rex's 'Ride a White Swan' went to number one. Just a few pages later, Wall admits that it only went to number two. One sentence contains both 'success' and 'successful' just a few words apart.<br /><br />Throughout the book, Wall cannot make up his mind whether Peel survived for so long because he was his own man, or whether Peel, like Madonna, repeatedly reinvented himself to find a new audience. Only I'm not sure Wall realises there is any inconsistency in this.<br /><br />I liked Peel a lot, and can remember listening to him under the dormitory sheets in the 1970s, praising Stevie Wonder's 'Songs in the Key of Life' to the hilt. The presence of Led Zeppelin's Stairway to Heaven in many of Peel's early festive lists also hints at the extent to which his tastes changed.<br /><br />Personally, I feel that once Peel decided to embrace punk in 1976, he had a pernicious influence over many other BBC deejays. Several deejays such as Andy Kershaw just got too close, and found it hard to want to appreciate any music that Peel had already condemned. And the trouble is that Peel often condemned bands, not because there was anything wrong with their music, but simply because the band had become too successful.<br /><br />So Peel comes across as the consistent champion of the underdog. I wouldn't go so far as classifying him as an underachiever himself, because no-one in authority ever seemed to think he had much potential. But this book gave me the impression that he could have achieved rather more if he had embraced TV more readily and he hadn't been so timid about flying.f, because no-one in authority ever seemed to think he had much potential. But this book gave me the impression that he could have achieved rather more if he had embraced TV more readily and he hadn't been so timid about flying. <br />	2005-07-19
US	52657217	R20G0VLAEW6N87	0872260054	956665312	Dr. Fegg's Encyclopedia of All World Knowledge: (Formerly the Nasty Book	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Education with an Angle	The typical encyclopaedia is written without an authorial voice or angle. For example, you can read dozens of entries by the same contributor in Britannica, without discovering anything about his secret lover in Bolton or what he had for breakfast that morning. For followers of FR Leavis, this may be fine. But for many of us, this is not enough, and the eminent Dr Fegg's book fills a big gap in the market.<br /><br />Dr Fegg's aim was not only to cover his expenses while on the run, but also to educate pre-adolescent children in the essentials of life, as well as proving that he had almost nothing to do with the Bournemouth Axe Murders.<br /><br />Some people got the wrong idea. In its original 1974 version, it was called THE NASTY BOOK FOR BOYS AND GIRLS. But after many complaints about it being an inappropriate birthday present, and several inquests, and only two Old Bailey trials, the title was changed to the present name.<br /><br />In the 31 years since its publication, I have tried to live my life according to Feggist principles, barely washing from week to week, and gradually whittling away the stock of relatives. The mandatory life sentences have been a bit of bummer, but you can't have everything. I wish I'd been able to put into practice Dr Fegg's advice about crossing the Andes by frog.<br /><br />It was, of course, Dr Fegg who ended all chances of a Rutles reunion, and since the disappearance of Ron Nasty, Dr Fegg has had to lie very low indeed. Some say he is in South America. Others say the Himalayas. His only link now to the outside world is Mike Palin, who was only half-responsible for the Skegness Impaling. It is alleged that Mike goes to see him every now and then, under the guise of a new series for the BBC, in order to channel some of the proceeds from the enormously successful (in an in-between-Holy-Grail-and-Tomkinson sort of way) encyclopaedia.<br /><br />I somehow doubt it. But I enjoyed this book tremendously.	2005-06-25
US	52657217	R2V94PT5Z2SC6F	0891342427	319927178	How to Draw Charts and Diagrams	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An excellent resource for pressentation ideas	This is an outstanding resource for anyone who has to produce charts. If you want your graphics to look original and be absolutely clear as to their meaning, this is the book for you.<br /><br />The author illustrates his points and arguments with many real-world examples from recent times and the past. The great advantage of this book is that it was written before Powerpoint. The trouble with PC tools such as this is that although they make chart creation very easy, they actually take away a lot of the freedom you have when your only tools are pen and paper. It's very easy with Powerpoint to become quickly stuck in a rut of producing bar charts, pies and organisation charts.<br /><br />By presenting so many ideas about what charts could like, this book tickles your imagination and creativity to work out how you could use Powerpoint etc to produce a much wider variety of diagram.<br /><br />I keep this on my desk at all times, wedged in between my Concise Oxford Dictionary and Pears Cyclopaedia.  For me, it's that essential a reference book.	2005-04-07
US	52657217	R172UAIQGZ610T	0852290667	565850035	Britannica First Edition Replica Set (3 vol.)	Books	5	74	83	N	N	Fascinating	There's a wonderful episode in series three of Blackadder in which, for reasons I cannot quite remember, Baldric and Blackadder work through the night to recreate Dr Johnson's dictionary. I think they get as 'Aardvark'.<br /><br />There's a sense of too much effort being invested up-front in this first edition of the Encyclopaedia. The three equally-sized volumes cover A-B, C-L and M-Z. The volumes were written and published a few years apart, and you can imagine the editorial meeting in 1768 when they realised that they had only cover A to B. Would they continue at the same pace, and possibly not live to see a final XYZ volume published? (What would their wives say?!) Or would they rush the rest, and hope that no-one noticed the imbalance?<br /><br />Well, now we can enjoy the imbalance. A word of warning: you need to get used to the archaic form of the letter 's', which looks like an 'f' except at the end of a word or when in uppercase. Thus we get phrases like 'notwithftanding thefe difadvantages' and conceivably 'fuppofing Pope's Iliad to be fhit'.<br /><br />The reproduction of the three volumes has been done on a photographic basis, using an aged edition. Thus you'll buying a pristine photocopy of someone's original, as it is now, splodges and all. As others have noted, the binding is not real leather, but this doesn't bother me. Each volume is surprisingly light, given that you're getting around 1,000 pages per book. And that includes a number of fold-out tables.<br /><br />The content is particularly Scottish, by the way, although there is no harm in that. Thus if you look up 'Law', there's almost nothing on the law of England and Wales, yet the editor appears to have filled countless pages with the full text of every Scottish statute in operation at the time.<br /><br />As you might expect, this is not the first encyclopaedia to buy if you're looking for something to help your kids through GCSEs. I suspect that, 250 years on, over half the entries are incorrect or at least out of kilter with today's understanding of the world. But it's a fascinating thing to browse through.re incorrect or at least out of kilter with today's understanding of the world. But it's a fascinating thing to browse through. <br />	2004-10-12
US	52657217	R1KLIGTBW8ZJG6	0091891159	857269048	Cider With Roadies	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A music lover's autobiography	Stuart Maconie's isn't a proper autobiography, in the sense that it doesn't cover many of life's milestones.  For example, the book brings us fairly up to date in Maconie's career, but we don't find out whether his parents are still alive.  The book is also poorly edited in that it is littered with spelling mistakes.<br /><br />That said, this is a brilliant account of the evolution of a pop music lover's taste as he moves from Beatle-loving infant to writer for Q magazine, DJ for BBC Radio Two and contributor to TV nostalgia programmes.  It helps that he is of a similar age to me (fortysomething) and many of the artists he picks out are also favourites of mine (e.g. Gentle Giant and Return to Forever).  But while I was brought up in southern England, Stuart was raised in the north-west.  He likes many artists and styles I have yet to grow fond of: Morrissey, Northern Soul, and the Clash, for example.  And while I often dreamed of being in a band -- it would have helped if I'd bothered to learn an instrument -- Stuart actually did it, albeit to no great commercial success.<br /><br />Maconie is particularly good on the religious divide that separated school kids in the 1970s.  Were you a Slade fan or a T Rex fan?  On such theological questions hung the matter of whether you would get beaten up at the bus stop by the school bully.<br /><br />Spelling aside, Maconie is a great writer.  (His three years studying for a degree in English Literature gets much coverage in the book.)<br /><br />Maconie knows his audience and readership.  While a family update would aid the completeness of the autobiography, Maconie knows that most of his readers would rather see the space devoted to his views on Sting (negative) and facts about Eno than his aunt Mildred's kidney problems.<br /><br />This book is firmly aimed at people who lived through the 1970s knowing that there was almost nothing more important than pop music.	2004-08-18
US	52657217	RL7C8KDG9ALJV	0553525077	157497316	Notes from a Small Island	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Addressed as much to Americans as to the British	Bill Bryson first came to the attention of the British public through the readings from his book of a journey across the USA, 'The Lost Continent'. That was on BBC Radio Four, it was back in 1993, and it was read by Kerry Shale. Unfortunately, such was the impact of those readings that for much of the British public, Kerry Shale still IS Bill Bryson. Shale has much the same cynicism as Bryson, but his voice is tougher, and a bit more no-nonsense.<br />So when you first listen to Bryson reading 'Notes from a Small Island', it comes as a bit of a shock that Bryson's true voice is more softly-spoken, and a little camper. To my ear, his accent sounds a little more southern states than I would expect from Iowa, but that shows you how much I know. Bryson never tries to hide his American accent -- even when imitating old English crones or drunken Scotsmen.<br />Bryson gives the view of the outsider, despite his having lived in England for 20 years when he wrote the book. If he makes the odd error of judgement, we forgive him. But most of the time he is dead right about the British towns and cities he visits during his seven-week tour. He exposes our quaint eccentricities -- both the ones we knew we had and some that we didn't.<br />My feeling is that Bryson is so popular with the British listener because it is clear that, despite his criticisms, he loves the place and the people. This is no gratuitous American 'I love the UK' simply to buy popularity -- even the foreign tennis players at Wimbledon have worked out that the quickest way to our affections is to say this is their favourite venue. Bryson's love of Great Britain is deeply felt.<br />In this audio CD, he takes us to many places we'd never even heard of, let alone places that we'd told ourselves we must visit some day. And he's so enthusiastic about landscapes, townscapes and buildings, even if our hotels and guest-houses often disappoint him. Once you've heard this, no doubt you'll be making a mental note to find the forgotten Roman villa that he had to hack through brambles to get to. And you'll be strengthening your resolve to visit Durham and the Burrell Collection, and find out much more about that mad old Duke who lived almost entirely underground.<br />On this audio CD, you get five CDs, mostly uninterruptedby music. (For no good reason, after over four CDs of zero background effects, music suddenly seeps into track #9 on CD #5 when he visits John O'Groats. I was so surprised that I had to stop my car and search under the driver's seat for a hidden radio.)<br />Warmly recommended.the forgotten Roman villa that he had to hack through brambles to get to. And you'll be strengthening your resolve to visit Durham and the Burrell Collection, and find out much more about that mad old Duke who lived almost entirely underground.<br />On this audio CD, you get five CDs, mostly uninterruptedby music. (For no good reason, after over four CDs of zero background effects, music suddenly seeps into track #9 on CD #5 when he visits John O'Groats. I was so surprised that I had to stop my car and search under the driver's seat for a hidden radio.)<br />Warmly recommended.	2004-07-16
US	52657217	R3V5NIQIWQZYJJ	0739317067	786383328	My Life	Books	3	16	21	N	N	Less insightful than I had hoped	I don't usually read political autobiography, but I bought the audio CD of 'My Life' because I'm fascinated by US history and I like Bill Clinton much more than any other recent presidential incumbent.<br />But the CD abridgement was a disappointment. It's at its best when covering Clinton's early life. It's at its worst when filling the book with many uninteresting details (to a Brit like me) such as the number of Democratic senators elected and the lists of people at various meetings, of people who supported him on various issues, and of all the advantages of various bits of legislation he had proposed. It's almost as if the explosion of political detail is being used to make up for what he doesn't say about his various affairs. For example, on the audio CD, there is no mention of Gennifer Flowers, who is alleged to have had a far longer relationship with Clinton than Lewinsky.<br />To me, there seemed too much obsessing about Kenneth Starr and Newt Gingrich. This bitter internally-focussed perspective diminished Clinton's standing in my eyes, when I really wanted him to say much more about world affairs and his relationship with John Major and Tony Blair.<br />As other reviewers have noted, much of this book seems to be a dump of his appointments diary, with excerpts from his favourite speeches added, in case posterity forgot them. I get the impression that much of this book was written for Hilary -- to show her that he really is a caring individual who does not intend to philander again. But Clinton admits only to what he has been caught doing. He seems shocked that Starr delves so deeply into his affairs. But given that he lied to the American people and Hilary and Chelsea about his affair with Lewinsky, he has to expect people not to trust him.<br />I was interested in the depiction of Clinton as the career politican (and occasional law lecturer and practitioner). This is a man who has cared deeply about the marketing of candidates and political ideas throughout his entire adult life. What the press write about him and his party matters a great deal to him.<br />In summary, I still believe Clinton is a great man, although not quite as great as before I listened to him reading from his book.<br />As a final point, several of the six CDs in the set I bought (not from amazon) jumped atrociously in my car CD player.ut his entire adult life. What the press write about him and his party matters a great deal to him.<br />In summary, I still believe Clinton is a great man, although not quite as great as before I listened to him reading from his book.<br />As a final point, several of the six CDs in the set I bought (not from amazon) jumped atrociously in my car CD player.	2004-07-04
US	52657217	R382ZYEUFGURRB	0691118213	757759060	The Company of Strangers: A Natural History of Economic Life	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Why it's in our interests to cooperate with strangers	It's a scary world out there, but Professor Seabright helps explain why we're prepared to put our trust in people to whom we're not related. Starting with the example of the (unplanned) global cooperation needed just to enable Paul to buy a new shirt, he takes the reader on an ambitious tour of the economic evolution of human nature.<br />Previous Seabright publications have included macroeconomic monographs on Eastern Europe. Though still not an easy read, this will appeal to the intelligent general reader looking for a new perspective on world affairs.<br />And what links this to Iron Maiden, the heavy-metal rock group? From 1972 to 1976, Paul Seabright was at the same school (and in the same house) as Bruce Dickinson, who would go on to become lead singer of that group. It is a strange world, and one wonders how much trust there would now be between the two.<br />My belief is that this could be one of the most important books published this year. It would also make a great documentary TV series, if the BBC were prepared to make another epic in the mold of 'The Ascent of Man' and 'Civilisation'.	2004-06-03
US	52657217	R2QK2X77ZOQWG0	0865652023	893219764	Keepers of the Kingdom: The Ancient Offices of Britain	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A fascinating insight into Britain's fusty institutions	If you have any interest in Britain's history and institutions, this is a great coffee table book to own. If, for example, you're a law student, and you want to know what the rolls, as kept by the Master of the Rolls, look like, there's a photo here, with a full page description of the office.<br />If you're British and you aspire to any of these grand old posts, with or without the ermine, this is probably a good book to start plotting your ascent.<br />I've also read the slightly more recent 'Jubilee' edition (which I gave to my father as a present and is available from amazon.co.uk).  Only a few of the entries have changed, largely to reflect the replacement of Conservative politicians by their Labour equivalents.<br />If you want another analysis of where the power lies in Britain today, but without the photos, read Anthony Sampson's excellent 'Who Runs this Place?'.	2004-04-23
US	52657217	R15Z2PUCT4Y2UO	0716703440	914376472	Gravitation	Books	5	12	27	N	N	The pinnacle of 1970s textbook layouts	I used to drool over this book in the university bookshop. It was, by far, the best laid-out textbook I had ever seen. It was expensive, even by the standards of 1980, the year I eventually bought it.<br />This probably disqualifies me as an Amazon reviewer, but I have to admit that I've never read it. I was a mathematician by degree, and am now a writer on marketing matters. Whenever I need inspiration on how to lay out and explain a complex concept which needs both words and diagrams, this is the book I return to.	2004-03-25
US	52657217	R17H83215Y0PCB	0141804033	398359095	Stig Of The Dump Unabridged Compact Disc (Puffin Audiobooks)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A magical reading by Tony Robinson	This abridged audio CD version of Clive King's classic is marvellously read by Tony Robinson (of 'Blackadder' fame). My only complaint is about the cheap incidental music which separates the episodes, but I imagine most children would not be concerned about this.<br />I first came across 'Stig' over 35 years ago, and it's still as magical to me. For me, Stig is defined by the Edward Ardizzone illustrations, one of which is retained for the cover of the CD.<br />For most of the story, Barney has a series of improbable experiences with his caveman friend, and is never pressed by his sister or grandparents to reveal the Stig he so openly discusses. In the final episode of the tale, Barney and his sister are somehow transported to prehistoric times, and although we come unexpectedly close to '2001 - a Space Odyssey' territory, Clive King's narrative makes this magical departure believable.<br />The very end of the story, with Stig returning to the 20th century and becoming a petrol pump attendant, is the weakest aspect, adn I'm not surprised that some TV adaptations have chosen other endings.<br />Tony Robinson really brings the story to life, creating a wonderful array of children's voices from all social classes. Thoroughly recommended.	2004-01-20
US	52657217	R3EZJJJ4H1VB5R	1402559410	503219685	Number 10	Books	2	10	13	N	N	Some great political caricatures	As an impressionist, John Sessions is not up to Rory Bremner's standard, but he does some very passable versions of Tony Blair, Gordon Brown, John Prescott and Peter Mandelson. John takes us on an enjoyable ride through this story, and his narrative is let down only by the plot, which comes undone every time it focuses on the family of Jack Sprat, the policeman who guards Number 10.<br />The idea at the root of this novel had potential: Tony Blair lives in a bubble (though on a lesser scale than George Bush), and though good at dealing with politicians and the chattering classes, his rare performances in direct confrontation with Joe Public have often been poor. Thus Sue Townsend's concept of forcing her protagonist, Edward Clare, to meet the common man, totally unprotected, had considerable promise. But the idea of his dressing up as a woman to enable this tour of Britain was utterly implausible, though it proffers many comic moments. I particularly enjoyed the Balkan psychologist's report on Edward Clare in which he reveals all his concerns, after Clare checks into hospital after his prescient heart scare. (Sessions invents some great accents for every one of these minor parts, by the way.)<br />The continuing story of Adrian Mole has been a wonderful creative achievement, and I'm delighted to hear that, despite her blindness, Townsend is writing another episode in his unillustrious career. 'Number Ten' is by no means a total failure, but there is considerable scope for improvement in the plotting.	2003-11-23
US	52657217	R2TU6FZQ9KW1D0	0241113067	985884251	Life's Rich Pageant	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Entertaining, but leaves a lot unsaid	This is autobiography of the old school: long chapters, long paragraphs (with lots of comments in parentheses), plenty of facts and opinions, but so much is left out on the question of what really drove the man.<br />Plenty is said about the Marshall family that came before him, but no mention is made of any partners or any family that followed him. One is invited to read between the lines, or rather, between the photos, which, for example, show Marshall in a tutu, and with Larry Grayson. No doubt the pressures of the era discouraged him from revealing too much about his relationships.<br />Despite all these omissions, I enjoyed the book, and got a good feeling of much of his essence. Marshall covers his early life in much more detail than his later life, and as he was both a student and a teacher at Oundle School, it helps the readers if they are acquainted with the place. I must declare an interest here, as I also attended the school. But I arrived some 18 years after Marshall had left for the final time (1954). While at the school, I had seen portraits of the headmasters he describes -- Sanderson, Fisher and Stainforth. His stories enhance my understanding of these figures who had previously been ciphers to me.<br />Arthur Marshall was, I feel, at heart, more of a thespian than a teacher or manager. He had his 15 minutes of fame, largely as a female impersonator on the wireless, met many celebrities of the 1930s, and could return to the school to bask in the glory and memories of these appearances. He even played doubles tennis with John Gielgud and Ralph Richardson.<br />It sounds like his promotion from master to housemaster was the end of his love affair with teaching. After seven years of this semi-managerial role, he gave up Oundle for good. But in the 1970s, then in his retirement, he was discovered by a new generation when he was brought on to the TV show 'Call My Bluff' to replace Patrick Campbell, who was suffering from heart problems.<br />When he died on the 1980s, the media lost a minor star, and Oundle School lost a legend. While I was at the school, no-one referred to him as a ducky. But after reading his descriptions of the theatrical reviews he staged at the school, I am convinced that they were rather more entertaining than all the serious twaddle we had to endure in the 1970s.on the 1980s, the media lost a minor star, and Oundle School lost a legend. While I was at the school, no-one referred to him as a ducky. But after reading his descriptions of the theatrical reviews he staged at the school, I am convinced that they were rather more entertaining than all the serious twaddle we had to endure in the 1970s.	2003-11-10
US	52657217	R2F1BJSWKAI54L	1559350377	709023078	Hoffnung: A Last Encore (BBC Humor series) [2 UNABRIDGED AUDIOCASSETTES]	Books	2	3	4	N	N	A mixture of the dire and the inspired	Gerard Hoffnung died in the year I was born -- 1959 -- at the absurdly young age of 34. Today he is best known for his cartoons and THAT speech to the Oxford Union, recorded a year earlier, where he tells the story of the bricklayer &amp; the pulley and reads out some alleged replies from Tyrolean hoteliers to his wife's request for a room.<br />If you didn't know his age, you'd assume from his manner that he was a rather portly fifty or sixty-year-old. In his eccentric interviews with the North American Charles Richardson on CD1 of this collection, Richardson remarks more than once on Hoffnung's weight and diet. It is regrettable that Hoffnung, who died of a stroke, didn't take more notice of this warning.<br />The Oxford Union speech has long assumed classic status. I can remember in the 1970s my Dad playing me a recording of the speech on his reel-to-reel tape machine. His material wasn't entirely original -- versions of the bricklayer's tale have been known since the 1920s. But Hoffnung clearly had a fantastic, endearing rapport with his audience, who didn't seem to care that the stories he included in that speech had nothing to do with the motion that was being debated. The full speech is included in CD2, and in the last two minutes, Hoffnung brings his talk back to the matter that he was supposed to be debating -- giving a very earnest, personal view.<br />I have to say that, on the evidence of the rest of these two CDs, Hoffnung was overrated as a radio humorist. CD1 consists of 12 interviews with Charles Richardson which were broadcast by the BBC. The BBC must have been desperate for fillers in the 1950s! The sleeve-notes proudly declare that the only preparation for each interview was a quick chat in a nearby coffee shop, and my goodness, it sounds like it. Much of the time, Richardson is funnier than the bombastic Hoffnung. Now I understand why none of today's comics cites Hoffnung as a major influence. Roll on 'The Goons', 'Beyond the Fringe', and even the 'Carry On' series!he 'Carry On' series!	2003-11-07
US	52657217	R1TVQY2POIN1NP	1593974000	545156245	The Pythons	Books	4	12	17	N	N	Not the Spanish Inquisition, but an important document	Over the years, Monty Python's Flying Circus has been elevated to a stellar status far beyond the expectations of its creators. Much of that has been achieved through continuing popularity with Americans, who didn't start to get the joke until long after the final TV episode had been screened here in the UK. And even the Pythons themselves do not quite realise their impact on the world: on this CD, Michael Palin talks about the creation of the 'Spam' sketch and the bizarre injection of some Vikings into the scene, with no inkling of the significance of spam in today's Internet world.<br />If you don't know Monty Python's humour, this is not the place to start. Go and buy 'Another Monty Python Record' on CD, or 'Monty Python and the Holy Grail' on DVD.<br />This double-CD set is aimed at Python completists, and anyone interested in how great creative teams come together, get their ideas and work together. There's nothing here that isn't also in the bumper coffee-table book of the same name, which also has many magnificent, previously unseen photos. But on this CD, you get the Pythons' own voices, so it's more intimate, and the format enables those of us who spend more time in the car than reading books, to absorb some of the material.<br />Sound quality is variable. Michael Palin is very clear, though the interview is frequently interrupted by phone calls (presumably from BBC producers wanting to send him off to the Amazon). At the other end of the sonic scale, John Cleese is inteviewed in what seems to be a cavern, about 30 feet from a puny microphone, and his cutlery is sometimes more audible than his voice. Eric Idle, Terry Gilliam and Terry Jones come somewhere in between.<br />All the contributors put some effort into dredging up memories from the distant past, i.e. 1960s and earlier. They know this book/CD, while maybe not the definitive biography, isn't going to be yet another fanzine. By and large, they're pretty serious. (The Pythons seem to have found it harder and harder to be funny, or at least zany, since about 1980.) And they're remarkably honest -- all of them admit that 'The Meaning of Life' was not as good a film as it should have been.<br />There's a lot of giving credit and taking credit -- originally the entire show was billed as a total team effort, but this CD reveals a certain paradox: having first said that every sketch was subject to team review and enhancement, each writer then goes on to say of certain sketches, &quot;That was one of mine&quot; or &quot;That was one I wrote with John&quot;.<br />The influence of 'The Goon Show' and 'Beyond the Fringe' becomes apparent from these recordings. (So much so that I went out and bought a BtF CD.) Of particular interest is the immediate predecessor to Python, namely the children's programme DO NOT ADJUST YOUR SET, written by Michael, Terry J and Eric, with cartoons added by Terry G. For me, that series is just a distant memory in black and white. But the way the Pythons refer to it here makes it seem like it was pretty much Version zero of Monty Python. Terry Jones admits that they wrote it for themselves, not for children, and it just happened to be scheduled during the children's TV slot on Wednesday afternoons. In the absence of any DVDs, videos or script-books from that series, we will just have to take their word for it.<br />It's fascinating to hear Eric Idle talk about the writing process: he wrote mostly on his own, but occasionally wrote with others. He comments that whereas he likes to hop around, trying to create more highlights in a sketch, John Cleese works in a very linear fashion, only progressing to the second line in a sketch when he has worked out the first line in immense detail. John Cleese talks about his dislike of puns, the lowest form of wit, in his words. Terry Jones comments on the stream-of-consciousness feel to each episode.<br />Hopefully this CD will enhance Michael Palin's status in the comic pantheon. John Cleese is always regarded as a god because he also created 'Fawlty Towers' and because of his previous work on 'The Frost Report'. But most of his best sketches work as well on radio as they do on TV. It's clear from this CD that Palin (as well as Gilliam) was the genius behind much of the visual humour that made Python something completely different from 'Beyond the Fringe' et al. Cleese could never be described as 'zany', if that means lovably ridiculous. Even on this CD, Cleese comes across as coldly analytical, whereas Michael is just so damned affable!<br />So there you go, five stars for content, minus one for sound quality. I wish it had been much longer!rded as a god because he also created 'Fawlty Towers' and because of his previous work on 'The Frost Report'. But most of his best sketches work as well on radio as they do on TV. It's clear from this CD that Palin (as well as Gilliam) was the genius behind much of the visual humour that made Python something completely different from 'Beyond the Fringe' et al. Cleese could never be described as 'zany', if that means lovably ridiculous. Even on this CD, Cleese comes across as coldly analytical, whereas Michael is just so damned affable!<br />So there you go, five stars for content, minus one for sound quality. I wish it had been much longer!	2003-11-04
US	52657217	R85W5LU8ZPE35	0140860401	590612959	Tess of the D'Urbervilles (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Excellently read by Bron	I have to be honest. Though a great lover of all of Hardy's fiction, I wasn't a big fan of Eleanor Bron's. (Perhaps I remember too vidily her sneering character in Ken Russell's 'Women in Love'.)<br />But Bron's sensitive reading of this tragedy is a revelation which had me totally enveloped. Tess comes across as a pitiful, humbly righteous creature whose destiny seems inevitably gloomy almost from the first minute. The male parts (mainly D'Urbeville and Angel Clare) are equally well read and clearly differentiated.<br />Tess's silent suffering is the antithesis of today's modern, assertive woman, but is no less noble.<br />This reading lasts six full CDs, but I wished it were even longer. (I have previously bought a two-CD version, but that necessarily eliminates much of the subtlety of the book.)<br />If you're studying this novel for an exam, this is the ideal version to get well acquainted with the story.	2003-08-21
US	52657217	R28VXV5LHW8OUL	0897333659	959576433	The Young Visiters	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A classic just waiting to be rediscovered	This is the book that started the schoolchild genre subsequently defined by '1066 and All That' and Molesworth's various manuals such as 'Down with Skool' and 'Whizz for Atoms'. As with 'The Young Visiters', the grammar, the language and the authorial viewpoint of those classics contribute much to our enjoyment. But unlike its descendants, 'The Young Visiters' wasn't written by an adult ... probably.<br />To my knowledge, there isn't an audiobook version of the full text. But there are a couple of gushing extracts contained on the Naxos compilation '1000 Years of Laughter' which demonstrate that it isn't just the troubled spelling which make the book so amusing. The introduction to those extracts lead us to believe that JM Barrie, who wrote the introduction, could have had much to do with the entire work. Certainly once Barrie had died, she never wrote again, but my feeling is that the nine-year-old Ashford probably was the author. The story is less than 60 pages long, and can be enjoyed in a couple of sittings, then repeatedly re-read.<br />This work is likely to experience a dramatic surge in popularity this year. A TV adaptation starring Jim Broadbent (of 'Moulin Rouge' fame) will be broadcast, and this recently overlooked masterpiece will return to prominence once again.	2003-07-22
US	52657217	R36ALNSBLODDCC	0897333659	959576433	The Young Visiters	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A classic just waiting to be rediscovered	This is the book that started the schoolchild genre subsequently defined by '1066 and All That' and Molesworth's various manuals such as 'Down with Skool' and 'Whizz for Atoms'. As with 'The Young Visiters', the grammar, the language and the authorial viewpoint of those classics contribute much to our enjoyment. But unlike its descendants, 'The Young Visiters' wasn't written by an adult ... probably.<br />To my knowledge, there isn't an audiobook version of the full text. But there are a couple of gushing extracts contained on the Naxos compilation '1000 Years of Laughter' which demonstrate that it isn't just the troubled spelling which make the book so amusing. The introduction to those extracts lead us to believe that JM Barrie, who wrote the introduction, could have had much to do with the entire work. Certainly once Barrie had died, she never wrote again, but my feeling is that the nine-year-old Ashford probably was the author. The story is less than 60 pages long, and can be enjoyed in a couple of sittings, then repeatedly re-read.<br />This work is likely to experience a dramatic surge in popularity this year. A TV adaptation starring Jim Broadbent (of 'Moulin Rouge' fame) will be broadcast, and this recently overlooked masterpiece will return to prominence once again.	2003-07-22
US	52657217	R25TQVXG4JKPM6	9626342692	318753762	1000 Years of Laughter: An Anthology of Classic Comic Prose	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Disappointing	I'm normally a great fan of the Naxos audiobook surveys. I've already enjoyed the History of the Theatre and the Story of English Literature, both involving the participation of David Timson. But this one just doesn't work for me. Perhaps my sense of humour is too rooted in the present, but I chuckled at very few of the pre-1850 extracts.<br />And yet the compilation does have its moments. I will be spending more time with 'Diary of a Nobody', 'Three Men in a Boat' and 'The Young Visiters' as a direct result of listening to this.<br />The compilation finishes about halfway through CD4. Goodness knows why Naxos saw fit to add on Wilde's 'The Remarkable Rocket' after this. Just because you have the free space doesn't mean you can stuff any old trailer for another audiobook (in this case, 'The Happy Prince').	2003-07-20
US	52657217	R1NPDK82Y8JQCA	0060523794	577741355	Who Says Elephants Can't Dance?:  Inside IBM's Historic Turnaround	Books	3	11	15	N	N	A must-read for all of IBM's competitors	IBM is still in awe of Gerstner.  In the 1990s, the board voted to award him ridiculously excessive retirement benefits -- such as the use of a company jet whenever he wants -- so you can bet that his words will continue to be treated like tablets of stone for years to come, much as those of the two Thomas Watsons used to be.<br />The joy for all of IBM's competitors, and perhaps dismay for IBM's partners and employees, to be found here are threefold:<br />1.  That IBM will continue to run its entire operation as a portfolio, getting in and out of businesses as soon as they seem unattractive, which in IBM-speak means one, or at most two years of declining sales.  This is almost the exact opposite of Microsoft's approach.  To succeed in the IT industry, you need to show exceptional commitment to your customers and partners -- to demonstrate that they can safely invest in your products because you're still going to be in that business for five, if not many more, years.<br />2.  That IBM will continue to believe that open is good and proprietary is bad.  Before Gerstner, IBM believed in open, standard interfaces between products; now in Gerstner's world, it says it believes in open standards within products.  One wonders how long it will take IBM to realise that if it pursues this belief to its logical conclusion, everything proprietary will be stripped out -- in other words, there will be no added value in IBM products that you can't get anywhere else.<br />3.  That IBM continues to believe its best strategy is as an integrator of other firm's piece-parts rather than as a creator of the best piece-parts itself.  More than once in the book, Gerstner says this is where he believes the IT industry is headed.  He needs to look back at IBM's history.  IBM kicked off the desktop PC industry by being the integrator that brought together the piece-part suppliers Intel and Microsoft.  What is happening now?  The original integrator, IBM, is slowly withdrawing from the desktop market, while Intel and Microsoft increasingly dominate the processor and operating system markets.<br />I strongly disapprove of much of what Gerstner has left IBM with.  However, unlike one reviewer here, I cannot criticise him for avoiding the topic of IBM's WWII involvement with the Nazis.  There is a common feeling among the IBMers I talk to that, though the involvement was awful and reprehensible, it cannot be blamed on today's IBMers, none of whom worked for the company during 1939-1945, and none of whom have gained from that terrible episode.market, while Intel and Microsoft increasingly dominate the processor and operating system markets.<br />I strongly disapprove of much of what Gerstner has left IBM with.  However, unlike one reviewer here, I cannot criticise him for avoiding the topic of IBM's WWII involvement with the Nazis.  There is a common feeling among the IBMers I talk to that, though the involvement was awful and reprehensible, it cannot be blamed on today's IBMers, none of whom worked for the company during 1939-1945, and none of whom have gained from that terrible episode.	2002-12-07
US	52657217	R3TKG5OWTSAYDB	0060523794	577741355	Who Says Elephants Can't Dance?:  Inside IBM's Historic Turnaround	Books	2	43	58	N	N	How a bully destroyed IBM	In order to appreciate the essence of Gerstner, I would recommend you first read chapter #12 ('A brief history of IBM').  It's actually much more about the IT industry, or at least Gerstner's understanding of it.  The man admits more than once that he came to IBM knowing nothing about IT, but that he should pen a chapter so littered with errors when leaving IBM is truly lamentable.  For example, contrary to what he writes, IBM aimed the PC at businesses, not 'hobbyists and students', right form the outset.  Contrary to what he writes, IBM was not a 'one-product company' in 1984: highly profitable products like the System/34, the Selectric typewriter and the Displaywriter had been around for years; even the IBM PC had been around for three years.<br />It confirms what many in the industry suspected: that Gerstner never understood IBM's product lines.  That's the main reason why he gave so few interviews -- it was virtually impossible to find a journalist who knew less about IBM's products than he did.  If it was to be an open-ended interview, by the time the journalist got to the third question in any line of inquiry, Gerstner would be embarrassed and humiliated.  He could do the occasional Comdex keynote speech, but there you don't have to take any questions, and anyway your speechwriters draft the text for you.<br />Anyone wondering why the immensely successful AS/400 line fared so poorly under Gerstner will be none the wiser.  He mentions it just once in the book, and then it is just in passing, in a list of products in an appendix.<br />Gerstner complains in this book about other 'outspoken' CEOs like Gates, Ballmer and Ellison, but frankly he could never dare to take them on in open debate, because his understanding of any of the technical issues was so poor.  In this book, he says that every decent CEO must be intimately acquainted with the finances of his or her company, but I cannot believe that a decent CEO should be so distant from the company's own products.  Maybe if Gerstner hadn't spent so much time on public education and non-executive directorships in unrelated companies, he would have had more time to understand the product issues that drive strategy in the IT industry.<br />So what does a bully do when he arrives at a company dominated by products and technology architectures?  Answer: the only way he could begin to level the playing field -- i.e. to reduce the daily embarrassment -- between himself and the existing IBM directors was to shift the focus away from products.  That's why Dennie Welsh's plan to massively expand IBM's services empire became so attractive.  And it's why the whole e-business thing became so attractive to Gerstner in the mid-1990s.  But IBM benefitted little from its e-business mindshare; by then IBM just didn't have the products, and so the main beneficiaries of the Internet boom were Sun and Microsoft.<br />Gerstner admits in this book that, under his direction, IBM now plays the IT markets on a portfolio basis, quickly getting in and out of businesses as the hoped-for profits come and go.  But, in the face of Microsoft, this approach is a disaster for any company with long-term aspirations.  Microsoft is known for its tenacity, for trying again and again with new generations of products until it dominates markets -- witness the desktop market, the office suite market and the handheld markets.  Currently Microsoft is playing the ERP market as a 10-year game.  IBM now gives up on a market after two years; Microsoft almost never gives up.  Which is the more successful?  Indeed there are some who say that the installation of Gerstner was a Microsoft plot to destroy IBM from within -- to get IBM to ditch OS/2 and all its other proprietary architectures, under the &quot;open systems&quot; banner, in order to hand over the highly lucrative server market to the company that realised that to create value, you have to offer differentiated, proprietary products protected by patents.  We'll never know how many Microsoft shares Gerstner held; certainly he dumped much of his IBM stock over the years.<br />This book proves what we already knew: that Gerstner is neither an entrepreneur nor a technocrat.  He is a destroyer, not a builder.  When your company is in trouble, you need someone like Gerstner for 2-3 years to take the really tough decisions about which businesses and assets to sell off.  But it is too much to expect such a person to continue at the helm when rebuilding and rapid growth is needed.  Gerstner stayed at IBM about three years too long -- his dismal revenue record in Appendix C shows this.	2002-12-05
US	52657217	RVBI287KH6F41	0060523794	577741355	Who Says Elephants Can't Dance?:  Inside IBM's Historic Turnaround	Books	2	72	97	N	N	Who says elephants can't write?	It is strangely ironic that, after doing his best to suppress all negative communication within IBM, it should be the reader feedback on amazon.com that alerts Gerstner to what the world at large really thinks of him.  Ever since 1994 the newsreading public has been conned into a set of beliefs about IBM and Gerstner, simply through IBM's vice-like control of all media that wanted a share of IBM's ad spending.  It is bizarre that he expects us to read through a critical employee e-mail on pages 81-82 of his book, when he admits that he couldn't even spare the time to reply to it himself.<br />Gerstner was the IBM CEO with a worse revenue record than John Akers, the man he replaced.  The only way Gerstner could find to grow revenue was by buying firms like Lotus.  He turned what was a fantastic company to work for into a an ordinary one.  He writes in the book that he transformed the company into a firm where the most able got the most rewards.  In fact he converted it into a firm where the most aggressive individuals, like Gerstner, win through.  He destroyed IBM's employee benefits schemes across the world, claiming they were unaffordable at the time of IBM's darkest hour.  Perhaps they were at that time, but Gerstner's greatest sin was that he never returned any of the benefits to the employees when business improved, except through a silly bonus scheme that in my experience never motivated anyone.  The result is that IBM has become a company that people still want to have on their CV, but those who join in mid-career almost never stay more than two years.<br />Gerstner groped around and never really found the right idea for growing revenue.  His shift to services meant that he took his eye off all the products in the IBM catalogue, and IBM architectures have become an irrelevance in a world now dominated by Windows, TCP/IP, Linux, Solaris and Oracle.  He used the AS/400 as a cash cow when a very aggressive pricing scheme could have seen the system create the market that Windows NT instead built.  Gerstner has said the Internet saved IBM, but frankly it did a lot more for rivals like Microsoft and Sun.<br />There's a part of me that makes me think this book is one huge, ironic joke -- the guy only pretends to be unaware of the impact of his decisions on others.  He boasts about a turnaround that never was and advocates management behaviour that no-one should accept.<br />That would be fine if it were confined to the pages of this book.  But unfortunately the impact of Gerstner is written large across the lives of many, many individuals who crossed his path, both inside and outside IBM.  The blight cast over their lives means that, when they get the chance, they usually don't recommend IBM products.  Gerstner just doesn't understand that.<br />These pages on amazon ought to be required reading for anyone foolish enough to think they want a career in IBM.	2002-12-02
US	52657217	R1PWS6QA8P7VE5	0060523794	577741355	Who Says Elephants Can't Dance?:  Inside IBM's Historic Turnaround	Books	2	53	69	N	N	A classic in self-deception	The title of this book says it all: elephants don't naturally dance, it takes years of cruel training to make them do it, and in the end, there aren't many customers for the show.<br />IBM's revenue record in Appendix C of this book also says it all: Gerstner has the worse revenue growth record of any IBM CEO, and that is despite the the Internet boom, despite the ERP boom, and despite the acquisition of such big players as Sequent, Lotus and Tivoli.  Some turnaround, mate!<br />More than once in this book Gerstner cites the pleas of others: \\"You owe it to America to take this job.\\"  It's hard to see what he has done for America during his nine-year tenure...  Where once there were many readers who wanted to learn about SNA, CICS, RPG/400 and other IBM inventions, today there seem to be no IBM technologies that a sufficient number of people are interested in to propel a manual even in to the bottom of the amazon bestseller list.<br />For the story of Gerstner's tenure at IBM is really the story of IBM's hollowing out, of an extraordinary sell-off of IBM's assets to the short-term benefit of shareholders, of whom Gerstner was one of the biggest.  As one of the IBM UK CEOs during Gerstner's reign, Barrie Morgans, said of Gerstner's skill at cutting costs and inability to boost sales: \\"Well, anybody can slash and burn.\\"  Gerstner says on page 87 that the dismissal of the EMEA head, Hans-Olaf Henkel, was for subverting his memos to employees.  It wasn't: Gerstner got rid of Henkel because Henkel dared to tell Gerstner that one of his strategies wouldn't work..  There is no reference here to the classic case, Churchhouse v IBM, which was heard in a US court.<br />Gerstner also dismisses, in a page or two, the needs of employees in terms of benefits and pensioners.  He simply says they were unaffordable; and yet he has no difficulty in negotiating an extraordinary compensation package for himself.  And of course, as one of IBM's biggest shareholders, the more he could screw down the employees' packages, the more he himself benefitted.  Never in IBM history had their been such a huge disparity between the compensation of the CEO and that of the lowest worker.<br />The truth is that Gerstner sees himself as an elite -- ever the McKinsey consultant (and by the way, there were McKinsey consultants crawling over IBM throughout the 1990s, yet he fails to give them much credit in the book)...	2002-11-29
US	52657217	R2J2U2IFXSCQAN	0060523794	577741355	Who Says Elephants Can't Dance?:  Inside IBM's Historic Turnaround	Books	1	34	46	N	N	How much can you believe this account?	Very early in his reign at IBM, Gerstner gave an interview to Fortune magazine, which subsequently wrote an unflattering profile of the man and the company.  Unable to believe that the publication had revealed any of the truth about him, Gerstner was livid.  Shortly afterwards, IBM stopped all advertising in Fortune.  It was an expensive loss for the magazine, particularly as IBM was relaunching itself with the costly 'Solutions for a Small Planet' campaign.  We'll never know whether the two events were linked, but the magazine industry certainly took on board the message that if you publish an uncomplimentary article on IBM, you'll lose a major advertising customer.<br />In this book, Gerstner portrays himself as a private figure, reluctant now to make speeches, answer analyst questions, or do interviews.  He hopes that his written account will be the definitive version of his life at IBM.  It's hard to find any other: as soon as he arrived at IBM, he forbade all other executives from writing about their IBM careers.  (Shortly before that, IBMers such as Jacques Maisonrouge and 'Buck' Rodgers had published their stories.)<br />Gerstner admits in the book that he's into amassing personal wealth -- and with wealth comes status, something he craves even more.  I don't think he cares much about society or about employees.  The fact that he spent a number of years at the head of a cigarette firm (obsessed with market share, by the way) indicates that he had few qualms about the impact of his firm's products on the customer or society.  Set against that, the foundations of his recently acquired 'passion' for education seem insecure.  But then the english Queen gave him a knighthood for that.<br />This book is a reasonably frank account by a man largely insensitive to the blight he cast on thousands of lives.  My guess is that whether you buy this book or not will make no odds to him -- his personal fortune is too massive to notice -- but if you're influential, he'll carevery much what you think and say about him.	2002-11-29
US	52657217	R1GR7GVCF0PAJ6	0140866000	293247609	The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes: Volume 1 (Penguin Classics) (v. 1)	Books	2	0	4	N	N	No!  Please protect us from the reading of Douglas Wilmer	For this 1998 recording, the biography of the reader Douglas Wilmer openly states that his first performance as Sherlock Holmes was in 1964.<br />So here, 34 years later, we have our man reprising the role, but through the narrative of Dr Watson, who here sounds rather more like Santa Claus.  At times, Wilmer appears to be confused whether he is playing Holmes or Watson, and will change voice mid-sentence.<br />Avoid the Douglas Wilmer recordings at all costs.  They are intensely irritating, and ruin what are still half-decent stories.	2002-09-26
US	52657217	RF902SVWG87U1	0140866000	293247609	The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes: Volume 1 (Penguin Classics) (v. 1)	Books	2	0	4	N	N	No!  Please protect us from the reading of Douglas Wilmer	For this 1998 recording, the biography of the reader Douglas Wilmer openly states that his first performance as Sherlock Holmes was in 1964.<br />So here, 34 years later, we have our man reprising the role, but through the narrative of Dr Watson, who here sounds rather more like Santa Claus.  At times, Wilmer appears to be confused whether he is playing Holmes or Watson, and will change voice mid-sentence.<br />Avoid the Douglas Wilmer recordings at all costs.  They are intensely irritating, and ruin what are still half-decent stories.	2002-09-26
US	52657217	R2L7RRGN3X7LF0	9626341513	976358997	David Copperfield (Classic Fiction)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	An outstanding reading of this abridgement by Anton Lesser	For those who don't have time to read for pleasure, or perhaps spend too much time reading as part of their daily job, audio books are a godsend.  You can play them while travelling to work, and you're suddenly transported to another world, if they're any good.<br />Fortunately this Naxos abridgement read by Anton Lesser is superb.  I haven't yet found an actor better at handling both the male and female voices, old and young, rich and poor.  It's so easy to forget that that is not a large-cast dramatisation -- it's just a a one-man reading, brilliantly executed.<br />As a story, 'David Copperfield' means a lot to me because it means a lot to my Dad.  Now 73 years old, he had a troubled childhood in and around London, and a difficult relationship with his stepfather.  While Dickens needed to create some out-and-out baddies such as Uriah Heep and the Murdstones, many of his characters are basically decent folk, rigidly sticking to Victorian values, and I think this is how my father still sees the world.<br />Much of the detail in this story is specific to England, but the basic human themes are universal.  As a first pass at getting into 'David Copperfield', I would very strongly recommend this 4CD audiobook.	2002-08-08
US	52657217	R5LW59NS2524G	9626341203	463707544	Vanity Fair (Classic Fiction)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Dodgy novel, but a great reading	This Naxos abridgement of the 800+ page Thackeray novel stretches across five CDs, and one of my frequent thoughts while listening to Jane Lapotaire's excellent reading was &quot;Thank goodness they didn't transcribe the full novel&quot;.<br />To the modern ear, used to today's &quot;Show -- don't tell&quot; scriptwriter dictum, there is far, far too much exposition and far too few scenes in Thackeray's classic.  Thackeray can certainly do scenes of real drama -- witness the moment in which Rawdon catches Becky with her lover and the ensuing combat.  But for most of the reading we seem to be in catch-up mode, forever being told things that have happened off-camera.<br />Much credit to Jane Lapotaire for a fine reading of this work.  Her French accent is, as one might anticipate from someone with her surname, very good.  Although Becky is her tour-de-force, Lapotaire does well to bring the male characters alive, often with a certain hoarseness!<br />I have seen at least two TV serialisations of this novel, both by the BBC, and neither seemed quite as comprehensive an account of this long, winding tale at this Naxos abridgement.	2002-07-15
US	52657217	R6JELWIG7H2LW	9626341998	221244949	History of Theatre	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A high-speed tour through European and US theatre	As a highly infrequent theatre-goer, I picked this up in the hope of plugging the many gaps in my understanding of what plays are all about.  Visits to the theatre have left me frustrated and bored more often than captivated.  Halfway through a performance, I'll be looking at my watch and thinking I'd be better off watching a video at home!  Perhaps I'm simply re-living all those terrible plays I was forced to watch at school.<br />This audio CD has boosted my understanding and awareness of the theatre.  Not only does it cover the history of playwrights, nicely giving name-checks to every author I've heard of, but it also lists the key achievements of many of the key directors, impressarios and actors.  And it also covers the development of the physical stage from Greek tragedy to the modern era.  And there's the odd bit of reasonably appropriate classical music (from the Naxos catalogue) to link some items.<br />In the course of five hours, this can only dip its toes in the water of each era, and it does have a bias towards the English theatre, but the main benefit to me is that it's got me wanting to go and see some plays again.  A major achievement indeed!	2002-04-18
US	52657217	R621JJN5P4T4H	0553456539	763758332	The Lord of the Rings (BBC Dramatization)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A magnificent way of building up expectation for the movie	I am one of those rare beasts, a fortysomething who has never read 'The Lord of the Rings'.  I am slowly plugging away at the book -- in the bath, in bed etc -- but frankly, as a father of two demanding children, I'd find it hard to justify spending much more time curled up with a massive book like this.<br />Hence the joy of audiobooks for me -- when I'm out on the road between offices, I just slip another CD into my car's CD player and I'm transported to another realm.  It's just so much more exciting and enthralling than listening to the news.  Never before have I so looked forward to the next car journey as at the moment ... and I'm only on CD #4 of 13!<br />This is a wonderful adaptation of a book I haven't read.  As another reviewer pointed out, this 1981 recording is somewhat better than the BBC's 1969 recording of THE HOBBIT, if only for the sound effects. (Synthesised sounds were only in their infancy then, and some key narrative details were obscured by the distorted voices of the birds and wolves.)<br />Ian Holm, who plays Bilbo in the new movie, stars as an excellent Frodo here.  Listen out also for the versatile Bill Nighy as Sam.<br />I have promised myself that I will eventually finish the book.  But for the time being, this audio CD is an excellent way of getting familiar with the Tolkien landscape in time for the movie.  And you don't need to visit many Web sites to realise that Amazon's deal here is extraordinarily good value compared to the BBC package on offer in the UK.	2001-11-16
US	52657217	R2VE0EZVJ6QAVK	0395977894	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The best book I've read all year	I'm not at all surprised there are over 200 reviews about this book filed here. It is an outstanding, behaviour-changing chiller. It shows, for instance, that not all government regulation is unnecessary red tape. We need strong government -- one that's not in the pockets of the meatpacking industry -- to minimise the risk of e-coli-157 killing our children. It also illustrates the consequences for product quality when fastfood restaurants compete purely on price. And finally it highlights the vicious circle when wages of the working classes decline in real terms: thirty years ago, most mothers, even in the poorest families, could stay at home and cook proper meals. Now both partners have to go out to work, some holding down two or three jobs, and neither has the time to cook a meal -- so they go out and buy cheap, fast food.<br />Coincidentally I am re-reading Michael Porter's 'Competitive Strategy', a dispassionate textbook written for executives 20 years ago. Today's fast food industry and today's obese nations across the globe are what you get as a result of following Porter's amoral advice.<br />Eric Schlosser deserves the Pulitzer Prize for this brilliant work.  It makes me want to go out and leaflet everyone thinking of visiting our local McDonald's.	2001-09-03
US	52657217	RW2FHJ4XGBTDU	1861524803	355312222	Organizational Marketing	Books	2	0	0	N	N	A very dull read	Marketing managers keen to improve sales should steer well clear of this tedious volume.  The book consists of a long trudge through business-to-business marketing theory and then a section of &quot;mini-cases&quot; designed somehow to amplify the points made in the first part.<br />The author is an academic, and his sympathies appear to lie with the North European IMP movement.  But it's not at all clear what practical advice this group has to offer the business world (besides banalities such as customer relationships are important).<br />Without mentioning him, this book provides ample evidence for the fact that Kotler dominates practical marketing theory.  Until the IMP group cuts the jargon and starts to address the needs of the practising marketing executive, then it, and books like this, can safely be ignored.	2001-06-07
US	52657217	R27GZU2IHCLJGT	0671664263	135145618	Don't Panic: The Official Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy Companion	Books	5	35	38	N	N	Warts-and-everything story of the creation of the Guide	For anyone interested in how the Hitchhiker's Guide came into being, this is essential reading.  For anyone interested in the evolution of a great idea into a radio series, album, TV series, computer game, five books, and more than one attempt at a film script, this is equally vital.<br />I found it particularly helpful in providing explanations of why:<br />1.  episodes five and six of the first radio series have a different style to the wonderful episodes 1 to 4.<br />2.  the second radio series was so sloppy in comparison to the first.<br />It's fascinating to read Douglas Adams' original summary of the Hitchhiker concept.  (Goodness knows why Arther Dent was originally going to be called Alaric!)  It was depressing to read how Adams and John Lloyd (co-writer of episodes 5 and 6) fell out when Adams changed his mind about co-writing the first book, but encouraging that they put their differences behind them and went on to collaborate on works like 'The Meaning of Liff'.<br />There are plenty of bits of unused dialogue spread across the pages of this book.  It is partly a biography of Adams and partly a biography of the Hitchhikers Guide itself.  There is a BBC-produced double cassette tape which also tells the story of the Hitchhiker but tends to gloss over most of the disagreements that Adams had with various BBC colleagues and publishers.<br />I would strongly recommend Hitchhiker fans to get this book.	2001-06-04
US	52657217	R1KXKSDZ2PNX9L	0575071486	914803553	How Good Is Your Bridge Hand?	Books	3	4	6	N	N	How many times can you recycle the same old ideas?	Ron Klinger is one of the most prolific bridge authors.  Every author of bidding books seems to have their own small variations on the main theme of Five-Card Majors, Acol or whatever. But the problem is that the reader wants to build up their bidding arsenal -- they don't want to have to partly destroy it in order to incorporate a new convention.  So they like to stick with the same author where possible.  In that respect, Klinger is the biggest brand in the brdige bidding world.  Add his name to any book and you're guaranteed a much bigger audience.<br />So how much of this is written by Klinger (who lives in Australia, by the way) and how much by Kambites (a UK resident)?  The opening example of chapter 3 gives a clue -- Klinger on his own would certainly value the hands, after finding a trump fit, according to shortage points, not length points, arriving at a valuation of 16, not 13 as given in the book.<br />I enjoyed this book, and particularly like the chapters on the stuff Klinger hasn't really covered elsewhere, that is, Fit Jumps and the Offence-to-Defence ratio.  Other material about Judgement and Hand Valuation etc has bee covered elsewhere - e.g. in Tony Forrester's four videos.<br />The trouble for Ron is that he has written at least two definitive manuals on bidding -- the Standard American / Acol volume, and the Duplicate volume.  Those two books describe the system that many readers have taken as the basis for their partnership agreement.  But of course they want to learn new tricks, and they would probably prefer to buy small addenda like this, rather than buy new editions of the original masterwork.  In a way, there are two many bridge books on the market -- ideally, most players want just one on bidding and one on play -- but not enough really good ones.	2000-12-08
US	52657217	R1RBRE5XYTFFB0	1569472041	259609033	Adrian Mole: The Cappuccino Years	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Adrian, the very fortunate	Americans may find Adrian hard to take.  He has 'loser' writtenlarge across him, he doesn't learn from his mistakes, and he alwaysseems to turn down every opportunity that comes his way.  It can befrustrating to read his diary, willing him for once to make the rightdecision ... about a girl, about a business transaction, or indealings with his family.  But nearly every time, Adrian takes the lowroad...<br />There are lots of nice little jokes here, and many digs atBlairite Britain.  It's a fun read, but don't expect to get much morefrom a second read than you did from the first...	2000-11-19
US	52657217	R1P2H1137VUAL	0575068450	379508948	Golden Rules of Defence (Master Bridge Series)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A great book for almost any improving bridge player	The trouble with Bridge is that it's a complicated game.  Unless Bridge is your number one priority in life, you keep forgetting little things that seemed sensible when you read about them two years ago but which have remained unused in your finite memory.  Which is good news for authors, because it means there's always a market, even if they're recycling ideas which they only wrote about two years ago.<br />Bidding books tend to be a waste of effort, unless both you and your partner agree to read the same book.  If you learn a new convention and your partner doesn't, it can only do damage to your partnership and scores.  Stick to a simple system: Acol or Five-Card Majors.  There is no absolute best bidding system.  The best bidding system for you is the one that both you and your partner understand.<br />But bridge play is a different matter.  Apart from the matter of who can see each hand, the game is identical to whist, a far older game.  In most situations, experts can work out the best play at the table.  Guidelines such as '3rd hand plays high' and '2nd hand plays low' still apply in many situations.<br />This book clearly lays out these guidelines, and gives examples of where they apply and where they don't.  The good news is that there aren't too many of these guidelines.  But it's left to the reader to understand the specific hand layouts and draw  conclusions about the general applicability of the advice.<br />Like bidding, defence is a partnership activity.  This is a great book, and I'll be trying to persuade my partner to read it.	2000-10-03
US	52657217	R2FRAGCH84TL5P	0575068469	870460893	Five-Card Majors (Master Bridge Series)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Another great book from Ron Klinger	For many people (myself included), Ron Klinger writes the best books on  bridge bidding.  His 'Guide to Better Bridge' (both Standard American and  Acol editions) and 'Beginning Bridge' co-authored with Kambites and husband  are outstanding examples of how bidding books should be written: each  chapter starts with several clearly stated principles and moves straight  into just the right number of self-tests to enable the reader to check  their progress.<br />'Five-Card Majors' -- now in its second edition -- is  another outstanding volume in the series.  Acol players may be a little  disturbed that Klinger says here that 5-card majors are clearly better than  Acol, when he gives the impression in his Acol books that Acol contains all  you need.<br />The book isn't quite comprehensive enough for me: I am still  waiting for Ron to give the Two-over-One system of 5-card Majors a thorough  treatment, as the Mike Lawrence book on the subject is  flawed.<br />But this  is still a great book, and a significant improvement on the first edition.	2000-09-09
