US	52658273	RNKSNHS084MOV	0060516054	433958284	What Went Wrong?: The Clash Between Islam and Modernity in the Middle East	Books	5	28	34	N	N	Nothing Wrong With This Book	I enjoyed &quot;What Went Wrong? The Clash Between Islam and Modernity in the Middle East,&quot; by Bernard Lewis, quite a lot. Lewis is probably the premier Western scholar of the Middle East and Islam, and this book is one of his most recent efforts. Although one might be tempted to pigeon-hole this effort as an author capitalizing on Sept 11, in reality this book was in publication at that time, having been inspired by an earlier lecture series, I think.<br />&quot;What Went Wrong&quot; contrasts Islam and Christendom since the rise of Islam. It is important to remember that while in the West we tend to view Islamic countries as trailing the West in major &quot;measures&quot; of civilization, this was not always true. When European (Christian) countries were languishing in the dark ages, Islamic scientists and physicians were among the most advanced on the globe. Poetry, literature, music, economics, and military prowess: Muslim countries and peoples exceeded all others in these areas. Then it all changed. Slowly at first, then more quickly. Soon, the West was the seat of learning and science, and the hegemony was reversed.<br />In this book, Lewis seeks to try to explain why this happened. In doing so, he explores Christian and Islamic attributes of many aspects of the two kinds of societies. Some other reviewers felt like this book was too simplistic or too vague. I think they're looking too hard at the topic. Lewis seems to be saying simply this: when Islam came to power in Arabia, long before the end of the first Millenium AD, it was the most progressive social movement around. It enabled basic women's rights (if little more than basic ones), and simple but powerful social constructs that catapulted Arab and the Middle Eastern societies into the forefront of social thought, at least for that time. But it was not flexible or adaptable.<br />As a result, when Christendom experienced a Renaissance, Islamic society was unable to match those advances; in fact, uninterested in matching them. Lewis presents many examples of this dichotomy: units of measure, use of technology and medicine, tolerance for secular government, and some deceptively simple Western measures of &quot;civilization,&quot; such as art and music. Taken as a whole, these points seem to support his argument that Islamic society didn't continue to advance as quickly because it wasn't conceived with that advancement in mind. This book is a fascinating look at this basic contrast, and I found it a provocative and worthwhile read. I would recommend it to anyone: no reader need fear the language or content will be too difficult. I give it five stars for its insight and the well-supported arguments.	2004-02-18
US	52658273	R2CLIZ0TRSH8S2	0914846922	388654240	Treasures of Time: A Fully Illustrated Guide to Prehistoric Ceramics of the Southwest	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An Extremely Useful Guide to Prehistoric Southwest Pottery	&quot;Treasures of Time&quot; is a very versatile and compelling look at prehistoric Native American pottery in the Southwest. The book focuses on pottery unearthed at multiple digs at a single site in Arizona, covering centuries of time and the evolution of pottery and artistic techniques during the entire period.<br />The book describes each kind of pottery, and has nearly four dozen color photographs illustrating those types. Also included are maps, diagrams, drawings, a glossary, and an impressive eight page bibliography. This book truly contains everything a lay person could hope to know about this topic, and quite a bit more.<br />Written by an archeologist who excavates these sites, the book has a lot of information, but is written in a common vernacular, so you don't have to be a professional to understand it. I enjoyed this book a lot, but I'd note that it may be better as a reference or an introduction to the topic than for light bedtime reading. The good organization, easy language and great photographs earn it four stars from me.	2004-02-18
US	52658273	R1PGW19WB08WGM	0870814958	624408593	Glass Plates & Wagon Ruts: Images of the Southwest by Lisle Updike and William Pennington	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fabulous and Worthwhile Photographs	I love the photographs in &quot;Glass Plates and Wagon Ruts.&quot; This book, by H. Jackson Clark, records the history of Lisle Update and William Pennington, who creates an amazing photoarchive of the American Southwest in the first several decades of the twentieth century.<br />Clark presents nearly 100 classic photographs, around which he tells the story of constant travel in the Four Corners states by these two reknown photographers. Many of these photos are of Native Americans, both in the Pueblos of New Mexico, and in Navajo and Apache territory in Arizona. The prints, in particular, represent some of the best photo portraits from these cultures in existence.<br />Some of the pictures will just surprise you. My favorite is one of the Wright Brothers' plane, flown at a fair in Colorado in 1914. I really enjoyed this book. If you have an interest in the Southwest, or in old photography, the chances are good that you will, too.	2004-02-17
US	52658273	R2N2E422NMSVSU	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Lots of Fun	With &quot;The Da Vinci Code,&quot; Dan Brown reprises his last novel, &quot;Angels and Demons,&quot; by bringing back both his Robert Langdon character, and the fast and furious tone that make both books such thrilling reads. Let's be frank about this book. &quot;The Da Vinci Code&quot; is not a great literary work. What it is is a LOT of fun to read.<br />While less complex and demanding than &quot;Angels and Demons,&quot; this effort is no less enjoyable. The action starts with an early murder in Paris, and picks up speed after a brief and amusing scene involving Landon and a stereotypical French Chief Investigator. However, the reader soon learns the identity and motivation of the true murderer, after which the story transposes quickly into a rather cliche search for the Holy Grail, which is interesting, if not original. Brown didn't originate the ideas on which this story is based, and he doesn't claim credit for them. While they don't form the basis for a particularly believable story, Brown does successfully use them to generate a palpable sense of urgency around the story line, and that drives the reader from page to page in a flurry.<br />The book reads quickly, and with immense satisfaction. I felt like Brown was leading me around with a carrot on a stick, just letting me get a little nibble here and there, while he unfolded chapter after chapter of this thriller. My only complaint is that I thought the ending wasn't particularly dramatic or satisfying enough for the plot: the climax just kind of fades away, instead of delivering the whole ending in a nice, wrapped-up package.<br />In the end, the grail story is an apt subject for this book. In fact, &quot;The Da Vinci Code&quot; is quite an apt metaphor itself for the search for the Grail. Not so much as a murderer, Langdon and his co-protagonist, Sophie Neveu, are playing out a great scavenger hunt in search of the answers to some of life's greatest mysteries. And while Brown's themes of the Grail are far from mainstream, there's just enough of a hint of believability to draw the reader into the story and keep him there.<br />The bottom line is that this book is fantastically fun to read. Don't look for anything else, here; this book doesn't need it. Don't critique it or analyze it. Buy it and read it just for fun. On that level, it scored five stars from me. I'll buy the next one from Brown, too. If you read this book, I'm guessing you may, as well.r from mainstream, there's just enough of a hint of believability to draw the reader into the story and keep him there.<br />The bottom line is that this book is fantastically fun to read. Don't look for anything else, here; this book doesn't need it. Don't critique it or analyze it. Buy it and read it just for fun. On that level, it scored five stars from me. I'll buy the next one from Brown, too. If you read this book, I'm guessing you may, as well.	2004-02-15
US	52658273	R3W0DUBZZBS76	0345408764	517687265	Catastrophe: An Investigation into the Origins of Modern Civilization	Books	3	37	40	N	Y	Not Catastrophic....But a Little Suspect in Places	Catastrophe, by David Keys, is an effort to attribute several significant changes in history that occurred in or near the 6th Centuary AD to drastic global weather changes, and to attribute those changes to a volcanic eruption. Keys ammasses an enormous amount of evidence to support these attributions, enough by itself to make the work impressive. However, on the whole his trail of evidence is a bit suspect.<br />Keys offers ample convincing evidence that the 6th century AD saw startling changes in weather. In doing so, he presents data from literally around the globe; moreover, his various sources of information seem to corroborate one another. This represents the most solid part of his argument, although he didn't tell us if he omitted evidence that didn't support his conclusions. From here, Keys proceeds to suggest what affects this weather pattern may have had on the world.<br />Some of these suggestions are more believable than others. His attribution of plague outbreaks to the weather patterns seems reasonable. Similarly a discussion of impacts on the Roman Empire is well argued and somewhat supported. From there, though, Keys trots about the globe presenting marginal evidence that most of the major events of the 6th Century (and some thereafter) are directly attributable to this weather pattern. In doing so, Keys includes a lot of marginal evidence and reaches for some causal relationships that are probably a lot more complicated than his book suggests. In particular, I found his version of events in the Middle East, Europe and China not so well supported.<br />I was a little bothered by the language and evidence of some of these chapters. Frequently, Keys uses phrases such as &quot;almost certainly&quot; to describe a cause-and-effect relationship, without providing any real supporting evidence. In one place, his endnote to such a comment simply repeats the &quot;almost certainly&quot; phrase without offering any additional information or citing a source. Ithink this fact really weakens the credibility of his work.<br />As he moves toward the end, Keys tries to pinpoint the source of the weather patterns. Toward this end, he nominates the eruption of a volcano in Java. However, in doing so, he needs to significantly re-interpret Javan historical accounts based on second and third hand sources. And while there's some limited basis for doing so, the connection is, from my point of view, far from a slam-dunk. It's easy to see that Keys left this section for the end because it's the least supported part of his chain of argument and potentially unravels the whole thesis. <br />On the whole, the book is an impressive projection of a lot of focused research. Sadly a lot of the evidence presented is weak in supporting Keys premise. In the end, it's easy for the reader to see that some, perhaps even a lot, of the things that Keys suggests  caused major historical changes are credible. Still, a lot aren't. I give the book three stars for pulling together and presenting this information, which is in itself an impressive feat. Keys is not convincing in telling us that a volcanic eruption in 535 AD rewrote most of human history from that point on, however. Other than that, the book is interesting and fairly readable, and worth the time to take a look.	2003-10-05
US	52658273	R293M87ODGRZTT	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	4	19	26	N	N	Pure Escapism...and LOTS of It!	Angels and Demons will not wow you with spectacular prose or fascinating multi-dimensional characters. It WILL provide a story that starts fast, gets faster, and offers enough plot twists to keep your head spinning from front cover to back. Dan Brown crafts a story that's by far clever enough to keep most of us guessing...and reading...all the way to the end.<br />In a book that precedes (chronologically) the DaVinci code (which I've not yet read), we find Dr. Robert Langdon involved with a murder in which the victim, a European physicist, has been branded with the word &quot;Illuminati.&quot; Langdon, an expert on iconology, is called in to consult. The ensuing plot unfolds over the course of a single day, and moves so fast, and is so compelling, that if you're like me you'll be tempted to read all 600 pages just that fast.<br />If you are tempted, you'll appreciate that the writing is reasonably simple: predominantly unchallenging dialogue and readable descriptive prose. Although the plot becomes pretty intricate, Brown has done a good job of making sure that you don't have to go back and read sections multiple times to follow events, clues and such. This is no easy task, as the book is riddled with references to Rome, including structures, art and architecture, and history. Also well-explained are the baffling intricacies of Papal electoral politics and procedure.<br />Brown has written a simple, old-fashioned thriller. You won't be disappointed with this novel. Just don't expect pulitzer material; instead enjoy the thrilling escapism. I'm guessing it won't last long.	2003-09-29
US	52658273	R27F9749BT5A3Y	0070653380	736629890	The Articulate Executive: Learn to Look, Act, and Sound Like a Leader	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Great Choice for Help Speaking	Granville Toogood's \\"The Articulate Executive\\" is a quite excellent introduction to public speaking in a variety of forms. Toogood is an accomplished communications consultant and has distilled his advice into a very readable book that will help almost anyone improve not just their communication style, but also their impact.<br />Toogood covers all the bases, from basic public speaking, to presentation, to handling the media. His POWER formula offers a simplified approach to effective speaking that's approachable by all of us. He offers real-world advice - such as time your speeches to be no longer than 18 minutes - that is often missing from other books.<br />Most importantly, his book is easily readable. It features short chapters with a lot of punch. And although some chapters build on contents of previous ones, it's easy to read the book a chapter at a time, or even find just the chapter the deals with the topic you need.  While written for the beginning communicator, most non-professional speakers will find a lot of value in this work. It was an excellent book, and I highly recommend it.	2003-08-29
US	52658273	RWYNLNP9VXPUX	1400047943	402095546	The 5 Patterns of Extraordinary Careers: The Guide for Achieving Success and Satisfaction (Crown Business Briefings)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The Best Book About You That You�ll Read This Year	The Five Patterns of Extraordinary Careers is the best book about you that you'll read this year. Written by James Critin and Richard Smith, both veterans of high-powered executive searches at Spencer Stuart, the book is a down-to-earth look at what separates the ordinary from the extraordinary in the business world. Critin and Smith have analyzed years of professional observations and over a thousand surveys from proven extraordinary executives and distilled their findings into five common denominators: The Five Patterns.<br />The great thing about the patterns is that they're not attributes. They're behaviors. The book wouldn't be worth too much, after all, if it simply said \\"extraordinary executives are all really smart.\\" In fact, Critin and Smith argue the opposite: that intelligence isn't a great predictor of success. Instead, they isolate key behaviors common to most of the men and women they studied. One of my favorite patterns is &quot;Overcoming the Permission Paradox.&quot; Critin and Smith note that truly great people take advantage of (or create) opportunities to empower themselves; you won't hear Lou Gerstner say \\"I was never given an opportunity to succeed.\\"<br />Another key pattern is \\"Practice Benevolent Leadership.\\" They note that extraordinary people don't climb to the top; they're carried there by the people who work for them (I've paraphrased). You're probably recognizing wisdom you already knew, here. The interesting thing about this book is that you'll see yourself in its pages: in some places you'll say \\"I do that!\\" and in others \\"I don't!\\" I found the fact that this book reached me so effectively to be very compelling. I found many lessons I could use in this book, and it made me look critically at a number of my behaviors, or lack of behaviors.<br />The fact that The Five Patterns comes with a lot of credibility helps it reach the reader. Critin and Smith have laced this book with examples, research, personal observations, interview excerptsand references. When they use an example, they show it as from an executive who's not only successful, but often a household name, and they credit him by name. I was excited by the fact that they had so much material directly from these \\"extraordinary executives\\" that came from interviews that were conducted specifically and exclusively for this book.<br />The Five Patterns is concise, credible, prescriptive and specific. And gratefully, it was very different from the same old reprocessed career advice you can get in a thousand other places. Page for page it's the most valuable book I've read this year, at the very least. I'm rating it five stars and I'd recommend it unconditionally to anyone in business that wants to spend some time nurturing his or her career.	2003-08-28
US	52658273	R19A0Z3VJINQ0D	006019443X	496102452	The Sinister Pig	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Different, But Still Very Good	The Sinister Pig (2003) is the most recent installment of Tony Hillerman's series of mystery novels set in and around the Four Corners area of the Southwestern United States. It is another superb novel, and nearly on par with his other works. The Sinister Pig offers many characters familiar to  Hillerman's readers. Jim Chee continues to be a main focus, as does his prospective love interest, Bernadette Manuelito, now a novice customs officer working in southern New Mexico. Manuelito stumbles into trouble, drawing Chee and a host of others into the picture.<br />Not the least of these others is the \\"legendary\\" ex-Captain Joe Leaphorn and his new \\"sidekick\\" character, Dr. Bourbonet. Several new characters - a Guatemalan exile, a Washington DC attorney and an erstwhile law student -- are particular to this story. Still, they're well-written and compelling, and extend the depth of the story past the usual boundaries of a mystery. As the story develops, the reader will notice a series of evolutionary departures from Hillerman's standard fare.<br />Foremost among these is the fact that story reads less like a mystery than a suspense novel. While it's true that there is a murder, and it is something of a mystery, the good guys and the bad guys all have their identities and roles out on the table pretty early on in the book. From there, the reader gets to anticipate whether the good guys (Chee, Manuelito, Leaphorn and a few others) will find and capture the bad guys before they succeed in any of their nefarious plans. Since the reader knows how the pieces fit together before the characters, the story really revolves around the suspense, rather than the \\"whodunit\\" aspect of the plot.<br />At the same time, some other changes seem to be brewing in Hillerman's writing. First, while Hillerman has always shifted points of view frequently in his stories, it seems like no point of view is particularly dominant in this book. From my recollection, that's a little different than in his earlier writing. Chee, Manuelito, Leaphorn and three major characters particular to this book all get some time in front of the point-of-view lens. It doesn't hamper the story, but for those used to watching Chee or Leaphorn solve a mystery, it's a little new. The other key difference is that much of this novel takes place off the Navajo reservation that's so familiar to Hillerman readers. While that doesn't hamper the story either, for me it left the novel with a very different feel. Prior works were well-steeped in Navajo (and sometimes Hopi) cultural flavor, and I enjoyed this aspect of his works. That flavor, for me, got largely crowded out by other story elements in this book. It didn't ruin the work, but I did find that I missed that content, and hope he returns to it in the future.<br />Far from harming the work, these differences and changes simply present the story in a different light. Sinister Pig is an excellent novel, and well lives up to the expectations that Hillerman's readers have. I give it five stars for it's strong story, good characters and compelling tempo. I don't think readers, whether they've read Hillerman before or not, could be disappointed by this  book.	2003-07-24
US	52658273	RFSJ82PWXO6S2	1573223328	608984993	Across the Nightingale Floor (Tales of the Otori, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Simple But Powerful	Across the Nightingale Floor, by Lian Hearn, takes place in a fictional country that represents a feudal Japan of the past. The protagonist is Takeo, the adopted son of a feudal lord. As Takeo grows and learns, he dreams of seeking revenge on the lord who killed his family. These ambitions are fueled by his discovery and exploration of unusual physical gifts that make him well-suited to the life of an assassin (who are referred to as the Tribe in this novel).<br />The story starts slowly, and is hindered by terse, flat writing at the beginning. However, as the story develops, and focuses on the strength of the characters, it becomes powerful and moving. The introduction of a second main character, Kaede, fuels dramatic improvement in the quality of the book. Kaede, a 15 year old girl coming into her adulthood as a political hostage in the hands of a powerful family, makes an immediate impact. Her character is believable and moving, and for a time is far stronger a character than Takeo.<br />However, as the story progresses, both characters become powerful, and the story will suck the reader in and hold his attention. Overall, the book is quite well-conceived and well-written, especially later in the story. The writing is simple and approachable for all readers, and emphasizes the characters and their Eastern context ahead of strong prose. This is a good book; I rated it four stars for its simple but compelling approach and its strong characters.	2003-06-27
US	52658273	R2PJOMG2VC1ESJ	1853141046	866645446	The Mongol Warlords: Genghis Khan, Kublai Khan, Hulegu, Tamerlane (Heroes & warriors)	Books	4	20	20	N	N	A Very Versatile History of Mongol Conquest	The Mongol Warlords, by David Nicolle, is a very broad and complete coverage of the Mongolian culture and its military campaigns. The book focuses on the four great Mongol leaders: Genghis Khan, Kublai Khan, Hulego and Tamerlane. However, this book goes far beyond simple biographies of these four men. <br />This is a wonderfully illustrated book. Not only does it have many full-page illustrations, but it's chock full other great material: photographs, drawings, portraits, diagrams and loads of amazing maps. Even the margins are put to good use, diagramming pottery, artifacts, weapons, etc.<br />The histories and biographies themselves are honest, well-researched and complete. And there is so much supplementary material that the book guarantees something for everyone. And while it's true that you won't find anything in it that can't be found elsewhere, the book does a great job of putting together a wide variety of material in a useful and entertaining format. The content in this book will appeal to the casual reader as much as to someone who's topically oriented. <br />Great for reading or for reference, The Mongol Warlords provides a lot of bang for the buck. While it's not currently in print, I found my copy in a used bookstore at an attractive price. Look around; this book is worth the search.	2003-06-27
US	52658273	R27HXIRVEVXOAN	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Worth the Wait	Author JK Rowling made us wait three years for the next installment of this series. In between, it seems she made some movies, had a child and wrote almost 900 pages of the latest Harry Potter novel. The burning question is: was it worth the wait? Does it live up the expectations that the last four books and the long wait set?<br />Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix is stupendous, by far my favorite to date. Rowling manages, somehow, to weave together a dozen different plot elements and make them all work together, in fact effectively to play off one another. In Order of the Phoenix, we find the continuation of the saga of Harry Potter and his adventures at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. This episode may be the strongest effort yet by Rowling. The story line itself is every bit as exciting and compelling as the previous episode (Goblet of Fire), and Rowling's descriptive abilities and creativity are in great evidence, making the writing colorful and easy to read.<br />This fifth installment, however, marks a serious evolution of the story, paralleling the growth of her rapidly maturing characters, now young adults in their fifth year of school. The story itself is noticeably bleaker than past books, and the reader will share Harry's growing teenage anxiety as he deals with trying issues, both mundane and extraordinary. Harry and his pals are not children anymore, and this plot reflects the seriousness, not to mention the tragedy, of the evolving struggle between dark and light. As Voldemort's return begins to define a stark new reality for the \\"wizarding world,\\" the problems Harry and his friends face also grow more profound. Rowling does a tremendous job of pulling the reader inside the head of the increasingly troubled teenager, even as his situation goes from bad to worse (and frequently to alarmingly worse).<br />But it's not just the main characters and the plot that change. Secondary characters, new and old, are a cut above prior novels. The aptly named Professor Umbridge competes admirably with Snape and Voldemort for \\"Most Despicable\\" honors. Most impressive of all, though, is returning Professor McGonagall. Book 5 marks, in my opinion, the entrance of a \\"new and improved\\" Professor McGonagall, from whom the firecracker personality Rowling has hinted at in the past finally emerges in force from underneath the stodgy façade she had so far maintained. Of particular note is the career-counseling scene, featuring Harry, McGonagall and Umbridge, where McGonagall reaches her full potential as a complex supporting character. It is, without question, my favorite scene thus far in the entire series.<br />The book weighs in at a hefty 850+ pages, but you won't be using it as a doorstop. It reads quickly and should maintain the reader's attention from first page to last. Was it worth the wait? You bet it was. Go buy this book, and hope that you don't have to wait another three years to see if Rowling can equal it.he aptly named Professor Umbridge competes admirably with Snape and Voldemort for \\"Most Despicable\\" honors. Most impressive of all, though, is returning Professor McGonagall. Book 5 marks, in my opinion, the entrance of a \\"new and improved\\" Professor McGonagall, from whom the firecracker personality Rowling has hinted at in the past finally emerges in force from underneath the stodgy façade she had so far maintained. Of particular note is the career-counseling scene, featuring Harry, McGonagall and Umbridge, where McGonagall reaches her full potential as a complex supporting character. It is, without question, my favorite scene thus far in the entire series.<br />The book weighs in at a hefty 850+ pages, but you won't be using it as a doorstop. It reads quickly and should maintain the reader's attention from first page to last. Was it worth the wait? You bet it was. Go buy this book, and hope that you don't have to wait another three years to see if Rowling can equal it.	2003-06-26
US	52658273	R2L6Q689FX3HLA	0615114245	611319018	Dad's Golf Story	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Lots of Golfing Fun	Dad's Golf Story, by Alan Hayes, is a fantastic coloring book about golf. My three year old son absolutely loves this book. He'll ask for it to be read over and over and over again. The rhyming lyrics and simple pictures are at once a basic introduction to golf and intensely attracting to youngsters.<br />This book will make a fine introduction to golf for a child, but can also be just a fun coloring book.	2003-06-20
US	52658273	RNHUMBVOBG75P	0380798360	535649961	Declare	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fun and Unique	Tim Powers' Declare is an amazing novel: it's imaginative, unique and compelling. And, it's probably like nothing you've read before.<br />Declare is part spy novel, part fantasy and part thriller. Although it requires a lot of focus on the part of the reader, those who pay attention will get drawn in to the compelling and rewarding story. Powers' writing displays remarkable credibility in these multiple genres, and he swirls them together into a strong and cohesive work.<br />The story features Andrew Hale, a former British spy who finds himself drawn back into the shadowy world of a former operation gone bad. The novel then diverges into several parallel stories, all from Hale's perspective but occurring at different points in his past. The multiple story lines, most of which share the same characters, converge admirably at a compelling contemporary climax. In weaving these plot lines together, Powers shows himself to be as much a master of suspense as he is an imaginative fantasy writer. In developing this story, Powers combines plot elements from The Arabian Nights, the Bible, history, and espionage. It's an;ything but dull, but it is complicated...you'd better pay attention or you'll get lost.<br />This was an amazing novel; I couldn't put it down. I especially like the appendix at the back where Powers explained his rationale for developing the story line. It's ironic that only real life could produce the basis for the head-scratching twists and turns that Declare provides. Enjoy!	2003-06-20
US	52658273	RH0LQLDA7MYCH	0764516817	394458476	Red Hat Linux 8 For Dummies (For Dummies (Computers))	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A Good Book...For Somebody	I bought Red Hat Linux 8 for Dummies in the hope that it would give me some basic tools to use to administer my system. I was a little disappointed. The book is chock full of good information, but I found that I was only able to use a little bit of it. I think the book is full of quality information, but I really can't tell whom it's a good fit for.<br />The book features install and setup instructions. It can help you figure out how to install the OS and configure it on your PC, establish internet access (modem, broadband or LAN), and set up some useful tools, like a firewall and streaming media. It has nominal, but not great, coverage of the graphical OS environments, like GNOME. This is all great, but the installation and configuration process for Red Hat 8 isn't that difficult, and excellent instructions are available from many sources. The book includes CDs with the OS. But the OS is available for free from many download sites, so that's a matter of only small convenience. Also, the book is of very little use if you have an application in mind for your Red Hat installation. For example, if you want to run a web server or email server, or want to use your computer for any number of other specific purposes, this book will give you little or no help with that.<br />The book does provide a number of tips and some good problem-solving advice. And, it has a handy tear-out sheet of common commands in the front, which turns out to be more useful than you might imagine. The writing is clear, understandable by the layman, and it's well indexed so that you can find information you're looking for quickly.<br />The content that is there is great, but I frankly don't know who its target audience is; I'm not sure to whom to recommend it. It might serve adequately as a first reference book, but if you buy it for that, you will likely need another more detailed reference soon, as it doesn't really go all that far. This book is fine, so far as it goes, but a reader might be better off looking at one of the more comprehensive manuals out there (eg, Red Hat Linux 8 Unleashed), as many of them also cover the basics, including installation, but in better detail.	2003-05-11
US	52658273	R3HJ7NEAA0KLEL	0691089280	419933853	Music of a Distant Drum: Classical Arabic, Persian, Turkish, and Hebrew Poems.	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Poetry That Will Surprise You	Bernard Lewis is probably the West's foremost scholar on Islam and the Middle East; I have enjoyed several of his books on these topics. Even so, I was surprised to find a volume of poetry, translated by Lewis, at my bookstore, and I bought it immediately, reasoning that if it remotely approached his other works, it would be well worth the money. I was not disappointed. With little or no knowledge of Near Eastern poetry to my credit, Music of a Distant Drum won me over. I read the entire volume of poems, about 130, in the first evening.<br />Music of a Distant Drum is divided into four sections of approximately equal lengths, each providing poems, translated by Lewis, from four distinct (although sometimes contemporaneous) cultures: Arabic, Persian, Turkish and Hebrew. While I?m qualified to critique neither the poetry nor its translation, I can say that I found them all beautiful. Not knowing what to expect, I was surprised by the brevity of many of the works. The Persians and Arabs in particular seem to be fond of short works in tight stanzas. Too, I found the worldliness and circumspection of the Persians unexpected, even though they, among all four cultures, seemed most fond of metaphor.<br />If you are a student of the East, I think you might be interested in, and surprised by, the topics these poems: war, love, aging, politics, drinking (!). Some scholars note that drinking (or drunkenness), as a topic in this poetry, is a metaphor for an all-encompassing love of God. Lewis seems to suggest that the drinking references may not be as metaphorical as others maintain it is. Either way, the poetry is agile and moving, and I enjoyed it very much. Poetry lovers may appreciate that some of these works have probably never appeared in print in the West, and I was impressed by the very number of poets represented: there are an astonishing 54 mini-biographies (about a paragraph, each) in the back of the book.<br />Buy this book and read it. I believe you will find it as powerful and enjoyable as I did.powerful and enjoyable as I did.	2003-05-10
US	52658273	R3OKFRFYAFQZVI	157062853X	883115616	Drunk on the Wine of the Beloved: Poems of Hafiz	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Powerful Poetry	Drunk on the Wine of the Beloved is a collection of 100 Poems by the Persian Sufi poet Hafiz. Hafiz, properly Shamsuddin Muhammad-i-Hafiz-i-Shiraz, lived in the 14th century and is generally acknowledged to be the greatest poet of the Persian culture. Hafiz writes in a form known as the Ghazal, which is a short poem of 8 or so rhyming couplets, which was often set to music. The translations in this work are by Thomas Rain Crowe, who has many credentials as a translator of Eastern poetry.<br />Hafiz's poems are beautiful and have an enchanting cadence. They are full of hope, faith and conviction. He writes movingly of down-to-earth topics, but his underlying message is ever-present and positive. In one poem he writes: &quot;If your life has hit hard times, go to the Winehouse and enjoy some Wine.&quot;<br />Wine and drinking are Hafiz's metaphor for overwhelming love of God. The image of drunkeness suggests both reckless abandon and a frustrating and intoxicating lack of control over human life. Whether you choose to embrace or pass over his symbolic message, you will enjoy the poetry. It's language is as simple as it is powerful and compelling. This is a splendid book of poems, and I highly recommend it. Enjoy.	2003-05-10
US	52658273	R2DCVSQNQEPZK0	159184021X	557165611	Purple Cow: Transform Your Business by Being Remarkable	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Purple Cow: Interesting and Insightful	The Purple Cow, by Seth Godin, looks at the connection between product differentiability and sales success. The tagline reads \\"Transform your business by being remarkable,\\" and that pretty much describes Godin's thesis. Godin, who writes for Fast Company magazine, has also written books about word-of-mouth marketing. <br />This book is crisp and focused. The author wastes none of our time: he gets right to the point and stays there, bringing home his argument in under 150 pages that read very quickly. You should be able to finish this book in one to two hours. Godin tells us that traditional media marketing (TV and print advertising) just doesn't work anymore because consumers are numb to those media. Who they do listen to, he explains, are trusted friends who tell them about product successes they've experienced. Think about it: I'm sure you've at least explored a product based on a personal recommendation, or had a friend explore one based on yours. Godin argues that in order to capitalize on this marketing path, products must distinguish themselves enough from their competition that they induce us (\\"consumers\\") to talk about them compellingly.<br />Although Godin's thesis may seem self-evident, he does do a good job of presenting a concise and compelling case. He effectively uses reasoning, experience and examples to bring home his points with an impressive economy of words.<br />This book won't change your life. But it will show you a new perspective from which to look at marketing and product development. If you are in one of those fields, I think this book will appeal to you. If you're in another field, you might find it interesting anyway. Godin asks insightful questions that are aimed at guiding the reader to evaluate his own situation in light of Godin's premise; accordingly, this might be a good book to buy for your team at work, or upon which to base a one-day brainstorming retreat. Again, Purple Cow won't rewrite your outlook on life. But it's definitelyworth the price and time investment to read. And that, combined with its brevity and freshness, gets it four stars from me.	2003-05-08
US	52658273	R2W4S5AMSCL8FU	076530192X	925649422	Wasteland of Flint	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	Wasteland of Flint: First Rate Science Fiction	In Wasteland of Flint, Thomas Harlan creates not only a mysterious new world, but also plunks it down in the middle of a surprising and tantalizing new social order. Wasteland uses a slate of interesting and powerful characters to peel away layers of intrigue that surround the planet of Ephesus 3, which exists within the auspices of the futuristic society controlled by the Mexica, the eventual (future) result of an intact and hegemonistic Aztec Empire on Earth. The tale unfolds in only about 430 pages; it comes up to full speed quickly and holds the reader's attention fast throughout. The plot is well developed and the story grows more compelling with each chapter.<br />Called upon to reveal to the readers the elusive secrets of Ephesus 3 is one Gretchen Anderssen, a talented young xenoarcheologist with more than her share of backbone, a trait that will serve her well in this assignment. Directed to Ephesus 3 to investigate an accident that has befallen the Palenque, an exploration ship in orbit around Ephesus, the Anderssen character immediately brings the new Mexica social order into play for the reader. Anderssen is the future equivalent of a disenfranchised minority, a person of Swedish decent; we learn that the Swedes, final opponents of Mexica's bid to take over Earth in its entirety, have been banished to other planets and are now treated as second-class citizens. The resulting social tension between Swede and Aztec is painted well enough by Harlan that it survives the duration of the story, and begins the process of depicting the complicated social order in Harlan's universe. As the pages turn, the setting becomes increasingly compelling, and the underlying social interplay is a sub theme that adds an important and colorful dimension to the novel.<br />As powerful a character as Gretchen becomes, she often plays second fiddle to a number of rich and interesting secondary characters. My personal favorite is Magdalena, a Hesht (a feline alien species). Cat-aliens have always seemed to me to be a bit cliché in contemporary science fiction (plus, I'm more of a dog person), but &quot;Maggie&quot; is a cut above. Maggie's character literally flies off the pages, drawing on many layers of development to become a compelling supporting character. I was fond of the imagery surrounding Maggie's mannerisms -- in particular her claws and several amusing nervous habits. <br />Green Hummingbird, an Imperial Mexica judge, begins as a minor character, but develops into a surprisingly powerful one, and is an important tool for the reader to learn about Mexica. Gretchen and Green Hummingbird form an improbable, but highly effective team through which Harlan tells much of his story. Hadeishi, a Japanese ship captain and his first officer also form an interesting and rich subplot that I enjoyed quite a bit. Finally, it's difficult to know whether to consider the elusive scientist, Russovsky, a character or not, but she is extremely intriguing, and not like any other character I can ever remember reading about. If nothing else, she is a moving metaphor for the pieces of ourselves that we leave behind when we're gone. <br />The characters come to life amid crisp and readable dialogue and a compelling social backdrop. At the same time, Harlan shows his mastery of imagery in both subtle and dramatic settings, making the text very enjoyable to read. For me, he successfully brought together many difficult elements of a top-notch story: a truly compelling setting, a meaningful and agile  plot, strong characters and gripping writing that depicts powerful and satisfying images. This is as good a novel as I've read in quite a while. I enjoyed it thoroughly and can't wait for the next in the series.  I give this effort five stars; you won't regret the time or money spent on this book.	2003-05-06
US	52658273	R3NLHS2UEIV4YH	0805062882	773936746	An Army at Dawn: The War in North Africa, 1942-1943 (The Liberation Trilogy, Vol. 1)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	A Surprising and Impressive History	Rick Atkinson's \\"An Army at Dawn\\" made me begin to see World War II, at least the war against Nazi Germany, in a new and clearer light. It describes the US and British invasion of North Africa in 1942 (Operation Torch) and the subsequent allied campaign in Northwest Africa. Atkinson's book is exquisitely researched and written, and was a delight to listen to (I bought it on CD - abridged - to listen to during my commute). I understand that it is to be the first in a three part series on World War II.<br />Atkinson reshaped my perception of World War II, to different degrees, on a variety of topics. First, while I had known that the condition of the U.S. Army trailed that of Germany before the war, Atkinson supplied countless dismaying examples, running the gamut from shockingly inexperienced leadership to just plain poor packing (packing your weapons and supplies well when preparing for an invasion, it turns out, is a lot more important than you might have thought). Second, he explained the importance of the campaign in Africa: by invading Africa, the Allies opened a southern approach to the Axis that was more inviting than that provided by an aggressive assault across the English Channel. Finally, and most interestingly, Atkinson paints a picture of a steadily building competence in American, and British, operations in North Africa. Atkinson shows us Eisenhower learning to be an Allied Commander even as we watch green soldiers and greener junior officers \\"grow up\\" in a bitter campaign against a determined foe. In a curious parallel, English and American cooperation matures during this time, as Americans begin, finally, to show some mettle and as the American industrial effort infuses the war in Europe with an endless stream of materiel that presages an enduring American military hegemony. In effect, Atkinson argues, North Africa was a vast training ground, a warm-up, in preparation for the main event.<br />Atkinson displays a marvelous command of the English language. His descriptions are a delight to hear (and, I assume, to read), and breathe real life into the story. I think that the superior writing quality, vivid imagery, and the quality of the language used, is what makes the difference between this being a competent and novel history, and it being a captivating classic. I'm confident that in years to come, \\"An Army at Dawn\\" will be considered a necessary component of any topical WWII bookshelf.<br />Another Amazon reviewer criticized Atkinson for being \\"glib\\" in his descriptions of battlefield carnage. I have a far different perspective, perhaps aided by the fact that the CD engages the author to read his work. Hearing Atkinson read the book makes it clear that he is not glib or detached about the horrors of war. Instead, I think Atkinson is thoughtfully balancing the story of a military campaign and its attendant strategic narrative with a thorough and frank reminder of the human cost of war. An endearing feature of the book is the attention Atkinson pays to common soldiers, their stories and their importance; he never lets the reader forget that during war good men die, often horribly, and that there is a dreadful social cost involved in that. The author has painstakingly researched literally dozens of peoples' histories, before and during the war, and few of them are personages anyone will have heard of before. This attention, importantly, never lets us forget the dark side of war, especially a war for which the dark side has received less than its share of historians' attention.<br />\\"An Army at Dawn\\" is an important work on World War II. It is painstakingly researched, carefully composed and masterfully written. I give it my highest recommendation, and simply say that I?m confident that you will not be disappointed by it. I listened to it on CD; while I now wish that I'd read it in print, the audio version was excellent and Atkinson's reading of it is well worth hearing. Enjoy.	2003-02-12
US	52658273	RGSOB83MYO4KA	0399226842	100186024	The Very Quiet Cricket Board Book	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Very Provocative Bugs	The Very Quiet Cricket is a great book, and while difficult, I suspect most children will like this much more than their parents suspect.  Like all of Eric Carle's books, my son (2 ½) loves The Very Quiet Cricket. The art is, as always, amazing, and he really enjoys repeating the phrases on each page. The formula seems to draw out his inquisitiveness; this book nearly always stimulates more enjoyment than others do. In particular, he enjoys the chirping sound the book makes when you turn to the last page. He'll ask to have the book read to him as many as four times in a row.<br />This is a challenging book for young kids, more so than many of Carle's others. I think the interesting insects and provocative words and sounds are part of why my son likes it so much. It may be some time before he really masters that vocabulary, but I love that Carle challenges his young readers in this way. I can unconditionally recommend this book.	2002-12-10
US	52658273	R2LP6UFFG9E3HZ	0764565079	116296861	Frommer's New Orleans 2002 (Frommer's Complete Guides)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Great Guide: Reliable and Proven	I looked at a number of guides to New Orleans before selecting Frommer's 2002 New Orleans to help me with my trip. Frommer's was my favorite. It provides detailed, accurate and reliable information on attractions, hotels, restaurants, shopping, and various other topics. Frommer's was by far the most comprehensive guide I saw for most topics. I was particularly pleased with the down-to-earth discussion of attractions: museums, parks, bars, public places, etc. The maps were also excellent: a good map (in reality, several good maps) is a necessity for getting around New Orleans and making the most of the city. Frommer's guide provides better than average maps and good information on attractions that will help ensure you're making the most of your time. As a bonus, the attractions are marked on many maps near the parts of the book where they're discussed, and when you see how New Orleans streets are laid out, you'll understand how useful that is!<br />I was disappointed in the guide's coverage of restaurants, though. I thought they detailed relatively few restaurants, and found their descriptions and ratings fairly weak. My sister, who lives in New Orleans, took us to several &quot;locals&quot; places that were at least as good as the highly rated restaurants in the guide. The lesson is: don't be afraid to experiment. If you need to rely on a restaurant guide, choose another. Better yet, ask some locals. My personal favorite was NOLA (get the duck!). The Palace Café gets a strong recommendation, and if you're in the French Quarter and want a casual lunch, try Central Grocery for great mufalletas. Café du Mond (coffee and beignets) was a must for me, and I didn't find it disappointing.<br />With the exception of eateries, I relied much on Frommer's guide when planning my trip, and also when we were there. I found the guide's advice to be reliable and concise. It offered great descriptions of attractions, and helped us find several which were perfect for kids (we traveled with our 2-year-old). In particular, we found Audubon Park, The Audubon Zoo, and City Park fantastic for kids and adults alike. Moreover, the guide's information typically matched the things the locals told us.<br />Frommer's will help you get the most out of New Orleans, but equally important is a willingness to try new things and be adventurous. The French Quarter is great, but you'll likely find things you like a lot more in other parts of the city. Frommer's does an excellent job of laying out the material in a format that you can either read through, or easily use as a reference guide. Either way, it should help you find most of what you're looking for. I can unconditionally recommend it, both because it was the best guide I found before I headed to New Orleans, and because it proved its worth when I was actually there. It definitely added significantly to our enjoyment of the trip.	2002-09-10
US	52658273	RRWAMDN000W96	0399148701	17508097	Red Rabbit	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A Good Read, But Not a Great One	Red Rabbit is the latest novel from Tom Clancy, and although it's less intricate than his others, readers should enjoy it just the same. In this installment, set in the early 80's at the height of the Cold War, Jack Ryan has just been posted to London by the CIA. Ryan, and a cast of other characters familiar to Clancy fans, uncovers a plot to assassinate the Pope. The balance of the book details various operational and intelligence activities that ensue, as Ryan and the good guys try to figure out how to use their information without risking the sources that have provided it.<br />   Red Rabbit weights in at a hefty 600+ pages, not unusual for a Clancy novel, but departs from Clancy's usual &quot;formula&quot; in that it's a little less complex. The number of subplots, and their complexities, have been reduced. To me, this novel offered a little less suspense than prior editions; I just didn't find the unexpected plot twists that I've grown used to. Finally, the premise -- the plot to assassinate the Pope -- just didn't seem as compelling as some of his past stories.<br />   Still, Clancy is a superb storyteller, and Red Rabbit doesn't lack for Clancy's unique flavor. I found the novel thoroughly enjoyable, and finished the whole thing in about a day and half. Clearly, an average showing from Clancy beats most everything else out there. I can highly recommend the novel, although some readers may find it less pleasing than prior efforts.	2002-09-09
US	52658273	R1DJ4F2A5EU3OJ	1568362498	557225571	The Scents of Eden: A History of the Spice Trade	Books	3	17	18	N	N	An Inconsistent History of the Spice Trade	Charles Corn's &quot;The Scents of Eden&quot; seeks to document the history of the spice trade, focusing on the control of a few key islands in the East Indies where the historically most valuable spices (notably cloves and nutmeg) originated. Corn's effort is a little spotty: I found him both interesting and readable in some places, and neither in many other places.<br />   I think about 60% of this book presents interesting and relevant material, but the remaining 40% felt like filler to me. The portions of the book where Corn discusses the key spice-producing islands, their discovery and the imperialistic practices that controlled them, were generally very interesting, and read quickly and with satisfaction. Moreover, I found Corn's writing style generally pleasant to read, and appropriate (or at least acceptable) for &quot;popular&quot; history. The early chapters were among the better ones.<br />   However, Corn doesn't seem to have enough material to make all 319 pages interesting, or perhaps the topic just isn't robust enough for that much book. Either way, I found many chapters off topic, and felt like I was suffering through a droning lecture. For example, Corn provides long descriptions of Amsterdam, London and Salem, none of which seemed more than peripherally relevant to me. More irritating was a rather gratuitous description of Dutch atrocities to both native inhabitants and other pesky Europeans (most notably, the English). While these seemed well documented (among the best documented material Corn presents), I thought he'd made his point adequately in earlier discussions of the topic, and this elaboration didn't seem to add anything to the book.<br />   For my money, &quot;The Scents of Eden&quot; isn't polished enough to make for a serious academic work, and isn't interesting or consistent enough to be top shelf &quot;popular&quot; history. While it had its moments, I found myself struggling through mediocre material in the later parts. And the abundance of chapters that I found off-topic made me question the significance of the entire subject. If you're considering reading this, you may enjoy the book somewhat, but I'd recommend something by Tuchman or Gleeson well ahead of this book.	2002-09-03
US	52658273	R2KQMO400KI5XP	0060194448	657088689	The Wailing Wind	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Another Fine Insallment of the Hillerman Series	The Wailing Wind is the latest effort from Tony Hillerman. It's classic Hillerman: a fine story, well-conceived and carefully put together, with a fair share of suspense to keep the pages turning quickly. Hillerman fans will recognize their favorite cast of characters; this edition sees Jim Chee, Joe Leaphorn, fledgeling officer &quot;Bernie&quot; Manuelito, and relatively new character Louisa Bourbonette team up to unearth the connection between a new homicide victim and an old missing person case.<br />   The prose is well-written, and reads quickly. The story is quite good, but not his finest (I personally recommend A Thief of Time). In The Wailing Wind, we get to learn whether Jim Chee and Bernie will take a few fumbling steps toward a budding romance, or whether Hillerman keeps us on the hook for another year. If you're a Hillerman fan, or if you're not yet, I think you'll like this story a lot.	2002-09-02
US	52658273	R3OVYFLT7LH9OW	1568360223	600103002	The Great Game: The Struggle for Empire in Central Asia (Kodansha Globe)	Books	5	81	83	N	N	A Hard Book to Put Down	The Great Game, by Peter Hopkirk, is an amazing history of British and Russian imperialism clashing in the Middle East and Asia. Encompassing the time period from the late eighteenth century to the very beginning of the twentieth, the Great Game was much like an enormous game of chess, with Russia seeking to expand its borders and Britain to safeguard its interests in India. Hopkirk reveals both the national policy thoughts of the two nations and the daring moves of each's officers and agents in the regions in question, which include most of Central Asia, Afghanistan, India and the Caucasus. In many cases, the men Hopkirk describes were the first Westerners to set foot in such regions (for example, Bokhara, Khotan and Khokand).<BR>  <BR>   Hopkirk has done incredible research: his bibliography is an impressive 15 pages. And even though he has a wealth of material to cover, he makes sure that the whole presentation is interesting to the reader. He tells a complete story, but expands on issues and events that are both important and interesting. As a result, the exploits of men like Conolly, Stoddart and Burnes come into clear focus against a backdrop of intrigue and, often, duplicitous ness, across a little over 500 pages.<br />   Not unexpectedly, Hopkirk's account tends to be favor the British point of view slightly. Even so, he's quick to point out mistakes and torpedo unjustified accusations on both sides.<br />   I found this book an easy and quick read, completing it in across about four days. While it progresses in roughly chronological sequence, it could easily be read piecemeal if the reader desired. The book kept my interest well, and didn't ever seem to wander aimlessly. I must believe that this is the authoritative account of the subject, and I can recommend it unconditionally, whether this is a subject area of interest for you, or you just want an interesting book to occupy your time. <br />Interestingly, the end of the Soviet Union has refocused the spotlight on many regions discussed in this book. If you find that you remain interested in the topic after reading it, I recommend following up with Eastern Approaches by Fitzroy MacLean or Journey to Khiva by Phillip Glazebrook.	2002-09-02
US	52658273	R3R3ABBUIB3SYR	0060957867	637630453	Faith of My Fathers: A Family Memoir	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Powerful Story	Faith of My Fathers, by Senator John McCain, is a family history. McCain, a navy pilot, recounts the story of his family in three parts: one each about his grandfather, his father and himself. Service in the US Navy is the core fact of the McCain family members' lives, and McCain writes about it with passion.<br />The book is arranged chronologically, beginning with the story of his grandfather (a four star admiral), then moving on to his father (also a four star admiral) and finally discussing Senator McCain, who didn't quite make it to admiral, owing partially, perhaps, to a long detour in a Vietnamese POW camp. You can't help but feel as you read the book that McCain is gradually educating the reader in the same way he himself came to understand the sense of duty that is common to the three generations of McCain's: by day after day of example. <br />The chapters read quickly and hold the reader's interest. The topics may be of more interest to a McCain that to the rest of us, but you won't be tempted to put down the book, as it always leaves you with a hint of things to come, and I often felt that what I was reading would prepare me for material later in the book. A word of warning, however: if you dislike historical or military topics, then this book isn't for you. If, though, you'd like a glimpse inside this influential US Senator and prospective presidential candidate, this book won't disappoint. McCain leaves little hidden in this frank and honest coverage of his life. Few presidential hopefuls, I think, would be so frank about their shortcomings as John McCain is. I was particularly surprised by the vivid descriptions of McCain's personal conflict as a POW: he realized that he received preferential treatment because of his father's rank. But I got the sense that rather than making it easier on him, the better treatment simply made it harder to accept the difficult conditions. It also seems to have amplified his consciousness of the need to adhere to the demands of duty.<br />I recommend this book without reservation, with the previous exceptions. It will definitely make you think about this intriguing person. It might also make you think about parts of your own character.	2002-01-09
US	52658273	RF3S51B3TVWPX	0312266588	733944985	The Templars: The Dramatic History of the Knights Templar, the Most Powerful Military Order of the Crusades	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A Well-Written History of the Templars	The Templars, but Piers Paul Read, is a pretty thorough history of the famous order. It's precise, well written and packed with information. I appreciated the wealth of information and detail in this book. Moreover, for all its detail, it was readable (if thick, at times) and interesting, representing an admirable academic coverage of the topic. But, the book itself may not be what you had in mind?<br />The reader might be discouraged to find that it starts a little slowly. Read feels required to provide a substantial (about 90 page!) background of the political and religious history of the Holy Land, apparently to ensure that the reader has the proper backdrop for the history of the Templars. While I found that section interesting and informative, it did dampen my enthusiasm a little.<br />And if when you think of the Templars, images of rows of mounted knights, pennants flapping in a brisk breeze, horses with the bit in their mouth and the clash of steel spring to your mind, you're headed in the wrong direction by picking up this book. You won't find any imagery, and little storytelling, here. The historical figures do not come alive as if there were characters in a novel. If that's what you're after, look elsewhere.<br />What you will get is a good historical reference on the topic, and a thorough coverage of names, dates and places. You'll understand the who, what, where, when, and usually, why. But you won't be swept away by it. On the whole, the book is quite good, and reads well (if slowly). I recommend it, with the caveat that the prospective buyer/reader should be aware what he or she starting.	2002-01-07
US	52658273	RHCQAZ9YKLXPQ	0312266588	733944985	The Templars: The Dramatic History of the Knights Templar, the Most Powerful Military Order of the Crusades	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A Well-Written History of the Templars	The Templars, but Piers Paul Read, is a pretty thorough history of the famous order. It's precise, well written and packed with information. I appreciated the wealth of information and detail in this book. Moreover, for all its detail, it was readable (if thick, at times) and interesting, representing an admirable academic coverage of the topic. But, the book itself may not be what you had in mind?<br />The reader might be discouraged to find that it starts a little slowly. Read feels required to provide a substantial (about 90 page!) background of the political and religious history of the Holy Land, apparently to ensure that the reader has the proper backdrop for the history of the Templars. While I found that section interesting and informative, it did dampen my enthusiasm a little.<br />And if when you think of the Templars, images of rows of mounted knights, pennants flapping in a brisk breeze, horses with the bit in their mouth and the clash of steel spring to your mind, you're headed in the wrong direction by picking up this book. You won't find any imagery, and little storytelling, here. The historical figures do not come alive as if there were characters in a novel. If that's what you're after, look elsewhere.<br />What you will get is a good historical reference on the topic, and a thorough coverage of names, dates and places. You'll understand the who, what, where, when, and usually, why. But you won't be swept away by it. On the whole, the book is quite good, and reads well (if slowly). I recommend it, with the caveat that the prospective buyer/reader should be aware what he or she starting.	2002-01-07
US	52658273	R3ROJEVW7L3DCG	1566190703	137753658	The who, what, when, where, why, and how of baseball	Books	5	2	2	N	N	This Baseball Book Was a Lot of Fun!	&quot;The Who, What, When, Where, Why and How of Baseball&quot; is a lot of fun. I received it as a gift, and read it all that same night. It's organized into several dozen short chapters on different topics such as &quot;No-Hitters,&quot;  &quot;The Hall of Fame,&quot; and &quot;The World Series.&quot; Each chapter covers about six pages of short discussions on topics relevant to the chapter.  The discussions are a little like trivia questions, but a lot more interesting. You can read the book chapter-by-chapter, pick out your favorite topics, or just open it to any page.<br />Jim Charlton understands that baseball fans are drawn to accomplishments...the &quot;lore&quot; of the game. This book is full of them. It reads quickly and easily, and will interest baseball fans with a wide variety of interests and levels of knowledge. It would make a great gift. I can highly recommend this book to any baseball fan, although I wouldn't suggest it for kids with a reading level of under, say, fifth or sixth grade. It's not a groundbreaking book, but it is fun and interesting. Enjoy it.	2002-01-04
US	52658273	RFSVVG2ORIEVV	0312238894	171122794	The Execution of Major Andre	Books	1	8	10	N	N	A Disappointing Book	The &quot;Execution of Major Andre,&quot; by John Evangelist Walsh, tells the story of British Major John Andre, who was instrumental in the treason and defection of Benedict Arnold, and reconstructs Andre?s capture, trial and hanging. The event is historically crucial: had Arnold, Andre and the British succeeded in capturing West Point, the nascent American rebellion would have been quelled in short order. Aside from the historical significance, Arnold and Andre's story is a poignant one.<br />Walsh's book, however, may not be the best place to turn for it. There was a lot of interesting material in the work, but I had trouble enjoying it, largely as a result of the organization, focus and style of Walsh's writing. Instead of presenting material in chronological order, Walsh begins with the trial of Andre, I suspect because it best illustrates his thesis that Andre was not the paragon of virtue that he styled himself. However, his choice to begin with the trial colors the reader's interpretation of events, causing the reader to have to revisit his conclusions as Walsh discloses more information during the progression of the book. Also, after the trial, it's hard to read the rest of the book without feeling like it's superfluous.<br />I was disappointed with Walsh's focus on Andre's character, as well. The story is a captivating, if much written-about, one. While the author does cover some new ground, I kept wishing for him to cover other areas; I couldn't help but feel that his evaluation of Andre's character and motives, while well supported, was trivial compared to other facets of the events and people involved.<br />Finally, I found myself bothered by Walsh's writing style. Walsh omits the use of quotation marks when presenting dialog. This is easily enough overlooked, but the book become more complicated to understand when the author begins to reconstruct dialog (and later even thoughts) of the historical persons involved, when it's not apparent that there's any source to support it. With apologies to the author, even after re-reading the introduction and scanning the endnotes, I couldn't discern dialog that normally would be quoted from that which was reconstructed from sources other than direct quotes. Worse yet, some of it seems to be entirely speculative, but I just couldn't tell. I have to admit that it all confused me and was a significant distraction.<br />There's some interesting material in this book, but I just couldn't enjoy it. Unless this specific topic is a major interest area, I have to strongly suggest that prospective readers turn to another source for this history.	2002-01-04
US	52658273	R39ELYYZAFV9IK	0873586565	76304958	Southwestern Pottery: Anasazi to Zuni	Books	5	22	22	N	Y	Pueblo Pottery 101: Fun, Informative and Down-to-Earth	If you're new to collecting, or you want to buy just one book about Pueblo pottery, buy this book. Period.<br />This is the most down-to-earth treatment of this involved subject that you'll find. The authors stress simplicity while encouraging readers to buy what they like and not to overspend. More than that, the authors have practiced what they preach, and the pages of color photographs are a testament to the fact that their approach works. For me, the advice in this book made this beautiful art approachable and affordable.<br />This book will teach you about the history and basics of the art form and introduce you to the various pueblos and their pots and potters. On top of that, it's well indexed and a great reference book. Most of all, you will enjoy the authors' writing; their style is conversational and pleasant, rather than academic or haughty. It makes for a work that's not only informative, but fun to read. And whether you read this book front cover to back, pick out individual chapters of interest, or simply use it as a reference, it will be worth every penny you pay for it. It's my favorite (and most useful) book on the subject.	2001-11-17
US	52658273	R1PWETK5IWLM0X	0140258795	803603230	Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time	Books	4	14	15	N	N	An Interesting and Concise History	Dava Sobel's book is an interesting and concise recounting of the history of English efforts to develop the technology of fixing a ship's longitude at sea. Sobel's effort was focused, as she effectively covers all the relevant material and keeps the text interesting and understandable, resulting in an interesting and informative work that can be read in one or two sittings.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed the history, and found her descriptions of technical matters accurate and comprehensible. I, for one, did not miss the rigorous coverage that a purely academic history typically provides. Moreover, I afford kudos to the author for the omission of footnotes/endnotes, which I did not miss at all. The history that was spelled in the book was colorful and evocative, but did not generate the sense that the historical figures depicted were &quot;characters&quot; in a fictional work, a fact for which the author merits applause.<br />I highly recommend this work. The reader will not be bored, nor will most readers be damaged by the popular style or concise coverage of the topic. In this work, the reader will come to know about John Harrison, carpenter and amateur clockmaker. Sobel explains the import of the lack of ability for ships' captains to accurately fix their longitude, and weaves an entirely adequate historical context for this focused issue of interest. The major historical figures, Harrison and his colleagues and competition, are brought to life for the reader. Most importantly, I believe the reader will appreciate the ability to complete the entire text within the course of a few hours and still feel like the history has been thoroughly presented. Meanwhile, I'll be looking for the next work by this author. Enjoy.	2001-01-09
US	52658273	R1J54JQ5HZ4MV8	0875847625	81686868	The Social Life of Information	Books	2	10	14	N	Y	A Tale of Two Topics?	I am of two minds about The Social Life of Information. John Seely Brown  and Paul Duguid try to tackle several large topics, and end up somewhere in  between them. Much of the book is spent trying to convince the reader, in  short, that technology isn't all it's cracked up to be. As if we needed  them to tell us that! The work also delves into some interesting and  insightful discussions about where technology and social structures, such  as education and learning, intersect one another.<br />The first portion of  the book disappointed me. The first four chapters present a series of  examples of touted technology &quot;fads&quot; and demonstrated how each of  them hasn't lived up to its &quot;promise&quot; in terms of changing our  everyday lives. However, the examples are, by and large, peripheral to  mainstream applications of technology. As a reader, I just wasn't able to  buy in to the idea that the failure of &quot;agents&quot; and  &quot;bots&quot; to revolutionize contemporary life proves that technology  in general is somehow &quot;overblown.&quot; This part of the book was, in  my opinion, quite weak, and didn't really draw me into the authors'  message. In an age where technology innovations carry with them a host of  important, and interesting, issues like privacy, encryption, and 1st  amendment rights, the author's choices of topics for the early chapters  seem almost trivial.<br />In fact, after I'd finished the first four chapters,  I almost put it down and moved on to the next book in my &quot;to  read&quot; pile. The second half of the book made me glad I'd finished it.  The authors seemed to run out of ground in their original thesis and move  on to more interesting territory. And, while I didn't feel like the authors  succeeded in driving home any particular point in this part of the book,  they did cover some new ground and make me think about topics I hadn't  addressed before. Chapter 5 was a worthwhile investigation of learning in  an organization, Chapter 8 painted an interesting picture of a possible  future of education in a technology-driven world, and Chapter 6 was a  fairly insightful and fresh (if cursory) look at how organizations are  changing in light of the changes around them. <br />While the second half of  the book doesn't redeem the first, to me it made the book as a whole worth  the read. If you're thinking about reading this book, you won't be wasting  your time. But lay down your expectations at the door, because this book  probably won't be what you expected.	2000-09-17
US	52658273	R3JBN4AD7S5N1P	0446674842	593108560	The Arcanum: The Extraordinary True Story	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Fun and Surprising History	I didn't know what to expect when I picked up a copy of The Arcanum in a  bookstore at the airport. I needed something to read on a four hour flight,  and Janet Gleeson's book definitely fit the bill: it kept my attention for  the whole four hours. The capsule on the back cover was what really caught  my attention. It promised eccentric kings, dungeons and avarice of all  kinds. The book did not disappoint! It's as much an entertaining look at  how small things make a big difference in history as it is a factual and  well-presented history of the introduction of porcelain manufacture in  Europe.<br />Gleeson did her homework, and that enabled her to bring to life a  cast of character that might have come out of the most imaginative of  novels. Almost before our eyes we can see the Augustus' obsession with  porcelain, and finding a way to manufacture it, drive events in European  history. We see a young and desperate alchemist/charlatan who couldn't have  gotten himself in more trouble if he tried. Gleeson weaves these, and  other, figures and their strange tale into a history that reads almost like  a novel.<br />If you enjoy Barbara Tuchman's books, I suspect that you'll like  Janet Gleeson's, as well. Aside from the fascinating story, Gleeson  provides a technical discussion of the substance of porcelain ware and its  manufacture that should appeal to novice and expert alike. I enjoyed this  book immensely; it gave the reader the whole package. I recommend it  without reservation and I'll definitely be looking to read more books by  this author.	2000-09-17
US	52658273	R1ZG17517CAQZ	0312865430	259905454	The Shadow of Ararat: Book One of 'The Oath of Empire'	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	An exciting and compelling story!	The Shadow of Ararat is one part historical novel, two parts adventure story. This book is a lot of fun, and the reader quickly finds out that anything goes. Thomas Harlan's staggering creativity and attention to  detail help him build a rich and complex backdrop for this exciting story.  He creates a cadre of complex and compelling characters, then breathes life  into them with lots of action, surprising plot twists and a spellbinding  story. The book gets better and better as it goes along; it almost seems to  pick up momentum by the page. You will NOT be bored by this novel. I can't  wait for the next installment.	1999-07-14
