US	52666293	R3TB3A0DV9KP0X	0671637924	152485281	The Pianoplayers	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Virtuoso	For Burgess, one of late 20th century's certifiable master fiction writers, a piece like The Pianoplayers is a bit of a diversion.  It is light, it is funny, it comes with the most basic kind of message (people need love, sex, and affection if they are to remain happy and sane).  A lesser writer would be thrilled to have produced this charming comic work, a summation of Burgess's life, times, and preoccupations. <br /> <br />Ellen Henshaw is the daughter of a pianoplayer (not a \\"pianist,\\" she would insist, which is something entirely different), an accompaniest to movies in the old days of the silent screen.  The first portion of the book details her father's attempts to stay financially afloat through various plots and schemes, leading to his demise at the keyboard.  The second half shows Ellen blooming into a world famous expert on the power of love (prostitute is too prosaic a term for what she is). <br /> <br />Burgess relates the story in female first person, and the voice is pretty much free of any obvious false notes.  Much has been made of Burgess's comparisions to Joyce, and here he does employ a slight variation of the stream of consciousness technique, but it never impedes the flow of the story. <br /> <br />This is a dandy concoction.	2005-06-30
US	52666293	R30A4F71KPGSGD	0974575038	148349185	Goodbye Gutenberg: How a Bronx Teacher Defied 500 Years of Tradition and Launched an Astonishing Renaissance (Designer Writers)	Books	3	11	12	N	N	It's So Hard to Say Goodbye	Kirschenbaum's computer-generated tome is certainly a visually arresting work, and it comes with a provocative if dubious proposition: if love of learning and reading is to be dissemenated to the rising generation, it must be done so in non-traditional ways.  The old venues to knowledge and pleasure provided by books are archaic.  This is a brand new world.  We must either adapt all our vocations and aspirations to the new ways or risk losing them altogether. <br /> <br />I am not sure I buy the idea.  Perhaps it is the old Ludditte in me which loves the perfection of the book and automatically rejects any innovation.  Wonderful as laptops and such are, there is no way to have the same sort of symbiotic relationship with them that one can have with a book.  Nevertheless, mossbacks like myself may have no say in the ultimate path of knowledge. <br /> <br />Kirschenbaum has certainly provided an attractive and interesting parry in this debate.   <br /> <br />Worth a look.	2005-06-30
US	52666293	R1F5FG293DXQC5	0974537616	164161415	A National Party No More: The Conscience of a Conservative Democrat	Books	1	16	49	N	Y	Zig Zagging Away....Woo Woo Woo	Zell Miller, more than any other American politician I've ever witnessed in twenty years of pol-watching, is afflicted with a manic need for attention.  What else could account for his behavior of late, his wholesale betrayal of his long time political party in a so-called book with the gall to include the word &quot;Conscience&quot; in its title?  Miller has no conscience.  He has a need to flow with which ever way the political wind is blowing.  So during his brief time in Washington he has been sure to hang close to the coat tails of the President and the Republican majority.<br />Yes, I read the book.  I didn't want to particularly.  I knew what to expect.  I was just curious as to what could make all these diehard Repubs, people who ten years ago worked so assiduously to defeat Miller in his 1994 gubernatorial re-election, suddenly become such ardent admirers.  The book's a silly piece of puff in which Miller spends a minimum portion reliving memories of his North Georgia boyhood and a maximum portion laying out a series of predictable and unimaginative positions on issues such as taxes, abortion, and the &quot;War on Terror,&quot; among others.  Nothing new here, and the prose is laced with corny epithets that lit up the scripts of Hee Haw and The Beverly Hillbillies.  (Nice representation of your fellow Southerners there, Zell.)  He takes his cues from the RNC and goes about bashing the party which has sustained him for more than forty years.  Talk about biting the hand that feeds you. And in one of the later chapters he endorses Bush for re-election even BEFORE his party has settled on a presidential nominee.  (Mr. Miller, have you NO shame?  One suspects you've lost the meaning of all the fine lessons your hard-working mother taught you at her knee.) The sole consolation we have here is that Mr. Miller has decided to retire at the end of 2004.  For that, we thank you, sir.  And may you take to retirement so swimmingly, we will never have to witness anotherof your political pirouettes, your spins, your zigs or zags.<br />Don't waste your time on this book.  For a real picture of conscience and courage, read Herman Talmadge's delightful autobiography.  Talmadge was a real conservative Democrat, a Jeffersonian Democrat, who represented the people of Georgia with dignity, honesty, and integrity.  It's ironic that in 1980 Miller attempted to unseat Talmadge in the Democratic primary by hewing to the political LEFT.  My, how some things never change.	2004-06-09
US	52666293	R1XMYLY05OW5Z9	0807129437	139537744	Backsass: Poems	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Little Jest and Much Truth	Any new book by Fred Chappell is cause for celebration.  In my estimation he is, word for word, page for page, the best living writer we have no in the United States.<br />BACKSASS finds him in particularly fine form.  It is a collection of poems following the satirical mode of Roman master Juvenal in which the poet gives vent to his spleen on any number of issues, including politics, poetry, and gross materialism.  My own favorite among the group is his long poem on the state of contemporary intellectual life, in which he socks it to poetasters and grant-givers and LitCrits who have done so much to cripple American intellectual life with their ideologies and their peculiar theories and their determination to elevate the mediocre over the excellent (what little bit of excellence is left).  (Chappell, who has never won a Pulitzer Prize or been nominated for the Nobel, may be writing out of some personal frustration here, but it is wholly justified.  He never tells anything less than the truth.)  His Thanksgiving poem, of near equal length, is just downright lovely.  In it we see an appreciation of those things which really matter in life - friends, good food, good conversation, etc.<br />Although Chappell is clearly bitter in places, he is never dour or dull.  And his observations, in both free verse and rhymed, are must reading for optimists and pessimist alike.	2004-05-31
US	52666293	RMZPL950IKW74	0789308444	61016250	Profoundly Disturbing: The Shocking Movies that Changed History	Books	3	5	12	N	Y	Fun...but not Profound	Joe Bob Briggs is almost as much fun on the printed page as he is on television, so I opened PROFOUNDLY DISTURBING with great anticipation and closed it with some disappointment.<br />First of all Briggs' choice of profoundly disturbing movies, while hard to refute, is awfully short and awfully familiar.  How many more essays on CALIGARI or DEEP THROAT or CHAINSAW MASSACRE do we really need?  It would have been fascinating if Joe Bob had plucked less discussed movies out of the disturbing movie cesspool and given them some attention.  For instance, instead of highlighting SHAFT for its role in blaxploitation, why not discuss the obscure black-cast horror flick GANJA AND HESS?  Instead of DEEP THROAT, why not Gerard Damiano's second hit, and much greater and much more disturbing movie, DEVIL IN MISS JONES, or Radley Metzger's THE OPENING OF MISTY BEETHOVEN, still considered by many the best porn flick ever made.  Why not HENRY: PORTRAIT OF A SERIAL KILLER instead of TEXAS CHAINSAW MASSACRE?  Perhaps Briggs's editor, or Briggs himself, for that matter, just wanted to play it safe, as though commerical appeal might be compromised if he had chosen some really offbeat artifact from the movie netherworld.<br />Not that I didn't learn something from the book.  It abounds in interesting tidbits.  For instance, I had no idea Gary Sinise's daddy was a crew member on Herschell Gordon Lewis's BLOOD FEAST. But there isn't enough arcania of that sort or enough original insights about the movies to make it anything outstanding.  Usually Joe Bob summarizes the movie's plot, gives some background on its production, and makes mention of its impact then moves on.  In his treatment of ILYSA, SHE WOLF OF THE SS, he forgets the movie altogether for several pages to give the reader a chronicle of the Ilse Koch, the real life paradigm for Ilysa.  It gets tiresome after a while.  And his consideration of Cronenberg's CRASH gets downright incoherent as he attempts to make some &quot;profound&quot; statement about the movie's content.  Sorry, Joe Bob, but I didn't buy it for a minute.<br />Still, this is a very attractive volume and easy to read for the most part and probably a must for any hardcore cult movie completist.	2004-05-31
US	52666293	R10BL93EJ5QUEO	0345337662	494921316	Interview with the Vampire	Books	3	31	36	N	N	Curse of the Vampires	I love vampires.  Always have, onscreen and on the published page - from Bela Lugosi's Dracula (seen countless times on the old Saturday afternoon Shock Theater) to Stephanie Rothman's hip 1970 VELVET VAMPIRE.<br />So it was with great enthusiasm that I approached Anne Rice's work several years ago, and it was with slight disappointment that I exited it each time.  I don't know why she doesn't appeal to me the way she does to so many others.  &quot;Read the first one, read the first one!&quot; my friends all admonished.  &quot;It's the best.&quot;  So I did.  I have just finished INTERVIEW WITH THE VAMPIRE, and I'm no more an Anne Rice enthusiast than when I started.  Maybe it's the book's lush overwriting, its constant purple prose, its almost endless striving to be elegant.  Maybe it's the violence. Some of it does go &quot;over the top&quot;, and I am usually not a prude about such things. I don't know.  I'm just left as cold as one of the blood hunters Rice depicts.<br />Oh Rice has &quot;skills&quot;, to coin a popular teenage phrase.  She can create a memorable set piece that has the reader turning pages.  And there are a number of memorable moments in this book.  The initiation of Claudia.  The &quot;death&quot; of Lestat.  The fabulous Parisian Theater of Vampires.  The concluding scene with the young reporter.  Each is riveting, even enthralling. But in-between those scenes there is too much chatter, too much introspection, too much - huff and gruff.  <br />I appreciate the book's classic status.  And I'm going to continue reading Anne Rice, hoping the magic spell she has cast on millions of readers will soon ensare me.	2004-05-27
US	52666293	R2U1JHRR1IL6XJ	188526691X	938344996	No Word of Farewell: Selected Poems, 1970-2000	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Hello to a Great Poet	Being a teacher and writer, I had heard Gwynn's name through the years and associated him more as an editor than as a poet.  However, I read a review of this present book in an esteemed literary journal and decided it was time to check out the creative work of R.S. Gwynn.<br />He's a delight, a master, a brave soul in a world of timid poetasters.  He has no fear in using traditional forms and regular rhytms to write his poems.  And he is equally unafraid to skewer what Orwell called the &quot;smelly little orthodoxies&quot; which strangle both society in general and literature specifically.  Read his &quot;Narcissiad,&quot; the great center piece of NO WORD OF FAREWELL.  It's a wonderful, dead-on swipe at the Lit Biz today, where poetry is a commodity and celebrity is preferable to excellence.<br />NO WORD OF FAREWELL is a generous compendium of Gwynn's work, dating back to 1970 and going up through 2000. The selections show that Gwynn is capable of most everything - satire, ballads, love poems, etc.  He is a man of uncommon sense who nevertheless does not allow his level-headedness to obscure his heart.  That his work is not better known is a commentary only on the present state of poetry and reading, not on R.S. Gwynn.  <br />Nevertheless, I feel confident that when the rubbish of all the poet manques who currently crowd our magazines and college campuses is wiped away, Gwynn's work will finally emerge, a diamond in the rough finally revealed.<br />Please read this book and give copies to your friends.  It is an inestimable source of pleasure and wisdom.	2004-05-24
US	52666293	R3KMU2NLG8GZZW	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Laughter and Truth	Al Franken left a definite vaccum between his first book of humorous political criticism, the classic RUSH LIMBAUGH IS A BIG FAT IDIOT, and the present tome. What we got in the interim was a lot of hot air blown by ranting right-wingers and liberal pipsqueaks. Welcome back, Al! <br />Franken's the real thing, a genuine political satirist who serves his readers trenchant insights into political and social issues of the day along with a number of very big laughs. It's a pleasure watching the pious pontificating of Hannity and O'Reilly and other shills for the Republican party in the media getting punctured like a balloon by Franken's sharp wit. Not all is jolly here though. Franken's chapter on the Paul Wellstone memorial is unbearably moving, although one bristles at the same time at the way Norm Coleman and his GOP minions made political hay out of the event while pretending not to campaign. And &quot;Supply Side Jesus&quot; is maybe the best lampooning of the whole mixing of church and state and media I have ever read. <BR>At times the book bogs down, especially when Franken gets into sticky economic issues, but for the most part this is a smooth, fun ride. But, please, Al, don't take so long writing your next book!	2004-05-14
US	52666293	R2SUKOBZ5A31Q9	0802131638	691591659	The Sexual Outlaw: A Documentary (Rechy, John)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A Journey to the End of the Night	Like many of Rechy's books, THE SEXUAL OUTLAW is powerful, fascinating, and very depressing.  The themes present in his novels are here in this non-fiction work - the power of physical beauty, narcissm, sex as liberation, unfulfilled desire, etc. Along with a narrative of one hustler's quest for validation through his sexual encounters, Rechy threads in a treatise on what it means to be homosexual in twentieth century America.  Much of what he says is relevant to the twenty-first century as well, as the current battle over same-sex marriage attests.<br />Those looking for explicit sex will find it in abundance here.  Rechy pulls no punches in his depiction of homoerotic love.  Yet he is wise enough to see the sadness in the \\"sexhunt,\\" and his \\"character\\" Jim, we know, will never find that elusive thing for which he searches, the combination of sexual gratification and personal intimacy.  None of us will find it.  We hate Jim for his narcissm and his superficiality but admire his rebel stance.  He is a man-loving man not ashamed of the fact.<br />Rechy's accounts of police corruption concerning gay men and the hours spent nabbing \\"sexhunters\\" that could otherwise be spent apprehending murderers, rapists, and thieves are enough to make one's blood boil.  And I love his comments on gay sensibility.  But I find his whole stance on S&M somewhat puzzling and hypocritical.  While no advocate of or participant in that particular sexual lifestyle, I fail to see the difference between the physical pain inflicted by \\"masters\\" upon \\"slaves\\" and the psychological pain engendered in the course of the sexhunt.  Indeed it would seem the latter pain would be the more enduring and damaging.<br />This is an important book, more than twenty-five years old, but still relevant.	2004-02-20
US	52666293	RDZLTXI3RVON2	0932870708	144306494	Extra Credit	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	Low Key and Charming	I discovered this novel along the way of collecting early Alyson Publications.  Although not very distinguished, the early Alyson novels lack a lot of the cloying political correctness found in much of today's product, and they are just downright entertaining time passers.<br />EXTRA CREDIT may be the best of these initial efforts, at least on the fictional front.  (Although I remain highly partial to John Preston's dynamic ALEX KANE series from around the same time and Preston's small comic masterpiece FRANNY THE QUEEN OF PROVINCETOWN.) It is the story of perpetual loser Harper King, a high school English teacher down on his luck in the love department.  He's attracted to co-worker Garrick Dobson, seduced by a randy student, and in love with his high school sweetheart, Mick, who wants him to quit his teaching job and come live with him in Chicago.  As if that weren't enough complication, he is in trouble with the higher ups who run Chester A. Arthur High School and do not approve of Harper's maverick ways in and outside the classroom.<br />This is a pleasurable read, insignificant as all get out and sometimes overwritten, but genuinely funny in many places and well-observed, and, as a further bonus, the sex scenes are suggestively erotic. He delivers a few nice, if exaggerated barbs at the teaching profession too. Jeff Black (now who in the world is Jeff Black, really? I definitely smell a pseudonym)favors the comically serpentine prose style of such masters as Evelyn Waugh and Anthony Powell, in which sometimes long, compound-complex sentences lead to comic payoff.  He is no where near as good as either of those gentlemen, but he makes a worthy effort.  We like Harper,despite his tendency to pity himself and to pile on the sarcasm, and we wish him well as he pursues love and happiness.<br />Long out of print, this is a novel worth hunting down, if you are an Alyson completist.	2003-11-24
US	52666293	R1IOQCUTQZORD4	0945466226	922027993	Education: Free & Compulsory	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Prophetic, as usual	Here Rothbard, famed as an economic theorist and historian, takes on modern compulsive education and delivers the same no-holds-barred treatment he used for every subject he wrote about.<br />Published as a two-part installment in The Individualist way back in '71, the essay is perhaps even more pertinent now, as almost each and every politican of every conceivable stripe and ideology attempts to wrest the mantle of education champion from his rivals.  Rothbard shows that compulsive education is little more than a scheme by professional educationalists (as opposed to honest teachers) to inculcate young people into obedience to the State and into false notions of equality.  It has always been that way, from the inception of public schools by Martin Luther and the Prussians, up to the present day.  Rothbard hates the collectivism imposed by these beauracrats.  He sees true education as a means for a person to develop an individual consciousness and to be able to reason for himself.  In that sense a person can be &quot;educated&quot; without going to school at all. Yes, Rothbard says it - he is one of the few people with the guts - formal schooling is NOT for everyone, and those young people without academic proficiency or intellectual curiosity only bring down more gifted students.  (Can you imagine George Bush or Bill Clinton or Newt Gingrich or Bill Bennett or anyone else of their ilk saying such a thing?  Nah.)<br />The book is not merely a libertarian diatribe, however.  It is a history lesson, delivered with punch and succictness.<br />I am a long time teacher.  The book opened my eyes in many ways.	2003-08-22
US	52666293	R2U2C5WT0IOFB0	0670030783	10638082	Napoleon (Penguin Lives)	Books	5	4	12	N	N	The Hollow Man	Johnson's thesis here is that Napoleon is the precursor of such later totalitarians as Stalin and Hitler, whose names recur<BR>throughout the book as fellow meglamaniacs interested only in consolidating and centralizing power.<br />Since this is part of the pithy Penguin Lives series, NAPOLEON of course can only go into so much detail about the life of this<BR>enigmatic and fascinating little tyrant, but it is an excellent miniature with many indelible moments. I especially like Johnson's<BR>portraits of some of Napoleon's subordinates, including Joseph Fouche, his chief of police, who was so terribly arthiritic by the<BR>end of his life that he was buried sitting up, and Hudson Lowe, the misunderstood Brit who had the daunting job of watching<BR>over Napoleon during his final exile on St. Helena. The battle scenes, encapsulated here for the sake of brevity, are also well<BR>done, with Napoleon's defeat by Wellington at Waterloo particularly vivid.<br />Johnson does a good bit of myth-busting here and finds very little actually to admire about N. Of course he was a military<BR>genius on the level of Alexander. Of course he was a charismatic figure who won the allegiance of the French people.<BR>Otherwise he comes off in this book as a man without a soul who lived only to accrue power.<br />A good book to argue over and very entertaining.	2003-05-29
US	52666293	R14J7PNGNGRZV0	0670030783	10638082	Napoleon (Penguin Lives)	Books	5	10	18	N	N	The Hollow Man	Johnson's thesis here is that Napoleon is the precursor of such later totalitarians as Stalin and Hitler, whose names recur throughout the book as fellow meglamaniacs interested only in consolidating and centralizing power.<br />Since this is part of the pithy Penguin Lives series, NAPOLEON of course can only go into so much detail about the life of this enigmatic and fascinating little tyrant, but it is an excellent miniature with many indelible moments.  I especially like Johnson's portraits of some of Napoleon's subordinates, including Joseph Fouche, his chief of police, who was so terribly arthiritic by the end of his life that he was buried sitting up, and Hudson Lowe, the misunderstood Brit who had the daunting job of watching over Napoleon during his final exile on St. Helena. The battle scenes, encapsulated here for the sake of brevity, are also well done, with Napoleon's defeat by Wellington at Waterloo particularly vivid.<br />Johnson does a good bit of myth-busting here and finds very little actually to admire about N.  Of course he was a military genius on the level of Alexander.  Of course he was a charismatic figure who won the allegiance of the French people.  Otherwise he comes off in this book as a man without a soul who lived only to accrue power.<br />A good book to argue over and very entertaining.	2003-05-23
US	52666293	R1EOR4VQS0XUNZ	0854491104	296047263	Doing Business	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Love, Money, Murder	This quirky, charming little thriller features as its protagonist a most unlikely sleuth for a pop novel - Gordon McKenzie, mathematical genius, diminutive and unattractive, with a especial penchant for London \\"rent boys\\" (i.e., male prostitutes). During one of his frequent forays into a sleazy SoHo gay bar, Gordon accidentally stumbles upon the murder of a brewery inspector in progress. He recognizes one of the assailants as a \\"rent boy\\" who often hits him up for cash. And the rent boy knows Gordon knows and proceeds to attempt to silence him for good. Gordon is on the run, aided by a handsome male prostitute with whom he has fallen in love. In the meantime Gordon is convinced the murder is part of a conspiracy involving drugs and that one of his social-climbing friends is the mastermind behind it. But just which one? And will Gordon live to find out?<br />Well, of course he will, since he narrates the thing. And it is his narrative voice which makes DOING BUSINESS a delight to read. Gordon is an erudite but witty and self-deprecating bloke who is also very funny and endearing. (I love his many well-placed allusions both to pop and high culture.) You hope he will win his Aidan in the end (although the odds are against it) and have the happy ending he deserves. (He does, but you must read to find out how.)<br />The novel's two drawbacks are its chattiness and comparatively large cast of characters. After a while one loses track of which \\"rent boy\\" is which (except the terrifying Gray, who is indelible). Still the varying British accents are cleverly rendered and often very funny.<br />What I also like about the novel is the way Beadle is able to take several well-aimed barbs at the Decade of Greed, the 1980's, and chronicle how disastrous it was on the morale of both the United Kingdom and the United States. In this time everyone has a price, and everything, even love and sex, is a commodity. Everybody's \\"doing business\\", except Gordon, of course, who just wants theattention of a handsome young man. Beadle neatly works in his message in the context of the mystery - not an easy feat and one that could easily have failed.<br />Apparently Beadle wrote a preceding mystery, DEATH SCENE, which I look forward to finding and reading. Unfortunately there will be no more Jeremy Beadle mysteries. The author was claimed by the AIDS plague in 1992 at the very young age of 36. Yet another talented victim of that insidious scourge.	2003-05-12
US	52666293	R2DQAVKJXFC37V	1902852338	56518519	A Dangerous Thing	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Worth the Wait	The first Adrien English mystery, FATAL SHADOWS, was published in 2000 and was a truly auspicious debut for its author, who gave us a lead character of enormous charm and complexity not always encountered in the pages of pop literature. Imagine the frustration of those of us who gobbled up this little confection and were anxiously awaiting the second entry!<br />Well, A DANGEROUS THING is here, and it was well worth the wait. Aside from the book's breathless pace, its near non-stop action, and the well-woven mystery, we get a second glimpse into the developing relationship between Adrien, a bookseller-mystery novelist, and Jake Riordon, the deeply closeted police detective who saved Adrien's neck in the first novel.  Riordon is plenty adventurous sexually, but he isn't quite ready to make an emotional committment to another man, while Adrien seems ready enough.  Their interplay provides as much excitement and drama as does the mystery itself, which involves two dead bodies and an excavation site with a long, bloody history.<br />Adrien is a witty narrator, self-conscious but in an entertaining way.  You cannot help but like him.  And A DANGEROUS THING is an ambitious novel worth your time.<br />Now, Mr. Lanyon, where is Number Three?  Hmmmmm?	2003-02-16
US	52666293	R13P05XS0I930T	0912516917	747549379	The Uncertainty of Strangers and Other Stories	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Certainty of Good Fiction	This is Patrick Franklin's only published book - to my knowledge - a collection of short stories culled mainly from such high-profile \\"men's magazines\\" as Advocate Men and Blueboy.  With that as the original market for these tales, it is not surprising that the plots of the stories very often end in scenes of explicit sex (\\"Splendor and Black Wool\\", the story of a nun's brush with harmonic glory which her superiors mistake as blasphemy, defies that generalization).  But Christopher Street, for years the preeminent gay literary journal, also published at least one of Franklin's stories earlier, and that accounts for the consistent literateness of the writing. <br />Franklin, who published work under various pseudonyms, displays a welcome variety and originality here.  This is not pornography, although the stories are genuinely erotic.  There is science fiction here, humor, nostalgia, and whimsy (e.g., the mischieveous gay leprechaun in \\"The Luck of the Irish\\").  The book opens with \\"Stale Beer and Flowers\\", a marvelous evocation of the narrator's Kentucky boyhood, in which he learns a lot about life and love.  Franklin gets the details right here and elsewhere.  He describes with unfailing sharpness: we get a clear picture of whatever he presents us.  \\"Love Under Glass\\" has a bizarre (though not entirely improbable) concept that works because of Franklin's skill. \\"Catalytic Converter\\", one of the book's two longest stories, is simply knockout erotic; you'll twitch and squirm as you read it.  \\"New Clothes\\" has an O. Henry-type twist, and the title story features revenge as its central theme, and it is a finely orchestrated tale. <br />Patrick Franklin has apparently disappeared from the scene.  I hope he is stashed away in some room somewhere writing more entertaining stories, perhaps under another of those numerous pen names he adopted over the years.  If not, he can rest with assurance that he left the world of writing with a most accomplished little book of stories.	2002-12-09
US	52666293	R1A7FTFI34SMI4	0801859719	410019717	Martini, Straight Up: The Classic American Cocktail	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	The Song of the Silver Bullet	What a perfectly titled book!  Edmunds gives us nothing but straight talk about The American Cocktail in this erudite but charming little treatise on the place of the Martini in American civilization.  He uses a vast array of sources from the nineteenth century on up to prove the enduring quality of this fabled drink and the way it has come to symbolize so many things to so many different kinds of people, whether they are Presidents, bank officials, or everyday housewives.  To Edmunds it is the contradictory nature of the drink that has lent it its immortality (in a time, he admits, when the traditional rituals surrounding the Martini may well be on their way out for good).  The drink is civilized; it is uncivilized; it is strong; it is sensitive, etc., all depending on who is drinking it at the time. Among the sources Edmunds consults and displays are the old Thin Man movies (which, the author points out, constantly violate the accepted rules for drinking Martinis), the fiction of Jack London and Ernest Hemingway, old bartender manuals, cookbooks, magazine ads, and numerous New Yorker cartoons through the years.  He mixes all these into an irresistibly lucid collage.<br />As intellectual as this delightful little exercise is, it nevertheless makes one year for a good stiff drink.  I think I will have one.  Heavy on the gin.  Shaken not stirred.  And straight up, of course.  For, as Edmunds points out unequivocably, &quot;a martini on the rocks is an abomination.&quot;<br />Read it, drink it, and enjoy.	2002-12-04
US	52666293	R2AQCKXVP8WHP1	0316544744	335675388	Jefferson the Virginian (Jefferson and His Time, Vol. 1)	Books	5	54	57	N	N	At the Threshold of Greatness	Malone, once called \\"the greatest Jeffersonian of them all\\", originally conceived this biography in four volumes.  By the time he published the last book in 1982, at age 89, it had grown to six volumes.  It remains the standard life of Jefferson, an indelible and important portrait of a great man, flaws and all, by a great scholar.<br />JEFFERSON THE VIRGINIAN begins things with Jefferson's birth into a family of much distinction.  His father Peter was a noted surveyor and a man of inordinate physical strength who nevertheless died fairly young (in his fifties).  The book covers Jefferon's education at William and Mary (at a time when formal education was not a widespread thing, even among the gentry), his law practice, his beginning the construction of Monticello (which would preoccupy him right up until the time of his death), his terms in the Virginia House of Burgesses (one of which was served after his governorship), his writing of the Declaration of Independence (his initial version, a scathing indictment of King George, had to be toned down by his compatriots), and his controversial governorship (in which he sustained much of the blame for the British army's inroads into the Old Dominion state).  It ends with his appointment as an American ambassador to France.<br />Obviously this is no primer on Jefferson.  Malone spares no detail.  His prose is fastidious, elegant, and easy to read, although you may find yourself putting the book down from time to time to absorb what you have just read.  Overall, Jefferson emerges here as a man naturally scholarly and reclusive, content to build his home, pursue his studies, and tend to his family, who is pushed into action by the obligations of his caste and by his own fervent patriotism.<br />Malone has been criticised for writing a virtual hagiography of Jefferson, ignoring the \\"darker\\" aspects of the man's personality.  In other words, unlike Fawn Brodie, Malone did not reduce his subject to some psychological cripple and sex deviate. The charges are balderdash.  Malone DOES recognize Jefferson's flaws (e.g., his lack of a sense of humor and his sometimes indecision in taking action).  He simply refuses to turn Jefferson into a whipping boy for his own ideological preoccupations.<br />This is as complete a contemporary biography as we will probably ever get of this great man.	2002-10-05
US	52666293	R2YSHSWMVFPUQN	0312264968	243429807	The Death of a Constant Lover: A Nick Hoffman Mystery (Nick Hoffman Mysteries)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Picking UP Steam	I was reluctant to read DEATH OF A CONSTANT LOVER. I had read the first two Nick Hoffman mysteries, LET'S GET<BR>CRIMINAL and THE EDITH WHARTON MURDERS, and had come away from both with a bittersweet taste in my mouth.<BR>While each was generally well written and entertaining enough, they each suffered from the same set of irritating flaws, not the<BR>least of which was a narrator dog-determined to show off his own erudition at every turn.<br />But I am glad I read CONSTANT LOVER. In fact I find it the superior entry of the series so far (I've got two more to go<BR>before I can set a final tally). Yes, Nick/Raphael still shows off every chance he gets (why, he can quote Henry James verbatim,<BR>years after reading him - can you?), but he leavens the pretension with references to pop culture. And there are plenty of other<BR>compensations here as well. The characterizations, while veering towards exaggeration (I'm talking about supporting characters<BR>now), are uniformly good, even compelling. The mystery is genuinely interesting, exciting, and tension-racked. And the little<BR>scenes of lovers Nick and Stefan at home are fun to read (I especially love their dinners, composed of exotic, delicious<BR>sounding meals). But most of all I love Hoffman's barbs at the present state of academia - the backstabbing, the boredom, the<BR>pretension. For Hoffman, academia is a world where the professors hate books, hate their students, and hate each other and<BR>are there not out of love of learning or teaching but to fortify their own lofty positions in the Ivory Tower. And the<BR>administrators are even bigger cads. As a university teacher I can truthfully verify that, yes, for the sake of fiction, Nick/Raphael exaggerates some but not by much.<br />Although the reviews for LITTLE MISS EVIL and BURNING DOWN THE HOUSE are mixed, I am looking forward to<BR>what Nick Hoffman gets himself into next.	2002-09-18
US	52666293	R222IO7O1IHWXO	0374518173	254886596	The Complete Poems: 1927-1979	Books	5	63	65	N	N	A Harvest of Joy	Gosh, it is hard to sum up one's feelings about the poetry of Elizabeth Bishop.  She is one of those artists, like Shakespeare and Mozart and Cervantes, whose work contains such perfection it seems almost sacrilegious to comment upon it.<br />And she was ALWAYS a good poet.  This volume proves it by publishing much of her juvenilia alongside more mature, better known poems as the wonderful \\"Florida\\", \\"Sestina\\", and the majestic \\"The Fish\\", a poem I enjoy teaching to my students every semester as a supreme example of imagery (I defy them to find instances of abstract language in the poem; there aren't many).  Also included is an astonishing series of translations Bishop rendered over the years, mostly of South American poets, including Octavio Paz.<br />All in all, this is a treasure trove, a book for the ages, and a reminder of what we lost with Bishop's early death at age 68.	2002-09-11
US	52666293	RZTTRYE4YG8NY	006109918X	552690770	Talking God (Jim Chee Novels)	Books	4	29	31	N	N	Don't Start Here (If You've Never Read Hillerman, That Is)	Hillerman has carved out his own niche in the American mystery genre, that of the Southwestern Navajo reservation, and it is one I return to again and again with the confidence of receiving pleasure and edification (Hillerman, not an American Indian himself, nevertheless qualifies as a world class expert on the ways and folklore of these people and he renders them beautifully and cogently for his readers).  He is no literary mystery novelist on the order of a James Lee Burke or P.D. James or Joseph Hansen, but he is a more than solid storyteller who creates a world unlike that most of us have ever visited.  He has his weaknesses - stilted dialogue and often one dimensional characterizations - but they are more than compensated for by Hillerman's uncanny sense of place and pace.<br />With that said, let me warn you not to start with TALKING GOD if you have never read Hillerman, first of all because he uproots his famed protagonists Joe Leaphorn and Jim Chee from their normal bailiwick and transplants them in Washington, D.C., as they attempt to unravel more than one mystery that all seem to lead back to Indian burial rituals and illegally unearthed remains and conflict with foreign governments.  It's a good book, solid and compelling for the most part and it features a truly frightening villain, maybe Hillerman's best bad guy up to that point, but we miss the &quot;Res&quot; and the natural mystery of its landscape and the wonderful way Hillerman makes it come alive.<br />So wait on this one and start with DANCE HALL OF THE DEAD or THE BLESSING WAY.  TALKING GOD will come as a later treat once you have properly acquainted yourself with the mystery and magic of Hillerman's peculiar world.	2002-09-11
US	52666293	R2GIUOGHF29I6J	0679743626	707805727	O Pioneers! (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Masterpiece No.1	In her second novel, published at age forty, Cather deals with themes and settings which would preoccupy her for the rest of her career.  Foremost in the book stands The Land, the Nebraska prairie, as palpable a character as the indomintable Alexander Bergson, determined not only to live on The Land but to conquer it and make something of it and leave it as a legacy for those to follow her.  She resists the blandishments of big city, industrialized life (to which her more materialistic brothers are anxious to submit)to remain in the place she knows best.<br />O PIONEERS is not a farming manual, however, or pictuaresque portrait of happy Swedish farmers.  It is a tragedy of the sacrfices  Alexander must make to remain true to her (and her father's) dream.  She gives up (until the happy ending) marriage, love, and family of her own.  It is the tragedy of giving up dreams and of thwarted young love whose passion can be extinguished only by violent death.<br />Cather handles it all in a style best described as poetic realism.  This book nearly matches (though not quite) MY ANTONIA in impact and resonance.	2002-09-10
US	52666293	R1ZJBFV7QJ5D30	1555834922	436818127	Nothing Gold Can Stay: A Novel	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Did Someone Say "Mystery"?	I began Casey Nelson's first novel with great expectations: it's a mystery, it's gay, and it's set in London. All three make it<BR>unique in this particular genre of popular fiction. But I came away sorely disappointed. I got gay and I got London, but I got<BR>shortshrifted on mystery.<br />The plot has merry old London under siege by a vicious serial killer nicknamed Prince Bi, for his propensity for<BR>killing young men and women in most sexually aggressive ways. The murders hit too close to home for our protagonist Ray<BR>O'Brien, an American abroad studying drama and sexuality at an exclusive London summer program. His new friend, the<BR>handsome free spirit Derrick Quince, is the latest victim of Prince Bi's atrocities, and Ray sets out, so to speak, to discover<BR>Who Done It. Things are further complicated for our hero when he finds himself falling under the sway of his fellow student<BR>Eduardo, an Argentinian beauty of mysterious background who may or may not himself be the killer.<br />It's a good set-up for a thriller, but Nelson doesn't follow through. He is obviously much more interested in showing us how<BR>well he can write convoluted sentences than providing us the suspense we've come for as mystery readers. The book dissolves<BR>into a kind of parlor comedy/drama, a la Jane Austen, or a study of conflicting American and British cultures, a la Henry James,<BR>and Nelson even retains the Master's loquacity. Often the dialogue consists of ruminations on art and sexuality and sexual<BR>politics, which is all well and good, but it doesn't move the plot along and it's just...well...show offy...as though the author<BR>thought a display of his erudition would make up for his inability to \\"construct\\" (one of the narrator's favorite verbs AND nouns,<BR>so you can see what section of academia he comes from; he's not talking about skyscrapers here when he uses it) a compelling<BR>mystery. But it doesn't. It just sounds stilted.<br />There are a few moments hereand there of suspense but not enough. The ending is especially perfunctory. The killer just<BR>confesses. There's no showdown with O'Brien and no sense of endangerment. The killer confesses, and all is suddenly right<BR>with the world. <br />It's really kind of a cheat.	2002-07-24
US	52666293	R25VVXM4Q574KD	0312050577	518973776	Brighten the Corner Where You Are: A Novel	Books	5	11	11	N	N	That Old Chappell Magic	Fred Chappell is one of contemporary American literature's true magicians.  Not a trickster now.  His is an honest magic wrought from imagination, intelligence, humor, and an unsurpassed linguisitc gift.<br />BRIGHTEN THE CORNER WHERE YOU ARE gives us ample evidence of this legerdemain.  It is the second part of Chappell's quartet of novels involving Jess Kirkman and his indominatible family in the mountains of western North Carolina.  Whereas the first novel, I AIM ONE OF YOU FOREVER, focuses on the boy Jess, this second book concerns his father, Joe Robert, schoolteacher, storyteller, scientist, prankster, and eternal child at heart whose guiding principle is a \\"priority of delight\\"<br />The novel's \\"plot\\", such as it is, centers on one day in Joe Robert's life - and it is quite an eventful day!  He chases the notorious \\"devil-possum\\" - a figment of his wild imagination- up a tree to impress his buddies, only to encounter a real life panther which sends Joe Robert tumbling to scrapes and bruises.  He saves a little girl from drowning.  He coaxes a recalcitrant goat off the school roof.  And he faces the school board, with expulsion a real possibility, for his unapologetic teaching of Darwin.<br />These set pieces allow for much humor in the good old Southern Applalachian tall tale tradition of Joel Chandler Harris, George Washington Harris, and William Gilmore Simms.  Yet more importantly they draw an indelible portrait of a good man, a bit times too childish perhaps, but with the proper animating spirit of life.<br />This is a marvelous novel by a marvelous writer.	2002-07-16
US	52666293	R14WKAFV53SC6Z	0671827944	784918230	Moviola	Books	3	8	8	N	N	HOORAY FOR HOLLYWOOD!	Garson Kanin used an accumulated lifetime of Hollywood memories and experiences to create this very entertaining, if highly improable, novel.<br />Ben Farber is an eminent Hollywood mogul, on the level of Warner and Goldwyn, who, at age 92. has seemingly lost none of his zest for the movie business.  Nevertheless he is seriously considering selling his Farber Studios to a rapacious Saudi businessman, who has sent a young agent from NY to Los Angeles to bid for the operation.  The agent, however, takes a personal interest in Farber, and soon enough the Great Man is relating the story of his sojourn through seventy years of movie history.<br />A Russian Jewish immigrant to NY, Farber stumbles into the movie biz by accident, but he sees great potential for this new entertainment medium and sticks to it, eventually becoming the co-worker and confident of such early movie luminaries as Max Sennett, Mabel Normand, D.W. Griffith, and the man who started it all, Thomas Edison.  Farber winds up a kind of Forrest Gump of Tinseltown.  He is present at almost all the legendary events of early Hollywood.  He's there during the notorious Fatty Arbuckle rape/murder trial.  He's there when the great Garbo, a chunky Swedish gal with limited knowledge of English, arrives on American shores for her HOllywood debut with her director/friend/mentor Mauritz Stiller by her side.  Garbo, of course, goes on to movie immortality; Still, however, is shunted aside by an industry that did not appreciate his genius.  Farber's there when David O. Selznick launches the greatest casting call in movie history, to find just the right actress to play Scarlett O'Hara.  He's there when a homely teenage girl named Norma Jean Mortensen blossoms into the greatest movie sex symbol ever, Marilyn Monroe.<br />This is a fun book, as larger than life and bombastic as a lavish old Warner Brothers musical.  While not completely successful as a novel, the book offers any number of marvelous and amusing set pieces.My favorite is the David O. Selznick party thrown for all the potential Scarlett O'Haras, Joan Crawford, Carole Lombard, Better Davis,Tallulah Bankhead, and Paulette Goddard among them, which degenerates into a real bitchfest.  But the Arbuckle episode is also a highlight, sensitive and touching, as we watch a huge talent (literal and figurative) destroyed by the avarice and self-interest of others. I also love the early chapter where curious onlookers come to Ben's general store in New Jersey to watch the first primitive movies projected on a makeshift screen. <br />Kanin plays games with the narrative structure.  One minute he's narrating in past tense, the next in present.  Sometimes Farber's our narrator, other times it is the agent, still others it is an omniscent third person narrator.  But that's all right.  Kanin obviously wasn't writing to win a Nobel Prize or the close scrutiny of literary deconstructuralists.  He was writing to entertain.<br />And he does that admirably.	2002-07-11
US	52666293	R1VBC75P9VU1A2	0970802005	12705130	Friends	Books	4	25	29	N	N	With Friends Like These...Whew!	This is a very fine collection of erotic photography by Adam Raphael that eschews graphic displays of monstrous genitalia or simulated sex in favor of more subtle aspects of sensuality.  Here eyes and lips become the purveyors of eroticism, with all their promises of delights to come.<br />Raphael's models are handsome, accessible young men - accessible because they could easily be men living next door to you or taking a class with you or shopping in the same mall.  They don't intimidate you the way some professional models can.  They're real, and you'd like to get to know them better.  I believe I prefer Lucas above all.  He's got a sweet lack of awareness of his own beauty that makes him all that more alluring.<br />Raphael's technique is as simple as the men he has chosen to shoot.  The style doesn't call attention to itself; thus we are able to enjoy his subjects more thoroughly.  I share the complaint of other reviewers, however, that the format of the book doesn't fit the photographs; it should have been a larger edition.  That's a minor complaint though.<br />I look forward to more work by Mr. Raphael.	2002-07-11
US	52666293	R25BH507EEX0JJ	0917990056	426277317	Moments of Light	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Moments of Insight	For nearly forty years Fred Chappell has been displaying his mastery of various literary forms.  Chappell considers himself primarily a poet, but he is also an accomplished novelist as well, and in 1980 he published his first collection of short stories, the present MOMENTS OF LIGHT.  It is as masterful as his work in other genres, and there is more than one critic who believes that short fiction is Chappell's true forte.<br />Annie Dillard provides the introduction here, and she sees the stories tied together thematically as an attempt to show man's birth, innocence, and fall from grace.  I'm not sure I agree with this interpretation, but I certainly concur with Dillard's estimation that MOMENTS OF LIGHT contains some truly extraordinary writing.<br />Chappell is such a versatile artist.  He can write rural comedy and horror and historically based fiction.  Among his characters are Joseph Haydn and Benjamin Franklin.  In fact the best story here maybe the title tale, in which Haydn discovers the cosmos and gets a glimpse of the eternal prospects of great art.  Equally fine is &quot;Blue Dive&quot;, with a traditional blues musician bewildered by changing tastes in music, and &quot;Thousand Ways&quot;, about desultory souls seeking solace.  It is wonderful.<br />All the stories here are wonderful, and the book is well worthy your time and will repay you with delight.	2002-06-12
US	52666293	R24WHFHCJNVO7L	0807121193	245476806	The Children of Africa in the Colonies: Free People of Color in Barbados in the Age of Emancipation (Antislavery, Abolition, and the Atlantic World)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Tarheel Stephen Daedulus	Chappell's first novel belies the author's age.  He was a mere twenty six years old when IT IS TIME, LORD was published.  One thinks of Hemingway, also twenty-six when THE SUN ALSO RISES was published, and the energy and mastery of technique he evinced early on.<br />A better analogy, though, would probably be James Joyce, whose PORTRAIT OF THE ARTIST AS A YOUNG MAN, provides clear correlations with Chappell's novel.  Both are concerned with young artists, writers, struggling to come to terms with the weight of their pasts and in those attempts trying to turn experience into art.  Each youth labors under the shadow of a forceful, not always sympathetic father.  <br />Chappell does something here, way back in 1963, that not many other subsequent novelists have been able to do, at least not in my estimation, and that is to justify use of the present tense narrative form.  Too many writers today use the technique as a showy gimmick, but Chappell is not playing around here.  The present tense narrative of James Christopher's dissolute present life is starkly contrasted with his rural upbringing, told in the form of an aborted memoir, but in each we can see the seeds of James's self-destruction.<br />IT IS TIME, LORD also plants the seeds for Chappell's later quartet of autobiographical novels beginning with I AM ONE OF YOU FOREVER and recently concluding with LOOK BACK ALL THE GREEN VALLEY, and this first novel makes for a compelling warm up for those fine books.	2002-06-11
US	52666293	R140TK38C946SM	1555834426	627879963	Slate: A Daniel Valentine & Clarisse Lovelace Mystery (Alyson Classics Library)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Slight But Amusing	This is book three in the Clarisse Lovelace/Daniel Valentine series of mysteries set in Boston and environs, and it is easily the least of the bunch.<br />Alydne (actually two writers under pseudonym) just coasts with this breezy story of the murder of a vituperative gossip columnist, featuring a cast of characters that includes a woman so entranced with American geography she makes sandwiches in the shapes of all fifty states and a pair of arguing, TV wrestling-obsessed lesbian lovers.  As usual Clarisse steals the show from everyone else.  She is funny and bitchy but in a very entertaining way, and in SLATE she settles in firmly in her ambition to be an attorney.  Daniel is a bit more fleshed out in this third novel and he's given some very funny lines, but he still remains something of a shadow next to the fiery Clarisse.<br />For my money COBALT is the best entry in the Aldyne cycle.  It is a farce nearly epic in hilarity and wackiness, while at the same time delivering the goods as a mystery.  SLATE is just a mildy amusing interlude, a practice pitch for the last book, CANARY.	2002-06-04
US	52666293	RIQMP0U0T7BBL	0553575333	42259480	Revision of Justice (Benjamin Justice Mysteries)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	All That Glitters...	Wilson continues his Benjamin Justice series of detective novels with this dynamic second entry, set, of course, in Hollywood, among the world of rapacious, do-anything-for-a-break screenwriters, a world Wilson himself apparently knows well from experience.  <br />     A young, aspiring screenwriter with too many connections to too may important people with too many secrets is found murdered at a party in the posh home of a prominent screenwriting teacher.  Justice, a once promising print reporter felled by scandal, is enlisted to help find the killer by his friend, a hotshot reporter named Alexandra Templeton.  Justice agrees for financial reasons, but his heart is dragged into the search as well, as he is determined to clear his new friend Danny Romero of any suspicion of the crime.  Danny is HIV positive, just like Ben's late lover Jacques, and Ben experiences a VERTIGO-like moment of dj vu.  (The love scene with Ben and Danny in the AIDS clinic, with Danny nearing death, is electrifying, touching, and erotic.)<br />     If John M. Wilson/Benjamin Justice's Hollywood is any indication, there are practically no nice people in the American movie industry.  There certainly aren't in this cast of characters.  If someone's not busy clawing his way to the top (or even to the middle rung), then he is busy hiding some secret of a very shady past.  The novel has the grime of raw ambition all over it, and chances are you won't find anybody here to whom you will relate.  But that is all right.  This is probably a more accurate representation of the Hollywood milieu than a lot of people would like to admit.  Wilson does it very well.  And his sense of character is sharp too.  More and more I find myself thinking that Benjamin Justice may well be a more compelling character than Michael Nava's celebrated Henry Rios (and I wouldn't have thought that a few years ago).  Justice is no Huggy Bear himself, but he's smart, sardonic, and funny, and he accepts his \\"loser\\" status with the stoicism of a wise man.<br />If one can cite faults here, it is the easiness with which one can guess the killer and Wilson's rather irritating habit of bashing white males and playing up the multicultural aspects of his own cast of characters; there's something in it that smacks of insincerity.<br />An excellent novel.  Just don't go into it looking to be cheered up.	2002-06-03
US	52666293	R35T5SUPYA6Q5Q	1902852095	370740927	Fatal Shadows	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Move Over, Hansen and Nava, Here Comes Lanyon	This is a hugely entertaining first book in a proposed new mystery series set in L.A. The mystery<BR>                       surrounding the brutal murder of a young gay man is deftly and cleanly handled. What makes the<BR>                       book really go is the narrator, Adrien English, whose best friend and erstwhile lover (sort of)<BR>                       Robert has been stabbed to death in a Los Angeles alley. Adrien finds himself implicated in the<BR>                       crime, but, worse, he's being stalked himself by the person who likely killed his buddy.<br />                       Adrien is a wonderful character and narrator, a real person, unlike some protagonists of more<BR>                       established and touted series. He's funny without being mean and smart as a tack.<br />                       This is a smart book, well-paced, sweet, and suspenseful too. What more could one ask for?<br />                       Well, the second installment. I can't wait for A DANGEROUS THING!	2002-05-22
US	52666293	R2IZAES06N7C4O	0595221289	306723131	The Shape of a Man: A Novella and Five Stories	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Promising new voice	Ivey apparently got his start publishing in university literary magazines.  This is his first book length collection of stories, and it holds out a lot of promise of things to come.  <br />The stories range from farce (&quot;Another Woman's Ring&quot;)to semi-folktale (&quot;Midnight&quot;) to mystery (&quot;The Shape of a Man&quot;).  The points of view range from hardscrabble redneck (Laissez Faire Redux&quot;, which touches on the recent Confederate flag controversy in South Carolina) to elegant Park Avenue socialites (&quot;The Liberation of Marian K.&quot;), so Ivey displays some real versatility here.  The stories for the most part are laugh-out loud funny, especially the aforementioned &quot;Another Woman's Ring&quot;, in which an old widow woman finds herself in the unlikely situation of falling in love all over again at the age of eighty-three. It reminds me a lot of some of Eudora Welty's work or even Flannery O'Connor's.  Ivey does an exceptionally good job of capturing the voices of these rural Southern women (see also &quot;Midnight&quot;). Ivey has his lyrical moments as well.  The opening to the title short novel is a knockout of painterly description.  The reader can just feel the oppression of the hot South Carolina night.<br />The last story, &quot;Family Portrait&quot;, is a good idea but seems too abbreviated, although the author apparently intended it that way. It could have used some more fleshing out, however.<br />William Price Fox, the noted humorist and novelist, provided the introduction.  He's high on Ivey's work and predicts for him a &quot;brilliant&quot; future.  It would be hard to argue that.<br />This is an enjoyable collection.	2002-04-22
US	52666293	R1FVG99ISE2DZF	0913969397	21508761	The Dynamic Dominion: Realignment and the Rise of Virginia's Republican Party Since 1945	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Dynamic Account	Mr. Atkinson is a partisan Republican. He is upfront about it in his author's bio on the book's dustjacket, which mentions his numerous positions in the GOP. At times one senses his partisan glee as he chronicles the rise to power of the Republican party in the Old Dominion from the 1960's, when the Civil Rights movement and the administration of LBJ (who carried VA in 1964)identified the Democratic party with extreme liberalism, until the early 1990's, when Republican stock continued to soar statewide and nationwide. For the most part though he maintains objectivity and gives his readers a gripping account of this very important political transformation.<br />At times the book has the tension of a good thriller, along the lines of Advise and Consent or The Manchurian Candidate. Certainly Atkinson presents to us a genuine cast of characters and a series of ups and downs, successes and failures, conflicts and confrontations one would find in a novel. There is the collapse of the Harry Byrd machine in Virginia, which in election after election had delivered the state solidly to the Democrats; there is the election of Virginia's first Republican governor since Reconstruction, Linwood Holton, a man decidedly not a conservative in a very conservative party in a very conservative state; there is Mills Godwin's agonizing decision to quit a lifetime of membership in the Democratic party and become a Republican in order to stop \\"wildman\\" Henry Howell's ascension to the VA governorship; there is Richard Nixon's wholesale attempt to convert scores of conservative Virginia Democrats to the GOP, an effort killed, of course, by Nixon's own Watergate; there is the promise of good things cut short by the tragic deaths of Democrat Sergeant Reynolds and Republicans Richard Obershain and John Dalton; there is John Warner's campaigning for the U.S. Senate with that Hollywood apogee of glamor, Elizabeth Taylor, by his side; there is the appearance of Chuck Robb, as though a white knightupon a steed, to rescue the Democrats from yet another ignominious defeat at the hands of the GOP, and on and on. Atkinson's spares no detail in this very lively account, which portends good news for his party, less good news for us remaining Southern Jeffersonian Democrats.<br />Atkinson's title is a prescient one. In politics, as in much else, Virginia IS dynamic and changing all the time. One would welcome a sequel from Atkinson, or at least an updated edition of this fine book, in light of the election of Republican majorities to the VA legislature in 1999 and the more recent election of Democrat Mark Warner to the governorship, which some observers attribute in part to internecine warfare in the GOP.	2002-03-13
US	52666293	RJ85K4VN9YR8Y	1881684172	231991576	Stalked: An Anatomy of Sexual Obsession	Books	1	4	5	N	N	Just a Boy with a Dream	Larry Townsend's novel has an intriguing premise: a up and coming young Hollywood actor becomes the object of obsession for an increasingly dangerous hustler who once serviced him.  So far, so good.<br />But the premise is not developed satisfactorily.  In fact it grows more improbable and unbelievable chapter by chapter.  The biggest culprit here is not the stalker but Townsend's inability to create credible, interesting characters.  In fact STALKED features one of the most uniformly unlikable cast of characters one will probably ever encounter in a novel.  There's the hotshot young movie star who is so narcissistic he can only get truly turned on by making love to his look-alike stunt man, the aging queen pining for love and finding it, so to speak, with a Doberman Pinscher, the movie mogul who, considering his constant sexual activities, has little time for movies, and the stalker himself who is just too...well...dumb to be frightening.<br />We feel as though we are reading an early draft of the novel and not the final novel.  Too much seems not worked out or definite. Characters often act in contradictory ways.  The dialogue is stilted and telegraphic.  There's no suspense, not even in climactic moments.  Things just happen and they're over; we don't get the pleasure of mounting tension or immminent danger.  There is plenty of sex, if that's what you've come for, but be aware that is a specialized sort of erotica, the kind of thing Mr. Townsend has gained a reputation for - SM.  He offers enough vanilla sex to temper the kink, but if whips and chains and paddles and prods aren't your thing, you might better pass on this one.<br />Townsend has skill as a writer, enough so that he is able to render occasional eloquent passages of insight.  But those are few and far between and they are largely in the service of nothing.	2002-03-06
US	52666293	R3NH1CPM9SIHUP	0375407375	175582861	Half a Life	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Half Better Than None	Disgruntled pundits have taken to calling Naipaul's latest \\"Half a Novel\\", and it is a criticism not without justification. There is certainly a feeling of the book ending abruptly and without a satisfying resolution.<br />Still half a Naipaul is better than most authors in their entirety. His simple language and syntax, almost Hemingwayesque in its declaration but vastly more elegant, makes this a deceptively easy read, but beware. There are layers of meaning throughout in his subtle characterizations and descriptions of place and customs; Naipaul's cooly ironic style sometimes keeps them hidden. The irony is thick enough to be cut with a blade. <br />The title certainly refers to the main character, Willie Chadran, who feels, by age forty-one, that his best years are behind him, never to be recovered, and that he has wasted his life in desultory pursuits of sex and literary fame. But he is not the only character not living life to its fullest. Others fritter theirs away chasing material possessions and political power and social mobility. An air of doom pervades the novel generally, a sense of impending chaos, an end to life as these characters know it, and by the time the book ends there are indeed signs of destruction, departure, and change. All these folks can do is run away from the ephemera of their own artificial lives, their illusions.<br />Not great Naipaul but compelling throughout and probably better than anything else around at the moment.	2002-02-26
US	52666293	R245O7RIAKB1RP	0394543807	690987183	New and Selected Poems, 1923-1985	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Life's Work	This selection of Warren's wide-ranging verse was published in 1985 and, if I'm not mistaken (and I may well be), won the Pulitzer Prize. The poems themselves, however, go back some six decades.<br />It is remarkable to read and compare the more recent poems with the earlier ones and to see, at least from these examples, that Warren was an amazingly consistent poet in both theme and technique. Nature seems to be his primary area of concern and man's place in nature's elusive design, but he also writes extensively of Time (almost always capitalized), sex, family, and death. In almost every poem one finds images of stars - which seem to fascinate Warren with their mathematical designs; they link the poems with a kind of leitmotif. Warren draws on his Kentucky boyhood for much of his material, in which he depicts not only the hardscrabble life in general but the more specific drama of his relationships with his mother and father. There are lyric poems and ballads; some poems are easily accesible, others come from more personal sources and remain at least partially obscure even after several readings. The problem that arises with any such comprehensive gathering of poems, especially from a writer so prolific, is the probability of repetition, and Warren himself, good as he is, cannot escape this predicament Still even if meaning remains hidden, one can enjoy Warren's considerable dexterity with language and image. He has a vigorous, firm, muscular grasp of subject and technique.<br />The poems come from all of Warren's sixteen major collections and opens with the most recent group of poems. His most famous poetic work, the book-length AUDUBAN: A VISION, is included in its entirety.	2002-02-20
US	52666293	R3UJ8PLAKVXYQ1	1570030871	284626536	Tales of the South by William Gilmore SIMMs	Books	5	16	16	N	N	The Old South's Literary Proteus	William Gilmore Simms (1806-1870) of Charleston, South Carolina, was a true literary wonder.  The author of some thirty novels, he also wrote poetry, drama, criticism, and history (his history of South Carolina was a much used textbook a century or so ago).  And when he was away from his writing desk he managed to find time to edit a number of literary quarterlies and serve a term in the South Carolina legislature.<br />Despite such prodigious achievements, Simms has largely been overlooked by critics and chroniclers of 19th century American literature, this despite a very generous assessment of his work by such contemporaries as Edgar Allan Poe, who in essence called Simms the best living writer of his day.  This neglect has much to do with the fact that Simms was an unapologetic supporter of the Confederate cause in the War Between the States, a definite no-no in our age of hypersensitivity and political correctness.  In recent years, however, efforts have been made to rectify this ignorance of Simms's work.  John Guilds has done a splendid job of resurrecting much of Simms's more important fiction in an ongoing series of beautiful hardcovers published by The University of Arkansas.  And in 1995, Dr. Mary Ann Wimsatt of the University of South Carolina edited this superb collection of some of Simms's best short stories.<br />Simms was much fascinated with Indian lore and incorporates it in several present tales, including most notably &quot;The Arm Chair of the Tustenuggee&quot;, in which a harridan of a wife gets her just desserts with the aid of a haunted tree.  Other tales touch on supernatural themes as well, &quot;Grayling&quot; and &quot;The Plank&quot; among them.  But it is Simms's penchant for humor and the tall tale which finds the most memorable realization here in two comic masterpieces: &quot;Sharp Snaffles: How He Got His Capital and His Wife&quot; and its sequel (in a sense) &quot;Bald Head Bill Baldy&quot;, two outrageous, outlandish, hilarious stories of ordinary men thrust into extraordinary circumstances and using their wit and ingenuity to emerge triumphant.<br />Aside from the stories themselves, the book offers an additional treasure in Wimsatt's lengthy, perceptive introduction which places the tales in context.<br />This is a handsome paperback and an important addition to what I hope is a long term revival of Simms's work.tories of ordinary men thrust into extraordinary circumstances and using their wit and ingenuity to emerge triumphant.  <br />Aside from the stories themselves, the book offers an additional treasure in Wimsatt's lengthy, perceptive introduction which places the tales in context.<br />This is a handsome paperback and an important addition to what I hope is a long term revival of Simms's work.	2002-02-07
US	52666293	R1MGJ8W7BA0A79	0394751019	421244819	The Persian Boy	Books	5	4	5	N	N	HE'S KING OF THE WORLD!	THE PERSIAN BOY is the centerpiece of Mary Renault's famed fictional trilogy on the life of Alexander the Great, preceded by FIRE FROM HEAVEN and followed by FUNERAL GAMES.  This one is probably the best.<br />Narrated by Bagoas, the Persian eunuch \\"inherited\\" by Alexander from the entourage of the defeated King Darius, PERSIAN BOY portrays the great Macedonian as both as demi-god and as all too human.  He is at once gigantic, fearless, vainglorious, unstoppable,and ruthless on the one hand and tender, solicitous, sentimental (he names a city after his dead dog Perditas), compassionate, and loyal to a fault on the other.  Friendship he seems to value above all else, evidenced by his reaction to the death of his boyhood companion and most trusted confidante, Hephaistion.  He hangs the doctor who could not save his friend and then plunges into an orgy of despair.  Still he never loses sight of his great ambition to remake the entire world in his own image and, like any truly great man, moves ahead despite grief and his own physical impairments.<br />This is an amazing recreation of the ancient world.  If any book succeeds in relaying the sights, sounds, smells, customs, dress, mating habits, etc., of a distant time and place, this is it.  Bagoas makes for an engaging storyteller.  He holds nothing back, and if he turns out to be a bit of a snob, well, what else would one expect from the world's most beautiful eunuch, one who can give no less than the King of the World such sensual fulfillment?<BR>Like any snob, Bagoas favors excellence over mediocrity, and in Alexander excellence is given human form.  No wonder Bagoas loves him so!  And that love story provides this novel its center, its tender heart.  It is subtle, suggestive, and very real.  Male writers should be as adept as Renault in their depictions of male male relationships, demphasizing the physical and giving more attention to the emotional.<br />The novel bogs down in places and becomes repetitious, but itis well worth sticking with till the end.	2002-02-04
US	52666293	R22OA2X2R7G0AI	0312117809	174221100	Eclipse of the Heart	Books	3	1	1	N	N	As in &quot;Total&quot;	This is a mystery that came right out of left field. A key friend of mine, a virtual expert in the realm of homophile mysteries, said kind things about it, and that set me to searching for it. I found a used copy in a Charlotte, NC, bookstore and read it right away. The book doesn't &quot;totally&quot; meet the expectations I had of it going in, but it is a pleasant enough read with its moments of action and suspense. Zachery Grayson is a middle-aged cookbook writer of some repute whose dreary, unadverturous life is changed by an encounter with the mysterious operative Manny and a trip to Mexico. The plot revolves around obtaining a computer chip vital to a secret organization's plan to revamp the failing American civilization. That's as much of an explanation as we get of the shady goings on, which involve high level figures from politcs and the corporate business world. What's more important here is Zachery's transformation from wallflower to man of action, in which he is aided and abetted by Sali, a street urchin of indeterminate age but unmistakable resource and beauty. Zachery is &quot;recalled to life&quot;, so to speak, and that epiphany, or series of epiphanies, forms the heart of the book and provides its main interest. A decent enough novel, a passable time waster, written in a largely telegraphic, declarative style that put me in mind of the old John Preston series of Alex Kane adventures. I'm sorry Tierney apparently decided not to follow through with other books featuring Zachery. it would be interesting to see what became of him and his Sali.	2001-08-27
US	52666293	R15REBV8T4WUM6	0030560632	850288813	Gravedigger	Books	5	15	15	N	N	The Best Gets Better With Every Book	This is book number six in Hansen's acclaimed series of Dave Brandstetter mysteries.  Brandstetter is the tough, no nonsense but highly cosmopolitan insurance claims adjuster in southern California who loves a good martini, listens to string quartets, and solves complicated murders.<br />In this outing a young woman is missing and believed murdered by the crazed leader of a sex cult.  Her father has attempted to cash in on an insurance policy taken out on his daughter, and this leaves Brandstetter in considerable doubt, especially since the father himself is no where to be found.  He sets out to put all the pieces of the puzzle in place.<br />This is my favorite so far of the series.  It's an absorbing read from beginning to its (literally) explosive ending and is much more gory and gruesome than previous entries.  All the Hansen felicities are here: terrific pace, expert characterization, snappy dialogue, and absolutely flawless depictions of scene and atmosphere.  An extra treat is the sidelight on Dave's love life, his growing relationship with TV journalist Cecil Harris, thirty years Dave's junior and with ambitions of his own.  Their rocky relationship shows a tender side to Dave glimpsed only fleetingly in earlier books.  <br />Hansen is a rare bird among writers of all stripes: he's a stylist who can also tell a story that grips you.  Read him, enjoy him, savor him.	2001-08-23
US	52666293	R205FXM9BK3XJN	0312198639	741422026	The Edith Wharton Murders: A Nick Hoffman Mystery (Nick Hoffman Mysteries)	Books	3	2	7	N	N	Delivers a Black Eye to Academia	As a mystery, Lev Raphael's EDITH WHARTON MURDERS is negligible, and that may be exactly the author's point.  It's a cute idea about murder among scholars at an Edith Wharton conference held at a midwestern university.  We don't learn anything particularly new or interesting about Wharton, and the participants at the powwow come off more as caricatures than characters.  The book's most glaring mistake however is having an ultra-conservative campaigner for family values, a la Anita Bryant, become the president of the university's board of trustees.  In this age of rampant political correctness among academics, that ain't going to happen.  And Raphael beats too much on the old &quot;Christian right&quot; drum.  If he were really attentive to these things, he would see it is the religious left posing the greatest danger right now to freedom of academic inquiry and freedom of speech.  <br />Still this is a fairly likable book.  It moves fairly quickly, and the protagonist, Nick Hoffman, while hyper to the point of vibration, becomes ingratiating after awhile.  I like the little verbal snapshots of Nick and his lover Stefan at home, drinking fine wines and eating luscious sounding meals.  Those scenes are nicely done.  But the book's greatest strength is Raphael's insight into the pettiness of much of academic life, the little jealousies, the hyping and promotion of mediocrity and obscurity. Some of his barbs in that direction made me laugh out loud and made the incredulities of the other parts more bearable and forgivable.	2001-08-22
US	52666293	R30SEXL0G6NRBI	156512295X	891583066	New Stories from the South 2000: The Year's Best	Books	4	6	7	N	N	I Love to Tell the Story	One wonders a bit at the subtitle: The Year's Best, 2000, and then one remembers this collection, the latest in a long line of such anthologies stretching back to the 1980's, was edited by Algonquin Books' Shannon Ravenel, and she knows more about these things probably than anybody else.<br />Nevertheless, I would call this a mixed bag of Southern storytelling. Allan Gurganus's &quot;He's at the Office&quot; has a clever premise, one familiar to anyone from a close-knit, aging family, and once again showcases Gurganus's sharp eye for detail and razzmatazz prose style, but the ending is silly and the story collapses because of it. R.H.W. Dillard's &quot;Forgetting the End of the World&quot; seems much ado about nothing and strains for a significance it most certainly does not achieve. These are two of the weaker links in the chain. Among the stronger ones are &quot;Mr. Puniverse&quot;, a marvelous comedy of unrequited passion, Romulus Linney's &quot;The Widow&quot;, which has the rhythm and cadence of a good Appalachian folk ballad, Melanie Sumner's &quot;Good Hearted Woman&quot;, the book's longest piece and most obvious crowd pleaser, about a young woman's confrontations with work, love, and family, and Margie Rabb's &quot;How to Tell a Story,&quot; my own favorite of the bunch, and an incisive, very moving, and all-too-true look at the dog eat dog world of university creative writing programs and one young writer's determination to tell stories despite what happens to her and the stories she tells. <br />This is an attractively designed paperback. Each story ends with an author biography, with the writer revealing why he/she wrote that particular story.	2001-08-20
US	52666293	RLH05GXS22FRF	0156700875	413201002	Opposites (Voyager/Hbj Book)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wilbur: The Opposite of Poetic Dullness	This is an utterly charming book that grew out of a game Wilbur played with his family in which each member had to name the opposite of a specific term.  The rhymes seem effortless, never strained, and Wilbur has illustrated the thing himself with a series of simple but effective drawings.<br />Recommended for poetry lovers of all ages.	2001-08-13
US	52666293	R2NU520N1GUYB9	0895267586	199251827	Southern Tradition at Bay	Books	5	30	32	N	N	A PRIMER FOR SCHOLARS OF THE SOUTH	THE SOUTHERN TRADITION AT BAY was Weaver's doctoral dissertation but did not see publication until after his early death in 1963.  Not a few critics regard it as his best book, surpassing even his classic and influential IDEAS HAVE CONSEQUENCES.<br />Here Weaver surveys the literature of the South from the postbellum era and shows how a variety of writers, from soldiers,journalists, and lady diarists to poets, novelists, and scholars, regarded the traditions of civility, gentility, piety, natural order and individualistic self-sufficiency the South so valiantly defended in the War Between the States.  Weaver, though he expresses a discernible point of view in this matter, does not let partisanship hamper his responsibilties as an honest scholar.  If he sees some logical fissure in the thinking of one of his featured writers, he notes such unflinchingly.  He also permits the voices of dissent from the prevailing orthodoxy in his study, most notably those of Walter Hines Page, George Washington Cable, and Henry Grady, among others, who would, to one extent or another, qualify as Southern liberals.  Yet Weaver concludes that even these apostates found much to commend and preserve in the Southern tradition and thus did not denounce it totally.<br />This is a fascinating study, eminently and surprisingly readable, exhaustive but never exhausting, and well worth the time and attention of anyone truly and seriously interested in the &quot;mind of the South.&quot;	2001-06-11
US	52666293	R1LEVIHU21Q3PW	067084134X	855770597	Ravelstein	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	In Full Bloom	Bellow's latest immediately hearkens back to his earlier, masterful HUMBOLDT'S GIFT.  RAVELSTEIN misses the mark of that masterpiece but shares some of the same enduring qualities: the indelible characterizations, the delicious wit, the irrestible narrative flow.<br />Bellow dispenses with linear plot to retell, in fictional form, the life of Allan Bloom, the University of Chicago intellectual who won fame and fortune late in his life with THE CLOSING OF THE AMERICAN MIND, a critique of American intellectual malaise which became a surprisingly huge bestseller.  In the novel Bloom is Ravelstein, dying of AIDS and requesting his friend-novelist-narrator Chick write his memoirs.  Ravelstein is an intellectual gargantuan, having read everything of any import to Western Civilization and bemoaning the decline of standards.  His life is a contradiction, however - he is an incurable materialist, buying lavishly expensive clothes and stereo equipment, and he is an inveterate homosexual who nevertheless despises the &quot;gay lifestyle&quot; (whatever that is).  Consequently one comes away both liking and disliking the man who seems to have lived by a creed that went something like &quot;Do as I say not as I do.&quot;  Also interesting are peripheral portraits of other Bellow-Bloom intimates, most notably Edward A. Shils,the celebrated sociologist also affliated with the University of Chicago, who, here, is called Rakheim Kogon.  If this is an accurate limning of Shils, who at best could be called belligerent, then no wonder he and Bellow parted ways.<br />If the novel displays any suspense at all, it is in Bellow/Chick's recounting of his ill-fated marriage to a beautiful, brilliant and high-strung intellectual who humiliates him at every turn until their inevitable divorce.  There's a happy ending, however.  Bellow/Chick finds true love in the winter of his life in the form of one of Bloom/Ravelstein's former graduate students, who nurses him from near-death.	2001-05-13
US	52666293	R1O52CKLET6H3	1555835244	376443278	Trailblazing: The True Story of America's First Openly Gay Track Coach	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Breaks the Ribbon	I am no fan of athletics or stories about same, but I found Eric Anderson's book an engaging memoir.  He keeps the whining down to a minimum and provides instead a truly inspirational piece about an individual who would just not give up on attaining his goals, no matter what obstacles were strewn in his way.  Sometimes I found myself skeptical at how easily and immediately accepting his friends, family, colleagues and students were of his homosexuality, but I am inclined to give Anderson the benefit of the doubt.  He strikes me as an honest man.  His life could certainly serve as some sort of model for young folks of all and any persuasions or predilections: perseverence is the key to success; hard work is unavoidable.<br />I would liked more about Eric's personal life, but perhaps that would have thrown the book out of focus, because TRAILBLAZING is as much about the talented young runners as it is their hard-headed, hard-working young coach.  And if we are lucky, Anderson might even be penning a sequel that gives us further details about his life and loves.  Let's hope.	2001-04-23
US	52666293	R254QE8HNT2MXZ	0807103578	925004129	I'll Take My Stand: The South and the Agrarian Tradition (Library of Southern Civilization)	Books	5	37	39	N	N	Seminal	In this age where the homogenization of our culture is nearly complete, thanks largely to widespread media and rampant industrialism, I'LL TAKE MY STAND remains as fresh and relevant as the day it was published more than seventy years ago.  Instead of indulging in reactionary daydreams or nostalgia, as some of the book's less perceptive critics have claimed, the Twelve Southerners marshalled all their intellectual and literary powers to defend a way of life, rooted in the land and in the customs of small town living, that was very much in evidence prior to the War for Southern Independence and which really provided the anchor for the freedoms and liberties Americans enjoyed up to that time.  Their criticisms circa 1930 have proven frighteningly prescient for our own times in which any individuality we might have as separate regions of a great nation have been almost entirely swallowed by mass production, mass culture, and centralized government.<br />There are some truly astonishing pieces here, all forthright, honest, and so logically argued they are hard to refute.  Among them I would cite Ransom's opening &quot;Reconstructed but Unregenerate&quot;, Owsley's &quot;The Irrepressible Conflict&quot;, and Lytle's &quot;The Hind Tit.&quot;  Most impressive of all is John Donald Wade's beautiful &quot;The Life and Death of Cousin Lucius&quot;, really a novel encapsulated into little more than thirty pages, in which the Agrarian ideal is exemplified in the life (and death) of one simple Georgia farmer.  Other essays I find less satisfactory if not downright obtuse - Tate's &quot;Remarks on the Southern Religion&quot; (disappointing and inconclusive by his normally high standards) and Stark Young's rather coy &quot;Not in Memoriam, But in Defense.&quot; But even the lesser essays leave one much to think about and ponder over and worry about.<br />You can scoff at the Twelve Southerners and consign them to the intellectual dustbin as daydreaming rednecks and mossbacks, butyou do so at your own peril.  In any event they should be read before they are condemned.  And I predict they will be read a hundred years from now and beyond, so long as there are people concerned about the state of their communities, their liberties, and their own souls.	2001-04-19
US	52666293	R2ON994RMZGO22	0671027212	725696403	Frontiers	Books	3	6	7	N	Y	Brave new genre(?)	Jensen's debut novel has been much maligned for its anachronistic dialogue and attitudes, and with much justification.  The book's greater crime, to me anyway, seems to be the inconclusive characterizations and unconvincing relationships.  The &quot;affair&quot; between Chapman and McQuay, for instance, seems a thing of contrivance rather than a relationship based on any genuine sentiment or need.  And the fact that Chapman has, up to that point, been portrayed as rather passive if not meek is turned on its head when he takes the &quot;lead&quot; role, so to speak, in the big bathtub sex scene with McQuay.  It is such an erotic, turbulent, and well-done &quot;coupling&quot; that the reader expects a new and more intimate dimension to their relationship to be explored.  It never is.  Instead they become instant adversaries, their relationship doing a complete 360.  Other connections between characters have that same uneasy sense of start and stop, as though Jensen were not entirely sure which way he wanted his novel to go.<br />Another grievance would be the excessive gratuitous violence perpetrated upon animals.  I know this is the frontier, where gentility was more often than not alien and the whole notion of humane treatment towards animals was nascent, but really some of the scenes (the early one with the captive rabbit especially) seem unnecessary and are upsetting.  The novel would definitely never receive a citation from PETA.<br />Still FRONTIERS is pleasurably paced and easy to read.  Jensen has done his homework with regard to customs, geography, topography, flora and fauna, and the day to day struggle of these people trying to make new lives for themselves; he is able to give us a fairly convincing portrait of this tumultuous time in American history.  And who knows, perhaps he has ushered in a new pop literary genre that will result in better, more ingratiating novels.	2001-04-16
US	52666293	R2X7LOSSGECW4F	0930769139	411761267	Eureka Mill	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A classic in the making	Rash's work really deserves a larger audience.  He has a command of language and image sadly lacking in too many contemporary poets, and he has a compassion for his subject matter that is even rarer.<br />Rash's work is neither too personal nor esoteric.  He is concerned with recording, in verse, the lives of men and women who would otherwise be forgotten.  His subject matter is COMMUNITY, as one would expect from a Southerner.  In this case he writes of the Carolina millworkers in the early part of the twenthieth century who literally turned their lives off to the cotton mill bosses and submitted themselves to lives of heat, early hours, drunken sprees, boredom, and lint-inflicted disease and death.<br />In many ways EUREKA MILL is a novel in verse.  Rash certainly has a novelist's eye for detail, nuance, characterization, and place. And there are also great affinities to the Twelve Southerner's I'LL TAKE MY STAND.  EUREKA MILL provides a kind of verse correlative for the essays in that classic work.  Mass industrialism has forced people off the land and out of the lives they have known for generations and has left them with...what?  Alienation, bitterness, and early death.<br />A powerful volume, worthy of a wider readership.	2001-03-30
US	52666293	R1JMM0VY4WH8G	0916078507	253754444	Among the Believers	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Made me a believer	...in Rash's talent, that is.  AMONG THE BELIEVERS is a modestly scaled collection of poems that packs a wallop.  The power comes from the seeming effortlessness of Rash's rhythms and images in poems set among the &quot;everyday&quot; folk of the Carolina Appalachians who, in their struggles with life, love, redemption, and death, turn out to be something more than ordinary.  Here the poet is storyteller, bard, confessor, recorder, and lover of these people.  His reverence for them shows in his refusal ever to condescend and with the fresh-eyed wonder and beauty with which he renders the world they live in.  <br />The late Anthony Hecht provides a kind and insightful foreward to the poem and never hyperbolizes the merits of Rash's writing.  This collection may very well establish itself as a classic.	2001-02-26
US	52666293	R23GYOQVEYT9SH	0932870384	481745057	Danny	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	Liberal blather hurts intriguing idea	Sturgis - one smells a pseudonym here - seems far more interested in creating a polemic for &quot;free speech&quot; and &quot;teen autonomy&quot; than a novel.  Ostensibly this is the story of a high school English teacher's affair with his most gifted student, Danny, a poet of unusual promise (the sample verses don't back up the claim), and the efforts they make to conceal their love.  Things unravel, of course, thanks to Danny's candid journal, and the teacher is thrown out of his job and basically run out of town.  Taking precedence over this love story, however, is the idea of McCarthyism in the schools, with irate parents wanting to ban works of literature on the grounds they are obscene.  Sturgis takes the point too far, as though parents should have NO say in what their children read and study; he/she buys into the mindset that children are smarter than adults.  It is a dangerous and erroneous notion and, unfortunately, hurts any sympathy this reader might have had for the main characters.  The teacher is such a pious, self-righteous sort, he left me cold.  I would have rather Sturgis concentrate on the love story.  I must say, though, the last thirty pages or so are genuinely suspenseful and kept me hooked to the end, when my sympathies by then were exhausted. The book is competently written but nothing remarkable.	2001-01-09
US	52666293	RSLLEUYSC8VZ0	0805007237	306898143	The Man Everybody Was Afraid of	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good, not great, Brandstetter	The fourth entry in Hansen's Brandstetter series finds Dave investigating the murder of a small town sheriff,Ben Orton, hated by many and feared by all.  On the face of it, it appears rabid gay activist Cliff Kurlee is responsible for Orton's death, but Brandstetter's continuing probe leads him to other ideas.<br />This isn't as compelling as the four previous books in the series, but compared to the competition in the gay mystery field, it is pure champagne.  All the trademarks are there: scalpel-sharp characterization and dialogue, perfect renderings of place and atmosphere, and Dave Brandstetter himself, of course, a solid character by any standard of detective fiction.  This book also introduces Dave's new love interest, Cecil Harris, a young black student and TV newsworker who helps Dave crack the case.	2001-01-09
US	52666293	R32J1GCZSP8PFT	0811200418	218271646	A Coney Island of the Mind: Poems	Books	5	19	20	N	N	The Beat Manifesto	Let me start off by saying that, in the run of things, this type poetry is not my favorite.  I'm more of a formalist myself, but I couldn't help but be impressed by much of this collection, which, along with Ginsberg's HOWL, kicked off the Beat Movement in American poetry in the 1950's.<br />This is largely a verbal collage, a compendium of memories, impressions, chants, lists, and lyric fragments.  The influence of Whitman is apparent in the freeform meditations on the human body and the populist tone of much of the book.  This is a cry for people to throw off the constraints of materialism and return to a simpler way of living.  It exalts the earth over industry, art over commerce, individualism over uniformity.  In other places the shadows of Eliot and Yeats can be seen; indeed in a couple of poems Ferlinghetti freely borrows from those masters - see &quot;The Junkman'Obbligato&quot;, for instance, which echoes Eliot's &quot;The Waste Land&quot; with the repeated refrain &quot;Hurry please it's time.&quot;<br />The book is divided into three sections.  There is the title section then a series of seven pieces (including &quot;Junkman&quot;) originally written for musical accompaniment and finally some selections from Ferlinghetti's first book PICTURES OF THE GONE WORLD.<br />Not for all tastes but seminal nevertheless and eye-opening as well.	2000-12-11
US	52666293	R3AM0L8NIP1RY4	0679454489	312807149	Merrick (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Don't blame the vampires	I made the mistake of beginning my reading of Anne Rice with this book, the latest installment of the Vampire Chronicles.  She makes references to people and events which, as a first timer unfamiliar with her previous books, make no sense to me. (Of course I knew Lestat and Louis from Neil Jordan's ill-fated film version of Rice's first novel.) It would definitely help to read at least some of the other titles, so my next foray into Riceland will be the original INTERVIEW WITH A VAMPIRE.<br />One could accuse Rice of false advertising here, as the book is more about witchcraft than vampires.  The appearances of Lestat and Louis seem almost perfunctory, as though the publishers told Rice, &quot;Hey, Anne, we need some vampires here.  What can you do?&quot; An even bigger problem is the book's inertia.  Too much talk and not even action makes the reader impatient.  Of course Rice does rise to the occasion in several parts of the novel, where she accomplishes some bravura set pieces.  I'm talking of Louis's stalking victims in a derelict part of New Orleans, the &quot;interview&quot; of Great Nananne by Talbot, Merrick's transformation into her dead sister Honey, and the resurrection of Claudia.  But these moments come only occasionally and are not enough to sustain overall interest.<br />This is a disappointing introduction to a novice like me, but at least I am curious enough to begin at the beginning.	2000-11-06
US	52666293	R2IG88NBSI21QE	030680932X	222337344	The Dark Side Of Genius: The Life Of Alfred Hitchcock	Books	5	24	35	N	N	Portrait of the Artist as a Dog	Spoto's life of Hitchcock, originally published in 1983, is one of the best biographies of a film director we have in English. It's a warts and all portrait, but instead of pitying or disliking Hitchcock for his idiosyncrasies and meannesses, we come to admire him even more for his singular dedication to the art of movies (and he was an artist, not merely &quot;the master of suspense&quot;, to use an essentially narrow and insulting characterization).  And as far as sheer technique goes, sheer mastery of the medium, Hitchcock probably was/is unsurpassed among modern day filmmakers.<br />Spoto gives us detailed accounts of the making of each of Hitchcock's major films.  He really did dislike actors, calling them cattle, but he of course had a fascination with blonde actresses.  The book's most poignant segment is the episode invovling Hitchcock's infatuation with Tippi Hedren (a mediocre performer at best who should have been grateful for a great man's attention and adoration), which ultimately ended in humiliation and unhappiness for both of them. Spoto is wrong, however, about MARNIE.  It is one of the director's greatest movies, as moving and sad a depiction of desperation as has been committed to celluoid.  It fully deserves its late revival in critical favor.<br />This is a clearly written, highly entertaining biography, and one of the closest glimpses we are liking to get straight from the director's chair.	2000-11-01
US	52666293	R3FXW1PV90R5RQ	0688167403	105963786	Poachers: Stories	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	The love child of Flannery O'Connor and Harry Crews	Like O'Connor, Franklin has a perfect ear for Southern speech and uses it to hilarious and incisive results.  Unlike O'Connor, his characters are doomed with nary a chance for redemption.  Here he resembles Crews more, with characters at the end of their tethers, drowning their nihilism in sex, materialism, and booze, lots and lots of booze.  In some cases they crave escape to somewhere better or different (like Alaska); in most cases they just don't give a damn.  &quot;The Ballad of Duane Juarez&quot; seems most illustrative of this tendency; it is a terrifying tale in which the narrator gives in to the most primitive, scrounging impulses.<br />Other influences are apparent here, some non-Southern.  One can see the presence of Cormac McCarthy, for instance, and his deliberate, blunt, unsentimental prose, or, inevitably, Hemingway's unmistakable minimalism.  There is no magnolia-scented prose here; that would imply nobility and hope. Other reviewers have criticized Franklin because his stories often seem lopped off with their abrupt endings.  I must admit that bothered me some too, until I realized that a nice, tidy, satisfying ending would be completely out of character with these Franklin's folk.  Their restlessness and hopelessness end only when they die. <br />The celebrated title story impresses most, with its classic theme of survival and its combination of terror and pity.  &quot;Grit&quot; comes in second, with its protagonist sucked into a scam and the charms of an exotic woman.  <br />If you're looking for a happy ending, stay far, far away from this collection.  If you want a glimpse into the desperate, funny, pathetic, hopeful, hopeless lives SOME white Southerners lead, proceed with caution.	2000-10-11
US	52666293	R3C8F4RLGFEF48	1555835848	458962337	Gaywyck: A Novel	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Welcome back, Donough, melancholy lord of the manor	It is good to see Alyson returning this venerable old classic to print.  It's a rare example of the gay gothic and an exceedingly overwrought book, but in this time of literary anemia, it's nice to see a novel written in ornate prose.  And the novel's damned entertaining too.<br />This is high class trash and a hoary old scenario, the kind of thing Bulwer-Lytton or, more exactly, Hall Caine, would have produced a hundred years before.  Highly sensitive Robert Whyte is hired as librarian to Donough Gaylord, the secretive young master of Gaywyck, a fabulous manor just outside NYC.  An attraction between the two is immediate, but Donough is hesitant to give in to the younger man's ardor.  Why?  Could it have something to do with his deceased twin brother?  Hmmmm.<br />Virga never scimps on description.  His book could well serve as a primer on 19th century architecture, ornithology, music, painting, horticulture, literature, so on and so forth.  The mass of detail weighs the story down at times, when the reader is anxious for things to proceed and the dark secrets to be exposed.  But stick with it.  It is worth the wait.  And the cast of characters is the nuttiest collection of kooks since Priestley's THE OLD DARK HOUSE.  It's a hoot.	2000-10-09
US	52666293	R36OLXJPPA7B8W	1555834329	934381379	Somewhere in the Night: Eight Gay Tales of the Supernatural	Books	3	5	6	N	Y	An honorable attempt but...	McMahan makes a valiant attempt in this collection of gay-themed horror stories, but the results are mixed.  At times he turns phrases nicely and presents us with vivid images, but his insistence on using the present tense in all but two of the stories is irritating, distracting, and unnecessary.  Reading fiction written in present tense always makes me feel like I'm on a tugboat on storm-tossed waters.  I get confused and a bit dizzy.<br />&quot;Johnny Two-Face&quot;, about a ghoulish Halloween party, is just silly, and &quot;This Apartment Possessed&quot; turns out to be a mess.  Still the title tale is impressive, with its moral conundrum that must always be at the heart of successful horror fiction.  Here Andrew, the protagonist, a young vampire, reflects on his ability to bestow immortality on his victims.  Andrew returns in &quot;Hell is for Children&quot;, but only a dolt would not be able to figure out who the decapitator is in the first few pages.  &quot;Fantasyland&quot; is probably the best story in the collection.  Its theme, of escape from adversity through imagination, is familiar enough, but McMahan shows some skill in demarcating reality and fantasy.	2000-10-05
US	52666293	RNGG395E1MA6B	0805013709	255657548	Edisto: A Novel	Books	2	13	24	N	N	Anything would be finer	This has been a wildy overrated novel since the day it was published some  fifteen or so years ago.  Powell was praised for his verbal inventiveness,  but what he has here is verbal obfuscation.  Exactly what is he trying to  say?  It is hard to tell once the reader's entangled in his verbal trap of  dialect, half-baked description, and misguided rhetoric.  And none of the  characters, with the exception of the black cook, is memorably drawn.  We  really don't care what happens to any of them.  Only one scene, the  depiction of the boy's attending the Ali-Frazier fight, with the locals  rooting on native son Joe Frazier, shows any genuine comic invention.	2000-09-15
US	52666293	R23IMHF4AC5IAG	1888580062	154359948	Theater in a Squared Circle	Books	2	6	6	N	N	Waste of a great opportunity	As a fan of old time wrestling (i.e., 1970's), I was very much looking  forward to this book, with its promise of stories on stars from yesteryear.   What I got was a three hundred page tome devoted to obscure figures like  Mike Lano and Louie Spiccoli.  Fine people all, I'm sure, but hardly  seminal.  A previous reviewer, in a glowing five star review, stated  effusively that the book gives the lowdown on Sammartino, Morales,  Kowalski, Flair, etc.  Only Kowalski gets any major coverage in what is,  admittedly, a very good and entertaining piece(Kowalski's recollections of  the massive Haystacks Calhoun's defecatory dilemmas are both hilarious and  gruesome).  Hardly any mention of the great managers of the past, Albano,  Blassie, and The Grand Wizard of Wrestling (now that was a character)or the  great lady wrestlers is made.  Archer admits the limits of the book himself  in an epilogue, but these lapses, and others, are still inexcusable.   <br />Avoid this one if you're looking for a truly in-depth study of the  sport's reigning personalities.  That book has yet to be written.	2000-09-01
US	52666293	RIRHKJG79H0ZV	0595092810	251695114	Murder in Pastel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Engrossing story of love and murder	Too often novels - mystery or not - set among artists and artist colonies come off as unbearably pretentious, usually as a result of hokey dialogue  and an unconvincing grasp of the true artist's life.  Dunne avoids the trap  here.  This is a highly believable tale of repressed passion and  unsuppressed murder in a small artists community in seaside  California.<br />The book's pleasure comes from the mystery itself, of course,  which is tightly woven and suspenseful right to the end, but also from  Dunne's accurate, lyrical depictions of character and landscape.  Once  begun, it is hard to put this one down.	2000-08-17
US	52666293	RLPMV9VUH7SJH	0060117516	396708596	Death claims	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent whodunit	Bookseller John Oats has been found dead in the Pacific Ocean.  The death has been ruled accidental, perhaps suicide.  This explanation doesn't satisfy insurance claims investigator Dave Brandstetter.  He comes to  believe Oats was murdered for his considerable policy and sets out to find  the culprit.  Whodunit?  Oats's elusive son?  The closeted, all-American TV  star?  A washed up screenwriter?  Or maybe even Oats young lover, a woman  who took care of the man until his dying day?<br />This is a beautifully  written page turn, very smooth and very engaging.  Brandstetter is no  angst-torn hero despairing of the state of the world.  He's a solid, mature  professional out to do his job (though not without his own personal  problems).  Though the killer's identity should be obvious, Hansen weaves  the story in such fashion that we are still surprised to find out who done  it.<br />If Hansen has a flaw as a writer, it might be his relentless need to  describe all exteriors and interiors, even those that play a scant role in  the story.  The abundance of detail and description bogs the story down  some.  But not much.  After all Hansen is doing his storyteller's duty to  put the reader into the world he has created.	2000-07-31
US	52666293	RIZ7K3MLS171A	1568490097	611802086	A Texan Looks at Lyndon	Books	5	55	57	N	N	You have been warned	Haley wrote this book (and published it himself) in 1964 basically as a campaign tract for Barry Goldwater. In the intervening years it has become a classic of its kind,a philippic, to use M.E. Bradford's term, tracing the illegitimate rise to power of Lyndon Baines Johnson. If you're politically naive, this book will grown hair on your chest. It's an unblinking, fearless portrait of Johnson's wheeling dealing and underhanded methods to achieve the power, prestige, and money he craved all his life. Haley names all the names and lays out facts and figures for the reader to make up his mind. And the reader winds up shaking his head in utter astonishment. The best part of the book is that detailing Johnson's eventual election to the U.S. Senate in a contest with former Gov. Coke Stevenson. The election was clearly Stevenson's, but through the machinations of George Parr, the notorious Duke of Duval County, the results were turned around in LBJ's favor. Investigators later found that among those voting in the primary were people who didn't live in the county anymore and people who weren't alive at all. But the results stood.(An interesting and amusing aside: when Haley ran for Texas governor in 1956, he approached Parr and said, &quot;I'm Evetts Haley. I'm running for governor, and if I win, it will be my privilege to put you in jail.&quot; Parr's reply: &quot;I believe you will.&quot; Parr, the Artful Dodger of Texas politics for years, eventually killed himself.)<br />At times the book grows tiresome, especially in the Bobby Baker and Billie Sol Estes scandals, where Haley turns a virtual torrent of names and numbers on the reader as to be sometimes confusing. But slog through those sections to get to the excellent chapter where LBJ wields an iron hand as Senate Majority Leader and maneuvers himself into the Vice Presidency. It is chilling.<br />Haley suffered considerable damage to his reputation as a result of this book, but he never backed down, and now time seems to be bearing out the truth of his claims, which have also been verified in such later works as the Robert Caro books. This is an indispensable lesson in this Presidential election year. Read it and weep.e bearing out the truth of his claims, which have also been verified in such later works as the Robert Caro books. This is an indispensable lesson in this Presidential election year. Read it and weep.	2000-07-31
US	52666293	R3M6VP2N0R81HK	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Elegy for the jazz age	Although published seventy-five years ago, Fitzgerald's masterpiece remains as fresh as the day it appeared.  It could have been written yesterday.  It is as perfect a novel as one is likely to find in American  literature; not a word is wrong or out of place.  The choice of a second  person narrator gives the reader wider and greater appreciation of the  characters and events.  At the center of it all, of course, is Jay Gatsby,  bootlegger, liar, party-giver, doomed romantic.  His love for Daisy  Buchanan, his &quot;incorruptible dream&quot;, is the only genuine emotion  felt by any of the characters (excepting narrator Nick Carroway, whose  loyalty to Gatsby is touching), all of whose superficiality is buried  beneath the glitter and gaiety of the Jazz Age, the endless parties, the  extramarital affairs, the endless-flowing booze, the accumulation of wealth  and things.<br />This edition of the book features critical commentary and  notes from Prof. Matthew Bruccoli, the world's foremost Fitzgerald scholar.	2000-07-17
US	52666293	RBZZ4GAWSG79J	0313226768	992788518	Congressional Conservatism and the New Deal: The Growth of the Conservative Coalition in Congress, 1933-1939	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Lively recreation of the New Deal years	Patterson takes what could easily be a dry subject - the struggle between FDR and his attempts to remake the U.S. in his New Deal image and a cadre of conservative minded Senators and congressmen, the most prominent of them  his fellow Democrats, just as determined to stop him - and turns it into a  memorable study of power, principle, loyalty, and politics.<br />Patterson has  an almost novelistic penchant for characterization.  Such men as Carter  Glass of VA, Josiah Bailey of NC, Burton Wheeler of Montana, Millard  Tydings of Maryland, and Ellison &quot;Cotton Ed&quot; Smith of South  Carolina attain a Dickensian expansion under Patterson's presentation.   Glass, for instance, was so conservative that when the Washington hotel  where he lived changed its wallpaper pattern, he would into a rage and  moved out.  <br />Patterson gives us detailed descriptions of this coalition  of conservative Democrats and Republicans as they attempt to stop FDR's  court-packing plan as well as some of his economic reforms. A highlight is  the section where, in 1938, FDR went on the road South to try to defeat in  the Democratic primaries some of the his chief legislative foes like Walter  George of GA and the venerable Sen. Smith.  The South's adoration of the  President notwithstanding, the effort was largely unsuccessful.<br />This  sounds like deadly dull stuff fit only for GINT majors, but Patterson makes  it interesting, entertaining, and at times almost suspenseful.	2000-07-06
US	52666293	R3JW48EOUISOD0	0679764410	864803147	American Sphinx: The Character of Thomas Jefferson	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Outstanding history lesson	The beauty of this book is that Ellis allows no bias of his own to show through.  He merely lays out the facts of Jefferson's life and philosophy and lets the reader draw conclusions.  But he does give us much food for  thought, and it is fascinating to see how, over the years, different  political factions have attempted to claim the Jeffersonian mantle.  Among  the book's other treasures is the portrait of the friendship-turned- enmity  between Jefferson and John Adams, who, along with wife Abigal, emerge as  wholly witty, fascinating characters.  The two men, former conspirators  turned rivals, died on the same day, July 4, 1826.<br />Forget the recent  spate of spiteful, one-sided books that attempt to paint Jefferson as a  hypocritical reprobate only and read this fine narrative of a great and  complex man.<br />This is history as it should be written - lively,  provocative, and compelling.	2000-06-20
US	52666293	R27BQRMEW5WGDS	0374223270	659653769	The Notebooks of Don Rigoberto	Books	4	2	3	N	N	In praise of Vargas Illosa	What DON RIGOBERTO lacks in the eroticism of its precursor, IN PRAISE OF THE STEPMOTHER, it makes up for in humor and drama.  It is a very entertaining if somewhat repetitive book.<br />Rigoberto, naturally enough,  dominates the novel. The wife and son seem a little one or two dimensional  and not very developed beyond the first book.  But here Rigoberto blazes  forth not only as a man of acute erotic passions but as a social critic as  well, and his well-measured diatribes against feminists, organized sports,  pornography, and men's clubs, of which his eponymous notebooks are  composed, are a joy to read.	2000-06-15
US	52666293	R1S89V7HD8SER8	0151004692	376649002	Mayflies: New Poems and Translations	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	Master craftsman	It is a pleasure to read the work of Richard Wilbur and to know that, nearly eighty, he is still capable of writing graceful, elegant poems that both move and enlighten.  Aside from a number of short formal poems, this  collection offers recent, delightful translations of Dante and  Moliere.<br />One feels better knowing that poets like Wilbur are still  toiling in the formal vineyards, producing such lovely and accessible works  as these.	2000-06-14
US	52666293	R1XVA7J7B9BGJ3	1879941244	844351236	Jefferson Davis: His Rise and Fall (Southern Classics Series)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Eminently readable biography	This book is no act of idolatry, despite the author's reputation as a Southern conservative and Agrarian.  Tate believes Davis was a great man, but he points out his flaws as well, his diffidence in acting sooner that  might have won the South the War, his pride, his sometime aloofness,  his  tendency to remain loyal to generals (Braxton Bragg foremost among them)  whose incompetence was all too apparent to others, and his refusal to  appoint the right men for the right job.<br />This is an absorbing read that  puts one in mind of Shelby Foote's celebrated War trilogy, although Tate's  was written first.  It has the same novelistic quality and drive and the  same quickly drawn but utterly convincing characterizations.  The book  alternates between presentations of certain monumental battles and  portraits of life on the &quot;homefront.&quot;  The latter is actually  more fascinating than the former.  We learn in vivid detail of the strength  and loyalty and perseverance of the Southern people.	2000-06-13
US	52666293	R1G18TBSARRZG9	0679754490	590897650	A Tidewater Morning	Books	4	29	30	N	N	Not essential Styron but a good intro to his work	Styron revisits old themes in this collection subtitled &quot;Three Tales from Youth&quot; and set, two thirds of the way, in Tidewater Virginia in the earlier part of the twentieth century.  In it we see three episodes  from the life of Styron's autobiographical protagonist Paul Whitehurst at  ages twenty, ten, and thirteen.<br />In &quot;Love Day&quot; Paul, a young  Marine lieutenant, experiences intense homesickness in the Pacific Ocean  during the waning months of WWII.  This is well-written but perhaps the  least impressive of the three tales.  Next is best.  &quot;Shadrach&quot;  is a wonderfully affecting, funny, and touching story of a 99-year old  former slave who walks all the way from Clay County, Alabama, to Virginia  to die and be buried in his homeplace.  The title story shows Paul's  struggle to accept his mother's approaching death from cancer and pays  especial attention to the complex relationship between his  parents.<br />Despite Styron's wonderfully indulgent and rococo style, these  stories make for fairly quick reads, as we are carried along on a stream of  telling detail and crystalline reminiscence.  Not that the work lacks  complication.  As with his larger-canvased works, Styron deals with issues  of race, Southern identity, heterosexual love, courage, cowardice,  religion, and art.  Here and there the stories are marred by facile liberal  pieties and stilted dialogue, but for the most part it is a pleasure to  watch this old master cast perhaps one last look at the familiar but  still-fertile landscape of his heart and imagination.	2000-06-12
US	52666293	RURWFHYNK5SA7	0679736379	385024829	Sophie's Choice	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Perfect summer reading	Like A. Burgess's EARTHLY POWERS, SOPHIE'S CHOICE is a shamelessly neglected masterwork.  Also like Burgess's novel, SOPHIE'S CHOICE hearkens back to the days of the great 19th century novels of Dickens and Thackery  and Trollope.  It is spaciously designed and truly absorbing, despite its  length.<br />Stingo, a young Virginian and aspiring novelist, comes to New  York to ply his trade and meets the mysterious, beautiful, and alluring  Sophie and her equally mysterious lover.  Soon he is drawn further into  their tumultuous relationship and discovers the horrific secret Sophie has  been haboring all these years.<br />Some critics criticized the novel for its  digressions - especially the passages on Stingo's sexual frustrations - but  this is all part of character development and Styron's determination to  make the reader live in this world he has created.<br />This is a pefect book  to read in the summer.  Enter it and enjoy.	2000-06-12
US	52666293	RWB6HNI9P1GRB	0517557649	618600385	Had I a Hundred Mouths: New & Selected Stories 1947-1983	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A sampling of a genius's finest work	Goyen wrote a number of novels, but his true forte was the short story.  Even his extended works have the feel of connected stories (something Goyen himself observed when he once called his works quilts, made of many  patches).<br />     HAD I A HUNDRED MOUTHS gathers his greatest early stories  with stories written shortly before his death from leukemia in 1983.  There  are unforgettable tales here, mixtures of realism and fantasy,the gothic  and the quotidian, that nearly make Goyen a twentieth century Hawthorne.  Among the best of the later pieces are &quot;Arthur Bond&quot;, a story of  obsession, and &quot;Precious Door,&quot; in which man struggles against  nature and himself.  &quot;White Rooster&quot; is perhaps the best known of  his early stories, another tale of obsession, madness, and willfulness, and  other gems from the same period include &quot;Rhody's Path&quot;, in which  Goyen's ubiquitous theme of restlessness and searching for one's place in  the world is given poignant expression, and &quot;The Grasshopper's  Burden&quot;, which I read as an allegory of the misunderstood artist  trying to make his way in an indifferent or even hostile world.<br />     Goyen's themes are often dark, but he leavens the heaviness with humor and  a masterful use of Southern/Southwestern vernacular.<br />     Goyen toiled in  near-obscurity for many years.  His lyricism, humor, and insights into love  and loneliness entitle him to wider recognition and readership.	2000-06-08
US	52666293	R2GT8QEE8T104M	0679442928	520534855	The Sub: A Study in Witchcraft	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	A delicious, devilish satire	Some previous reviewers seem to be missing the point when they call Disch a misogynist.  Yes, he pokes fun at certain feminist and New Age shibboleths, but please note that he also targets religious fundamentalism  as well, and the slimiest character in the book is not Diana but the  incestuous reverend.<br />     In any event, the novel is satire, which  explains its sharp edge and unflinching eye.  This is not Disch's best  work, but it's mighty entertaining, funny, and, yes, frightening (the scene  where Diana transforms her potential lover into a stag is particularly  adept and scary).<br />    Disch remains a consistently interesting writer  worthy of much wider attention.	2000-06-07
US	52666293	R1I49XAP3XBMVE	0199110069	388724855	Wordsworth & Coleridge Lyrical Ballads (Reprinted with Corrections 1996)	Books	5	14	17	N	N	A seminal work in English literature	This collaboration between Wordsworth and Coleridge signaled the beginning of Romanticism in English poetry and announced all the important themes and techniques of the movement: the healing power of nature and art, the  importance of &quot;ordinary&quot; man and woman, the pervasiveness of the  supernatural in everday life, etc.  The book also broke old rules by  incorporating prosaic, common language in the poems.  <br />Sometimes the  poems are mawkish and strain for effect, but for the most part they are  powerful and moving.  Most famous of Coleridge's contributions, of course,  is &quot;The Rime of the Ancient Mariner&quot;, with its admonition to  respect ALL of God's creation.  But even lovelier is &quot;The  Nightingale&quot;, a paen to the restorative power of art.<br />Wordsworth's  most famous contribution is &quot;Lines Written a Few Miles Above Tintern  Abbey&quot;, but he also submits several excellent narrative poems with  supernatural themes.	2000-05-30
US	52666293	R3TIEMX9L4RPU2	0786700262	721271373	Earthly Powers (Burgess, Anthony)	Books	5	57	62	N	N	An unjustly neglected masterwork	Burgess's 1980 EARTHLY POWERS, like Styron's SOPHIE'S CHOICE(published around the same time), hearkens back to the grand 19th century novels of Dickens, Balzac, and Galdos.  It is a novel the reader enters and inhabits,  a world of its own.<br />     Kenneth Toomey, supposedly modeled on Somerset  Maugham, is a middling range popular novelist who finds himself in the  midst of some of the great literary and social maelstroms of the twentieth  century.  He knows everyone - Churchill, James Joyce, John Maynard Keynes;  you name them, Toomey has sipped tea with them - and gets involved with  everything - censorship trials and ancient voodoo, for instance; he even  has a brush with the Jim Jones cult through one of his nieces. <br />Critics  carped at the book for its lack of focus, but it has a definite focus:  the  twentieth century.  Toomey's not a great artist, but he is a great  observer, and through him Burgess gives us the full sweep of the twentieth  century, its follies and its glories (but more folly than glory).        In  the past, English literature has had an Age of Shakespeare and an Age of  Johnson.  In the future critics and historians will judge the late  twentieth century as the Age of Burgess.  EARTHLY POWERS will help solidify  that certainty.<br />Read it.	2000-05-29
US	52666293	R29N7U0W00EXKW	0553280325	944543338	Something Wicked This Way Comes	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Classic fantasy	Bradbury uses fantasy to drive home moral truths, and no where else is that more apparent than in this classic short novel.<br />The Cooger and Dark Pandemonium show invades a small town in fall, but only two young boys, Jim  and Will, understand its true intent, to prey on local citizens by giving  them their hearts' desires and then stealing their souls.  But the boys,  especially Jim, are as susceptible to the sinister charms of the carnival  as anyone else.<br />This is a word-drunk book, crammed with imagery, as  dizzyng and delightful as a Ferris Wheel.  But it's a cautionary tale too.   Bradbury seems to be telling readers that man must accept the nature of  things, for if he fools with nature he risks losing his own soul  forever.<br />I have taught this book to college students on two different  occasions.  They love it for its fantasy and horror and sense of wonder.   But this is a book for all ages.<br />(For an excellent analysis of the book,  see Stephen King's DANSE MACABRE or Russell Kirk's ENEMIES OF THE PERMANENT  THINGS.)	2000-05-26
US	52666293	R3866LZCBKYWSJ	0807117072	868117454	Sweet Lucy Wine: Stories	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Disappointing despite some fine moments	Stuart is an acclaimed poet,so one was expecting something really special from this story collection.  Sad to say, the book doesn't live up to Stuart's reputation.  The stories essentially build up to nothing, no  surprises or revelations, no delight or inventiveness.  The title story and  &quot;Mr. Mann&quot; are perhaps best.  Lucy is an interesting character,  one who seems to inhabit a world of her own.  Too bad she, nor the boy  Mark, who figures in the majority of stories, has been more fully  developed.	2000-05-26
US	52666293	R2032OI5U5GZ6N	0385314744	11758110	Rush Limbaugh is a Big Fat Idiot and Other Observations	Books	4	4	9	N	N	Uneven, but overall laugh out loud funny	Not all of Franken's vignettes work.  Some go on much too long without a point or sufficient punchline.  There's also some gratuitous use of profanity that cancels this out as a book for all ages.  And yes Franken  does make much too much of Limbaugh's obesity, but Dittoheads should not be  so squeamish or sanctimonious as they seem to be on this site; after all  Limbaugh, at least early in his notoriety, thought nothing of making fun of  the physical and personal irregularities of his opponents (his nasty  remarks about Chelsea Clinton were particularly unfortunate; she's grown up  to be a lovely young woman, far outclassing both her parents, and as a  Southerner, I never appreciated his mocking of Sen. Sasser of  Tennessee).<br />But when he's on target, Franken is laugh out loud funny, and  he exquistely targets and hits the hypocrisies of the Republican Right.   Especially good is the scenario featuring Gingrich, Gramm, Quayle,Limbaugh,  of course, et al (all of who avoided service in the Vietnam War) as they  are being led on a expedition through Vietnam by Ollie North.  Now that's  hilarious.  Also good is Franken's account of his coverage of the Christian  Coalition convention, where the true oddity of Pat Robertson is clearly  revealed.<br />As a conservative, I'm often at odds with Franken's ideological  assumptions.  As a Democrat, though, I delight in his skewering of the  enemy.	2000-05-26
US	52666293	RK29FGRBAZCJZ	1852424370	602184384	Bruiser (High Risk Books)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Affecting and engrossing	House performs at least a couple of feats of magic with this novel.  First of all he has written a love story in which neither character says, &quot;I love you&quot; to the other.  Such declaration is unnecessary.  The reader  knows, through their actions, how Paul and Adrian feel about each other.   Such is the true novelist's craft, to show rather than merely tell.   Secondly, House has made effective use of present tense narration.  I  usually abhor this point of view for its pretensiousness, but this time it  doesn't detract from the flow or interest of the story.<br />House has taken  what could easily become maudlin and made it moving and believable.	2000-05-26
US	52666293	R1D97IA420PR59	0380789604	533904992	Driving Blind	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A delightful retread of old Bradbury territory	Bradbury, eighty this year, continues to produce imaginative, entertaining fiction.  The stories in DRIVING BLIND resound earlier  themes and concerns - youth encountering experience, the destructiveness of technology, and the  mysteries and wonders of a small time circus - but Bradbury renders it all  with the same loving detail and love of language that have made him one of  the most distinguished American storytellers of the last half century.   Recommended for a hot summer evening.	2000-05-26
US	52666293	R27ESDI8VHJM8H	0865471843	902603693	Nathan Coulter: A Novel	Books	4	30	31	N	N	The beginning of the Port William cycle	This, Berry's first novel and the first to introduce his fictional Kentucky community Port William, displays the skill Berry shows as a poet. Not a word is wasted here; every one of them counts toward the whole.  As  with good poetry,as much is implied as stated outright here.<br />This is a  story of  initiation, of a young boy's coming to grips with his family and  community and his own place in them.  The book's final image, of the boy  Nathan carrying his dying grandfather home, serves to sum up this theme  perfectly.<br />This is a gentle novel and an auspicious beginning to an  important saga of place and people.	2000-05-26
US	52666293	R18MPMMCP8UQR8	0679429220	523621984	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Vastly entertaining if not entirely believable	Berendt claims he made none of this up, and who's to say he's wrong?  Still there are SO MANY eccentrics packed between these two covers, one espies a frustrated novelist lurking in Mr. Berendt.  (And the book just  reinforces the idea that all Southern towns, large and small, are crammed  with crazies.)  Fictitious or factual, the book is loaded with memorable  characters and set pieces: Lady Chablis crashing the cotillion is  especially hilarious, the midnight voodoo ritual, the saga of the fancy  Georgia lawyer and his UGA mascot, on and on.  The greatest service the  book provides though is to bring fuller attention (whether the natives like  it or not) to Savannah, Georgia, one of the most beautiful cities on the  face of the earth.<br />So enjoy MIDNIGHT but take it with the proverbial  grain of salt.	2000-05-26
US	52666293	R3082K2O8IM3QB	0807115797	98502596	The 13th Sunday after Pentecost: Poems (Voices of the South)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Perhaps the best treatment of racism in contemporary fiction	With his customary skill and craft, Jones weaves a powerful and unforgettable story of racial tension in the New South.<br />A young black man is brutally murdered in a small Tennessee town.  The novel's protagonist,  Hester Glenn, slowly comes to realize that her younger son, whom she  regards as a paragon of Southern male virtue, may be involved in the  killing.  Amidst the growing evidence of his guilt, Hester fights to clear  his name and that of her family and community.<br />One reviewer of A CRY OF  ABSENCE has likened the novel to a Greek tragedy.  Hester is a tragic  figure, blinded by pride, and like all tragic figures, she must accept a  tragic fate for her actions.  Although a conservative Southerner himself,  Jones takes no sides.  He's as critical of Hester as he is the busy body  liberals who set themselves up in the town as the guardians of  virtue.<br />This is a masterful novel,a literary work that moves with the  pulse of a thriller, one that has been sorely overlooked since its initial  publication in the early 70's.  It is long overdue its share of acclaim.	2000-05-26
US	52666293	R2PUSSSO2TTZMX	034534345X	838693340	Psychotronic Encyclopedia of Film	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Utterly delightful and essential	This tome makes one yearn for the good old days,  long gone, of the drive-in movie of the 60's and 70's now replaced by video bins.  B movie makers of those days- their names are legion - made an honest attempt to  entertain their audiences with meagre resources and often more meagre  talent(unlike exploitation film makers of today, whose direct to video  releases are lazy and witless).  Weldon chronicles this glorious time in a  very generous compendium, chocked full of wonderful black and white stills  and capsule reviews of the inane and the obscure, thw wild and the  wonderful, the unbelievable and the unforgettable.  A feast for the fan of  offbeat cinema.	2000-05-26
US	52666293	R1X3PGT9UMNILI	014027880X	290037438	Nashville 1864: The Dying of the Light	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A powerful miniature by a master	Madison Jones is one of the unheralded masters of contemporary American fiction.  He has written powerful, compelling stories dealing with such explosive issues as racism (in his masterpiece A CRY OF ABSENCE), drugs,  family conflict, and sex (AN EXILE, turned into the Gregory Peck film I  WALK THE LINE).<br />In the present volume Jones turns his attention to the  waning days of the War Between the States, in which a young boy, with his  black companion, goes searching for his father.  This is not sugar-coated  stuff.  Jones casts an unflincing eye on the events, related in memoir form  by the adult Steven, and the descriptions of war and its carnage are often  graphic (but never exploitively so)in the manner, say, of Spielberg's  SAVING PRIVATE RYAN.  Jones never loses his moral focus, however.  This is  a story of love and courage, faithfulness and innocence, determination and  loyalty.<br />A short work but memorable nonetheless, by a novelist long  overdue greater and wider attention.	2000-05-26
US	52666293	R1OLG7EVI1P5XA	1886739293	276265581	Libertarianism: The Good the Bad and the Ugly	Books	1	26	29	N	Y	A definite case of genius-envy	The bulk of Bryant's &quot;book&quot; is a personal attack on Murray Rothbard.  Bryant sees Rothbard as a libertarian icon who sold out to the  paleoconservative movement But Rothbard was always consistent  philosophically.  He didn't leave the libertarian movement; the libertarian  movement left him.  He merely remained true to his principles as one of the  great thinkers of the late 20th century.  <br />     Mr. Bryant's little  diatribe does nothing to dispel that.  It is a surreal, egocentric  collection of blatherings and much more incomprehensible and unreadable  than anything by Rothbard he criticizes.  <br />     Avoid.	2000-03-03
US	52666293	R1SBHZBGY9RTZV	0671787004	181290084	The New Book of Rock Lists	Books	3	12	24	N	N	PC hampers what could have been a good book	I shouldn't have been surprised when I bought a book by Dave Marsh that it would be riddled with politically correct opinions and venom for any performer who doesn't hew the left-wing line.  (He lists famous &quot;Right  Wingers&quot; near the end of the book, perfomers who may have at some  point expessed an opinion slighly right of center, and of course that makes  them right-wingers).  His lists seem motivated by political concerns and  &quot;diversity&quot; as well, which dampens their fun value.    My other  qualm with the book, and this is, I admit, a point of personal preference,  is the seriousness with which the authors take rap music (if such an  epithet as &quot;music&quot; can be applied to it).  Rap is basically for  teenagers, and the image of adults salivating over the likes of Ice T and  Easy E. is pathetic.  No, Mr. Marsh, the work of Grandmaster Flash does not  exist on the same plane as that of Chuck Berry or Elvis Presley.  Those men  were musicians; rap &quot;artists&quot; are poseurs looking for attention  and an easy buck.     Still there are some interesting things here, and  this is worth at least a casual browse.	2000-02-21
US	52666293	R1WGWAH1KA6CLS	0932870376	69563817	Different Love	Books	2	1	1	N	Y	A modest attempt at gay romance	Alyson Publications apparently attempted to do for gay men what Harlequin, Silhouette, etc., have done for straight women - create a sexy, melodramatic romance novel replete with handsome men, exotic locales, wealth, and plenty of complications. A Different Love is one of their earliest novels, and like many others from the same period (the early to mid 80's), it's a modestly scaled little potboiler whose chief merit is as entertainment. Billy and Hal are a mid-West couple who relocate to San Francisco to live and love more freely. They're both exceptionally handsome, of course, but Billy is young and adventuresome, while Hal is older and more conservative. Their divergent natures lead to a breakup, as they explore relationships with others. The novel starts off with some promise, and there are occasional flashes of good writing, but there is much evidence of haste too. Things wrap up too quickly and too neatly. And the lead characters are, despite their beauty, a couple of dullards. It's the lovesick bartender Frank who is far more interesting, and Larkin, in a infuriating move, has Hal dump him rather unceremoniously. I was about ready to toss the book down at that point.<BR>Still, one must appreciate Alyson's efforts in those days to provide positive pop fiction for gay men. For collectors of gay pulp, this, like most of the Alyson titles from that period, is worth looking for.	1999-12-31
US	52666293	R7I8718PQ4BYL	0312204639	836570280	Capital Queers	Books	2	6	10	N	N	A waste of time	Fred Hunter makes Mark Zubro look like Raymond Chandler, and that's quite an accomplishment.  I'm surprised at Mr. Brainard's recommendation below.  He's usually a more astute critic than that.  This is just pretend mystery  (or, to use Truman Capote's memorable take on Jack Kerouac, it's only  typing).  Cutsey-pie stuff whose raison d'etre seems to be to showcase the  feeble humor of the protagonist (Mr. Hunter has obviously spent his fair  share of time in front of the TV screen, absorbing the inanities of second  rate sitcoms.)  And the references to &quot;my husband,&quot; &quot;my  husband,&quot; &quot;my husband&quot; get just plain annoying. Stick with  the masters.	1999-10-17
US	52666293	R1B5VJAG74F47Y	0854492275	827182777	Storm Tide	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A crisply paced thriller	After a shaky bit of exposition, in which the author attempts to explain the protagonists'marital woes, this thriller shifts into high gear and never lets up until its explosive finale.      Sean and Rob are lovers  vacationing off the Australian coast who inadvertently run into drug  smugglers and gun runners.  They spend the remainder of the book trying to  save their good-looking hides from sure extinction (or, in Rob's case,  white slavery).  Keegan has paired the boys off with a villian every bit as  peripatetic and determined as The Terminator or Jason from the Friday the  13th series.  Chandler is a study in sheer human relentlessness.      A  previous reviewer has cited as a fault the seeming lack of romantic  conflict between Sean and Rob.  I should say they've got conflict a-plenty!  Besides, it is their steadfast, uncomplicated love which helps them survive  a very dangerous situation. It also adds a note of sweetness to an  otherwise very taut tale.      I hope Mr. Keegan is plotting a sequel  featuring Sean and Rob.  Storm Tide is a hugely entertaining book.  But be  sure to take Drammamine first.	1999-08-16
US	52666293	RFQE8FF7C5OC9	0943595657	339293980	Cock Tales	Books	5	28	32	N	Y	A delicious, rousing collection of erotica	Bob Vickery, whoever he might be, has a way with words and a nice sense of character and place, and he's able to do that rare thing - write harcore sex scenes that actually arouse and capture a sense of gay men's desires.   Like the previous reviewer, I find the titles of the stories silly and  unimaginative.  But don't let that stop you from dipping into a first-rate  collection.  In fact, you'll find it hard to read just one tale at a time.   And yes, that was a pun.	1999-07-07
US	52666293	R35AMT9BGFCQDF	0312082657	562885144	More Shapes Than One: A Book of Stories	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An marvelous collection by a master storyteller and stylist	In fact, Chappell is probably the great unheralded American writer alive today.  Skilled as a novelist and poet, his work is by turns funny, lyric, horrifying, erudite, and folksy, and no where else is that more apparent  than in this collection.  Speaking of horrifying, read &quot;The  Adder&quot;, a Borgesian like tale of a mysterious tome that devours other  books it comes in contact with - not just particular copies but the books  themselves.  It's one of the best stories of its kind I've ever read.  And  &quot;Linnaeus Forgets&quot; is a jewel of equal shine.	1999-07-06
US	52666293	R28ENH733ORTE2	0140245251	101154967	Like People in History: A Gay American Epic	Books	1	8	12	N	N	A pretentious attempt at an &quot;epic&quot;	Picano, who wrote a very good mystery years ago called THE LURE,attempts a GONE WITH THE WIND style sweeping saga but falls short.  The main fault is the shallowness of the characters - they're all gorgeous, talented, rich,  etc.  Alistar, the fey one, is a Wall Street genius at age nine and an  equal wizard on the baseball diamond.  Please.  He and Roger manage to be  the Forrest Gumps of the Stonewall set; they turn up at all the major  historical events of the last forty years, but Picano's handling of these  episodes is sketchy at best.  Anyone calling this a &quot;masterpiece of  gay literature&quot; or a masterpiece of any sort of literature needs to  spend more time in the library and less on the beach.  Oh well.  At least  Picano didn't resort to present tense.  That deserves one star.	1999-07-05
US	52666293	R2CDO04VX1BU52	0880016191	329357093	Elegy For The Departure	Books	5	24	28	N	Y	A lovely collection by an unheralded master	Had Herbert hewed to the leftwing/socialist line, he would have won the Nobel Prize years ago. He didn't, however, and, like Borges, he was denied the prize in favor of much lesser writers. Thankfully he was honored by the  Ingersoll Foundation a few years before his death with The T.S. Eliot Award  for Creative Writing, an award conferred for merit, not idealogy.         Herbert's poems have an elegant austerity born out of his own privations  and the loss he experienced and witnessed for most of his life, first at  the hands of the Nazis, then the Communists.  But he is not without hope  and humor.  The book is divided into three sections: the first comprised of  early poems, the second by a sequence of wry, lovely, surprising prose  poems, the last of latterday work.  Among the outstanding pieces here are  &quot;A Small Bird&quot; and the title poem, a magnificent farewell to art  and to life that could well serve as Herbert's epitaph.      Here's hoping  his name and work win the widespread attention they deserve.	1999-06-28
US	52666293	R1SD322ZG0N9CM	0671610813	308931116	Guide for the Film Fanatic	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Shame on Simon and Shuster for letting this go out of print	Danny Peary's the movie lover's best pal, and this is a treasure trove of insight, fun, and nostalgia.  I don't always agree with Peary - he's wrong about Altman's Nashville, for instance, and The Wild Bunch, among others -  but he writes with such authority and love for movies, you can't help but  read him with pleasure.  Like the preceding reviewer, I keep my copy close  by - it's blackened with check marks and falling apart.  Let's hope some  enterprising publisher will bring this back into print in a nice hardcover  edition.  Or better yet, as others have suggested, maybe there will be an  updated version covering films of the nineties.	1999-06-14
US	52666293	R5QEHIJJHQH4P	1555833667	865397125	Goldenboy (Alyson Classics Library)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The second, and perhaps best, book in a terrific series	This is my favorite so far in the Nava cycle of Henry Rios mysteries, and I've read them all except the last one.  It's a pleasure watching Nava get to know Henry better and present him to the readers in all his very real  complexity, dignity, and self-doubt.  Many of the supporting characters are  also well-drawn.  Finally there is Henry's budding romance with young Josh,  as exquisite a treatment of male love as one's likely to find in popular  fiction.  Goldenboy is pure enjoyment all the way.	1999-06-14
US	52666293	RWNUVHC9VJG07	0932870449	577024304	All-American Boys	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	A weak book but not without its merits	First off, Mosca is far from a skilled writer.  His characterizations are leaden and his dialogue and attempts at humor are somewhat trite and often embarrassing.  Still one can't help but admire the positive attitude Neil  and Paul maintain in face of all the odds.  They seem like nice enough  young men, one wishes them well, and one recommends, with reservations,  this book for readers between the ages of 14 and 18.  (It's too bad Alyson  has allowed a lot of their early titles like this one to slip out of print  in favor of the slick, politically correct stuff they're churning out now.   One can't help but like books like this one - and Sakers' Act Well Your  Part, Larkin's Different Love, and the Vince Lardo Gothics - despite, or  perhaps because of, their weaknesses.)	1999-06-14
