US	52668318	R2VMBRNM94U15Z	0670894788	289712823	Anna Karenina	Books	5	52	58	N	N	Great Edition of a Great Story	This Edition, Pevear and Volokhonsky (Viking 2001), supposedly renders Tolstoy's Russian more faithfully than earlier ones, which attempted to \\"soften\\" him a bit for Western sensibilities. I actually bought this for a class, and my teacher, who reads it in the Russian, simply couldn't praise the translation enough, so if you're determined to read Anna Karenina already, you should probably get this edition.<br />As for the story, I found that the 800 pages just melted away. Long doesn't mean hard, after all, and I was sorry to see it end, to tell the truth.<br />The story revolves around seven different people in 1870s Russia. Superficially, it tells how Anna Karenina left her husband for another man, destroying her family, how Stiva Oblonsky ruined his family without leaving it, and how Konstantin Levin courted Kitty Shcherbatsky and they built a new family together.<br />Although it's enjoyable even on the superficial level, Anna Karenina rewards careful study, revealing intricate structure and interlocking symbolism throughout. Tolstoy thought it was his best work; critics have called it one of the best novels ever written; don't miss it.	2001-09-08
US	52668318	R1T612P9C4NVGQ	0393090884	754374116	The Wings of the Dove (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Each Paragraph a Work of Art	It's said that James aspired to craft each line of his later works into a work of art.  Arguably he succeeded at this tremendous task, but in the process he made it a tremendous task just to read the result.  This can still be rewarding, but it requires some discipline.  Readers who can't or won't do this should steer clear, but those up to the challenge will find a wonder opens up for them.<br />From every paragraph, metaphors and analogies sprout and bloom, creating a dense tangle of verbal vegetation, richly flowered with bright ideas on all sides.  Only close attention can keep one safely on the path, but the desire to smell the flowers constantly threatens to distract the reader, who often wanders off the path and becomes hopelessly lost.  The reader who tries to forge forward nevertheless may wander for pages through the worst sort of brambles before accidentally finding the path again.  Only the one who backs up and patiently tries again has any hope of enjoying the experience.<br />It amazed me that one could produce something this impenetrable with perfectly normal English prose - James never resorts to stream-of-consciousness or other techniques that make a book like Ulysses so difficult.  On the other hand, the patient reader can navigate Wings of the Dove without outside help; the trick is not to proceed to the next paragraph until you have properly understood the current one.  Otherwise, you'll find yourself in the frustrating position of looking at a paragraph of apparently normal English words arranged into reasonable sentences, but which you cannot make any sense out of.  When that happens, you must go back to the last point where you had the thread and start over.  If you try to muddle through, you may go through pages of incomprehensible prose before James lets you back in again.  (I'll admit I threw the book at the wall and cursed at it at least once - then I sighed and went back to the beginning of the chapter and started over, reading closer and more carefully.)<br />It's like reading poetry - or math - and you should expect it to go a lot slower than your usual reading.  Normally, I'd read a book this length in about three or four days, but Wings of the Dove took me over three weeks.  Also, take it a little bit at a time.  Read a dozen pages or so and then turn to something lighter for a bit.  Definitely stop and take a break if you find yourself looking up at the page numbers and sighing at your lack of progress.  Finally, do take the time to linger over an especially beautiful or thought-provoking passage; just don't try to do that while reading the next paragraph.<br />All of James' later work is like this, but the effort is ultimately worthwhile.  There is a reason why these are considered his best work, and among the most important works in the English language.  And the good news is that it does become easier with practice.more carefully.)<br />It's like reading poetry - or math - and you should expect it to go a lot slower than your usual reading.  Normally, I'd read a book this length in about three or four days, but Wings of the Dove took me over three weeks.  Also, take it a little bit at a time.  Read a dozen pages or so and then turn to something lighter for a bit.  Definitely stop and take a break if you find yourself looking up at the page numbers and sighing at your lack of progress.  Finally, do take the time to linger over an especially beautiful or thought-provoking passage; just don't try to do that while reading the next paragraph.<br />All of James' later work is like this, but the effort is ultimately worthwhile.  There is a reason why these are considered his best work, and among the most important works in the English language.  And the good news is that it does become easier with practice.	2001-07-22
US	52668318	RRPCZBM3RKZ1V	0192834002	113799572	The Pilgrim's Progress (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	41	43	N	N	It's not Dante's Inferno	In contrast to Dante, Bunyan fills his allegory with real people, not just stereotypes - or even archetypes. Though his characters have names like &quot;Honest,&quot; &quot;Feeble-mind,&quot; and &quot;Ignorance,&quot; they come across as real people given a nickname. The names apply to some extent, of course, but not to the point of making caricatures out of the characters.<br />This volume contains parts I and II of Pilgrim's progress. The first part concerns the journey of a pilgrim named &quot;Christian,&quot; while the second describes the journey of his wife, Christiana. Both start from the City of Destruction and both encounter many of the same obstacles - the Slough of Despond, the Vanity Fair, the Castle Doubt - before reaching the gates of the Celestial City. Other than that, their journeys are rather different, for Christian travels on his own, with a bit of help here and there, and with one or another traveling companion, but his progress is almost entirely his own. Christiana, by contrast, travels as part of an ever growing company, who support one another and who are defended by one or two powerful champions.<br />You never lose sight of the allegory, but this work is not a mere tract. The story itself and the characters entertain - even today.	2001-07-21
US	52668318	R244K85OGBLXB5	0316353167	632813371	Natural Capitalism	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	The Best of All Worlds	Most of us realize that our current economy works by converting raw materials into useful products, which are used and then discarded.  Business carries little or none of the cost of the nonrenewable resources used to create these goods, nor the cost to bury them when they're used up.  In a finite world, this cannot go on forever, but no one wants to give up the good things the current system has brought us.  How can we switch to something sustainable and still keep improving our quality of life?<br />Natural Capitalism finds the answer in heavy use of computer automation in manufacturing, distribution, disposal, etc. plus requiring the government to cease subsidizing waste and starting to charge for hidden costs (e.g. road use).  The authors apply this formula across several different industries and bolster their case with countless examples from real life.  Refreshingly, they take the view that we can make all the needed changes gradually and mostly using methods already developed.  The authors possibly exaggerate risks of things like global warming, nuclear power, and genetic engineering, but, as their plans call for avoiding all three, this is a side issue.<br />Topic summaries at the start of each chapter make this a great reference book - finding any topic for rereading requires little more than a quick skim.  Well indexed and rich with references, it earns the right to be taken seriously.	2001-07-01
US	52668318	R3HLFBR8Y60UXB	1883011140	902631932	USA (The 42nd Parallel / 1919 / The Big Money)	Books	5	123	126	N	Y	A Magnificent Tapestry	Lots of people try to find America.  Dos Passos found the America of 1910-1930 and gave it to us, in almost 1300 pages spread across three novels - all collected in this one volume.  He presents it to us as a tapestry, woven from four types of thread: stories focused on any of the 12 principle characters, actual news items from the period, biographical sketches of key figures from that time, and stream-of-consciousness narratives.  It's dark and smoky, gritty and real.  It's America.<br />As the focus moves from character to character, we fall in love with all twelve of them, despite their flaws.  They take us all over North America, and even to Europe for World War I.  Rich and poor, male and female, worker, labor organizer, aviation millionaire or government official, all have their own stories to tell, and each represents a bit of America.<br />Such a grand fabric contains many themes: drink destroys the great and the small alike, illicit sex seduces people into giving up their money, their families, and their health, and everyone takes advantage of the working man - even his so-called friends.  Nevertheless, the book never seems to be making a moral point, and the characters don't come across as good or evil, heroes or villains; they're just people.<br />One does become uncomfortably aware much the America of 100 years ago resembles the Third World countries of today.  Read Rohinton Mistry's \\"A Fine Balance\\" to compare and contrast.<br />This edition of USA (Library of America, Hardcover) combines all three novels into a single handy volume with decent explanatory notes, a built-in silk bookmark, and - best of all - a sewn binding that lies flat, despite the nearly 1300 pages.	2001-06-30
US	52668318	R3NVIJ0Y12ZEGU	0886777631	634336906	City of Golden Shadow (Otherland, Volume 1)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Fabulous Setting for a Modern Fairy Tale	\\"City of Golden Shadow\\" begins the 4-volume \\"Otherland\\" series.  These four books constitute a single narrative, chopped into four essentially arbitrary chunks, so this review addresses the whole series - not just the first volume.<br />Otherland tells of the cyberspace adventures of a group of people in the late 21st Century, when people use virtual Reality (VR) as casually as we use Windows today.  The heroes of the story separately get a glimpse of a new form of VR that they've all had a glimpse of - something far more realistic than anything they're used to.  Their search for this more advanced system brings them together and leads them into danger, because the creators of the new system don't welcome intruders.<br />As often with Science Fiction, the book rests entirely on its exotic setting - and what a setting it is!  You will see the trenches of World War I, London during the War of the Worlds, an ordinary backyard enlarged 100 times, and dozens of even more amazing places.  Williams puts a lot of care into each new cyberspace location, and he makes them seem very real.  Many readers will delight in exploring Otherland and learning its mysteries.<br />Anyone who expects more than that will be disappointed.  The plot consists of little more than a series of cliffhangers designed mainly to move the action through the setting and show it off, and the two-dimensional characters exist to solve the puzzles that move the plot forward.  In this conflict between 100% good and 100% evil, no one on either side ever wonders what's right or wrong, ever makes an unexpected choice, or ever wrestles with doubts about the past.<br />Almost 4,000 pages long - 30% longer than Proust's \\"Remembrance of Things Past\\" - but an easy read nevertheless, Otherland makes a nice vacation from more serious reading.	2001-05-08
US	52668318	R2TTSQCVHERASE	0394711920	462911655	Appointment in Samarra	Books	5	74	84	N	Y	But Who Has the Appointment?	The title comes from a tale attributed to Somerset Maugham (reprinted just in front of the first page of my edition).  As story goes, the servant of a merchant in Baghdad sees Death in the marketplace, is sure she's coming for him, and asks permission to go hide from her in the town of Samarra.  The merchant agrees, but then goes to the marketplace himself to have some words with Death about how she treated his servant.  (I wish I had a boss like that!)  Death denies having threatened the man, \\"I was astonished to see him in Baghdad, for I had an appointment with him tonight in Samarra.\\"<br />From the very beginning, then, we know that the novel concerns someone with an inevitable appointment with Death which he/she cannot escape.  Within a few pages, we even know who.  Only the particulars remain - or so it would seem.<br />Julian English does make his appointment with Death, but the author deliberately destroys the impression of inevitability he spent most of the novel creating.  Up to the very end, we believe that Julian's impulsive act of throwing a drink into the face of Harry Reilly, his most important creditor, sealed his fate.  We, together with Julian, believe that his alienating Reilly leads inevitably to Julian's financial ruin, and, seeing no way out, Julian commits a series of ever more self-destructive acts culminating in his suicide.<br />And then we learn that Harry Reilly attached no significance to the thrown drink and that he liked Julian all along.  Julian's death was not inevitable after all.  Also, far from trying to flee his fate, Julian rushes headlong into it, leading one to conclude that Julian isn't the one with the appointment in Samarra after all.<br />At first that seems absurd - Julian is the central character of the novel, after all.  But Julian isn't actually the center of the novel - the people of Gibbsville are.  We learn all about the state of Gibbsville in 1930, meeting about fifty different characters from all walks of life - incredible in such a short (240 pages) novel.  O'Hara's has no sympathy for the upper classes, and he depicts their society as decadent, corrupt and declining - people who try to pretend that nothing has happened despite the Crash of 1929 and the loss of the coal market, even as a new generation of entrepreneurs like Harry Reilly displaces them.  They don't deserve the fine things they have, nor will they keep them much longer<br />O'Hara shows his real sympathies in the short segments about Luther L. Fleigler and his wife at the beginning and ending of the book. Luther works for Julian's Cadillac dealership, and just as his hard work contrasts with the sloth of the upper classes, so too his happy relationship with his wife contrasts starkly with Julian and Caroline's poisoned marriage.  The future belongs to them.ncredible in such a short (240 pages) novel.  O'Hara's has no sympathy for the upper classes, and he depicts their society as decadent, corrupt and declining - people who try to pretend that nothing has happened despite the Crash of 1929 and the loss of the coal market, even as a new generation of entrepreneurs like Harry Reilly displaces them.  They don't deserve the fine things they have, nor will they keep them much longer<br />O'Hara shows his real sympathies in the short segments about Luther L. Fleigler and his wife at the beginning and ending of the book. Luther works for Julian's Cadillac dealership, and just as his hard work contrasts with the sloth of the upper classes, so too his happy relationship with his wife contrasts starkly with Julian and Caroline's poisoned marriage.  The future belongs to them.	2001-04-29
US	52668318	RYTQXOBFVOHL7	0465051960	343903714	Power And Prosperity: Outgrowing Communist And Capitalist Dictatorships	Books	4	15	17	N	Y	The Real Advantage of Capitalism and Democracy	Why are all the rich countries in the world capitalist democracies?  Isn't a dictator the best way to turn around a country in economic trouble?  Why did Germany and Japan grow so fast after the end of World War II?  Why have Russia and the Warsaw Pact countries done so poorly after the end of the Cold War?  And what should the rich, successful, First-World countries do to enjoy continuing prosperity?<br />Olson's only book written for the general public, \\"Power and Prosperity\\" addresses all these questions and more, in well-written prose, fairly free of economic jargon, and filled with easy-to-follow examples.  Not too long, at less than 200 pages excluding the notes, any educated layman should have no trouble getting through the whole thing.<br />The book primarily focuses on how governments use and abuse power and the impact that has on economics.  In particular, Olson hypothesizes a \\"second invisible hand\\" as a partner to Adam Smith's famous invisible hand of the marketplace.  Olson's invisible hand represents the unintentional good that even the most selfish regimes accidentally do for the public in the process of maximizing the good of the rulers.  (E.g. the King fights bandits because they reduce the take from his taxes, but he only does this up to his own point of diminishing returns.)  Apparently original with Olson, this idea earned him a prominent place in academia, and it's impressive to see how far he can take it.<br />So if you have any interest in politics and economics, by all means read this book.  Even if you don't agree with it all, the ideas in it are priceless.  Skip Charles Cadwell's foreword though; it's dry and dull and doesn't add much to the book.	2001-04-23
US	52668318	R3OOUXFXXMX3R7	0679776451	366389334	A Fine Balance	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Important to Keep Your Own Balance	Mistry's masterpiece takes us to 1975 India, during Indira Gandhi's \\"Emergency,\\" a time when the rule of law was suspended.  Different troubles bring four people together from different parts of India and different walks of life, and as the story unfolds, we learn all about them and their family histories.  Well told and beautifully detailed, the story flies by, and you may resent the need to stop for things like work, food, and sleep.  That last may not matter so much, because reading this may disturb your sleep anyway.<br />One of the minor characters tells us, \\"You have to maintain a fine balance between hope and despair,\\" but the characters continually disturb the balance between rich and poor, men and women, young and old, and between progress and tradition.  In Mistry's India, you can get away with pushing the balance a little bit towards your favor, but if you push it too far, the pushback always crushes you.  This rule extends from the humblest untouchable trying to better the lives of him and his family all the way up to the powerful Prime Minister trying to remake India in her own image.<br />The prose never fails to delight.  Generally it flows smoothly and pulls you along with it, and it sparkles with occasional gems you have to pause to admire, e.g. a lawyer disapproves of a client resorting to help from underworld goons but sighs, \\"Who would want to enter the soiled Temple of Justice, wherein lies the corpse of Justice, slain by her very guardians?\\"  The more you contemplate that remark, the more you realize it goes to the heart of almost everything else that's wrong, as well as foreshadowing Indira Gandhi's own assassination.<br />Clever foreshadowing precedes every major event, and following it makes for one of the book's special pleasures.  Just to give one example, on the eve of one of the untouchable characters attempting to vote in an election despite local officials who prohibit it, his father watches a moth trying to fly through a lamp glass to reach the flame inside.  The reader realizes uneasily that although the glass frustrates the moth's ambitions, it also preserves its life - implying that the voting expedition the following day will end badly.<br />And a lot of really bad things do happen in this book.  We can see the victims as tragic heroes because their misfortunes come from their ambitions, but the penalty often so far exceeds the offense - to a Western reader, anyway - that even reading about it traumatizes us.  Nevertheless, a great part of the novel's strength lies in this tragic element, and it cannot stand without it.  Rather, to enjoy the book, the reader too must maintain a fine balance between hope and despair.reach the flame inside.  The reader realizes uneasily that although the glass frustrates the moth's ambitions, it also preserves its life - implying that the voting expedition the following day will end badly.<br />And a lot of really bad things do happen in this book.  We can see the victims as tragic heroes because their misfortunes come from their ambitions, but the penalty often so far exceeds the offense - to a Western reader, anyway - that even reading about it traumatizes us.   Nevertheless, a great part of the novel's strength lies in this tragic element, and it cannot stand without it.  Rather, to enjoy the book, the reader too must maintain a fine balance between hope and despair.	2001-04-03
US	52668318	R2RE4LC39GOS31	014044629X	981115146	The Decameron (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	28	28	N	N	A Book of Laughter	Ten young Florentine noblemen and women escaping the Black Death in Florence in 1348 entertain themselves by each relating a story per day for ten days - 100 entertaining stories in all, mostly set in and around medieval Florence.  Although famously naughty, none of these stories strikes a modern reader as more than mildly erotic.  Rather, they consistently astonish by their thoroughly modern message that women are as good as men, nobility doesn't come from birth, sanctity doesn't come from the church, and - above all - true love must never be denied.  Amazingly, Boccaccio often delivers this message while pretending to say the exact opposite; sometimes he presents very sympathetic characters who get away with things thought scandalous in his time, offering a mere token condemnation at the end, while other times he depicts someone actually following the accepted code and committing some horrible act of cruelty in the process.  Either way - and despite his claims to be upholding convention - we always know what he really means, and apparently he didn't fool too many people in his own day either.<br />But one doesn't need to focus on the revolutionary aspects of the Decameron to enjoy the book; each of the stories delights the reader with a different tasty morsel, and, you can read as much or as little at a time as you please.  Once you get past the introduction, (and that's probably the most serious part of the book, so be sure not to give up before you get to the first story) the stories will make you laugh, make you cringe, and make you sit on the edge of your seat.  Inspiring authors from Chaucer to Shakespeare and entertaining audiences for over 700 years, the Decameron continues to delight.	2001-03-28
US	52668318	R3CBOI0WB6QJDQ	0451527704	887884219	An American Tragedy (Signet Classics)	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	America the Tragic	Dreiser does a wonderful job in this novel of recreating early 20th Century America from the perspective of an ambitious young man, Clyde Griffiths.  Through Clyde, we get a taste of what it's like to be poor, to be middle class, and even to be wealthy.  Despite Clyde's weaknesses, we rather like him, and we genuinely care what happens to him, for the most part.  Naturally, bad things happen to Clyde, mostly due to his own fault.  It is a tragedy, after all.<br />Despite that, few will recognize Clyde as a classical \\"Tragic Hero.\\"  His problems don't come from some flaw in his noble nature - he doesn't seem to have a noble nature at all, and his worst flaw looks too much like a lack of a moral conscience to make him ever seem very heroic.  The real tragic hero here is America herself.  The nobility of Dreiser's America shines through his loving descriptions of her hardworking people, her natural beauty, and the dreams of success that people like Clyde pursue.  But we also see the flaws manifest in the poor lives of people like Clyde's family, the terrible choices forced on Clyde and Roberta, and the travesty of justice at Clyde's trial.<br />The book has a few flaws of its own.  Some of the dialog is a bit odd - and not just because of idiom changes in the past century; there are some sections that might have been edited out to move the action along faster, and sometimes Clyde's flaws do make it difficult to sympathize with him.  Nevertheless, the characters are interesting, the society they live in is interesting, and the book (for the most part) sucks you in and holds your attention.<br />To make sense out of the money amounts, remember than inflation from then (~1900) to now (2001) amounts to about a factor of 20, so if you think of the $100 fur coat as a $2000 coat, you'll have about the right idea.  And you'll understand why a $13 lunch seemed so extravagant.	2001-03-23
US	52668318	RTCPRNV6LP1AD	0140189424	227048468	Henderson the Rain King (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	What Makes Life Meaningful?	Gene Henderson, a 50-something millionaire living in 1950s America, decides to take a trip to Africa to try to  quiet the voice inside him that keeps saying, \\"I want, I want.\\"  Since Henderson already has everything material he could want, he can't find any way to satisfy that voice, and as he has already tried several other things prior to his African trip, he doesn't hold out much hope.  But it becomes a very strange trip - for only in a very strange place could he find what he actually needs.<br />I can't read Bellow's mind, of course, but as I read his book, Henderson represents America - huge, crude, often well-meaning but sometimes causing unintentional destruction.  Bellow's imaginary Africa would then be the entire developing world - or even the whole world outside America.  It's hard to like Henderson at first; even his own first-person narration casts him in a bad light despite his high opinion of himself.  As his attempts to help the people in the first tribe he meets end in catastrophe, he definitely seems to represent the American ignorance and arrogance that led to so many disastrous overseas projects in the 1950s and 1960s.  Subdued by his first failure, Henderson allows himself to learn from the second tribe, and although he ultimately barely escapes with his life, he comes away with the inner peace he had sought, with a new wisdom, and with a determination to become a healer.  The message seems pretty obvious - a call for a wiser America dedicating itself to higher goals.<br />An alternative way to read it makes Henderson representative of anyone who no longer has to work for a living and who searches for something to give life meaning.  This should resonate with any young dot com millionaire as much as with any healthy retired person.  In that interpretation, Henderson learns that just because you don't have to work doesn't mean that you shouldn't work and that to be ennobling, work must be helpful to someone else - not all activity suffices - and not meant to glorify yourself either.<br />Either way, the book reads smoothly and moves along briskly.  Read it long enough to get past your initial dislike of Henderson, and it will reward your efforts.not meant to glorify yourself either.<br />Either way, the book reads smoothly and moves along briskly.  Read it long enough to get past your initial dislike of Henderson, and it will reward your efforts.	2001-03-18
US	52668318	RY83E2YL5ZH3I	0060809779	146114302	Native Son	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	Disturbing and Enlightening	Richard Wright takes us to a terrible place: not just the slums of 1930s Chicago, but to the mind of a young black man, Bigger Thomas, who is about to ruin not just his own life, but the lives of everyone around him.<br />We cannot sympathize with Bigger.  Bad as his environment is, we see that he has friends and relations who have not been so corrupted by it.  And yet even in the face of that, we cannot help but be appalled at the injustice with which he's treated.<br />We see here the beginnings of the Black Civil Rights movement and hear for the first time many of the ideas that are common sense today.  We also see the communist party trying to reach out to the black people, and realize (in hindsight) how lucky we are that so little ever came of that.<br />Must reading for anyone who thinks there's been no real progress in race relations, \\"Native Son\\" also makes a good introduction for anyone who doesn't understand what the fuss was all about.	2001-03-16
US	52668318	R20KDD4BQDVG8O	0140431209	699219043	The Mill on the Floss (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Be True to Yourself?	How do you balance duty to your family against duty to yourself?  Brother and sister Tom and Maggie Tulliver wrestle with this problem throughout The Mill on the Floss, guided (and misguided) by the opinions of a host of friends and relatives.  Both accept different kind of burdens and cause each other different kinds of problems, and each suffers - one way or another - in the name of duty.<br />Eliot fights against the influence of class, money, gender, and even handicap, repeatedly showing that being a good person is independent of these things, and this alone makes her a fairly modern read, although we have made so much progress in these areas in 150+ years that it is occasionally difficult to appreciate the seriousness of certain actions her characters take.  For example, we don't think much today of a man and woman spending time alone together, but in Eliot's time, this would ruin a woman's reputation forever unless he married her.  We also don't take family obligations quite as seriously, so it's important to remember that people were willing to do quite a bit to defend the honor of their families.<br />With over a dozen people to keep track of, I kept updating a list of names in the front cover, and I found that a big help.  I recommend this to anyone reading this book for the first time - especially when it comes to the various Aunts and Uncles and their particular idiosyncrasies.	2001-03-16
US	52668318	R11KPKM8PP0SWR	0451517938	691474875	The Red and the Black (Signet classics)	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Al Gore�s Favorite Novel	In September 2000, Al Gore told Oprah Winfrey that this was his favorite novel, making the temptation to compare the real-life politician to the fictional hero irresistible. In some respects, Julien Sorel reminds us of Clyde Griffiths in Dreiser's \\"An American Tragedy\\" - another boy who takes too many shortcuts trying to rise too far too fast and with whom we have great difficulty sympathizing.  But the young man with huge ambitions, smarter than the people around him, cold and unemotional on the surface, prone to exaggeration certainly reminds us a lot of the former Vice President.  It's not a perfect fit, of course; Julien's sexual escapades remind us more of Clinton than Gore, and although both guys end up in court, it's for very different reasons.  Still, it's obvious that Al Gore identified with Julien in some respects, and that's very revealing. That aside, you can enjoy \\"The Red and the Black\\" entirely on its own merits.  It cuts a thick and tasty slice of Restoration France, richly seasoned with scenes from city and country, people rich and poor, noble, clerical, and bourgeoisie, and filled with events ranging from humorous to poignant to melancholy.  It never really drags, and it's strong message of merit over class still rings true today.	2001-03-16
US	52668318	R3CBEOTERQPCDV	0140189424	227048468	Henderson the Rain King (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	66	76	N	Y	What Makes Life Meaningful?	Gene Henderson, a 50-something millionaire living in 1950s America, decides to take a trip to Africa to try to  quiet the voice inside him that keeps saying \\"I want, I want.\\"  Since Henderson already has everything material he could want, he can't find any way to satisfy that voice, and he has already tried several other things prior to his African trip. I'm not sure what Bellow intended, but as I read it, Henderson represents America - huge, crude, often well-meaning but causing destruction nevertheless.  Bellow's imaginary Africa would then be the entire developing world - or even the whole world outside America.  It's hard to like Henderson at first; even his own first-person narration casts him in a bad light.  As his attempts to help the people in the first tribe he meets end in catastrophe, he seems to represent the American ignorance and arrogance that led to so many disastrous overseas projects in the 1950s and 1960s.  Subdued by his first failure, Henderson allows himself to learn from the second tribe, and although he ultimately barely escapes with his life, he comes away with the inner peace he had sought, with a new wisdom, and with a determination to become a healer.  The message seems pretty obvious.<br />An alternative way to read it makes Henderson representative of anyone who no longer has to work for a living and who searches for something to give life meaning.  This should resonate with any young dot com millionaire as much as with any healthy retired person.  Either way, the book reads smoothly and moves along briskly.  Read it long enough to get past your initial dislike of Henderson, and it will reward your efforts.	2001-03-16
US	52668318	R1Y65BJXTWM92S	0679732764	691093854	Invisible Man	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Trying Hard to See You	Ellison's African-American hero (appropriately, we never learn his name) wanders through life suffering from people who expect him to be someone he's not.  Every time he tries to assert himself, people punish him for failing to conform to their expectations, and since no two people seem to expect the same thing from him - and since he meets so many different people - he suffers a lot.  He calls himself the invisible man, then, because no one sees him for himself.  The novel tells how he comes to this realization and how he concludes that forcing people to conform is wrong and that diversity is a strength. Surprisingly for a black novel set in the 1950s, only about half of his troubles come from racism, and he seems to have little or no internalized racism.  Also, although the novel can be read just on the surface, it has a rich allegorical subtext that rewards careful examination.  (E.g. the Liberty Paint Company secretly adds a few drops of black graduate to each bucket of their award-winning white paint.)  Finally, the book is almost completely free of modern notions of political correctness, so it should be readable and enjoyable for everyone.	2001-03-12
US	52668318	RDKCCMB5K6UCV	0192827170	134276149	The Return of the Native (The World's Classics)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Outstanding Characters and the Setting	Although the 19th Century prose requires a bit more effort from the reader than most 20th Century novels, the brilliant characterizations of people like Clym Yeobright and Eustacia Vye plus the lovingly detailed descriptions of the unique (and fictional) location, Egdon Heath, make this work a pleasure to read for anyone who is willing to work at it a bit.  Hardy describes his characters so solidly that, although they cause one another's misfortunes for the most part, we can understand and, to at least some degree, sympathize with all of them.  Their flaws and mistakes seem real and understandable - not forced by the needs of the plot.<br />This is not a \\"message novel.\\"  As far as I can tell, Hardy has nothing to say about social or moral problems of 1830s England in this book.  But the place he takes you is unforgettable and the people you meet there make it worth the trip.	2001-02-25
US	52668318	R17DVWJ8RRBP2G	0553269631	692550038	The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter	Books	4	7	9	N	Y	A Diary of False Hope	Four principal characters pursue their dreams consumed with frustration that they can't achieve them.  Mick Kelly is a 12-year-old musician who can't play anything but a radio.  Biff Brannon is an impotent romantic.  Jake Blount is a revolutionary who can't lead.  Mady Copeland is a civil rights leader who can't convince his own people to follow him.<br />All four of them find some comfort in sharing their dreams with John Singer, a deaf-mute, who befriends all of them between summer 1938 and summer 1939.  They only imagine that Mr. Singer understands them, of course; although he's a good enough lip reader to pick up some of what they tell him, on the whole all he does is nod and smile.  The depressing thought is that maybe that's as good as it gets - for any of us.  Anyway, with his death (though not as a direct result), the dreams of his friends all collapse.<br />People have complained that \\"The Heart is a Lonely Hunter\\" fails to offer any solutions to the problems it portrays, but sometimes a book doesn't need to offer an answer.  This work reminded me somewhat of \\"Grapes of Wrath\\" in that respect.  The characters are beautifully detailed, their problems range from comical to desperate, but there are ultimately no solutions.  Both books excel making their world very real, and the problems of the protagonists become your problems too.<br />There are no answers here, as there are none in \\"Grapes of Wrath,\\" but sometimes it's enough just to outline the problem clearly.  And one can take some comfort in the fact that our world is much improved over the one McCullers depicts, so there is hope.<br />On a side note, the modern reader is constantly surprised how little concern for safety they had in the 1930s.  Giving the baby a hard candy to quiet him down - or giving him a \\"good shake.\\"  Letting a 7-year-old play with a rifle.  Or letting a 12-year-old watch an infant unsupervised.  Another surprise is that the injustice of Jim Crow figures so prominently in a pre-World War II book; I had assumed the Civil Rights movement dated from after the war.ld War II book; I had assumed the Civil Rights movement dated from after the war.	2001-01-22
US	52668318	R1XLUHCUZFFEZ7	0345384563	286200112	A History of God: The 4,000-Year Quest of Judaism, Christianity and Islam	Books	3	11	20	N	N	Not Quite What It Seems	The book does actually begin with a rather secular account of the origins of all three religions - something that can be disturbing reading in its own right if you're a true believer.  After that, it recounts the attempts by scholars in each religion to use reason to derive the principles upon which their respective faiths were founded.  It tells of the uniform failure of all such attempts, and how some lost their faith, but others discovered that faith endured - even in the face of all rational arguments.  The book is primarily concerned with the different ways those people squared the conflict between Reason and Faith and even thrived on it.<br />Various technical problems prevent this from being a truly great book.  For one, it repeats itself too much, and it uses too many phrases in Latin and French without bothering to translate them.  More seriously, it sometimes speculates on peripheral topics - Buddhism or Hinduism, for example - but without a single footnote to substantiate those statements, leaving the reader wondering how seriously to take them.  Contrast this to her treatment of the central topics, which are always well substantiated.  Worst of all, Armstrong has a bad habit of alternating between speaking for the ancient scholars she's reporting on and then speaking for herself, leaving you confused as to which opinions are which.<br />Still, this is an important book for anyone in a world where science seems to have done away with the supernatural entirely and where the Holy Scriptures can't be taken literally, but who finds that Faith survives nevertheless and ponders the problem of where to go from here.  It's very comforting to know that others have been there before, and helpful to learn how they dealt with it.	2001-01-03
US	52668318	R25CLVDHID20ZR	0894711245	578037116	The Unabridged Jack London	Books	3	28	33	N	N	Nothing but the Text	1143 pages of Jack London stories, and barely a word of anything else.  The editors of this volume have done little more than reprint a large selection of his Yukon stories plus a few sea stories -- they offer no useful commentary of their own on his work.  Note that this is NOT &quot;the Complete Jack London.&quot;  Since he published some 50-odd books in his lifetime, you couldn't get all that into a single volume.<br />The glory of this book is London's vivid descriptions of the Yukon and its inhabitants during the Klondike Gold Rush.  I was pleasantly surprised to learn that he wasn't nearly as politically incorrect in his accounts of the natives as I'd feared he was -- he's no Kipling of the North -- but his descriptions of both people and places often seem fresh and insightful.  That said, this book contains essentially all of his Yukon stories, and they are not ALL great -- worth reading thorough, nevertheless, but nothing surpasses &quot;To Build a Fire&quot; and &quot;Call of the Wild.&quot;  (Both of which are in this collection, of course.)<br />On the purely physical front, my paperback edition was poorly bound, and pages were falling out before I was 2/3 through it.	2000-12-31
US	52668318	R2FM6ALECL8EOK	0679721754	797818791	The Age of Empire: 1875-1914	Books	3	42	49	N	Y	Economic History of European Imperialism	This is the third book in Hobsbawm's economic history of the &quot;long&quot; 19th Century (1789-1914).  The other two books are &quot;The Age of Revolution&quot; and &quot;The Age of Capitalism.&quot;<br />Like the other two books, this is an economic history, so it presumes the reader already has some knowledge of the major historical events of the period.  For a more conventional European history, I'd refer the reader to &quot;Europe: 1815-1914&quot; by Gordon Craig.<br />One hears so much about &quot;Imperialism&quot; -- always in a negative sense -- that's it's interesting to read about a period in which Europeans were unabashedly imperialistic.  I had read elsewhere that the main reason imperialism failed was that it was uneconomical, but this is the only serious treatment of it I've read.<br />One big surprise for me was that the European Imperial period was so short. The Imperial posessions were relatively few and unimportant before this period, and were essentially snuffed out by World War I (taking until World War II to entirely disappear).<br />Although I have enjoyed Hobsbawm's books, there are two warnings for the would-be reader.  First, Hobsbawm is an unapologetic Marxist, so his economics all come from a Marxist angle.  That's actually not as much of a problem as it might seem, and it helps shed a lot of light on what the earlier followers of communism were thinking.  Second, this is not an easy read.  The material is difficult to begin with, and Hobsbawm's writing style makes it more so.<br />Still, I found it worthwhile, I learned a lot, and I'm glad I read it.  If the combination of history and economics interests you, just take it slowly and it will reward your efforts.	2000-12-05
US	52668318	R5MPWYDDOBSFD	0140430121	767587980	The Way of All Flesh (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	49	51	N	Y	Timeless Classic Remains Fresh and Stimulating	The Way of All Flesh covers six generations of strife in the Pontifex family, and spans a period from 1750 to 1880.  However, the bulk of the story concerns the life of Ernest Pontifex, from about age 5 up to age 28, and describes his unsatisfactory relations with his parents, his school, his church, his wife, and his friends.  Sometimes we feel sorry for Ernest, because many of his problems are caused by unbelievably cruel or thoughtless people, and sometimes we're furious with him, because he himself is the author of at least half of his troubles, but either way his misfortunes make him stronger and move him steadily along the path to maturity.  Throughout, the book remains an easy read, although the writing is very witty and often rewards close examination.<br />Even today, 100 years after the book's publication, a reader finds many things to identify with.  Anyone who felt unjustly treated by his or her parents or teachers will find much to sympathize with here.  Anyone who has wrestled with the conflict between Reason and Faith will find much to think about here.  Given how much change the last century has seen, it's surprising how many of the issues still seem fresh and relevant, and the book definitely makes you think about them.  It is easy to see how many people have described reading The Way of All Flesh as a turning point in their lives.<br />A point worth keeping in mind: the characters are all described from Ernest's point of view.  Several clues tell us that Ernest exaggerates the cruelty of various characters - some of whom seem evil beyond belief, and I think it's quite clear that, at these points, we're supposed to smile at Ernest - not shake our heads at the author.  This is most obvious with Ernest's schoolmaster, Dr. Skinner, whom Ernest consistently sees as a pompous fool, but who we also know is very popular with the best students, and who shows other signs of being a much better man than Ernest believes him to be.<br />The footnotes in my edition (Penguin Classics 1986) are very skimpy, focusing on comparing elements from Ernest's fictional life to Samuel Butler's real one.  The failure of the notes to translate passages in French or Latin, or to explain very contemporary references, is inexcusable.  (E.g. but for the recent controversy over his Beatification, we'd have no clue that \\"Pio Nono\\" was Pope Pius IX.)  Hoggart's introduction (1966) is decent but a bit dated, not having weathered as well as the book itself!ion (Penguin Classics 1986) are very skimpy, focusing on comparing elements from Ernest's fictional life to Samuel Butler's real one.  The failure of the notes to translate passages in French or Latin, or to explain very contemporary references, is inexcusable.  (E.g. but for the recent controversy over his Beatification, we'd have no clue that \\"Pio Nono\\" was Pope Pius IX.)  Hoggart's introduction (1966) is decent but a bit dated, not having weathered as well as the book itself!	2000-10-29
US	52668318	R2Z7E090NJGML3	0060955228	535077019	Under the Volcano (Perennial Classic.)	Books	5	125	140	N	Y	Beautiful Surface, mysterious depths	Under the Volcano chronicles the last day in the life of the British Consul to Quauhnahuac, Mexico.  The surface story recounts how his ex-wife, Yvonne, and his half-brother, Hugh, try to pull him from the alcoholic funk he's fallen into, and in the course of the day, they visit several locations in and around Quauhnahuac.<br />The descriptive prose makes the setting come alive, and you're left with the feeling of actually seen some of these places.  The mini parks, the ruins of Maximilian's Palace, the cinema, the backyard of the Consul's house, and the great volcano, Popocatepetel, which keeps appearing and disappearing, growing and shrinking, as they wander around the landscape - all these things become very real under Lowry's brilliant examination.<br />Inspired by Joyce, Lowry's book has several parallels with Ulysses.  Except for the first chapter, it all takes place in a single day -- November 1, 1938 (the Mexican holiday called \\"The Day of the Dead.\\")  There are three principal characters, two male, one female, who wander around the landscape, etc.  However, Ulysses is an extremely difficult read, and all the interesting parts are below the surface; Under the Volcano is an easy read, and quite satisfactory without looking deeper.<br />A lot has been written about the deeper meanings of the book, of course, but the most obvious seems to be the allegory to Europe on the edge of war.  In this view, the Consul represents the old Europe heading to its destruction despite the efforts of idealists to save it.  Or perhaps more accurately, the senseless decline of the Consul to his death parallels the senseless descent of Europe into the destruction of World War II.  Likewise as the day proceeds the bright hope of the morning darkens as the sun declines into the hopeless dark and storms that come with the night.  And the very first chapter - the one set exactly one year later - is darkened by a tremendous storm -- a storm which seems to represent the European war then already in full career.<br />A powerful book, thoroughly enjoyable, and meriting repeated reading.n already in full career.<br />A powerful book, thoroughly enjoyable, and meriting repeated reading.	2000-10-28
US	52668318	R1K0BVK0VKU8FL	0393096084	73897934	Madame Bovary: Backgrounds and Sources Essays in Criticism (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Excellent Critical Edition	This review is specific to the Norton Critical Edition titled &quot;Madame  Bovary: Backgrounds and Sources Essays in Criticism.&quot;<br />This edition  combines an excellent English translation of the original French text with  some of the best literary criticism of the work over the 125-odd years  since its publication.  (Note: just in case anyone doesn't know, literary  criticism isn't where someone complains about the book - it's where he/she  analyses it.)<br />Madame Bovary belongs on anyone's list of the most  influential novels of the 19th Century - as anyone reading through the  influential novels of the 20th century soon learns from the many references  to it - but anyone wanting to understand what that influence has been and  why it has had so much influence needs to read some of the critical  analysis of the work.<br />In this volume, you can read the book for  yourself and then learn what other authors have thought about the work over  time, plus see Flaubert's notes and get an insight into what alternatives  he considered when constructing his book.  This not only enhances your own  appreciation of the work, it gives insights into how the book influenced  those other authors and suggests other books to read.<br />Madame Bovary is a  great book, but she isn't an island; the Norton Critical Edition is a great  way to understand her position in literature.	2000-08-28
US	52668318	R4PCNU50QVH6S	0060175869	664906388	From Dawn to Decadence: 1500 to the Present: 500 Years of Western Cultural Life	Books	2	169	229	N	Y	Sloppy and Unconvincing	Because this is a cultural history, it is not suitable for someone looking  for a comprehensive description of the events of the past half millennium.  You will find little mention of kings and politics, battles and treaties.  For that sort of history, try \\"The Story of Civilization\\" by Will Durant,  or \\"Europe\\" by Norman Davies or \\"Europe, 1815-1914\\" by Gordon A. Craig.  If  you are not already familiar with the contents of those (or similar) books,  \\"From Dawn to Decadence\\" will be difficult to follow.<br />The biggest failing  in this book is the author's poor understanding of basic science and  technology.  He confuses \\"force\\" and \\"energy\\" and reads something  ridiculous into scientists using two names for what he takes to be the same  thing.  Incredibly, he somehow manages to confuse \\"quanta\\" with  \\"half-life.\\"  He equates pseudo-sciences like homeopathy and osteopathy  with authentic developments in medicine.  And he occasionally indulges in  the wildest speculations on the impact of recent scientific discoveries,  trying to argue that quantum mechanics supports Bishop Berkley's contention  that matter isn't real.  Given the huge role played by science and  technology over the period under discussion, this is a terrible  shortcoming.<br />An almost equally serious problem is the author's  determination to share the works of countless almost-forgotten artists,  writers, and philosophers.  Obviously Barzun feels that these people made  serious contributions that are shamefully underappreciated today, and one  expects some exposure to less-familiar names in a book like this, but as  the list gets longer and longer (and as Barzun skips over many of the major  talents in each age) this gets more and more difficult to take  seriously.<br />The relative lack of footnotes is surprising in a book of this  type, and the reader looks in vain for support for some of the author's  more daring claims.  Even such footnotes as there are often address some  trivial side point rather than offering evidence for the larger ones.  One  feels that rather than researching the book, the author simply constructed  it from memory.  The numerous spelling and even grammatical errors likewise  detract.<br />Minor things annoy as well.  He quibbles endlessly about the  \\"true\\" meanings of words.  He claims technology shouldn't be called  \\"technology\\" but \\"techne\\" instead - and then proceeds to call it \\"techne\\"  for the rest of the book.  Or that \\"utopia\\" should be written \\"eutopia\\" and  then inflicts that on us too.  This sort of nonsense becomes very tedious  after a while, as does his habit of writing KEY IDEAS in small  caps.<br />Finally, his argument that the West has become decadent ultimately  boils down to bitter resentment at the lack of popular interest in the  various classic works the he himself treasures and lack of respect for  purity of the language.  Given that he has chronicled how different ages  change their ideas of what makes for good art, music, literature, and  philosophy, and how language use has changed as well (e.g. he reports that  the Victorians couldn't discuss body parts - not even arms and legs -  without using euphemisms) it seems surprising that he attributes the same  things in our culture to decadence.<br />There are a few good things in here -  his technique of spreading the bibliography throughout the text (rather  than collecting it at the end) is a good one, and his prose is generally  readable and sometimes entertaining -- but nothing worth suffering through  800 pages for.rather than offering evidence for the larger ones.  One  feels that rather than researching the book, the author simply constructed  it from memory.  The numerous spelling and even grammatical errors likewise  detract.<br />Minor things annoy as well.  He quibbles endlessly about the  \\"true\\" meanings of words.  He claims technology shouldn't be called  \\"technology\\" but \\"techne\\" instead - and then proceeds to call it \\"techne\\"  for the rest of the book.  Or that \\"utopia\\" should be written \\"eutopia\\" and  then inflicts that on us too.  This sort of nonsense becomes very tedious  after a while, as does his habit of writing KEY IDEAS in small  caps.<br />Finally, his argument that the West has become decadent ultimately  boils down to bitter resentment at the lack of popular interest in the  various classic works the he himself treasures and lack of respect for  purity of the language.  Given that he has chronicled how different ages  change their ideas of what makes for good art, music, literature, and  philosophy, and how language use has changed as well (e.g. he reports that  the Victorians couldn't discuss body parts - not even arms and legs -  without using euphemisms) it seems surprising that he attributes the same  things in our culture to decadence.<br />There are a few good things in here -  his technique of spreading the bibliography throughout the text (rather  than collecting it at the end) is a good one, and his prose is generally  readable and sometimes entertaining -- but nothing worth suffering through  800 pages for.	2000-08-19
US	52668318	R6AD0JCH2JME9	0684833395	458864358	Catch-22	Books	4	2	4	N	Y	Not about war at all	Catch-22 isn't really a critique about war or about the military in specific.  It's an allegorical critique of Capitalism and the whole Western  system.  In the twilight of socialism that has descended since the fall of  Communism, the book's critique seems unduly harsh, but the warning message  is worth remembering.<br />What is &quot;Catch-22?&quot;  There are at least a  dozen examples in the book, and seem very difffernt.  What they have in  common is that each one is really saying &quot;the rules of the system  prevent reform of the system.&quot;  Examples include &quot;you can only  enter the Major's office when he isn't in it,&quot; and &quot;you can get  out of the war if you're crazy, but if you ASK, it proves you're not  crazy.&quot;<br />Milo, the arch Capitalist, is in many ways the worst  villain in the book.  Milo traffics with the enemy, steals medical supplies  (leaving his worthless IOU), and even contracts to bomb his own side.  The  corruption of Milo's money reaches far up the chain of command, and many of  the worst absurdities are tracable to Milo's schemes.<br />The only way around  the system is to break the rules -- to overthrow it.  The new recruits who  throw out the personal effects of the dead man in Yossarian's tent show how  in a small way; Orr demonstrates it in a large way, and the fact that Orr  ends up in Sweden points to socialism as a solution to the problems of the  capitalist world.<br />Obviously, in today's world, the example of Sweden  doesn't look so appealing, and the Capitalist West has shown substantial  ability to reform itself inside its own rules.  Still, the book is a great  read, and the lesson is worth learning, if only as an example of what we  have avoided -- and need to continue to avoid.	2000-08-12
US	52668318	R17YKJTGLUMY0T	0679772537	13759843	The Age of Revolution: 1789-1848	Books	3	31	44	N	Y	Serious Economic History	This is an economic History, so if you want an introduction to this period, this book is NOT the place to start.  Read Durant's last two volumes (&quot;Rousseau and Revolution&quot; and &quot;The Age of  Napoleon&quot;, and/or Gordon A. Craig's &quot;Europe: 1815-1914&quot; if  you're looking for details on who was in power, what battles were fought,  what the main works of art were, etc.<br />But if you are curious about why  and how the Industrial Revolution created so much hardship and how the  French Revolution changed the European attitude toward revolution in  general, this is the book to read.  Hobsbawm is a well-known Marxist, but  it was the events of this age that spawned Marxism, and it behooves us to  understand why that was.  For this purpose, you couldn't ask for a better  guide.<br />Unfortunately, Hobsbawm is a moderately difficult read.  Take it a  little bit at a time.	2000-08-01
US	52668318	R11W86A0AZI72S	0030891930	148276535	Europe Since 1914	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Passable Current History	This concludes Craig's two-part European History, which started with Europe: 1815-1914.<br />The trouble with writing a history of the 20th Century is that we're really too close to it.  Although Craig makes a fine  effort, the fact that the work was done before the end of the Cold War  makes the last part of it seem a bit out of touch with the real issues --  the fate of Communism being now a decided matter.<br />But for solid accounts  of the two World Wars and the events leading up to them, this is still an  excellent introduction, and the more knowledgable reader should still find  a few new bits of information or different ways to view the era.<br />Anyway,  anyone who read the first volume probably wants to read this one -- just  for completeness -- and, as in that volume, Craig's writing is easy to  follow and always interesting.	2000-08-01
US	52668318	R3A43OAVYZ0820	0679721754	797818791	The Age of Empire: 1875-1914	Books	3	3	9	N	Y	The Growth of Imperialism	The real surprise is that the European Imperial period was so short.  The Imperial posessions were relatively few and unimportant before this period, and were essentially snuffed out by World War I (taking until World War II  to entirely disappear).<br />As with the two earlier books, this is primarily  an economic history, so don't expect him to explain who Gladstone was or  anything like that.  And, also as with the earlier books, the reading can  be slow going.	2000-08-01
US	52668318	R1BO30Y3QMO4CP	0679772545	234692893	The Age of Capital: 1848-1875	Books	3	13	25	N	Y	The Golden Age of Capitalism	After the collapse of the Revolutions of 1848, Europe as a whole was pretty quiet until 1914.  Economically, however, the period is divided by a serere economic downturn areound 1875.  This book covers the first part of  this period, when European and American Capitalism grew strong.<br />Since  Hobsbawm is a Marxist, he's not much of a fan of this period, but his  coverage of it is quite evenhanded and honest.  Again, as in the first  book, he's challenging to read, but worth the effort.	2000-08-01
US	52668318	R22SDZ14S1RHLI	0679730052	754470002	The Age of Extremes: A History of the World, 1914-1991	Books	2	7	14	N	Y	Not up to the standards of the other three	Hobsbawm steps outside his area of expertise here (the 19th Century) and it shows.  The relative lack of footnotes and references (compared to the earlier three books in the series) attests to that.  Also, although this  isn't the same scholarly work as the first three books, the writing style  is just as recondite -- there are better, easier ways to get at the history  of the 20th Century!<br />His account of the role of the Soviet Union merits  reading, if only because Hobsbawm is a Marxist, and so he has a lot of  sympathy for the Soviets.  With the Cold War over and the USSR dead, it's  actually quite interesting to read viewpoints from the other side.	2000-08-01
US	52668318	RFLJYQJSJDT9J	0030891949	833304437	Europe, 1815-1914	Books	4	14	18	N	Y	Excellent followup to Durant	Readers who enjoyed Will Durant's excellent Story of Civilization series will enjoy Craig.  Durant finishes with Napoleon, so he and Craig overlap very slightly, but that's not really a problem.  Craig is thorough -- and  thoroughly readable.<br />This history is limited to Europe; events elsewhere  in the world are only discussed to the extent that they impact Europe.  Since the 19th Century was Europe's great century, though, during which the  continent essentially dominated the world, this turns out not to be much of  a problem.  And before studying the history of any other part of the  19th-Century world, one would want to have a solid understanding of  European history anyway.<br />This is of particular benefit to anyone who  knows a lot about US history and who has been puzzled by the occasional  European intrusions into it.  (E.g. what was Maximillian doing in Mexico?)	2000-08-01
US	52668318	R1NL3IGB5HC1O2	0399501487	502818647	Lord of the Flies	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The Seeds of Our Own Destruction	While the outside world is destroying itself in World War III, a group of pre-teen boys mimics the destruction of civilization in microcosm. They have a leader who can't get people to cooperate, they prove to be a people  who are ultimately more interested in sport (hunting) and  religion/superstition (the beast) than rescue, and who hate, torment, and  eventually kill the only intellectual among them. They reject the law  (symbolized by the beautiful conch the leader sounded to call meetings) in  favor of rule by violence, and they take a blood-thirsty new leader -- who  used to be head boy in a choir!<br />So who's the Lord of the Flies? One of  the boys sees him in the decaying, flyblown head of a dead hog. He sees a  god of death, destruction, and decay who lives in all of us and who, given  the opportunity, breaks free and destroys much of what makes life  beautiful. It lives in us all -- great and small -- and we all contain the  seeds of our own destruction.	2000-07-29
US	52668318	R1MUMD1OW0WS62	0812544048	976358997	David Copperfield (Tor Classics)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A 19th Century Dilbert	Dickens writing is hugely entertaining, but it's also a serious criticism of personal and social norms of his time.  Dickens' characters are memorable -- and famous -- but they are almost all caricatures.  Can Uriah  Heep really be so loathsome?  Can Mr. Murdstone really be so cold, cruel,  and controlling?  Can Mr. Creakle really be so incompetent and credulous?  These characters aren't meant to be taken seriously any more than Catbert  the evil HR director from Dilbert.  They're meant to be laughed at and to  shine light on the absurdity of certain kinds of behavior.  But there is  one critical difference: the irrational, absurd, and hypocritical things  that Dilbert lampoons are relatively superficial.  The ones in David  Copperfield are often tragic, with dire consequences that affect people  personally - not just their careers.<br />Within this framework, Dickens gives  us a wonderful view of early Victorian English society - upper, middle, and  lower-class people - teachers, lawyers, fishermen - good people, bad  people, and people just trying to get by.  Nearly everyone is tested by  success, or by failure, or by scandal - or even all three - and some come  out the better and some the worse.  But with all its richness of  characters, the reader is never overwhelmed; they become distinct  individuals to us, and we actually care about them and what happens to  them.<br />Also like Dilbert, David Copperfield himself is something of an  innocent bystander; much of the plot is driven by things people do to him -  for good or evil - but he's not actually an interesting part of the action.  In fact, if he weren't the narrator, he wouldn't even be a major  character, and this has the effect of showcasing the rest of the  characters.<br />Thoroughly enjoyable, said to have been Dickens' own favorite  among his works, David Copperfield is still a pleasure.	2000-07-28
US	52668318	R2ENO0REJMXSNM	046503912X	952723106	Code: And Other Laws Of Cyberspace	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Towards a Constitution for Cyberspace	Can Cyberspace be regulated?  Is it naturally immune to government  influence?  Lessig argues (powerfully) that although it cannot be regulated  in its present form, it is inevitable that that form will change, and  fairly quickly, due to a combination of commercial pressure, strong digital  signature technology, willing sacrifice of privacy by individuals in the  name of convenience (similar to the way most of us now routinely accept  cookies), and some help from the government.  That is, given a strong  digital signature technology, people will willingly accept it because  companies will insist on it to do most serious transactions online, and  government will support this -- with all sorts of attendant  consequences.<br />Lessig doesn't advocate this change -- he argues that it is  happening and can't be stopped -- but he is concerned about its impact on  intellectual propery, privacy, free speech, and effectiveness of local  government.  There are several different ways the new system might treat  each of these areas, but some of those are much less attractive than  others, and he argues that we must be actively involved -- now -- if we are  to have any influence on which way things go.<br />Lessig further argues that  government is not the only agency that can take people's liberty away.  Technology, cultural norms, and the market are all capable of doing this  too, and he is especially concerned that allowing the ultimate structure of  cyberspace to be dictated by commercial entities may result in a world with  much less freedom than most of us would care to imagine -- and that neither  our courts nor our legislatures as currently constituted is prepared to  influence the outcome in a major way.  To prevent that, we, the people,  need to be actively involved in building the new cybernetic world -- in a  way we haven't been since the US Constitution was drafted.<br />More of law  book that a technical one, Lessig is nevertheless thoroughly readable, and  his many illustrations with stories both in and out of cyberspace make it  entertaining throughout.<br />This is a very important book.any illustrations with stories both in and out of cyberspace make it  entertaining throughout.<br />This is a very important book.	2000-07-08
US	52668318	RF3AWI95QRE5H	0553265954	881120122	Darkness at Noon	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	Raises Unsettling Questions	Now that the Cold War is over and Communism has been destroyed and discredited, it is easier to see that there is more in this book that just a critique of that benighted system, and some of the questions is raises  are disturbing even in our age.<br />How did a system with such idealistic  aims go so wrong?<br />If it is immoral to jutify the means by the ends, isn't  it madness to justify the ends by the means?<br />Most unsettling of all, is  it really true that liberal democracy only thrives in the West because our  technology is so mature that most of the public understands it?  In which  case, could the rise of the Internet herald the end of our freedom  too?<br />There is much more to this book than a message to vanished  communists; it speaks to us too, and therein lies its greatness.	2000-07-08
US	52668318	RP1THGAA6QUHO	0140440100	589882194	The Adventures of Don Quixote (Classics)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The Impossible Dream	Anyone who's put his heart into a large, failed project, has to identify  with the Knight of the Rueful Countenance and his faithful Squire.  The  combination of great wisdom and intelligence in most things but complete  blindness when it comes to the great Quest, is common to many modern  visionaries too -- not just Don Quixote.  And the faithful, hardworking  squire who follows him and supports him -- and tries to ignore the evidence  that the great dream is really madness -- still works for the Don in  countless enterprises across the world.<br />So even across four centuries,  this book still speaks to us, and far from being a difficult read, it rolls  right along -- sometimes funny, sometimes sad, and sometimes very painful,  but seldom dull.	2000-07-08
US	52668318	RJ0XA8NK3OAME	0312140940	65783878	Wonder Boys: A Novel	Books	3	3	6	N	Y	A light, easy read -- but not profound	Normally, when one views a movie based on a book, one is struck by how much of the book was lost.  In this case, having seen the film first, I was struck by how little the book added to the movie.  &quot;Wonder Boys&quot;  is an easy read, and it's fun, and it does add some material to the movie,  but it doesn't really seem to have anything important to say.	2000-06-25
US	52668318	R10LFZ826K1SGN	0345417941	394884897	The Cider House Rules	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Read the book AFTER seeing the movie	Cider House Rules is a very rich work, spanning a couple of decades and including dozens of characters.  Unavoidably, the movie compresses the time span and eliminates numerous characters.  If you see the movie first, you  can enjoy it without constantly being distressed at this or that compromise  with the text -- and the movie is thoroughly enjoyable.  When you then come  to the book, you'll enjoy the extra insights into each character and be  delighted to meet new, interesting folks who didn't make it on screen.  It  also lends some appreciation for the cleverness of the screenwriters, who  managed to be amazingly faithful to the book considering the difficulties  of the adaptation.  So, if you intend to see the movie at all, watch it  first and THEN read the book.	2000-05-21
US	52668318	R1U80WG28JTS2I	0679727299	102642549	The Annotated Lolita: Revised and Updated	Books	4	282	285	N	Y	Annotated version helps a lot	It is actually possible to read the story and make sense out of it without reference to any of the annotations, but almost any reader will be keenly aware of having missed a lot in the process.  That is, you don't really  miss any of the story without the annotations, but much of what makes  Lolita famous is what's going on between the lines, and, unless you speak  both English and French and have an encyclopedic knowledge of literature in  both languages, you probably won't get more than 10% of this  &quot;extra&quot; material without a good set of annotations.<br />As the name  implies, &quot;The Annotated Lolita&quot; is superbly annotated,  translating foreign phrases, explaining literary references, and pointing  out connections between characters in different parts of the story.  Unfortunately, this has the effect of sacrificing some of the surprise in  the surface story, not to mention giving you neck pain from constantly  flipping back and forth while you read.<br />But if you don't mind taking the  time, you can get the best of both worlds from this edition.  You begin by  reading the text of the novel straight through one time without reference  to either the introduction or the annotations.  Having done that, you next  read the introduction (which is excellent in its own right, but which  really does depend on you already having read the story) and finally, skim  the text again, checking out each annotation as you go.  It will take more  time, but you'll get to enjoy the surface story without distractions and  you'll have the pleasure of watching all the mysteries clear up on the  second pass.	2000-05-08
US	52668318	R3RCWH9TVXQCFM	0671013203	127171982	007: The Age of Reason Begins (The Story of Civilization VII)	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Great read and great reference	7th volume in Durant's great Story of Civilization, this chronicles European history from the reign of Elizabeth I to the Thirty Years War, including the stories of Mary Queen of Scotts, Henry IV of France, and  Cardinel Richelieu.	2000-04-27
US	52668318	R2D8R9GMW9VG62	0192838423	461386470	The Man in the Iron Mask (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	12	15	N	Y	Best Edition of the Smashing Conclusion	This is the fifth and last book of the Three Musketeers saga.  If you haven't read the other four, don't start here.  Read &quot;The Three Musketeers,&quot; then &quot;Twenty Years After&quot; then &quot;The  Vicomte de Bragelonne,&quot; and then &quot;Louise de la Valliere&quot;  before reading &quot;The Man in the Iron Mask.&quot;<br />Second, although you  can read these stories without explanatory notes, I think most readers will  greatly appreciate the copious and helpful notes in the Oxford editions of  these works.<br />The entire series is a great read, mixing adventure, comedy  and history.  It tells the story of the lifetime friendship of four heroes  and how that friendship is tested by ambition and conflicting  loyalties.<br />This volume, which concludes their story, divides them between  those who support the young Louis XIV and those who fear he will become a  tyrant.	2000-04-27
US	52668318	R1ISYTM9D0DX3P	0691050627	373262786	Irrational Exuberance	Books	3	6	10	N	Y	The sky is falling -- so now what?	Prof. Shiller makes a strong case that the stock market is terribly overvalued (as of early 2000), and he does a fair job of relating the current era to earlier, pre-crash times (especially 1929).  His  explanations for how the markets could get so far from a proper valuation  are quite reasonable, and must reading for any true believers in the  &quot;Efficient Market Hypothesis.&quot;  His ideas for public policy are  less interesting, though, and his suggestions for personal investing (buy  inflation-indexed government bonds) are too obvious.  Required reading for  anyone who's a stockmarket Pollyanna!	2000-04-27
US	52668318	R194VJKHTYV7N0	1567310125	869892259	Our Oriental Heritage (Story of Civilization)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Excellent Survey of Ancient and non-Western Civilization	After a section on prehistory, Durant covers Sumer, Egypt, Palastine, Babylonia, and Persia up to Alexander, and covers India, China, and Japan up to World War II.  Durant's &quot;integrated&quot; method gives a good  mix of biographies, wars, cultures, and societies.	1998-11-22
US	52668318	R3I52C6ER2TYA4	0060675322	693359168	Why Christianity Must Change or Die: A Bishop Speaks To Believers In Exile A New Reformation of the Church's Faith & Practice	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Tells us where we are, but not how to get out of here.	Spong does a pretty good job of demolishing traditional Christian teaching here, but he's writing for people who already know that much of traditional teaching is contrary-to-fact and who wrestle with the fact that their Faith  somehow survives this knowledge.  Unfortunately, he doesn't tell us what to  do about this, but he does do a great job of showing us where we stand, and  that should help a number of people clarify their thinking.  It sure helped  clarify mine!	1998-11-03
US	52668318	R2AIMZNNRZO42D	0060105585	145668397	The Sheep Look Up	Books	3	7	19	N	N	The world didn't end like this	I read this in college, and it was profundly disturbing back then.  It was easy to believe that an ecological catastrope that would destroy the world -- driven by the unintentional actions of millions and unstoppable even by the heroic actions of a few heroes.  But twenty years after reading it, the world looks much, much better, and it is difficult to take this particluar apocalypse so seriously.  Many of Brunner's visions in his other novels have weathered the 20 or 30 years since he wrote them quite well, but this one really hasn't.  &quot;The Sheep Look Up&quot; was well written for its time, but is probably unreadable today.	1998-05-24
US	52668318	R30EGVWH0USY8F	0805057544	202484750	Barbarians Led by Bill Gates	Books	1	7	10	N	N	Very Disappointing	I actually worked for Marlin Eller for three weeks near the beginning of my Microsoft career (and at the very end of his) and I remember him as a fascinating speaker with interesting insights; witty, and sarcastic -- never dull.  I was disappointed not to find any evidence of this person anywhere in the book.  Despite the book's claim to offer Marlin's &quot;inside view&quot; of Microsoft, about 80% of it is just a rehash of the standard history of Microsoft from 1982 to the present -- a history which has been reported many times (and much better) by other people.  The bits that do involve Marlin are so blatantly self-promoting, it's hard to know what to believe.  The one part I have independent knowledge of is the story of his departure, since he was my boss's boss at the time.  The book makes it sound like he reached a decision to leave after careful consideration, but what I remember is that he took over our group and then just three weeks later he simply disappeared without a word to any of us.  I always wondered what happened, and even after reading his book, I still don't know.  It's a pity he didn't get a better ghost writer.	1998-05-24
US	52668318	RP87VB04K72KE	0393038912	733405472	Guns, Germs and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Winning through Diversity	Why did Western Civilization defeat its competitors?  The short answer, according to Guns, Germs and Steel, is that it had the benefit of greater diversity, and that this diversity was the gift of geography.  More kinds of domesticated plants and  more kinds of domesticated large animals were available across Eurasia.  More kinds of food meant more people, thus more kinds of diseases (which other peoples weren't immune to) and also more new ideas.  Diamond does a great job developing this concept and exploring the implications.  Definitely a must read	1997-06-05
