US	52661871	R3HTEI28OSGOSL	1410717666	118741925	The Dark Side of Karate: The Story of Tonie Harris Gatlin	Books	2	11	15	N	N	A Different Path...	I first read about Tonie Harris years ago in Valerie Eads volume, \\"Women in the Martial Arts: A New Spirit Rising\\" (1983).  I was impressed by Tonie's story of survival despite desparate circumstances, her willingness to improve herself through martial arts.  Tonie Harris was a mixed martial artist before most people knew what the term meant, going out of her way to study a number of other arts, including wrestling.<br /><br />So when I saw this newer volume, curiosity led me to read and consider this book.  Most of the portions in \\"The Dark Side of Karate\\" concerning Tonie Harris-Gaitlin's martial arts days are lifted from her dialogue in \\"Women in the Martial Arts\\".  There was some new biographical information, including her suffering at the hands of a sexually abusive grandfather as a girl.  Tonie also describes her involvement in a lesbian relationships while being involved with a women's martial arts organization, and the control issues related to it.  She discusses her agression, attitudes towards family members, etc.<br /><br />Then, Tonie attempts to tie together all of her failings by linking them to...the martial arts.  Violence and aggression?  Martial arts made me do it.  Lesbianism? Martial arts made me do it.  Disrespect and neglect for family, bad relationship choices, abusive behavior?  Yes, you guessed it--The \\"demon\\" martial arts are to blame.  The martial arts serve as the catch-all scape goat.  Tonie is never able to come straight out and take responsibility for her bad life choices.  Instead, she uses her embrace of Christianity--and subsequent rejection of ALL martial arts practice--as an outlet which conveniently lets her off the hook.<br /><br />There are too many smart and stable Christians --and non-Christians-- practicing martial arts today who can recognize the mistake Tonie Harris has made in rejecting something good because she has chosen to cast the reflection of her own bad choices and experiences upon it.  Reading the book, it's clear to me that the \\"demons\\" in Tonie's life were brought about through her own actions.<br /><br />Harris's choiced had little if anything to do with martial arts themselves, and more to do with the ~mind of the practitioner herself~ and how Tonie CHOSE to react to them at the time.  In hindsight, it seems it was easier for Tonie to craft a world of scary demon-dragons that forced her to commit unethical or distasteful deeds to explain and EVADE RESPONSIBILITY for her past actions.  It would be more honest to just admit her past flaws and move on.  That Tonie has come to abhore aggression and violence in any form may better explain her evolved views of the martial arts as something she doesn't need and won't teach.  To call her _rejection_ of martial arts \\"Christian\\" is another thing altogether!<br /><br />Today's Tonie Harris-Gatlin sounds like a woman dedicated to her community, firm in her faith, and happy with her life.  This is terrific!  But playing the BLAME GAME with karate and other martial arts, which have for years given people a healthy outlet for agression, a mode to physical fitness and mental discipline, sells these practices short.  Most modern teachers do not force students to practice religious aspects.  Tonie's stunted view of martial arts as demonic, evil, un-Christian is one which has been debated in the fundamentalist Christian community for years, and will probably not disappear any time soon.<br /><br />True believers who already hold Harris-Gatlin's view of all martial arts as irreconcileably evil may enjoy this short book.  Honest people, Christian or not, martial artist or not, will have no problem SEEING THROUGH the veil Tonie has put up in the confines of this little volume.ons\\" in Tonie's life were brought about through her own actions.      Harris's choiced had little if anything to do with martial arts themselves, and more to do with the ~mind of the practitioner herself~ and how Tonie CHOSE to react to them at the time.  In hindsight, it seems it was easier for Tonie to craft a world of scary demon-dragons that forced her to commit unethical or distasteful deeds to explain and EVADE RESPONSIBILITY for her past actions.  It would be more honest to just admit her past flaws and move on.  That Tonie has come to abhore aggression and violence in any form may better explain her evolved views of the martial arts as something she doesn't need and won't teach.  To call her _rejection_ of martial arts \\"Christian\\" is another thing altogether!       Today's Tonie Harris-Gatlin sounds like a woman dedicated to her community, firm in her faith, and happy with her life.  This is terrific!  But playing the BLAME GAME with karate and other martial arts, which have for years given people a healthy outlet for agression, a mode to physical fitness and mental discipline, sells these practices short.  Most modern teachers do not force students to practice religious aspects.  Tonie's stunted view of martial arts as demonic, evil, un-Christian is one which has been debated in the fundamentalist Christian community for years, and will probably not disappear any time soon.      True believers who already hold Harris-Gatlin's view of all martial arts as irreconcileably evil may enjoy this short book.  Honest people, Christian or not, martial artist or not, will have no problem SEEING THROUGH the veil Tonie has put up in the confines of this little volume.	2005-04-16
US	52661871	R2N2PA5TNZDSVX	1886969663	327415436	Chin Na in Ground Fighting: Principles, Theory and Submission Holds for All Martial Styles	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Terrific Guide to Practical Groundfighting!	Author Al Arsenault offers a complete view of chin-na (gripping/grappling) techiques for the ground, from initial standing position to the ground application.  The level of this book is basic to advanced--a person with little experience (you'll likely need some grappling experience to understand any book on ground or throwing arts) can hone their understanding through practicing and studing the explanations in the narrative.  Advanced concepts are also demonstrated and explained in an organized manner.  <br />The format in this book endears itself to study, with photos and diagrams clear and easy to comprehend.  Arsenault goes beyond simply showing a technique which might be difficult to apply without an experienced instructor by explaining through detailed narrative precisely how one must manouver and position oneself.  We also learn WHY the techniques and positioning are done as they are done, how they work, and how to get the most out of a technique.  This practical and sensible approach can be appreciated by grapplers and strikers alike.<br />The square construction of this thick book makes it less likely to flop shut when you spread it on the mat to experiment with the techniques shown within.  All in all, a straightforward offering which can offer new ideas and applications regardless of one's style of practice.	2004-03-02
US	52661871	R16JHGN99NH2TV	1583940898	352262813	The Dragon and the Tiger, Volume 1: The Birth of Bruce Lee's Jeet Kune Do	Books	5	6	7	N	N	James Yimm Lee &amp; Bruce: Incredible!	An incredibly enthralling look at the relationship between two of the most influential martial artists of the 20th century.  One now a well-known icon (Bruce Jun Fan Lee), the other just coming into his due (James Yimm Lee).  For the first time, in this extensive work we can read about the symbiotic relationship between Bruce Lee and James Yimm Lee (not blood related to one another despite the last name).  The book is helped immensely through the participation of Greglon Yimm Lee, James Lee's son, who offers insight into the life of his father and family life previously unknown.  <br />Largely forgotten, or formerly summed up in a few brief paragraphs, James Lee wrote and published the first publicly available serious gung fu books in English. James Lee was a consummate martial artist in his own right, having studied at one of the first public Sil Lum (Shao-Lin) schools in San Francisco (under T.Y. Wong), as well as making it a practice to trade techniques and practice with other martial artists throughout the Bay area.  Another famed student of James Lee's covered in this book is Al Novak, a pioneer in his own right.<br />James Lee was one of the first martial arts men to advocate the practical approach through his books, keeping useful information, and rejecting the notion of maintaining  &quot;tradition for tradition's sake.&quot;  As a matter of fact, if you compare any of J.Y. Lee's early self-published books, you can see the progression J.Y. Lee made from blind obedience to tradition, to creating his own practical tradition.  Of course, most of us don't have access to these books--which is what makes this volume, &quot;The Dragon and the Tiger&quot;, a treasure.  <br />There are photos and explanations of James Lee's early books, training devices, and classes--and the full story of how Bruce Lee came to adopt many of James Lee's theories and methods.  It isn't difficult to see how James Lee's concepts became popularized by Bruce Lee, who adapted many of JamesLee's methods to his own needs (as James Lee had intended).  Bruce Lee of course, later became legendary for his own practical approach, which was later systematized in his Jun Fan Gung Fu and Jeet Kune Do, influencing contemporary martial arts thought in the U.S. and the World.<br />This is a book about friendship.  About a journey into study and research and human limits that two men undertook together.  It provides new information not contained in any other work which makes for an enjoyable read and a hard-to-set-down book.  Finally, a book that gives credit where it is due--to James Yimm Lee: teacher, student, and argueably perhaps the greatest influence upon Bruce Lee.  You needn't be a Bruce Lee fan to enjoy this book, anyone with an interest in American martial arts history, the Chinese community in America, or American history in general should find this fascinating.	2004-03-02
US	52661871	R1HQ5UCJ6I012	0316611913	323368115	The Secret of Inner Strength: My Story	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A "Not-So-Common" Common Man's Journey!	Martial arts and film buffs will enjoy this book, which is a straightforward autobiography (written with the assistance of Joe Hyams).  Be forwarned that this book was published in 1988 (at least my hardcover version), so the filmography doesn't cover his more recent works. <br />Norris describes his experiences from childhood, to the time spent in the armed forces, where he originally took up the matrial art of Tang Soo Do under Jae-chul Shin (who today runs the World Tang Soo Do Association).  <br />This volume describes Norris's tournament days, including quite a bit about his competition experiences.  There is also information about his family life, his entry into film making during his time as a karate (Tang Soo Do) instructor, and his experiences as a self-made actor in Hollywood.  Throughout, he is honest as he describes his triumphs and mistakes.<br />Chuck Norris is the quintessential all-American guy who worked his tail off, took a big gamble, and came out on top.  This book describes his journey from average joe, to martial arts instructor, to professional film star.  This book includes two sections of photographs which show Norris from childhood, with family, in the services, in karate competition, and during the filming of his movies.	2003-08-30
US	52661871	R3QAWS1TH3UU3C	1931229287	214843459	The Gracie Way: An Illustrated History of the World's Greatest Martial Arts Family (Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu series)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	A Superb History!	If you enjoy curling up with a good martial arts biography after practice, this book is most definately written for you.  Here is the opportunity to read not about one man, but about an entire family of superb competitors and technicians!  <br />This large, high-quality volume (same size &amp; style as his other books) includes a vast number of color &amp; black &amp; white photographs, many previously unpublished.  Kid Peligro has utilized his friendship with the Gracie Family, knowledge of Brazilian Jiu Jitsu, and his access to the Gracie Family archives to present to us one of the most complete volumes on what may be the greatest martial arts dynasty of our time.<br />Finally we can read about-and SEE!-the amazing Carlos Gracie, the man who studied under Mitsuyo Maeda and started it all. There is a lot of info on Carlos's brother Helio, as well as subsequent generations of Gracies including Rolls, Rickson, Royler, etc.  photos include the men in competition, training, and in more quiet interludes with family and friends.  This volume is fun to read, and includes many old pictures of the Gracies and their students from the &quot;old days&quot;.<br />As did another reviewer, I too noticed the lack of info on recent events not in the Gracie family's favor, such as some of the recent defeats in both Brazilian Jiu jitsu competition and NHB contests.  I find this odd as there is a thorough treatment of the only two defeats Helio Gracie ever suffered.  Yes, the Gracies still win much more often than they lose--but why omit blow-by-blow info on recent defeats?  That alone however, does little to dim  my entheusiasm for this work much.<br />All in all, this book is very worth the money.  If you like to read about heart and spirit, I don't think there is a better volume in the martial arts field right now.  The Gracie art is practical, sensible, and full of history.  It seems an understatement to mention that the Gracies are a fascinating family.	2003-06-11
US	52661871	R1JR7LQISTKQ7	0965008584	362390423	Okinawan Karate, The Secret Art of Tuite	Books	4	19	22	N	Y	The Practical, Detailed Heart of Kata Application	Yes, there are some gramatical errors in this book.  Of course, it is an instructional manual and not a literary offering.  The author's verbage did not inhibit my ability to understand what he was explaining.  Martinez is a native of Puerto Rico whose karate background is Isshin-ryu.  <br />Isshin-ryu includes 8 empty-hand kata: Seisan, Seiunchin, Naihanchi, Wanso, Chinto, Kusanku, Sanchin, and the kata designed by the style's founder, Tatsuo Shimabuku, Sunsu.  The first six kata mentioned in the last sentence are covered in this book (Sanchin and Sunsu are not), with complete demonstrations of each application offered in clearly understandable line drawings.<br />Martinez's approach is instructional.  He offers some information on Okinawan karate history, and offers a hypothesis on how tuite (&quot;grappling&quot;) lies at the heart of what many of us thought, until recently, were striking arts.  Kata is the main teaching tool, and Martinez unravels what for all intents and purposes may have been encoded kata.  His theory is convincing, his methodology logical.  <br />Martinez has also written four other books (booklets really--about 50-60 pages each, nicely printed and covered) on kata bunkai (form applications), covering kata Naihanchi, Chinto, Kusanku, and Seiunchin.  The difference between this volume and the others is that the four kata booklets demonstrate with photographs instead of drawings, and include the demonstration of the kata by the author, and then the section on bunkai (application).  This volume on tuite does not show the one-man kata sequences.  While the booklets are more thorough in their treatment of technical details (not so markedly so that you'd &quot;have&quot; to buy them if you already know the kata), the visual detail of the line drawings in this book are easier to discern, especially with relation to hand placement.  <br />In this book, Martinez also deals in great detail with different methods of punching, twisting, and body movementbefore he begins to deal with the 6 kata of the book (pages 1-78).  The rest deals with a breakdown of the applications for the six kata: Seisan, Seiunchin, Naihanchi, Wanso, Chinto, Kusanku (pages 79-200).  <br />This is a terrific book, and does a lot to dispell the myth that Okinawan arts are primative and limited to striking alone.  Then again I suppose primative vs. technologically advanced has more to do with how much study a person is willing to put into studying their chosen discipline.	2003-05-11
US	52661871	R2BFR8879Z5N3	0785811273	629304430	Martial Artist's Book of Five Rings	Books	2	5	5	N	N	A Personal Interpretation of Miyamoto Musashi's Work	I have no doubt about the author's sincerity in offering this personal interpretation of Musashi's original work, &quot;Book of 5 Spheres&quot; (or &quot;The Book of 5 Rings&quot;). The problem I have with what Stephen Kaufman has done to Musashi's book deals more with his implied suggestion that this edition is the result of an actual ~translation~ which he was responsible for (see pages xi-xii, &quot;Translator's Note&quot;). In fact, when asked Mr. Kaufman has admitted that this volume (and some others he has written) are not translations at all, but rather his own personal interpretations of English translations done by other authors--something he DOESN'T bother to communicate to his readers. The title of this volume, at odds with the &quot;translator's note&quot; on pgs xi -xii, is actually &quot;...The Definitive _Interpretation_ of Miyamoto Musashi's Classic Book of Strategy&quot;. I fail to understand why Kaufman confuses his readers by mixing and matching interpretation with translation. It should be noted that Mr Kaufman himself does NOT speak or read Japanese, and in fact innocently named his own martial arts school &quot;Dojo no Hebi&quot; (&quot;Place of Practice's Snake&quot;), when he was trying for &quot;Dojo of the Snake&quot; (which in Japanese would have been &quot;Hebi no Dojo&quot;, meaning &quot;The Snake's Place of Practice&quot;). Innocent mistakes yes, but one would expect a Black belt of the 10th Dan (degree grade) and a proclaimed &quot;Hanshi&quot; (master practitioner) to at least check his spelling with someone who _could_ speak the language he was using.<br />Kaufman doesn't bother to provide a bibliography of which English translations he used, nor does he include notes explaining how he drew his conclusions from the texts he studied. I am bothered by the fact that many of Musashi's words have been heavily edited, re-arranged, or deleted altogether by this author until they have been removed entirely from their original context. In doing this, Mr. Kaufman has actually ALTERED the _meaning_ of Musashi's work! What remains appears to be little more than a new age self-help guide for modern martial artists which has retained a smidgeon of flavor from Musashi's original work. <br />A brief example illustrating Kaufman's tendancy to put his own words in Musashi's mouth is in the fourth paragraph on page 6 of Kaufman's book. Kaufman reworks Musashi's words regarding Merchants as a class to read, &quot;Merchants are a ridiculed class because they produce nothing except profit from the work of others.&quot; Two other men who have actually translated Musashi's work from the original Japanese suggest nothing sinister in Musashi's original work. Victor Harris in his translation of &quot;A Book of Five Rings&quot; offers: &quot;The way of the merchant is always to live by taking profit&quot; (page 41, 1974). Translator Thomas Cleary offers the same sentence as: &quot;Whatever the business, merchants make a living from the profits they earn acording to their particular status&quot; (page 7, 1993). This is a minor demonstration of the differences between Kaufman's work and those offered by actual translators--the translators make an effort to convey to the reader the actual meaning of Musashi's words in English, while Kaufman crafts a new meaning which never existed in Musashi's original work. Suffice to say, Kaufman's interpretation seems heavily influenced by his modern view of martial arts and his concept of what samurai may have been like four centuries ago. It bears little resemblance to competent translations of Musashi's writings. <br />I recommend two excellent translations of Musashi's work which stay true to the original Japanese. The first is &quot;A Book of Five Rings&quot; translated by Victor Harris, a mechanical engineer and technical interpreter of Japanese language who not only practiced kendo (Japanese fencing), but studied this art in Japan for 3 years under Ito Kyoitsu at the Seijudo Dojo.A second recommendation is &quot;The Book of Five Rings&quot; by Thomas Cleary, another professional translator. Unlike Kaufman, I did not find translations by these men to be &quot;intellectual exercises in translating Japanese to English&quot; (pg xi). I found legitimate translations by competent translators who were clear and direct...I suspect most scholarly people, whether students of martial arts or not, will draw a similar conclusions upon comparing Kaufman's book to any actual translation.	2003-05-11
US	52661871	R2KBR5OR5TUW7N	0920129196	602457928	History and Traditions of Okinawan Karate	Books	4	21	21	N	Y	Meat and Potatoes for Hungry History Buffs	Tetsuhiro Hokama is one of the most prolific writers on the history of Okinawa martial arts.  Unfortunately for most of us, the majority of his books are written in Japanese!  This volume is a noteable exception, having been translated by Cezar Borkowski.  It is formatted well, and includes samples of Hokama's flowing calligraphy throughout, along with translations.<br />This volume is divided into two sections and eight chapters.  The first includes three parts dealing with the history of Okinawa no Karate:  Origins of Martial Arts, Martial Arts Pioneers, and The Evolution of Modern Martial arts.  All three sections deal exclusively with Okinawan fighting arts and teachers, and there are plenty of photographs throughout, many which have NOT been published in other books on Okinawa karate.<br />The second section deals with training, and includes 5 Training Guide sections and one kata demonstrated by Hokama.  The training guide section (pages 103-151) is a sort of appendix offers the reader a sampling of different aspects of Okinawa bujutsu.  It will show the reader--but is not a teaching tool per se.<br />Section 1 includes 3 excerpts from the Ekkinkyogi on physical practice and internal power.  Part 2 covers &quot;kappo&quot; rescusitation techniques (8 methods, includes photos-demonstrated by Wally Jay).  Part 3 covers kempo training methods (hand-hardening/&quot;Iron Hand&quot;) and includes the complete Seisan (shorin-ryu) kata demonstrated by Hokama himself (52 photos).  Part 4 covers kakie, two man body-hardening exercises, and includes 3 specific methods.<br />Part 5 is perhaps the most unique: it offers a comparison between traditional Okinawa dance, and the Okinawa martial art &quot;Ti&quot;.  The martial artist is shown standing side by side with an Okinawan dance master, in nearly identical postures.  then an application from this postude is demonstrated.    <br />Hokama's book will serve Okinawa karate history buffs.  Likewise, an individual with no experience in martial arts who is seeking information concerning this specific area of Okinawa's history will find this book an informative aid.	2003-05-11
US	52661871	R349ZXSVC6I41Q	0060107790	433914213	Tae Kwon Do: The Korean Martial Art	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Quality Book Containing Quality Information	In an age where low quality has become the rule, Richard Chun's Book \\"Tae Kwon Do: The Korean Martial Art\\" is an exception.  This was the first of the widely available large taekwondo books covering World Taekwondo Federation (WTF) style.  <br />Author Richard Chun himself is originally of the Moo Duk Kwan, and was part of the contingent which split from Grandmaster Hwang Kee to remain with the Korea Taekwondo Federation (later the World Taekwondo Federation).  In observing and considering the techniques in this book, those who have experienced other martial arts will be able to see the \\"old\\" style of Taekwondo, with the wider stances and solidity reminiscent of Japanese karate.<br />This volume contains the information required for the rank of Cho-Dan (first degree black belt) in most Taekwondo schools.  Chapters cover history, stretching, strength exercises, stances, walking and moving, striking, vital points, hand, arm and head techniques, blocking, kicking techniques (including wheel kicks, jumping, and a technique I've never seen anywhere else--the handstand double foot kick!), advanced stances and combinations, sparring, self defense, breaking and special techniques, equipment in training, sport taekwondo (WTF style), and 9 forms: ki-cho 1, and the 8 Pal-Gwe.<br />The volume is hardcover, with cloth-covered boards and dust jacket.  The photographs are crisp and clear, the paper is quality acid resistant, and the binding is (gasp) sewn.  This book really is a work of art and a fine tribute to the practice of Taekwondo as a martial art.	2003-03-09
US	52661871	R3GFE8AHE024DY	1892515199	737267450	The Tao of Health and Fitness	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Fair Guide to Basic Chinese Martial Exercises	The brief introduction contained in this volume describes the exercises within as simple, requiring no martial arts experience to learn.  In reading through this volume, I found that to be accurate--If you're already studying a traditional school of Chinese martial arts, this book probably isn't going to offer you anything new.  However, this book is perfect for anyone with little or no background in Chinese martial arts who is looking for a decent low-impact workout.  <br />This no-nonsense 130-page volume is a collection of rudamentary exercises taken from a variety of different Chinese chi-gung and martial arts sources.  The focus of this book is entirely upon the physical exercises themselves, you will find nothing on history or philosophy.  Illustrated with numerous easy to follow photographs demonstrating the techniques, each sequence is accompanied by succinct descriptive narratives.<br />This volume contains 11 chapters of exercise &quot;sets&quot; presented in 2 sections.  In the first section are: 1. Breathing Exercises (2 exercises), 2. Stretching Exercises (9 movements), 3. Waist Exercises (5), 4. Leg Exercises (7), 5. Arm and Finger Exercises (5), 6. Ankle Exercises (2), 7. Full Body Exercises (4), 8. Relaxation Exercises (2), 9. Dry Bath Exercises (4), and two advaced exercise sets, 10. Tai Chi Chuan Exercises (10), and 11. Sinew Transforming Exercises (14).	2003-03-08
US	52661871	R3TN62EW8FXPAF	0937663328	825501256	Notes on Training	Books	5	20	20	N	Y	Deep and Thoughtful Shotokan Insights	Tsutomu Ohshima has the distinction of being one of the few men still living who studied under Shotokan Karate founder Gichen Funakoshi At Waseda University.  This volume is a collection of Ohshima Sensei's insights and advice, originally published in the _Shotokan Karate of America_ newsletter between 1965 and 1995.<br />This is definately a book for the academic minded who are seeking the &quot;why's&quot; of Karate and like details.  Please be aware that there are no photo-instruction sequences in this book, and the reader is assumed to have some familiarity with Japanese terminology (there is a glossary, see page 245).  In other words, this book doesn't pretend to teach you karate, it has been published for people who are already familiar with at least the fundamentals of the art.<br />Ohshima offers pointers, and spices much of his advice with personal recollections from his days with Funakoshi Sensei.  The tone of the book is kindly and the instruction has a personal feel to it.  At no time did I find Ohshima coming across as arrogant or unduly harsh.  He goes out of his way to give us the &quot;why&quot; of each technique, justifying little movements in kata which some of us may have thought useless or obsolete.  Ohshima Sensei breaks the volume down into five parts.  In the first section, &quot;Kata&quot; (Forms), 17 subchapters discuss the fine points of everything from Taikyoku, the 3 Tekki and 5 Heian, to Bassai, Kwanku, Hangetsu, Jutte, Empi, Gankaku, Jion, and even a favorite form of Gichen Funakoshi's son Gigo Funakoshi, Ten-no-Kata (&quot;Heaven's Form&quot;, this chapter is very interesting!).   The second section, &quot;Kihon&quot; (Basics), Ohshima details specific stances and techniques as well as how to practice, tactics such as Kime (focus) Sabaki (Evading), Ukemi (Falling), Ashibarai (Sweeping), and so on.  A total of 41 subchapters are included in this section.<br />In section three, &quot;Kumite&quot; (Sparring), Ohshima discusses Ten no KataUra (Heaven's Form Application), Sanbon Kumite (Three-technique sparring), Kihon Ippon Kumite (One technique sparring), Jiyu Kumite (Free Sparring), Self Defense, Torite (Escaping), Irimi (Getting into the opponent), and other subjects, for a total of 11 subchapters.  The fourth section, &quot;Practice&quot; discusses the meaning and reason behind Rei (bowing), Healthy Practice, Special Training, Mental Blocks, Ma (Distance and Timing), Speed and Rythm, Grading (reccomendations, requirements for testing), Fasting, and more for a total of 18 subchapters.  The last section, &quot;Karate-do&quot; includes three subchapters, &quot;Why We Practice&quot;, &quot;Our Goal for the Twenty-First Century&quot;, and the &quot;Afterword&quot;.<br />If you're looking for a pictoral technical guide to kata or technique, or would like to know about the history of Shotokan, this probably isn't the book for you--try Funakoshi's &quot;Karate-Do Kyohan&quot; or any of the books by Randall Hassell.  I recommend this volume for serious students of Shotokan karate or Shotokan derivatives and relatives which practice the same techniques and kata, such as Tang Soo Do, Cerio Kenpo, Wado Ryu, etc.  Tsutomu Ohshima's &quot;Notes on Training&quot; makes a superb supplement to &quot;Karate-Do Kyohan&quot;.	2003-03-08
US	52661871	R718LEMYMGHL2	0865681651	894093556	Chi Kung: Taoist Secrets of Fitness and Longevity	Books	5	14	16	N	N	First English Text on Wild Goose Style by Lineal Student....	This is not, thankfully, another generic book on &quot;chi practice&quot;.  Author Wen Mei Yu Introduces us to and instructs us in a very specific form of Chi Kung: Wild Goose Chi Kung.  Yu was a student of Madam Yan Mei Jun, the legendary grandmaster of this popular and complex school of energy cultivation.  <br />Every necessary topic is covered in this volume, including history (photos of Grandmaster Yan Mei Jun are included), philosophy (this is a Taoist school), Theory (very detailed, many diagrams with explanations), and of course the COMPLETE 64 movement Wild Goose form.<br />A note on the instructional photographs in this volume: every technique is illustrated by several photographs.  The pictures do an excellent job of communicating direction, movement, posture, et cetera.  Yu also takes the time with more complex techniques to show common mistakes practitioners should avoid.  This is probably one of the best books on physical chi practice out there.  I found it to be thorough but not cluttered.  Every piece of information fit, and the author's descriptions and explanations were easlily understood in the context of traditional belief and practice.	2003-03-08
US	52661871	R2WUWJK95CFEK9	0897500814	318181239	Ideals of the Samurai (History & Philosophy Series)	Books	5	52	54	N	N	Twelve Unique Old Translated Writings on Bushido	Translator William Scott Wilson offers us something unique with this book, first published in 1982 by Ohara.  I can't recall any other source which includes this many specific writings on bushido (the warrior-gentleman's path)--there are 12 documents in this book, all written by different members of the warrior classes, dating from the 13th century (Hojo Shigetoki's \\"Message of Master Gokurakuji\\") to the 17th century (Kuroda Nagamasa's \\"Notes on Regulations\\").<br />These writings aren't what many of us 21st century martial artists have been conditioned to expect.  I found more homespun advice and common sense relative to the era these men lived in than the stereotypical talk of honor and giri (duty).  Much of this advice is still sound today.  An example taken from the 700+ year old \\"Message of Master Gokurakuji\\" by Hojo Shigatoki:<br />\\"One should not talk about the faults of others, even as a joke.  For even though one may think of it as a joke, to others it may be embarrassing, and this is a bad mistake.  If one would joke, he should joke about things that are pleasurable to others.  One should have restraint and deep sympathy in all things\\" (page 42-43)<br />Throughout the course of Wilson's translation, it is clear to see that the Samurai (serving warriors) were a people to whom consideration of others, polite manners and conduct were important.  This volume offers a nice change from the linear austerity of the \\"Hagakure\\", which for many years along with Musashi's \\"Book of Five Spheres\\" has been one of the only widely available books which set the tone for how we modern day folks think of Samurai.  In \\"Ideals of the Samurai\\", not only are many of the writings centuries apart, but they are from different families and different geographical areas of Japan.  If you're curious about how the \\"old heads\\" ~really~ lived and what they thought about, this work is a must.	2003-03-02
US	52661871	R28V119J581UR4	0872862755	820043037	Sacred Drift: Essays on the Margins of Islam	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The Book Your Mullah Doesn't Want You to Read!	If you thought that Islam was just a bunch of fellows in white thobes and headdresses running anround oppressing people, this fun and educational little book will help expand your horizons! Another truely excellent title put out by City Lights Books, author Peter Lamborn Wilson covers some of the more...colorful patches in the tapestry of Islam. This book deals with Muslim Thinkers who for one reason or 'tother, are generally considered heretics by many of the larger sects of Islam. We are privalleged to meet Ibn Arabi and the Noble Drew Ali, and delve into subjects such as Satanism in Islam, sexuality and authority in Sufism, and more. The volume includes poems and enjoyable illustrations, photos, and calligraphy throughout. <br />As a note to anyone with a specific interest in African-American religious figures in U.S. history, the essay \\"Lost/Found Moorish Time Lines: In the Wilderness of North America\\", Wilson offers what may be the best essay to date in ANY publication, on the Noble Drew Ali and the Moorish Science Temple of America. Included is information about the relationship between the Moorish Science Temple, and Elijah Muhammed, who founded the Nation of Islam. Lots of NEW information in this essay alone, as with the others in this book...did you know about the connection between Islam, Masonry, Shriners, and Moorish Science? Wilson includes footnotes and references with his work, and there is a complete bibliography at the end of this volume. <br />The tone of this book is scholarly, it is by no means a sordid \\"tell all\\" work. You won't find proselytizing or propaganda in this volume. If you're tired of the same old repetitive drivel from the same old droning finger-wagging sources, give this book a read. I suspect you will appreciate the time you spend while journeying through its pages.	2003-02-25
US	52661871	R2E5JIOTX3DAV7	080483122X	228886561	Shogun's Scrolls (Martial Arts Library)	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Kaufman's Attempt to Write a 12th Century Japanese Classic	Although this 102 page volume purports to be a translation of a 12th century manuscript written by a man called Hidetomo Nakadai for Japan's first Shogun, Minamoto Yoritomo (who in fact DID exist), it is in fact a fictional work penned by Stephen Kaufman.  A man who admittedly does not speak Japanese and has no academic background to speak of, Kaufman would certainly be an unlikely candidate to &quot;discover&quot; a Japanese manuscript which has been &quot;lost&quot; for 800 years--and somehow present it to us in English.  The fact is that no such person as Hidetomo Nakadai existed.  There is no historical work called &quot;Shogun no Rin&quot; (&quot;Shogun Scrolls&quot;).  Author Stephen Kaufman is also known through his previous two books as someone who does not mind altering ACTUAL historical documents in an effort to get them to conform to his desired meaning (he has done this with Musashi's &quot;Book of Five Rings&quot; as well as Sun Tsu's &quot;Art of War&quot;).  He also tends towards the ignorant, referring to both Minamoto and Hidetake by their first names, a blooper nobody who'd taken a year of Japanese history or language would commit.<br />As there are a number of true century-old documents which offer advice on bushido to warriors and leaders and have been translated into English and are also much more thorough in scope and clearer in context (&quot;Hagukure&quot; and &quot;Budoshoshinshu&quot; come to mind), I fail to see why Kaufman crafted this spurious work in the first place!  In his introduction, he mentions Machiavelli's &quot;The Prince&quot;, (page viii) which suggests that this book of his may have been inspired by that work (I am inclined to believe this is his creative interpretation of that book).  Kaufman also admits that &quot;As a working philosopher and motivation lecturer, I am not interested in actual historical events...&quot; (page viii).  Nonetheless, Stephen Kaufman is NOT clear about the veracity of this book, never once warning the reader that this is not a work of fact, but an imaginative fictitious hodgepodge concocted by his active imagination and incomplete knowledge of Japanese history.  <br />Generally, there is a belief common among martial artists (and others) that people should conduct themselves honorably. This includes being truthful and honest--NOT being misleading.  There are undoubtedly a number of well-meaning people who in seeking an education in Budo, have stumbled upon Kaufman's book &quot;The Shogun Scrolls&quot; and trusting the author's words, taken them as historical fact.  Whatever Kaufman's motivation in doing this, I cannot believe his intentions were good.  What a pity that Kaufman couldn't present his own honest philosophical views, in a straightforward manner and in his own words, perhaps using actual historical events as his base.  If only he could banish his ego to impart wisdom to his readers rather than leaving them misguided, ignorant, annoyed and confused.	2003-02-23
US	52661871	R1Z7PBUNOG6HMA	0804830207	443030063	Martial Artist's Book of Five Rings	Books	2	45	47	N	N	A Personal Interpretation of Musashi's "Book of 5 Spheres"	I have no doubt about the author's sincerity in offering this personal interpretation of Musashi's original work, \\"Book of 5 Spheres\\" (or \\"The Book of 5 Rings\\"). The problem I have with what Stephen Kaufman has done to Musashi's book deals more with his implied suggestion that this edition is the result of an actual ~translation~ which he was responsible for (see pages xi-xii, \\"Translator's Note\\"). In fact, when asked Mr. Kaufman has admitted that this volume (and some others he has written) are not translations at all, but rather his own personal interpretations of English translations done by other authors--something he DOESN'T bother to communicate to his readers. The title of this volume, at odds with the \\"translator's note\\" on pgs xi -xii, is actually \\"...The Definitive _Interpretation_ of Miyamoto Musashi's Classic Book of Strategy\\". I fail to understand why Kaufman confuses his readers by mixing and matching interpretation with translation. It should be noted that Mr Kaufman himself does NOT speak or read Japanese, and in fact innocently named his own martial arts school \\"Dojo no Hebi\\" (\\"Place of Practice's Snake\\"), when he was trying for \\"Dojo of the Snake\\" (which in Japanese would have been \\"Hebi no Dojo\\", meaning \\"The Snake's Place of Practice\\"). Innocent mistakes yes, but one would expect a Black belt of the 10th Dan (degree grade) and a proclaimed \\"Hanshi\\" (master practitioner) to at least check his spelling with someone who _could_ speak the language he was using.<br />Kaufman doesn't bother to provide a bibliography of which English translations he used, nor does he include notes explaining how he drew his conclusions from the texts he studied. I am bothered by the fact that many of Musashi's words have been heavily edited, re-arranged, or deleted altogether by this author until they have been removed entirely from their original context. In doing this, Mr. Kaufman has actually ALTERED the _meaning_ of Musashi's work! What remains appears to be littlemore than a new age self-help guide for modern martial artists which has retained a smidgeon of flavor from Musashi's original work. <br />A brief example illustrating Kaufman's tendancy to put his own words in Musashi's mouth is in the fourth paragraph on page 6 of Kaufman's book. Kaufman reworks Musashi's words regarding Merchants as a class to read, \\"Merchants are a ridiculed class because they produce nothing except profit from the work of others.\\" Two other men who have actually translated Musashi's work from the original Japanese suggest nothing sinister in Musashi's original work. Victor Harris in his translation of \\"A Book of Five Rings\\" offers: \\"The way of the merchant is always to live by taking profit\\" (page 41, 1974). Translator Thomas Cleary offers the same sentence as: \\"Whatever the business, merchants make a living from the profits they earn acording to their particular status\\" (page 7, 1993). This is a minor demonstration of the differences between Kaufman's work and those offered by actual translators--the translators make an effort to convey to the reader the actual meaning of Musashi's words in English, while Kaufman crafts a meaning which never existed in Musashi's work. Suffice to say, Kaufman's interpretation seems heavily influenced by his modern view of martial arts and his concept of what samurai may have been like four centuries ago. It bears little resemblance to competent translations of Musashi's writings. <br />I recommend two excellent translations of Musashi's work which stay true to the original Japanese. The first is \\"A Book of Five Rings\\" translated by Victor Harris, a mechanical engineer and technical interpreter of Japanese language who not only practiced kendo (Japanese fencing), but studied this art in Japan for 3 years under Ito Kyoitsu at the Seijudo Dojo. A second recommendation is \\"The Book of Five Rings\\" by Thomas Cleary, another professional translator. Unlike Kaufman, I did not find translations by these men to be \\"intellectual exercises in translating Japanese to English\\" (pg xi). I found legitimate translations by competent translators who were clear and direct...I suspect most scholarly people, whether students of martial arts or not, will draw a similar conclusions upon comparing Kaufman's book to any actual translation.	2003-02-23
US	52661871	R21PQ0L48LR59C	0879759844	171804759	Why I Am Not a Muslim	Books	4	64	82	N	N	A Unique and Rare Dissenting Work!	I first read Ibn Warraq's \\"Why I am not a Muslim\\" after discovering it in my university's library years ago. I neglected my studies for an entire day to read this fascinating book, it being the first dissenting view of Islam I had ever seen--and by a former Muslim no less. <br />Two things make this book unique in a sea of other repetitive books about Islam, Prophet Muhammed, and the Quran. As many sects of Islam believe that apostates (people who renounce Islam as a religion) are fair game for assasination in God's name, Warraq has taken a very courageous step in these dangerous times by expressing his views in print. He backs up his points with solid referrences, the majority of these drawn from Muslim sources. Secondly, it should be pointed out that this is not a \\"conversion\\" book--the author seems to hold an agnostic world view, and while offering critical insight regarding Islam drawn from his own experiences as a former Muslim, displays no bias in favor of Christianity or Judaism. Ibn Warraq uses Islamic doctrine to tear down Islam, pointing out the many contradictions and ethical dilemmas that educated Muslims have been aware of (and often tried to resolve) for decades. <br />Ibn Warraq includes a history of Islam as a religion to familiarize readers who know nothing about it. Chapters include topics such as the authoritarian nature of Islam, Mohammed's message, Influences and problems with the Koran, oppression of women in Islamic countries, and oppression (social, political, of other religions) as well. This volume includes a thorough bibliography and index.<br />One point author Ibn Warraq communicates well is the incredible double standard whereby some Muslim nations decry lack of freedom for Muslims abroad, yet at home continue to allow (and often encourage) the persecution of non-Muslims. Without missing a beat, Warraq also demonstrates how Islamic doctrine has been used as a political tool by \\"Islamic\\" dictators and regimes to oppress...Muslims! Dissent among Muslims is rare. Historically, most dissenters didn't live too long...heck, today in Islamic nations most dissenters don't live long either--I suppose some things are slow to change. <br />There is beauty in dissent, and the Highest and Noblest Blessing is Freedom. Do take the opportunity and read Ibn Warraq's interesting contribution.	2003-02-21
US	52661871	R3UMH54P590ROI	0834804913	926909699	The Art of Holding: Principles & Techniques	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Incredibly Thorough Volume on a Specific Subject!	If you already have Mark Tedeschi's Huge 1136-page Hapkido book, you're probably wondering what makes this volume on holds any different.  The main difference is this: The big Hapkido book _does_ include every technique shown here. However, the detail in this volume is much more exact--the big Hapkido book was so inclusive that the author was limited to showing 2-3 photos to illustrate a hold or thorw.  This volume on holds uses an average of 5-9 photographs per technique, including close-ups. The descriptive narrative is also more specific in this volume.  So if you would like a volume which is incredibly specific on the subject of holds and locks, this book is the thing!  If you already have the big book, and don't really need the extra detail, then this volume would probably be redundant.<br />I should add that I am pleased with the quality of the volumes put out by the publisher, Weatherhill.  Clear photographs are printed on slick acid-resistant paper, and the boards of these volumes are covered with a laminated paper that will resist picking up sweat (or any other of those wonderful things we get on our books while taking them on the mat or discussing techniques after practice).  Tedeschi has gone the extra mile in making ALL of his books as specific as possible.  Most of the techniques shown include extra photographs and diagrams of bones, muscles, and pressure points as they apply to the specific technique.  For instance, the section on chokes and head locks includes 6 pictures of wrist action along with two diagrams of pressure points on the hands--and the explanation of why you align your wrist in a certain way, and how it is the most effective biomechanical method.  This, similar photo-diagrams showing the difference between Basic Entries and Forced Entries, Eliminating free play in a choke, the importance of body positioning, types of chokes, major targets (again, several pictures naming areas with their pressure point location &amp; proper location name), and attack points--this is before he even begins to show and describe a variety of chokes!<br />This specific volume includes an overview (history, types of holds, comparing holds from different martial arts, responsible use of force), then fundamentals (breakfalls, concepts, principles, stances, footwork, etc.), Wrist Locks (10 different), Arm Locks (16 of them!), shoulder locks (12), Finger Locks (18 kinds, 8 applications), leg locks (12), Chokes &amp; Head Locks (32), Nerve Holds (20), Defenses Against Chokes and Head Locks (10), and Defenses against Joint Locks (10).  Tedeschi includes a complete bibliography of his sources.	2003-02-16
US	52661871	R21CJQWC0Y052R	1568590296	329505225	Twenty Three Years: A Study of the Prophetic Career of Mohammad	Books	5	90	94	N	Y	Fascinating View of an Interesting Historically Relevant Man	While fundementalist Muslims in Iran could silence Ali Dashti's voice and still his heart, they failed to supress his words.  Dashti evidently put a lot of careful heartfelt thought into his volume \\"Twenty Three Years: A Study of the Prophetic Career of Mohammed\\".  If you've become dreary and nauseated from reading  inflated proselytizing puff pieces on the life of Mohammed, founder of the Islamic religion, then what a treat this book will be!  Dashti is cautious and considerate in his handling of issues touchy within the sphere of Shi'ia Islam.  He is clear in communicating whether something is from a specific source, opinion, or theory.  <br />With this volume, Dashti took the courageous step of looking at Mohammed as a human: capable of mistakes, capable of anger, capable of being unjust, as are any of us.  This perhaps, is what kindled so great a rage in the men who imprisoned him and tried to obliterate his words.  I wouldn't call Dashti anti-Islamic, for I found nothing suggesting he was trying to destroy Islam, not a speck of evidence that he was trying to promote Atheism in the stead of religion.  However, I am not surprised that unreasonable forces who disagreed with his point of view felt so threatened by his words.  It can be a dangerous task, sorting out the facts--especially if those facts disagree with popular opinion, or the version supported by people who are more powerful and can make your life tough.  Or take your life away.<br />Make a fundamentalists eyes bug out, make an Ayatollah's face turn red--buy and READ Ali Dashti's book.  Keep the idea alive and appreciate the freedom to have ideas that are forbidden to so many others.	2003-02-16
US	52661871	R1J3DGXI9GYR5Z	0834804905	797037448	The Art of Throwing: Principles & Techniques	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	Well Done, Carefully Constructed Book on Throwing Techniques	If you already have Mark Tedeschi's Huge 1136-page Hapkido book, you're probably wondering what makes this volume on throwing techniques any different. The main difference is this: The big Hapkido book ~does~ include every technique shown here. However the detail in this volume is much more exact--the big Hapkido book was so inclusive that the author was limited to showing 2-3 photos to illustrate a hold or throw. This volume on Throws uses an average of 5-9 photographs per technique, including close-ups. The descriptive narrative is also more specific in this volume. So if you would like a volume which is incredibly specific on the subject of throwing techniques, this book is the thing! If you already have the big book, and don't really need the extra detail, then this volume will probably be redundant.<br />Tedeschi has grouped the techniqes into six major categories: shoulder Throws (12 techniques), hip throws (14 techniques), Leg throws (12 techniques), Hand Throws (26 techniques), Sacrefice Throws (10 techniques)Kick-counter throws (16).  Also a set of 20 combinations (throw to lock), and a vital section on Defenses against throws (24 defenses shown). You might also be wondering whether the techniques shown in this book are too specific to Hapkido to be of any use to you if you practice say, judo or another martial art.  The nice thing about Tedeschi's books is that he has studied a variety of grappling arts--and come to the same realization the rest of us have over the years.  An inside shoulder throw is still an inside shoulder throw--whether you call it that in Japanese, Korean, Chinese, or English.  Tedeschi's 4-volume series makes no distinction as to language or culture--every technique in this book is referred to by it's English name.<br />I should add that I am pleased with the quality of the volumes put out by the publisher, Weatherhill. Clear photographs are printed on slick acid-resistant paper, and the boards of these volumes are covered with a laminated paper that will resist picking up sweat (or any other of those wonderful things we get on our books while taking them on the mat or discussing techniques after practice). Tedeschi has gone the extra mile in making ALL of his books as specific as possible. Most of the techniques shown include extra photographs and diagrams of bones, muscles, and pressure points as they apply to the specific technique.  This is the first technical martial arts book by any author where I've seen this sort of exacting detail on virtually every technique.  And to think, he doesn't call himself Grandmaster or wear anything but a plain black belt.nated paper that will resist picking up sweat (or any other of those wonderful things we get on our books while taking them on the mat or discussing techniques after practice). Tedeschi has gone the extra mile in making ALL of his books as specific as possible. Most of the techniques shown include extra photographs and diagrams of bones, muscles, and pressure points as they apply to the specific technique.  This is the first technical martial arts book by any author where I've seen this sort of exacting detail on virtually every technique.  And to think, he doesn't call himself Grandmaster or wear anything but a plain black belt.	2003-02-16
US	52661871	R1XS0KOC2P0OKZ	0517415283	850830152	Book of Five Rings: The Classic Guide to Strategy	Books	5	64	70	N	N	Places Musashi in an Historical Context	What I prefer about Victor Harris's translation of Musashi Miyamoto's book is the fact that Harris has gone through exacting lengths not just to present an accurate translation in the context of a 17th-century samurai, but to present Musashi in his proper historical context.  As opposed to every other English translation I have read, this one includes a chapter which gives a biography of Musashi, and shows many of his creations, such as paintings (including a self-portrait), tsuba (swordguards), etc.  We can see where Musashi stayed, and what his grave looks like, etc.  For clarity in understanding, this volume, along with the translation by Thomas Cleary, are the best.  I should justify that by explaining that I practice martial arts--for those of you looking for a business oriented edition, there are several translations and interpretations out there which are geared towards your needs.  For those of you involved in the practice of martial arts, sports, or with an interest in historical strategy texts, I heartily recommend this translation!  <br />Whay does this book discuss?  Musashi's masterpiece eschews practice, and decries vanity, ego, and \\"secrets\\".  Musashi was a practitioner of Zen Buddhism, and the influence of Zen philosophy can be seen everywhere in his writing.  This is however, definately a book on the strategy of swordsmanship, and not a treatis on religion.  Musashi Miyamoto fought in a number of duels--back in the era of true challenge matches--when usually the victor was the man left living!  The realities of his times, the fact that life was so cheap and had to be guarded fiercly, and that Musashi succeeded in doing this is what makes his writing even more precious.  This was the book Musashi passed on to the students of his school, the unusual two-bladed Ni-to Ryu (two-sword school).  For more on the historical Musashi Miyamoto, read Makoto Sugawara's excellent (non-fiction) \\"Lives of Master Swordsmen\\".	2003-02-15
US	52661871	R35N3XF0JGMUVU	0834804441	361314640	Hapkido: Traditions, Philosophy, Technique	Books	5	57	58	N	N	Most Thorough of the Big Hapkido Books!	There are two groups of people who will want a book this thorough: serious practitioners of Hapkido or Hapkido bases systems (kuk sool, hwarangdo, etc.), and martial artists who are serious about studying and understanding techniques from any source.  Author Mark Tedeschi has worked hard to provide a complete and non-biased book on the subject of Korean Hapkido.  From the beginning, Tedeschi offers a series of interviews with the masters of Hapkido based systems, allowing each teacher to offer his knowledge in his own words, rather than lumping this information together to form a general history (he has included a section on history as well, which includes pictures of Hapkido founder Choi Yong-shul and the logos of prominent hapkido associations).  We hear the voices of Choi Yong-shul (1982 interview by Jong-bae Rim, Joseph sheya, Ken Cross, and Chin-il Chang), Han-jae Ji, Bong-soo Han, Kwang-sik Myung, Tae-man Kwon, Jong-bae Rim, Merril Jung, Joo-bang Lee, In-hyuk Suh, He-young Kimm, Wally Jay, and Willy Cahill.  There are detailed sections on anatomy, accupoints and meridians, pressure points, philosophy, etc.  The first part of the book, which includes all of this pertinent information (this is BEFORE the section on techniques!) is 180 pages!  <br />Tedeschi doesn't skimp anywhere.  Every section is complete--the technical portion of the book opens with revival techniques (most other books have this information at the end, if at all).  Sections move on to stancesm rolling (for falls), attack points, hand strikes, standing kicks, knee strikes, ground kicks, kicks for blocking, jumping kicks, etc.  Thoroughly covered are holds, locks, throws, strikes, combinations, etc.  Tedeschi shows common and uncommon uses, and differs from the vast majority of books on Hapkido and other martial arts by offering the HOW and WHY of each technique, as well as helpful advice one would normally get from a teacher after oh say, 3-7 years and deep research on one's own.  There are sections on weapons (the traditional hapkido weapons--staff, sword, short sticks, rope, cane, etc.), and a bibliography and index at the end.  This is also the LONGEST book on ANY martial art that I know of, at 1136 pages.  Tedeschi keeps no secrets, and puts on no airs.  He is honest, humble, and to the point.  <br />I can only wonder at the effort it has taken to assemble this volume, and the drive of the author to be so complete in his assessment and documentation.  Although the other big Hapkido books are nice (Suh and Seo's books on Kuk Sool, Kimm's and Myung's books on Hapkido, Joo Bang Lee's volumes on Hwarangdo), nothing, on any grappling or striking art, compares to the depth of this single volume.  That this book is so affordable surprises me--books with half the information sell for more!  This volume is a value and a treasure.	2003-02-15
US	52661871	R2CVFW2EBU1E9X	1556432534	480102061	The Power of Internal Martial Arts: Combat Secrets of Ba Gua, Tai Chi, and Hsing-I	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Answers Questions, MUCH More than a How-To...	Bruce Kumar Frantzis is one of the few westerners who has studies martial arts for over 10 years in Asia, and then returned to teach and discuss the arts he learned candidly.  This book offers a wealth of information on Chinese lineage Internal Martial Arts.  The focus is upon the combat usefulness and qualities of the three traditional internal styles, namely Tai Chi Chuan (Taiji Chuan), Hsing Yi(Xingyi), and Pa Kua (Bagwa).  In this volume, Frantzis does not simply describe &quot;what Tai Chi is&quot;, he explains the principles and characteristics of each art, and goes into intricate detail concerning points specific to each of the major internal martial arts and how they can be applied.  I should add here that this book will probably best serve as an aid to students of internal (or other) martial arts who are interested in theory and combat effectiveness, and have a working knowledge of how the physical techniques of the martial arts discussed are executed.  There are NO instructional sequences of pictures to describe techniques in this book.  If you are not familiar with the internal arts discussed, you would be best off watching a few classes, a video or two, or picking up a decent instructional manual first to get a feeling for how movement is made physically.  For those already familiar, you should have no problem at all.<br />In one section Frantzis Describes the similarities and differences between the three main internal arts, something I have seen no other book do.  This book has no sacred cows, and that I appreciate!  Another feature I found attractive was the inclusion of &quot;mini-chapters&quot;, or sidebars which included Frantzis's personal experiences, for instance, on pages 16-19 at the end of chapter 1, where he discusses travelling to Taiwan in 1968 to learn under the amazing Pa Kua master Wang Shu Jin (there are pictures of Wang).  There are little sections like this throughout the book discussing certain masters of Tai Chi, Hsing Yi, Chi, Pa Kua, and others. Frantzis's style of writing is warm and personal.  It is an enjoyable read, and not a chore.  He is one of a few authors whose experiences remind me of Robert W. Smith and Mark Salzman, two other deserving writers on martial arts whose works I enjoy.a Kua, and others. Frantzis's style of writing is warm and personal.  It is an enjoyable read, and not a chore.  He is one of a few authors whose experiences remind me of Robert W. Smith and Mark Salzman, two other deserving writers on martial arts whose works I enjoy.	2003-02-15
US	52661871	RFVXN2WSE1O96	0804832056	314163183	Okinawan Karate: Teachers, Styles and Secret Techniques	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A Personal Journey Through the Homeland of Karate	Mark Bishop offers us a look at karate on Okinawa.  Not in the usual manner, wherein an author tries to explain techinques through pictures and words, but through descriptions of his discussions with practitioners of different styles of karate and kobudo (traditional weaponry), and descriptions of the many dojo (schools) he visited.  Bishop includes photos of the places he visited and the masters he met throughout the volume, and for most schools offers lineage charts showing who the major instructors of each master were, and that teacher's senior students.  One emerges with a new awareness of and appreciation for the diversity of Okinawan Karate, both in practice and philosophy.<br />The author breaks down the book into three major sections. The first of these is on styles and teachers of Karate directly related to Chinese Boxing (&quot;kung fu&quot;), such as Jukendo, Ryuei-ryu, Goju-ryu, Uechi-ryu, Pangai Noon, and Kojo-ryu.  section Two is concerned with Shorin-ryu styles of karate, including Matsumura Orthodox shorin-ryu, Ishmine-ryu, Tomari-te, Shorinji-ryu, Matsubayashi-ryu, Chuba-ryu, Isshin-ryu, Shorin-ryu (shaolin), Ryukyu Shorin-ryu, Kobayashi Shorin-ryu, Kushin-ryu, Kenwa Mabuni Shiito-ryu, Shinpan Shiroma Shiito-ryu, Tozan-ryu, and Okinawan Kempo.  The third section of this book delves into schools and instructors of Kobudo (traditional weaponry), includingHoshin-ryu, Yamani-ryu, Uhuchiku Kobudo, Ryukyu Kobudo, Matayoshi Kobudo, Motobu-ryu, and Bugeikan.  Also included are appendixes with a map of Okinawa (detailed names of each region of the Island), a Kata (form) chart showing what kata each school of karate practices, a list and description of Kobudo weapons, and addresses of major teachers and schools in Okinawa.  This is probably the best guide to different forms of Okinawan martial arts, since the author is able to include his personal observations, and not simply a collection of data from other sources.	2003-02-15
US	52661871	RXJXXCYYL9UUD	0517415283	850830152	Book of Five Rings: The Classic Guide to Strategy	Books	5	24	29	N	N	Musashi in an Historical Context & Best Translation	What I prefer about Victor Harris's translation of Musashi Miyamoto's book \\"Go Rin no Sho\\" is the fact that Harris has gone through exacting lengths not just to present an accurate translation in the context of a 17th-century samurai, but to present Musashi to us in his proper historical context. As opposed to every other English translation I have read, this one includes an in-depth biography of Musashi prior to the translation, and shows many of his creations, such as paintings (including a self-portrait), tsuba (swordguards), etc. We can see where Musashi lived and practiced, what his grave looks like, etc. For clarity and understanding, this volume, along with the translation by Thomas Cleary, are the best. I should justify that by explaining that I practice martial arts--for those of you looking for a business oriented edition, there are several translations and interpretations out there which are geared towards your needs. For those of you involved in the practice of martial arts, sports, or with an interest in historical strategy texts, I heartily recommend this translation! <br />Whay does this book discuss? Musashi's masterpiece eschews practice, and decries vanity, ego, and \\"secrets\\". Musashi was a practitioner of Zen Buddhism, and the influence of Zen philosophy can be seen everywhere in his writing. This is however, definately a book on the strategy of swordsmanship, and not a treatis on religion. Musashi Miyamoto fought in a number of duels--back in the era of true challenge matches--when usually the victor was the man left living! The realities of his times, the fact that life was so cheap and had to be guarded fiercly, and that Musashi succeeded in doing this is what makes his writing even more precious. This was the book Musashi passed on to the students of his school, the unusual two-bladed Ni-to Ryu (two-sword school). For more on the historical Musashi Miyamoto, read Makoto Sugawara's excellent (non-fiction) \\"Lives of Master Swordsmen\\".	2003-02-15
US	52661871	R1JTEP0BZFBC9M	0804811636	940345206	The Essence of Okinawan Karate-Do (Shorin-Ryu) (English and Japanese Edition)	Books	5	51	52	N	N	Original Okinawa Karate &amp; Kata Bible in English	Shoshin Nagamine's book is invaluable to anyone who studies Shorin-ryu Karate, or a school related to or derived from Shorin-ryu.  Although Nagamine's volume was originally published in English in 1976, it still sets the standard for other books on the subject of Okinawan karate (I don't know of any English volume as thorough--and I own over 3,000 martial arts books).  It is also the only English language Shorin-ryu manual to include complete demonstrations of ALL 18 kata of this style, all of which are demonstrated by Mr. Nagamine himself (photos, foot position &amp; stepping diagrams, and narrative).  They include: Fugyu Kata I &amp; II, Pinan 1 through 5, Naihanchi 1-3, Ananku, Wankan, Rohai, Wanshu, Passai, Gojushiho, Chinto, and Kusanku.  Practitioners of styles such as Shotokan and Tang Soo Do will enjoy comparing these older versions of the forms with those they practice today.  This is one of the few books on Karate which could benefit a practitioner at either the basic OR advanced levels, due to the amount and depth of information included within.<br />Another attractive feature of this book is the excellent autobiography which Mr. Nagamine includes.  He writes about personal aspects of his life, his interest in karate and other martial arts (he was also a skilled judoka), and includes a subsection on each of his teachers describing his experience and what he learned.  He describes training with his first teacher, Ankichi Arakaki, and then the famed Chotoku Kyan, and the kempo master Choki Motobu.  Nagamine offers his personal thoughts on karate training, including a series of precepts which have guided his own studies.  The section on basic techniques (preceeding the lengthy section on kata) shows exactly how each movement is to be performed, and includes detailed photographs from the start of the technique to its finish.  There are also sections on Kumite (showing 7 sequences and also brief information on breaking objects and makiwara training) and Kobudo(weapons such as sai, bo, nunchaku, etc.).  <br />Concerning Shishin Nagamine, the man was a dedicated karate researcher as well as a skilled practitioner who knew many of the old masters and was friendly with karate men of other styles.  Nagamine's specific style is called Matsubayashi Shorin-ryu.  He was a policeman by trade, and has written a second book called &quot;Tales of Okinawa's Great Masters&quot;, which includes much more about his experiences delving into karate history.	2003-02-15
US	52661871	R3MFCV6HL68PE9	0809246295	886008902	The Grandmaster's Book of Ninja Training	Books	4	24	28	N	N	Dialogue Between Hatsumi and High Ranked Students....	This book is not a physical instruction manual on the art of Ninjutsu--nor is it fiction. It IS an enjoyable journey into Bujinkan Taijutsu/Ninpo, conducted by the Grandmaster himself. Along for the ride are three of his seniormost non-Japanese students, Doron Navon of Israel, and Charles Daniels and Jack Hoban of the United States. This 100 page book is composed of three chapters. The first is in interview between Doron Navon and Hatsumi, the second between Jack Hoban and Hatsumi, and the third between Charles Daniels and Hatsumi. The value of these interviews lies in the fact that these three men in their experience ask questions most of us won't think about for another 10 years or so...and Grandmaster Hatsumi answers them! Includes pictures of Navon, Hoban, and Daniels as well an scarce pictures of Hatsumi with his ninpo teacher, Takamatsu Sensei. <br />If you are looking for the essence of ninjutsu as a martial art, this is one of a handful of books which can offer some real insight to what the art is and what it means. Hatsumi discusses subjects which aren't covered in any other books, such as the skill of Akimoto, another student of his teacher, Takematsu (page 54-55). He clarifies many points, including the art he is teaching, saying: \\"I am, of course, teaching ninjutsu, but...the grades that are awarded all over the world are grades only in ninpo taijutsu\\". (page 71)<br />This volume is an excellent companion to the volume authored by Hatsumi and his senior American student, Stephen Hayes which has recently been reprinted, \\"Ninja Secrets from the Grandmaster\\", which is also written in an interview format between teacher and student. If you're seeking to grasp what Bujinkan ninpo (taijutsu) is, books by Masaaki Hatsumi and Stephen Hayes are the most direct.	2003-02-13
US	52661871	R13EVJ8QN2KMIZ	0809247240	435414418	Essence of Ninjutsu	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Spiritual Basis for Ninpo Today...	Narrated by Masaaki Hatsumi, 34th generation lineage holder of the Togakure school of ninpo (and holder of 8 other traditional Japanese martial lineages, at least 6 of which have been verified), This book is the closest thing Hatsumi sensei has written to an autobiography.   Hatsumi introduces us to his teacher, Takamatsu Sensei.  Chapter 2 includes an interview with Takamatsu sensei conducted by Hatsumi, and throughout he discusses his experiences training with his teacher, his love for his teacher, and how he came to understand the ideas Takamatsu imparted to him.  <br />Numerous learning incidents are recounted by Hatsumi, both while training, and also while simply spending time with his teacher.  Each chapter includes a traditional story which imparts something of the spirit of ninpo to the reader.  Hatsumi Sensei's writings are rife with anecdotes, recollections, historical observations, and cautiously thought out conclusions. Most touching I found to be his visit to Takamatsu Sensei's tomb accompanied by the Sensei's daughter, and the thought she shared with him (page 68).  <br />For those looking for an introduction to ninjutsu, I'd recommend Masaaki Hatsumi's other book, &quot;Ninjutsu: History and Traditions&quot;.  For the reader prepared to go beyond learning about ninja weapons and general history, this volume &quot;Essence of Ninjutsu: The Nine Traditions&quot; offers a look at the heart of a kindly man and a profound art.	2003-02-13
US	52661871	R20G6CFD4V0ZC1	1556431570	470792187	Path Notes of an American Ninja Master	Books	4	6	7	N	N	One Man's Journey on the Ninpo Path!	Although I must admit I don't buy into sensational claims of chi power, the supernatural, and such, I found author Glenn Morris's account of his journey along the martial arts path entertaining and enjoyable.  This was one of those books I lost sleep over--reading when I should be getting a good night's rest.  One unique feature of this volume is Chapter 6, \\"The Godan or Master's Test for a Ninja\\", where Morris describes not only how the Go-dan (5th degree black belt) test in Bujinkan Ninjutsu/Taijutsu is conducted, but his own experience taking this test (he failed the first two times).  He writes, \\"The fifth degree means you are a master of the basic physical, mental, and spiritual fundamentals with your own contributions to make to the system.\\" (page 87)<br />Morris describes his philosophy of ninpo (ninja way, path of ninjutsu) as he relates amazing experiences with men such as Masaaki Hatsumi who is one of the world's few ~practicing~ ninpo historians (at least 6 of Hatsumi's 9 ranks in traditional Japanese martial arts have been verified), and Stephen Hayes who is Hatsumi's seniormost American Student (see chapter 8).  There are a plethora of other individuals whose names will no doubt be recognized by Bujinkan folks, esoterica buffs, and amateur martial arts historians alike.  <br />Morris is an interesting man, and has no qualms about candidly sharing his spiritual beliefs and personal experiences with his readers.  He describes seeing different colored auras around people during their practice, sending and receiving chi,and his own experience with the spirituality of sex.  I'm not too sure the colored, shimmering auras Glenn Morris sees are anywhere but in his own mind, and I don't buy his inflated views of his own psychic prowess which he sometimes seems to cloak in selflessness (notably absent when he describes his first two failures during his Go-dan test). My skepticism however, hasn't stopped me from appreciating his unique point of view.  If you enjoyreading the autobiographies of martial artists or interesting people in general, Glenn Morris has written this volume for you!	2003-02-13
US	52661871	R1TRGQ5VK81KNX	080651910X	340294078	Iron Body Ninja: The Secrets of Superior Strength	Books	1	16	23	N	N	Ninjutsu?!! A Confused Author, Perhaps?	The techniques which the author describes most definately have nothing to do with authentic ninja arts (ninpo).  They are a blend between yoga and some of the more superstitious and outdated Chinese Chi-Gong (power building) exercises.  The sole improvement I can see over this author's earlier books is the fact that there has been no outright &quot;borrowing&quot; of materials from authentic and established ninjutsu intructors' published writings.  As there is no bibliography provided, I don't know where the other fanciful theories presented in this volume originated.<br />There are some terrific books on ninjustu out there (anything by Masaaki Hatsumi), and also some wonderful books on Iron Palm and Iron Body training in the Chinese martial arts (Brian Gray's two books come to mind).  I don't like being overly negative, but this book made me feel cheated and I must admit, somewhat embarrassed.  I can't begin to guess at the reasons this author has for bestowing upon his novels such misleading and nonsensical titles.	2003-02-13
US	52661871	R469M7ULQUT9K	1883319293	155775047	Shadow Strategies of an American Ninja Master	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Ruminations of a Ninjutsu Teacher....	Glenn Morris picks up where he left off in his first book, \\"Path Notes of an American Ninja Master\\" (1993). This is not an instructional book on ninjutsu per se (no pictures), although it is chok-full of Morris's further journey on the martial arts /ninpo path (Bujinkan style under Masaaki Hatsumi), anecdotes and interpretations of philosophy, both Asian, Occidental, and other. I found it similar in some ways to Robert Smith's book, \\"Martial Musings\\". Some of Glenn Morris's most interesting views he presents in Chapter 9, \\"Characteristics of Shugyosha Across Cultures\\" (page 169). Shugyosha he defines as a person who is searching for the truth...I have a feeling that this is what Morris is doing with his series of books. <br />There is also the enjoyably opinionated Chapter 11, \\"Mud and Water, Purity and Power\\" where Morris allows his biases against other well known (sometimes questionable) martial artists of our time, to hang out in the wind. Among them Harunaka Hoshino (originally known as Chi Yuan) who created his own ninpo art from Japanese karate and kobudo during the ninja boom, Choi Hong-hi of Taekwon-Do whom he lambasts as having earned only shodan (1st black belt) before his return to Korea from Japan (now, now--nobody promoted Hatsumi sensei to 15th dan), and Genbukan Ninpo's Shoto Tanemora, once a student of Ninja Great Masaaki Hatsumi (and others) whom he dismisses as \\"...another cop...\\" with robotic movements (page 244). Some of the criticisms are fair, some are not...Morris doesn't bother to share his sources.<br />I don't accept Glenn Morris's interpretations and claims concerning the many things supernatural/psychic which pepper his writings--but if I only read things I agreed with, I wouldn't be living! I am, I admit, a cautious skeptic. I find Morris to be overly generous in the way he doles out his faith, often optimistic in accepting theories and studies which have not been scientifically counducted or checked, although even he draws the line at things like Alien abductions (see Chapter 13, pages 312-316). On the other hand, his insights are honest, and personal. In sharing his beliefs, he hides nothing, holds back nothing. Reading between the (esoteric) lines without any adaptation or interpretation, I find much of the advice he offers on this volume to be homespun, and often sensible. <br />Morris seems a cross between a scholar-warrior and a pseudo-intellectual hippy. This book is entertaining and fun to read. You don't have to share the man's opinions or beliefs to enjoy his adventures. If you enjoy martial arts autobiographies, or reading the personal thoughts of other people, this volume is just the thing.	2003-02-13
US	52661871	R3KWQINZC2VHRF	0897893468	879285317	Warrior Dreams: The Martial Arts and the American Imagination	Books	5	8	8	N	N	If You Want a Book that SAYS something About Martial Arts...	This volume goes far beyond the usual regurgitations we hear in the martial arts world.  Author John J. Donohue takes what is perhaps the deepest look yet in print at how and why our society understands and perceives martial arts as it does.  I will relate a few concepts here from each of the eight chapters of the book.  The author's thoroughness and inclusiveness have made it impossible to touch on all of the topics which he connects connects in each chapter.  The majority of the author's practical Martial arts studies have been in Japanese arts, so Japanese terminology is used in most circumstances (definitions offered, glossary in back too).  This should not be construed as a bias _against_ non-Japanese arts, but instead as the author admission of the limitations of his own experience.  It does not in my opinion, impact the ideas he imparts, which go beyond where an art may have originated and probe concepts most combative arts possess.  Donohue manages to put concepts that we've known existed into words--and he does so skillfully.<br />In chapter 1, \\"A Warrior Dream\\", Donohue considers mysticism in the martial arts, writing, \\"An overly mystical approach to the martial arts is usually symptomatic of a lack of familiarity with them on the part of Western observers. (11)\\" He links the quest for self-definition to a sense of accomplishment through acquiring skill, and the exploration of the mystic.  The second chapter, \\"Form and Function: Martial Systems in Cross-Cultural Perspective\\", Donohue examines combative and martial practices in cultural perspective.  He takes for his examples among others, the expansion of the Zulu as a result of their innovative military system, Josephus remarks on the extensive training of Roman soldiers as cause for their success, and the tendancy to teach soldiers in modern military forces basic yet efficient training, touching on how technology has lessened the dependence on hand-to-hand skills for survival on the battlefield. <br />Inthe next chapter, \\"The Asian Martial Arts: Just So and Just-so Stories\\" Donohue shows that the ways in which martial arts are interpreted are the result of many factors.  He offers a brief history which covers the development of martial arts in Japan and China, and then the relation between moral and mystical belief in martial arts, and prevailing religious/philosophical practices of the cultures in which they developed such as Confucianism, Taoism, and Buddhism.  Discussed in-Depth are the notions of Ki, Haragei, and Mu-shin, etc...  Chapter four \\"Martial skills, Marginality, and Moral Force: Mythic Dimensions in the image of the American Warrior\\" seeks to explain why martial arts are so popular with Americans, and how they fit into the myth of the rugged individual as competent fighter.  He shows that most films which cater to this genera contain similar elements meant to suggest to the viewer the independence of their main characters.  An interesting chart compares \\"Shane\\" with \\"Lethal Weapon\\" and \\"Above the Law\\".  <br />\\"Training, Adaptation, and Elaboration: The American Dojo\\" is the fifth chapter, and deals with heirarchy, organization, rank, and structure...and the lack of those things in some cases.  Chapter six, \\"Mystery and Mastery: The Added Dimension in the Martial Arts\\" concerns itself with the reliance on mystical and quasi-magical explanations of qualities such as Ki by many American martial artists, and how many prefer Asian combatives because they possess this dimension.  Chapter Seven, \\"The Search for a Center\\" tackles the idea of conforming to the norms of the martial arts group in dress, behavior, and practice.  The last Chapter, \\"Wave People\\", covers the diversity of meaning that can be found in the symbols of martial arts.<br />The insights offered by John Donohue in this book put my practice in a new perspective.  There are different ways of seeing and experiencing martial arts that go beyond variations of style or nationalistic flavor.  Fora deeper understanding of what we're doing and why we're doing it, give this book a try.	2003-02-10
US	52661871	RW0D03PIQ7LZT	1556431619	598941389	Women in Aikido	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Biographies of some of the U.S.A.'s Premier Female Aikido-ka	What makes this book valuable are the unique and candid insights offered by the women interviewed.  All are interesting--and each differs markedly from the others in experience and interpretation of what Aikido is, what Aikido means.  Because some people seem to be frightened by anything which includes women alone, I should probably mention that this is NOT a &quot;man-bashing&quot; book.  It simply focuses upon the experiences of a unique subgroup of people--women Aikido-ka (Aikido Students).  Nor would I categorize this as a &quot;woman's book&quot;, as I think that ANY aikido practitioner, male or female, will appreciate and enjoy the recollections of the unique people featured here.  <br />While it is popular (and conveniently pithy) to say that there is no difference between male and female in Aikido, the truth is that women often are treated differently by other Aikido people (or in certain organizations), sometimes because of the teacher's view of them as females, sometimes because they as individuals have different views, needs or goals.  We are living in the real world, and unfortunately not the pleasant nirvana of ultimate Aikido ideals--people must still cope with fear and sorrow along with joy and power.  The women in this book shy away from neither.<br />The author has put together a unique collection of experiences collected from interviews with a diverse range of women.  If you enjoy reading about the personal experiences of people who delve inside the meaning of their martial art, people who love to practice and find meaning, you will enjoy reading this book.  Included are: Catherine Tornbom, Lorraine DiAnne, Carol Sanoff, Cress Forester, Sue Ann McKean, Kathy Park, Diane Daffner, Cyndi Hayashi-Clark, Beth Hall, Sarah Wada, Peggy Berger, and Cheryl Reinhardt.  I hope to see another expanded edition in the future, Andrea Siegel has done an excellent job here!	2003-02-09
US	52661871	RWK1NI9P72HJO	4889960791	444577933	Budo Training in Akido (Best Karate)	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Valuable Pre-WWII View of Ueshiba Morihei's Aikido!	This is the English translation of the volume by Aikido Founder Ueshiba Morihei called &quot;Budo Renshu&quot; (&quot;Budo Training&quot;).  Ueshiba Sensei's first book, this volume was originally published in 1933.  Techniques are illustrated with drawings and accompanied by brief narrative instructions. The techniques are MUCH closer (in fact, nearly identical) to Daito Ryu Jujutsu than the flowing post-World War II Aikido, as Ueshiba Sensei was still associated with his D.R.J. teacher, Takeda Sogaku.  You will also get a taste of the original philosophy of Ueshiba's martial art, as a section called &quot;Secret Teachings of Bu-do&quot;, composed of 38 poems he wrote, even includes one poem which alludes to the martial strength of Imperial Japan;<br />&quot; 'Bu' received from the Gods at the beginning of the world,<BR>Is ours for protecting the nation:<BR>The Emperor's exhalted voice!&quot; [....]<br />As most works on Aikido present the philosophy of Aikido developed by Ueshiba Morihei in the aftermath of WWII, this book offers a unique look at the art BEFORE it had reached its final stage of development.  It was written during a period of time when combat was still necessary to survival, and a practical art was more likely to have a &quot;-jutsu&quot; attatched to the end of its name than a &quot;-do&quot;.  This was Aikido in the days before deep philosophical theories and teachings based on love and flow.  Ueshiba sensei was 50 years old at the time this volume was published.  It is a lot of fun to go through this book and compare the techniques with those used in modern forms of Aikido, as well as related schools like Hapkido.  If you're interested in the development of grappling arts or in considering the development of Aikido as an art, this book will be useful for you.	2003-02-09
US	52661871	R34ITE1SHBHCMN	0873642023	484746776	Tang Soo Do: The Way of the China Hand	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Fair Basic Tang Soo Do Book...	This was one of the first economical Tang Soo Do books, first published in 1980.  Author Henry Murphy offers the basic philosophy and techniques to 7th gup (orange belt) in Moo Duk Kwan style of Tang Soo Do.  The information here is both basic and brief. You will not find much on history, and there is only one picture of Grandmaster Hwang Kee standing with C.I. Kim.  For the beginner, this is a nice little volume, focused as it is on the foundations of the art.  The three hyung included in this book are the Ki Cho Hyung Il Bu (first), Ee Bu (second), and Sam Bu (third).  The tenents of Tang Soo Do, philosophy, et cetera.  for a more thorough volume on this specific style, try Kang Uk Lee's &quot;Tang Soo Do&quot;.  If you're afraid you'll skip ahead and want to stay focused on the fundamentals, this book is perfect.	2003-02-09
US	52661871	R36Z9SYP81ROK8	0865680140	688247763	Fighting Art of Tang Soo Do (Unique literary books of the world)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Instruction from a "Golden Era" Tournament Fighter!	Darnell Garcia began studying Karate in 1968 under none other than Chuck Norris. His lineage in the style of Moo Duk Kwan Tang Soo Do then, is Hwang Kee to Jae Chul Shin, to Chuck Norris!  He is one of the few to have defeated none other than Joe Lewis in 1972, which won him the Grand Championship at Ed Parker's famed Long Beach Internationals that year.  This book includes information up to about 2nd Gup (the first red or brown belt rank in most schools), including the first 8 Hyung common in most Moo Duk Kwan schools: the three Ki Cho Hyung (Il Bu, EE Bu, and Sam Bu) and all five of the Pyung Ahn Hyung (Cho Dan, Ee Dan, Sam Dan, Sa Dan, and Oh Dan).      Garcia offers sensible advice on sparring, self defense, philosophy and forms.  This volume is nice to have, but since its original publication in 1982, there have been published books which are more thorough in scope (I recommend Kang Uk Lee's \\"Tang Soo Do\\" for its affordability and depth, and Hwang Kee's \\"Soo Bahk Do Moo Duk Kwan\\" for its historical value). Why this book has been out of print is nother strange but true story of public record.  Garcia became a DEA agent.  Unfortunately he was involved in some illegal deals, fled the law, was captured, and eventually ended up convicted of 2 counts of money laundering, theft and distribution of heroin.  Garcia was given what amounted to an 80-year sentance in 1991, later reduced to 41 years in 2003.  Google \\"Darnell Garcia, DEA\\" for the facts & don't be misled by websites that don't post ALL of the trial documents.  So this book is definately an interesting collector's item, although more recent works are definately more thorough in scope.	2003-02-09
US	52661871	R24GFC63WLDATH	0870409344	10532701	Aikido and Chinese Martial Arts: Its Fundamental Relations Vol.1	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Detailed Overview &amp; Comparison of Chin-na &amp; Aikido	This 332 page volume is the first in a projected 3-volume series.  This first volume compares the philosophy of Chinese Martial arts with that of Aikido, and the empty-handed combative aspects of both arts.  This volume is broken down into four sections.  The first offers a historical context for both Japanese and Chinese martial arts, the second part deals with Chinese martial arts, and is heavily illustrated and includes descriptive narratives to accompany each sequence of photos.  Part three deals with Aikido (specifically the Takemusu style), and illustrated by photos with explanations much the same as part two did for the Chinese arts.  Part four includes direct comparisons of the most common techniques of aikido and Chinese Martial Arts.  <br />This book is heavily illustrated, and apparently intended for people who have an interest in understanding the similarities and differences--in essence, the connections between different &quot;styles&quot; of martial arts.  I do not consider this book to be instructional in nature.  Someone without a basis in martial arts training might have difficulty understanding the depth or point of this book--both Chinese martial arts and Aikido are rather extensive in and of themselves.  The authors of this book are also NOT concerned with proving that one art is superior in any way to the other.  For those with a more studious bent who enjoy considering the possibilities, here is a volume you will enjoy.<br />A note on the co-author's relationship in research: Co-Author Tetsutaka Sugawara Studied Aikido under the arts Founder Morihei Ueshiba beginning in 1960, and has also studied Goju Ryu and Tai Chi--he is the founder of the Minato Research and Publishing Co (Now known as Sugawara Martial Arts Institute).  Co-Author Lu-jian Xing studied Chinese martial arts under Chu-xinag Du, Yan-ling Xing, and others.  He met Sugawara when he came to Japan in 1992 to learn Aikido as an Uechi-deshi (live in student) under Sugawara at the Sugawara Institute, and the two commenced their comparative study of these martial arts.  The second volume in this series has been published, and deals with weapons aspects of both Chinese Arts and Aikido.  I eagerly await the third volume in this series...	2003-02-09
US	52661871	R140TWXIOMQNV9	9991587209	249512273	Aiki News Encyclopedia of Aikido	Books	5	0	0	N	N	If You Can Find It, Well Worth It!!!	Author Stanley Pranin includes a huge variety of information in this encyclopedia on people in all different branches of Aikido and related arts, places of historical inretest, specific events, different styles of aikido and their founders, and styles related to Aikido.  Unfortunately, this volume has been out of print for some time.  Pranin does offer an updated CD-ROM version of the Encyclopedia through the online Aikido Journal (formerly Aiki News), but I myself prefer something I can physically handle and access without having to plug in!<br />Includes information about Ueshiba Morihei, Ueshiba Kisshomaru, Takeda Sokaku, Tohei Koichi, Saotome Mitsugi, Saito Morihiru, Tomiki, and many more.  Japanese and non-Japanese instructors are covered, and Stanley Pranin has gone through the trouble of authenticating many of the anks held by prominent Aikido people.  I hope someday we will see an updated version in print!	2003-02-09
US	52661871	R3BU01OISETYD	0870409638	371550551	Aikido and Chinese Martial Arts: Aikido and Weapons Training Vol.2 (Aikido & Weapons Training)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Covers Mid-Range Weapons of Aikido and Chinese martial arts.	Although this is still a terrific book for anyone with an interest in comparitive martial arts study, I didn't feel this volume was as thorough as the first in actually comparing Chinese Martial arts versus Aikido (Takemusu style).  The second in a planned three part series on the Comparative study of Chinese martial arts and Aikido, this book includes sections on Aikido sword and jo (a staff about 36-50 inches in length), and Chinese sword methods.  A paperback volume, the volume I own was printed on quality acid-resistant paper.  I noticed an improvement in the quality of the pictures in this volume from those in the first.<br />Author Sugawara clearly states in the introduction that the theme of this volume is to introduce the reader to the &quot;how to's&quot; of weapons training in both styles, so perhaps volume three of this series will cover what I felt was missing.  As per the statements of the author, this volume DOES give decent coverage to the weapons methods of both Aikido and Chinese Martial practice.  Both Tetsutaka Sugawara and Lu-jian Xing are versed in Aikido and Chinese martial arts (each has extensively studied BOTH), and therefore have a good grasp on the methods and philosophies of both arts.  This has probably helped this series avoid any competitive air between these martial arts, where one might try to &quot;prove&quot; that one method is any better or worse than the other.  This is the first book that has broached the subject of Chinese sword and Aikido Sword in the same volume--I look forward to the third volume in this series.	2003-02-09
US	52661871	R2SEU0W25OGV7I	4770027591	911681110	The Secrets of Okinawan Karate: Essence and Techniques (Bushido--The Way of the Warrior)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Well aranged Book, Compilation of Okinawa Karate Info...	I found most of the information here has already published in other books on Okinawa Karate.  While there isn't a whole lot here that an experienced Karateka will find new, the information has been arranged well, and ascends in an ordered fashion so that the reader can understand one theory in the light of others mentioned previously.  Arakaki discusses principles common to most Okinawa styles, and offers advice on basic techniques.  There is decent historical information, and photos of some of the old Okinawan masters which appear to have been &quot;borrowed&quot; from uncredited sources (many of the pictures show cross-grain which means they were taken from other printed sources).<br />As with most Kodansha books, this volume is a work of top quality.  The printing, photos, quality of the paper and binding is top-notch!  This is a great book for beginners starting out in Shorin-ryu Okinawa Karate, especially those who practice the style of the author, Muso-kai Karate.  For those with more experience, you're probably not going to see anything new here,  and might be better served to consider Nagamine's &quot;The Essence of Okinawan Karate-Do&quot; for technical aspects, or Bishop's &quot;Okinawan Karate: Teachers, Styles, and Secret Techniques&quot; for history of various styles and the lineages of the various master teachers from &quot;way back when&quot;.	2003-02-03
US	52661871	RMBFRFQIUZ6SC	0920129099	771066219	Competition Karate	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Information is Presented in a Somewhat Disjointed Manner...	Nonetheless, Merriman, one of the \\"old heads\\" of Goju Karate in the United States, does dedicate a chapter to demonstrating the Kata for which he is famous, Seiunchin Kata. Most of the information presented here struck me as magazine articles collected into a book. Merriman offers chapters on supplementary exercises, training drills (1-and-2 man), Kumite techniques, refereeing signals, basic skills (right vs. wrong), and the kata Seiunchin. At 91 pages, this book was not intended to be an exhaustive referrence on Goju Ryu Karate. If you're a fan of Kata, or have an interest in any of the other subjects this book briefly covers, it probably won't disappoint. This isn't a badly done book, although I found the organization of the chapters was poor. This little volume is a fair supplement for Goju Ryu stylists, or those with an interest in active competition. I was disappointed that Merriman, with his many years of knowledge and experience, didn't take the opportunity to provide a thorough autobiography--he IS one of the oldest Goju stylists in the West.	2003-02-02
US	52661871	R77MFSEEEPK8R	0920129021	50322411	Traditional Goju Ryu Karate	Books	4	10	11	N	N	No-nonsense Affordable guide to Goju Ryu Karate Do	Author Don Warrener's first book specifically about Goju Ryu Karate-do focuses mainly upon kata.  Illustrated are the five basic kata (forms) unique to Gogen Yamaguchi's line of Goju-Ryu Karate-do (Taikyoku 1-5), as well as the first 10 kata found in all traditional Goju Ryu schools: Gekisai Dai Ichi, Gekisai Dai Ni, Sanchin, Tensho, Saifa, Seiunchin, Sanseirui, Shisochin, Seisan, and Seipai.  This takes the practitioner to about the 2nd or 3rd dan black belt level, depending upon your school of practice.  Some of Warrener's kata renditions differ somewhat from those of &quot;orthodox&quot; Goju schools--for instance, the ending on Saifa shown in this book includes a technique I haven't seen practiced by other Yamaguchi-line students (see page 144).  Nevertheless, I appreciate the fact that this volume doesn't try to drown the reader in basic drill after basic drill to the point of monotony and questionable usefullness.<br />Includes a chapter on Goju Ryu Karate founder Miyagi Chojun's tenents of Goju Ryu, and a section on history describing the development of Goju from Miyagi's early days with Master Higashionna to Yamaguchi's study of Goju which commenced during Miyagi's trip to Japan, and basic techniques (basics coverage is minimal--this volume assumes the student is receiving some sort of person-to-person instruction).  There is even a photo of Warrener with Gogen Yamaguchi, and famed Canadian Sifu Frank Lee.  <br />While this volume in my opinion doesn't approach the technical detail of Morio Higaonna's precise four volume &quot;Traditional Karate-Do: Okinawan Goju Ryu&quot; (I haven't found any books on Karate which have!), it is the most inclusive of the lower-priced guides on this style.  Warrener's succeeding book, &quot;Advanced Traditional Goju Ryu Karate&quot; follows up where this one leaves off.  Warrener was a well-known kata and kumite competitor during the 1960's and '70s.  He originally learned Goju Ryu Karate from Bob Dalgleish, and later advanced under the guidance of karate men such as Richard Kim and Morio Higaonna.	2003-02-02
US	52661871	R2ZXG5SLJ7JQFI	0967654319	915070791	Gene LeBell's Grappling World, The Encyclopedia of Finishing Holds (2nd Expanded Edition)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Humor, Fighting, and 500+ Pages of Information!	Gene LeBell makes learning fun with his humerous approach to grappling in all its forms.  This volume includes techniques commonly found in Judo, wrestling, and a host of other martial arts from Asia to South America.  Author LeBell commences with grips and handles, with gi (jacket) and without-after all the base of grappling is holding on to something (anything!).  He moves on to slap and catch, and then a huge array of arm locks, shoulder locks, writst, hip, leg locks, chokes, strangles, cranks, counters against a boxer, and LeBell's own wide range of special tricks, many which are not commonly found anywhere else.  This volume contains a wealth of information, probably easiest to assimilate for someone who already has a background in wrestling, judo, BJJ or some other art with a lot of ground practice--I had no trouble understanding most of the techniques illustrated within.  You won't find much on judo-like throws here, but then this book isn't geared towards that.  There are plenty of other ways to get your opponent to the ground illustrated in this tome. <br />This is a big, heavy book--a work this complete has never been undertaken before to my knowledge (with the possible exception of the &quot;Fighter's Notebook&quot;).  There are many practical techniques, many &quot;forgotten&quot; techniques, and everything from the practical to the incredibly difficult in here.  For the conoisseur of grappling or martial arts in general, you will enjoy yourself!	2003-01-12
US	52661871	R1E2GZDCQZSX3A	0965008509	546964132	Isshinryu Chinto Kata, Secrets Revealed	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Well Researched Applications....	Javier Martinez has worked hard to re-introduce grappling into the bunkai of the Isshinryu version of Chinto Kata.  His basis: research into original Chinese applications of forms, many of which have been ignored or forgotten.  I recommend this volume for anyone with a base in Japanese or Okinawan karate, this is not simply one man's favorite way to do something, and not another guide on striking alone.  Nor need one be a student of Isshinryu to understand and assimilate the ideas conveyed here (I'm not).  Martinez's methods are practical and sensible.  This volume is 56 pages long, shows Isshinryu Chinto in 57 moves, and includes 12 Bunkai (applications).  It is a fact that most of the deveolped Chinese martial arts taught striking as a precursor to locking and throwing (Shuai Chiao master Cheng Tung-sheng emphasized this as well).  At no time does he suggest having all of the answers--the bunkai shown are the results of his efforts.  Martinez has done his homework, and this brief and direct work does deserve our attention.	2003-01-12
US	52661871	R15ZBAMFCN86L4	0911921192	532838952	The Karate Spirit	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Karate Philosophy, Karate Spirit	This volume is composed of a collection of columns originally penned by Randall Hassell for Black Belt Magazine during the early 1980's.  Although Hassell is a Shotokan old timer, I certainly wouldn't limit this book to those who practice only Shotokan, or even just Japanese style karate.  The concepts and personal experiences detailed by the author are universal throughout martial arts study.  Each chapter is lively and covers a philosophical idea.  Hassell recounts actual events which are not only fun to read about, but get their point across.  There is no vague misticism here, you will find plenty of honesty and introspection--beneficial to us all.  This is another winner from Damashi, of benefit to any martial artist who enjoys reading about our arts.	2003-01-12
US	52661871	RX3SIGX7W4K5N	0961512660	257275555	Gene Lebells Handbook of Judo: A Step by Step Guide to Winning in Sport Judo (Heritage Series (Los Angeles, Calif.).)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Competitive Grappling Guide from a Master Technician!	This volume, originally published in 1962, was \\"Judo\\" Gene LeBell's first book.  The basics are covered briefly, and most of the volume is concerned with covering competition techniques and theories, with clear illustrations to explain the dynamics of each move along with precise narrative.  Among others, LeBell expounds upon the Triangle Theory (pg 98), The Outrigger Theory (pg 99), counters, fakes, transitions, and entire chapter devoted to grapevines (immobilizing the lower body), strangles, locks, and true to the spirit of a practical nuts-and-bolts fighter like LeBell, a chapter on banned techniques entitled \\" 'Necking' Not Allowed/Noncompetitive Neck Locks\\", and another on banned leg locks.    <br />This book is in essence a primer on grappling, more than simply a text on competitive judo.  Despite having been originally published over 40 years ago, you will find that the tactics covered in this volume are still relevent and effective in todays world--and that nany of the techniques people credit to Brazilin jiu-jitsu were being used in the US of A long before the Gracies first set foot over here.  I would recommend this and LeBell's other books \\"Grappling World\\" and \\"Grappling Master\\" along with Renzo and Royler Gracie's \\"Brazilian Jiu Jitsu\\" for anyone who has no problem learning from precise technical manuals on grappling.	2003-01-12
US	52661871	R3LJSGVMOX2PVU	0595121314	523230723	Lives in the Shadow: with J. Krishnamurti	Books	5	52	59	N	Y	An Honest Historical Account of Fascinating People!	Radha Rajagopal Sloss's unique book is something of an unofficial biography of 20th century philosopher J. Krishnamurti and the events surrounding his career as a religious/philosophical teacher.  The daughter of Rosalind Williams Rajagopal and husband D. Rajagopal, Radha Rajagopal Sloss's book is not a sordid expose, it is not graphic or insulting.  It is simply a sincere account of her very real experiences growing up in amazing circumstances among amazing people.  There is a lot of information here which isn't included in &quot;official&quot; biographies of philosopher J. Krishnamurti, which helps the reader get a better idea of the politics and humanness which even great men may be affected by.  Author Sloss in fact, mentioned this tendancy of official biographies to ignore or excuse certain parts of Krishnamurti's life as a reason for penning this work. <br />Some of the controversy this book generated is due to the fact that certain students and followers of Krishnamurti believe that he was a living example of a perfect human.  This volume disspells that myth, indeed, he looks quite human throughout this writing.  It was interesting to find how Krishnamurti dealt with some of his biggest stressors, including financial disagreements with friend D. Rajagopal, and the pregnancy (by him) of his dear lover Rosalind Williams Rajagopal.  Radha describes her love of &quot;Krinsh&quot; (Krishnamurti), who was like a second father to her, and how his increasing unwillingness to deal with problems damaged many relationships and people.  Included are numerous letters to and from Krishnamurti, D. Rajagopal and Rosaling Rajagopal, and numerous other individuals who were active on the Theosophical movement or Krishnamurti's teachings.  A very worthwhile read for anyone with an interest in history, philosophy, or the full history of J. Krishnamurti.	2003-01-12
US	52661871	R39KL9L1IY0HPQ	0804819181	404682179	Zen Shaolin Karate	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Superb Interpretations of Sanchin and Naihanchi	The title of this book, &quot;Zen Shaolin Karate&quot; unfortunately conjures the image of an Americanized kenpo style.  Nothing is farther from the truth--Author Nathan Johnson offers a superb interpretation of two of the most widely practiced fundamental kata (forms) of Okinawa Karate, the Sanchin Kata of Goju Ryu, and the Naihanchi Kata of Shorin-ryu.  Johnson has researched these two forms, and reconstructed them as he believes they were performed before being altered to teach to the masses. We see for the first tome in an English language publication, Sanchin performed open handed.  Naihanchin is presented as one complete form in three parts (as researchers believe it was performed prior to Itosu's time).  For both forms, bunkai emphasizing locking and grappling is demonstrated, including close up photos showing how the locks are performed.<br />Johnson is in essence, apparently attempting to reintroduce the older Chinese methods of study, a growing trend among some Okinawa Karate stylists.  My one sticking point with this book is Johnson's lack of bibliographic sources, he isn't very specific about how he did his research and how he reached his conclusions.  What were his influences, who did he talk to, who did he study with, what articles and volumes did he read?  Johnson's second volume, &quot;Barefoot Zen&quot; does much to remedy these questions.  Both volumes are excellent studies which will be helpful to anyone going through the stages of paring down and understanding thri art.	2002-12-30
US	52661871	RGHE9BHP3Q12V	1578631424	851125331	Barefoot Zen: The Shaolin Roots of Kung Fu and Karate	Books	4	23	23	N	N	An Improvment on his previous book, Insightful &amp; Enjoyable	Here Nathan Johnson presents his treatis for the relationship between Buddhist philosophy (primarily zen) and martial arts practice.  He considers authenticity in forms, and examines meaning and concepts related to shaolin.  I don't fully agree with all of his premises, such as the idea that it is more likely a form is &quot;authentic&quot; when its practitioners credit a Buddhist or Taoist creator (many forms were assigned mysterious origin to make the school or founder credible), has a Buddhist name or title (like Ji-on in shotokan), is simple in its movements, etc.  However, Johnson is one of the first who has had the time and energy to research his topics, and formulate theories based upon the how and why, as opposed to simply regurgitating and not questioning older information (the tiresome old &quot;sensei said it, so it is true!&quot; routine).<br />Johnson also examines karate in the greater context of cultural relativity, pondering such oddities as the esoteric meaning of Sanchin kata (&quot;Sanchin is a mandala...&quot;), and tries his hand (well) at debunking many myths and mistaken notions common in karate and kung fu today.  Johnson offers advnanced concepts.  You don't have to buy all of his theories, but reading this book will definately encourage you to consider your forms and martial arts in general in a new light.  <br />This second volume is also a great improvement upon the first, as Johnson explains all of the things that I felt were lacking in that book.  He relates experiences, correspondences, and includes footnotes and a bibliography of sources, crediting quotes sources.  Johnson again demonstrates the fundamental forms of Sanchin and Naihanchin with their applications as in his first book &quot;Zen Shaolin Karate&quot;, but the reader has the opportunity to consider his ideas in a wider context.  Throughout the time I spent reading this work, I was convinced that this is a highly personal effort, sincere and honest to its heart.  Not a grain of arrogance or pretentiousness did I encounter in my reading.  Johnson is not trying to force feed us, on the contrary I felt he was encouraging the same spirit of research and discovery among those who consider his words.  A worthwhile read for the martial artist who is weary of the mundane and repetitive.	2002-12-30
US	52661871	R2V7UKXSOC0YPQ	0946062366	845905890	The History of Karate: Okinawan Goju-Ryu	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Finally Something for Karate History Buffs to Chew on!	Chalk up another terrific book published by Dragon Books.  Morio Higaonna's work (translated by his wife, Alanna Higaonna) does for goju ryu karate what Shoshin Nagamine's book &quot;Tales of Okinawa's Great Masters&quot; has done for shorin-ryu karate.  Finally the rest of us have access to the thoughts of the surviving (at the time of publication) old time karate men.  Higaonna has gone out of his way to locate the men who studied under Kanryu Higaonna and his top student, the humble and skilled Chojun Miyagi.  <br />Higaonna relates the recollections of men like Seko Higa, Seisho Aniya, An'ich' Miyagi, Meitoku Yagi, Yoshimi (Gogen) Yamaguchi, Seiko Kina, Shichi Arakaki and many more.  This volume is packed with valuable historic photos, and includes a number of tables which compare Okinawan, Fujian, and Mandarin names for forms and weapons.  There is an appendix with a number of interesting referrences, including laws imposed upon Okinawa by the Satsuma clan after the Island came under japanese domination, and brief biographies of prominent figures whi influenced the development of Goju, such as White Crane Master Go Ken-ki.  There is a glossary as well as an index.  The only glaring error I found was in the index, where the names of Okinawan persons were cataloged by their first and not last names--evidently a computer error nobody caught.<br />For anyone with a driving interest in Okinawa karate or general Okinawa history, this is an important volume which should not be neglected.  What a pleasure to read!  Higaonna's 4 volume series, &quot;Traditional Karate-Do: Okinawa Goju Ryu&quot; volumes 1-4 is also highly recommended for those seeking a perfect technical guide.	2002-12-30
US	52661871	RDJR94JE46VJB	0809253291	310187545	Ninja Secrets from the Grandmaster	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The Ideal Relationship Between Teacher and Disciple	Hayes has done us an incredible favor in offering a glimpse of what a relationship between a teacher and a disciple should be.  This volume is one long interview between Hayes and his teacher, Bujinkan Taijutsu (ninjutsu) Headmaster Masaaki Hatsumi.  The dialogue is occasionally spiced with interjections from Mrs. Hatsumi and Hayes' wife Rumiko, as topics ranging from medicine, fighting, Tibetan martial arts, ninpo history, theory, philosophy, mikkyo Buddhism, women in martial arts, rank, and many other concepts.  This volume more than any other will answer those funny little questions that puzzle your teacher (in other words, this moves far beyond basics into meaning and understanding).<br />It is honestly a treat to see between two serious martial scholars a relationship built on love, repect, and encouragement without a lot of formal digression.  Stephen Hayes also talks about his early days of involvement in the martial arts.  Hatsumi, a bonesetter (doctor) by trade, is a seasoned martial artist and one of the foremost ninpo scholars alive today.  This volume is excellent when read in sequence with Hatsumi's other book, &quot;Essence of Ninjutsu&quot;, and &quot;The Grandmaster's Book of Ninja Training&quot;, although this is probably the easiest for a non-Bujinkan person to digest.  Keep in mind this is NOT a how-to-be-a-ninja book (no sequence pictures of guys in black stalking about with straight-bladed ninja sword!), most of the volume is dialogue with some still shots of Hayes, Hatsumi, etc. thrown in.  If you're looking for knowledge, this is the book.  It is just a pity that there aren't more works written by such fascinating people in this manner.	2002-12-29
US	52661871	R1FF44SY96ABSW	9995248476	634559671	In Search of Kenpo	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Fanciful work of fiction by deceased Father of Kempo in USA	This 60 page booklet is a collection of stories told by James Mitose to some of the men who studied theory with him while he was incarcerated for his involvement in a murder (Mitose is alleged to have encouraged a student, Terry Lee now known as Nimr Hassan, to have murdered an elderly couple from whom he was extorting money).  The forward to this little volume is written by its editor, Dr. Arnold M. Golub, who explains that this volume was published posthumously as a tribute to Mitose.  <br />Those seeking an instruction manual on Kosho Shorei Kempo (James Masayoshi Mitose style) should be aware that this book contains no information on martial arts instruction.  Nor is this an historical work, there are no photos or discussions other than the same brief introductory paragraphs included in Mitose's reprinted book \\"What is Self Defense?\\".  This is a work of fiction, and there are some rather rudamentary illustrations which accompany the stories.  <br />Some of the tales are Mitose's retelling of popular Japanese myths, like the story of the \\"kendo\\" expert who tests his 3 sons by seeing how they respond to an object which falls upon them as they enter the room (page 4).  Others seem written in such a way as to infer they contain true stories pertenent to the history of Mitose's Kosho Ryu Kempo, but are simply beyond the realm of belief despite being introduced as \\"true\\", as with Mitose's story of a Kosho Kempo master who entered the cage of an angry tiger who first shows agression, only to turn into a gentle big-kitty-cat when the master make the open-palmed Kiashu hand sign in its direction, affectionately rubbing itself against the master and licking his hand!  There is a line of thought among some schools which have ressurected and (re?)constructed Mitose's Kosho Kempo that the teacher's greatest teachings were \\"hidden in plain sight\\".  I suppose one could assign any interpretation they wanted to these stories.  I did not find them particularely well written or morally compelling, but for someone who buys the official history of the Kosho style, I am certain this would be a volume to be treasured.	2002-12-28
US	52661871	RCZFZOA204Y2L	0804811563	415774235	Chinese kung-fu (kenpo): An introduction	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Kung Fu or Kenpo?	While not a badly done book, The title is misleading.  The techniques in this volume are very basic, what one might learn in the first 3 months or so of study.  What is shown is clearly American Kenpo, and bears very little resemblance to any form of Chinese boxing.  Basic blocks, punches, and a few kicks  Nothing on history, this book would probably be of greatest value to someone with no martial arts experience who, due to circumatsnaces (such as living in a rural area where no teacher was available), had no other option for study.	2002-12-28
US	52661871	R3KGPR2DCGZXWQ	1880336480	887240441	Muye Dobo Tongji : Comprehensive Illustrated Manual of Martial Arts of Ancient Korea	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Long Awaited Historical Manuscript!	For years Korean stylists have heard about the Mu Ye Do Bo Tong Ji (MYDBTJ).  FINALLY, we can not only see illustrations from the original woodcuts, but read a decent English translation of the work.  Sang H. Kim has done more in the popular martial arts media (with the possible exception of He Yong Kimm) to explain Korean martial arts to the general public than anyone else.  It says a lot that in the year 2000, someone (Kim) finally found it worthwhile to share the MYDBTJ with the folks who have heard so much about how it impacted the development of their martial art (tae kwon do, hapkido, etc).<br />Compiled from a variety of (credited) Chinese military texts by court official Lee, Dok-mu, the MYDBTJ came into use in Korea during the year 1790, Yi Dynasty.  This 400 page volume offers us an uncommon view of actual practical martial skill utilized in days past, and surprisingly for many of us, finally dispells the myth of the importance of empty handed fighting among warriors of days past.  For with the exception of a single chapter (pg 311-332), the entire focus of this volume is upon drilling with weapons (sword, staff, pole weapons, polo, horsemanship, etc)!  It is of interest to note that in this section, mention is made of sources that refer both to the Shaolin method and death point striking.<br />For a truely excellent perspective on the MYDBTJ, a recommended read is the article \\"Korea's Mu Yei Do Bo Tong Ji: A Sample of Martial Arts training in the Yi Dynasty\\" by John Della Pia in _Journal of Asian Martial Arts_ Vol. 3 #2 (1994).  I should also mention that although the MYDBTJ is compiled from CHINESE documents there are many people who in recent years have used the MYDBTJ as a guide in trying to re-create old-style \\"native\\" Korean martial arts, among them Hwang Kee of the Moo Duk Kwan, various Hapkido and taekwondo teachers and others in Korea who have created both empty handed and sword forms based upon their unique interpretations of the sequences contained in this manual.  It is interesting to obsrve that virtually none of these independent interpretations agree with one another in form or application, suggesting that even folks with the benefit of growing up immersed in Korean language and culture have difficulty understanding this 210 year old work.  This is due in part to vagueness of the illustrations and the terms used to describe the techniques, and the fact that it was originally written in classical Chinese.  The terms include a vernacular which probably referred to commonly known techniques that needed no further explanation for an audience of 18 century soldiers.  The unfortunate fact today is that native Korean martial arts with the exception of taek kyun (kicking), ssireum (wrestling), and archery have been lost to us as have the specifics concerning the skills shown in these manuals drawn from overwhealmingly Chinese sources.  Unfortunately, nothing outside of Korea has been published on either Taek Kyun, Ssireum, or Korean archery.<br />I highly recommend this volume to ANYONE engaged in martial arts practice (regardless of the nationalistic identity of your respective art).  It will offer a unique historical perspective on pre-modern Asian military preparation and drill which is simply unavailable from other sources.  You now have the opportunity to form your own opinions and draw your own conclusions from this fascinating historical document.	2002-12-28
US	52661871	R28XUKED6356V4	0698111664	866832966	Fighting Fit: The Official Israel Defense Forces Guide to Physical Fitness and Self-Defense	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Physical Fitness and Krav Maga	This 1983 volume is composed of two parts: a physical fitness section (includes standards of the Israeli self defense forces at the time of publication), and self defense (Krav Maga).  This was the first volume in English on Krav Maga (self defense), translated by Miriam Schlessinger.  Long before Krav Maga became a trendy (and costly) &quot;martial art&quot;, it was a practical no-nonsense method of defense which could be utilized by anyone, anywhere.  While awareness of Krav Maga has improved, it appears this method of self defense has only recently begun, among some practitioners, to accumulate the same &quot;cultural baggage&quot; which has helped drag down other &quot;traditional&quot; arts which once had practical value--thankfully, I don't think Krav Maga's sensible &amp; short philosophy will allow serious practitioners to become so bogged down in historical and cultural studies that they will be able to neglect practicality.  <br />This volume in its stark simplicity is an interesting contrast to more recently published works on this topic.  Author Colonel David Ben-Asher credits First Sgt. Major Emi Lichtenfeld (Imi Sde-or) and Lt Col. Shaike Barak for the Krav maga section of the book.  The techniques shown are plain and simple self-defense, the same methods shown in other basic volumes.  For a more thorough assessment, see Imi Sde-or and Eyal Yanilov's more recent &quot;Krav Maga&quot;.	2002-12-28
US	52661871	R3CKH2CCS02DWL	0865681708	635927844	Tang Soo Do: The Ultimate Guide to the Korean Martial Art	Books	4	34	35	N	N	Info on Tang Soo Do/Moo Duk Kwan Books: Best Value	To understand why this book is such a good deal, I should first explain a bit about Tang Soo Do Moo Duk Kwan publications in general.  There are a plethora of nice, costly Tang Soo Do/Soo Bahk Do/Moo Duk Kwan manuals available today.  Virtually all of these fancy hardcover tomes range from 50.00 to upwards of 100.00, and don't contain much more than general information on the basics as originally presented in Grandmaster Hwang Kee's 1978 English translation of the \\"Soo Bak Do Dae Gam\\" (Korean), \\"Tang Soo Do: Moo Duk Kwan\\" (More recent reprints use the title \\"Soo Bahk Do: Moo Duk Kwan\\", and are available from the U.S. Soo Bahk Do Moo Duk Kwan Federation for around 90.00).<br />For those of the Moo Duk Kwan lineage (founded by Hwang, Kee), there is also the question of whose book to buy!  After all, Jae Chul-shin, C.S. Kim, Ho Sin Pak, Richard Byrne, and several others all have put out costly hardcover volumes.  Rest assured, they all have the same basic Tang Soo Do information...the only MAJOR difference you will find between all of these expensive volumes is who is pictured doing the techniques, and the name of the organization they now head.  While it is nice to have GM Hwang's books if only for their historical value (especially since GM Hwang's untimely passing in July of 2002), the volume \\"Tang Soo Do: The Ultimate Guide to the Korean Martial Art\\" tops them all by offering the same information for a much lower price (16.95).  Author Kang Uk-lee was dan #70 (1952) under Grandmaster Hwang, and like all of the other authors named above, broke away from Hwang to form his own association.  Well...I suppose everyone leaves home sometime.  Kang's book includes crisp photos, and helpful descriptions as well as foot diagrams.  There isn't a lot of space devoted to the basic techniques themselves (such as variations on hand techniques, kicking, etc), which I assume is due to the fact that most readers already will have some instruction in basic techniques.  The main focus of this volume then, is HYUNG (forms).  ALL of the basic forms of Tang Soo Do are covered here, to about 4th dan.  Included are 19 Hyung: Ki Cho Hyung 1-3, Pyung Ahn Hyung 1-5, Chil Sung Hyung 1-3 (these are three of the new forms introduced by GM Hwang), Bassai Hyung, Naihanchin 1-3, Ship Soo Hyung, Jin Do Hyung, Kong San Kong, and Rohai.  All include complete photo sequences showing ALL of the movements, as well as descriptions and foot/stance diagrams.<br />This volume is up-to-date enough to include GM Hwang's 3 Chil Sung Hyung, but does not include other highly advanced elements like the older Japanese/Chung Do Kwan lineage forms Sei Shan Hyung, Wang Shu Hyung, Ji On Hyung, and Oh Sip Sa Bo Hyung, and also those created by Hwang, like the 3 Yuk Ro Hyung (very linear), and the master form inspired by the Mu Ye Do Bo Tong Ji, Hwa Sun Hyung.  Most readers simply wouldn't need these other forms yet (unless of course you are 4th dan +).  All of this advanced information is available in Hwang's second volume, \\"Tang Soo Do Soo Bahk Do Moo Duk Kwan Volume 2\\" (available from the US Soo Bahk Do Moo Duk Kwan Federation for about 60.00).  Kang's book however is simply the best deal out there.  All of the necessary Hyung information to take you from 10th gup to 4th dan is for the first time available to virtually anybody for less than twenty clams.  Page 14-15 also includes the most complete TSD/MSK genealogy yet published, and there are some good photos showing historical items, GM Kang, GM Hwang, and other TSD folks.  If you are studying Tang Soo Do or any Moo Duk Kwan derivative which utilizes the old style forms, and are looking for a guide to assist you with your technical studies, there is no better value than this particular volume.  There is simply no comparison.us of this volume then, is HYUNG (forms).  ALL of the basic forms of Tang Soo Do are covered here, to about 4th dan.  Included are 19 Hyung: Ki Cho Hyung 1-3, Pyung Ahn Hyung 1-5, Chil Sung Hyung 1-3 (these are three of the new forms introduced by GM Hwang), Bassai Hyung, Naihanchin 1-3, Ship Soo Hyung, Jin Do Hyung, Kong San Kong, and Rohai.  All include complete photo sequences showing ALL of the movements, as well as descriptions and foot/stance diagrams.<br />This volume is up-to-date enough to include GM Hwang's 3 Chil Sung Hyung, but does not include other highly advanced elements like the older Japanese/Chung Do Kwan lineage forms Sei Shan Hyung, Wang Shu Hyung, Ji On Hyung, and Oh Sip Sa Bo Hyung, and also those created by Hwang, like the 3 Yuk Ro Hyung (very linear), and the master form inspired by the Mu Ye Do Bo Tong Ji, Hwa Sun Hyung.  Most readers simply wouldn't need these other forms yet (unless of course you are 4th dan +).  All of this advanced information is available in Hwang's second volume, \\"Tang Soo Do Soo Bahk Do Moo Duk Kwan Volume 2\\" (available from the US Soo Bahk Do Moo Duk Kwan Federation for about 60.00).  Kang's book however is simply the best deal out there.  All of the necessary Hyung information to take you from 10th gup to 4th dan is for the first time available to virtually anybody for less than twenty clams.  Page 14-15 also includes the most complete TSD/MSK genealogy yet published, and there are some good photos showing historical items, GM Kang, GM Hwang, and other TSD folks.  If you are studying Tang Soo Do or any Moo Duk Kwan derivative which utilizes the old style forms, and are looking for a guide to assist you with your technical studies, there is no better value than this particular volume.  There is simply no comparison.	2002-12-28
US	52661871	R5YU4VCGWVP4N	1583940081	375772101	Krav Maga: How to Defend Yourself Against Armed Assault	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Common Sense Self Defense....	...While there isn't a whole lot of technical information in this volume that differs much from things already written in other self defense books (after all, there are only so many ways to hit an attacker with an elbow while tuning around), this work is one of the few &quot;non-traditional&quot; martial arts studies which presents its information in a progressive SYSTEM.  The material presented here covers a range of topics which one would generally have to find in a number of different books by various authors.  Although the technical information is basic (that is to say, not complex), this is not a book that was written for stupid people.  The presentation and coverage is thorough enough that advanced martial artists and individuals with no specific previous training who would like to build a base of knowledge for no-nonsense self defense training can benefit from reading this book.  Although my own background is in &quot;traditional&quot; martial arts, the materials here are remeniscent of the short courses taught to military and police, without the militaristic formality.<br />Each topic (unarmed, knife, baton, gun, etc) includes a detailed theoretical explanation, and then offers photographic sequences to clearly illustrate the points.  There is no ceremony, and no wasted space in this book.  The ideas presented here are logical, the manouevres straight forward and simple, having been developed with the idea that any person regardless of athletic acumen, whether a clerk or a soldier should be able to effectively apply them quickly and easily.  There is sound advice on using every day items for defense, sensible methods of conduct and dress, dealing with violence, and mental training. The authors do not dwell on deep time-consuming philosophical ideas, although as with most martial practices, Krav Maga does have a basic ethical thesis: don't get hurt, act modestly, act correctly, and become proficient (page 3-4).  As with every defensive art, the thing which will make you most successful is practice, practice, practice.<br />For history buffs, the section about the authors includes an interesting if short recounting of the training and experienced of Imi Sde-Or, including photos of his father, Samuel Lichtenfeld, and Imi as a young man in Europe (pre-1940), showing an incredible physique developed through athletic persuits including wrestling and boxing (pages 223-227).  Sde-Or died in 1998, co-author Eyal Yanilov is his successor.  The inclusiveness and price of this book make it an attractive find.	2002-12-26
US	52661871	RFPGX2Y84HNQA	1931229082	219566626	Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu: Theory and Technique (Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu series)	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Far Exceeds most other Efforts on BJJ &amp; Grappling	At 255 pages, this volume on Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu eclipses virtually every other book on the topic.  The amount of knowledge is superb, the presentation is terrific.  Color photography throughout, an average of 6-10 photos per technique (including close-ups), and easily understood narrative descriptions which cover not just how to move, but why to do certain &quot;little things&quot; that make the difference between an effective technique and wasted energy.<br />Although this book groups techniques by belt (recommended knowledge from white to blue, purple, brown, and black), authors Renzo and Royler Gracie, John Danaher, and Peligro describe rank in BJJ as an informal proceedure which does not include formal tests or specific techniques required, but rather continuous displays of proficient application and understanding which can be gleaned only through continuous and dedicated practice.  It seems that BJJ, with its emphasis on ability rather than (buying) belts, is where other martial arts in the US, Canada, and Japan were 40 or more years ago.<br />The only omission I can think of would be tournament rules for BJJ, but that again is something one would pick up from going to tournaments and classes regularly.  This book is a terrific value, the best of the grappling books on the market today, in my estimation.  A quality product well worth the asking price.  I hope there is a volume II somewhere in the works, maybe even a biography of the Gracie family (looong overdue!).  My other recommendation for those with an interest in NHB / MMA history would be the recently published &quot;Brawl&quot; by Erich Krauss.  Good reading &amp; good practice to you!	2002-12-26
US	52661871	RK0OMBNCSUXEC	0873648196	923885544	Secrets Of Street Survival - Israeli Style: Staying Alive In A Civilian War Zone	Books	4	37	37	N	N	Sensible Advice with a Definite Place in Today's World	Do You Live In Dangerous Times?  This is not a picture-by-picture how-to book, but a thick volume (394 pages) of sound advice for anyone who is intent on surviving attack in any form.  Author Sockut's book is thin on photos, and BIG on common sense.  Sockut presents case studies and examples, and then advice gleaned from the events in a series of \\"Street Survival Lessons\\".  Rather than simply advising us that we can never be to careful, we learn this scenario after scenario.<br />This volume emphasizes situations where an armed or unarmed individual meets up with an armed antagonizer, and breaks attackers down into categories by their weapon of preference, offering advice specific to each.  Covered are bladed weapons (knife & sword), batons and clubs, and guns (short & long).  You will learn what to watch for concerning suspects, how to guard against the unlikely, and how to stay focused.  You will learn the best way to conceal weapons on your person, and how to be certain your weapons will be in working order when you need them.<br />Recommended especially for anyone who works in law enforcement, corrections, in a capacity for the military, or other public service employees.  A good companion to this is Rex Applegate's \\"Kill Or Get Killed\\".	2002-12-26
US	52661871	R3LIJ7E4Z959I9	0865681945	663831166	The Essence of Brazilian Jiu Jitsu	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A Decent Introduction to BJJ Locks &amp; Chokes on the Ground.	This, like the other Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu (BJJ) books which have come onto the mass market in the last year, are loooong overdue (by about 10 years!).  Rigan (Hee-gan) Machado introduces the theory of BJJ, his family's history (the Machado brothers studied under Carlos Gracie and are cousins to the Gracies), and then goes right into applied ground techniques: Arm locks (chapter 2), followed by Leg Locks (chapter 3), Chokes (Chapter 4), and grappling without a gi (Chapter 5).<br />The best place to learn grappling is from a teacher, but for those without an extensive range of ground techniques who haven't the time or money to find a teacher, or anyone who just wants to see the differences down on paper this volume focuses almost entirely on the ground applications of techniques which many arts lack.  Those who already have backgrounds in judo or wrestling will enjoy the BJJ variations of techniques with which you will, for the most part, probably be familiar with, in theory if not practice.  Another excellent volume to consider is &quot;Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu: Theory and Practice&quot; by Renzo and Royler Gracie.	2002-12-24
US	52661871	R3AZ9FZKT99LKK	1550225170	534323139	Brawl: A Behind-The-Scenes Look at Mixed Martial Arts Competition	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	Blood, Guts, Muscles, Dollars and Politics!!!	I had a tough time putting this FACTUAL account of MMA history down, and didn't get enough sleep over the two day period it took me to read it.  An enthralling volume which for the first time offers specific details about the early years of the new Mixed Martial Arts (MMA) competitions--including the \\"behind the scenes\\" maneuvering between politicians, promoters, crooks, and media profiteers.  Erich Krauss and Bret Aita offer a bout-by-bout description of the first Ultimate Fighting Championships (UFC) in 1993 to 1995.  We can also read about the first several International Fighting Championships (IFC) from Kiev and the dangers promotors faced by the Ukranian criminal syndicate!  Perhaps most interesting though, between descriptions of MMA events taking place at the time, are Krauss and Aida's blow-by-blow analysis of what was going on in the political arena as Senator John McCain, an ardent supporter of boxing (go figure) led the push to ban the \\"barbaric\\" sport of MMA.<br />The battle moves from the ring, where skilled athletes contest one another, to the halls of state athletic comissions and congress as MMA fighters and promoters battle to save their sport.  Here for the first time we can read a clear account of the events which led to a decline in the availability of MMA events on cable for a time.  I'll paraphrase the opening paragraphs of Chapter 12 (pg 147): Leo Hindley, Jr., friend of Sen. John McCain, dropped all MMA events from the roster of cable giant TCI--to shield children from violent t.v. content (they still aired boxing, pro wrestling, and violent movies!!).  TCI, Time Warner, Request, Cablevision Systems, and Viewer's Choice/On Demand followed TCI's lead.  Through it all, fighters kept training, promotors found other countries in which to host MMA competition, and we are treated to match-by-match reviews of later MMA contests, the gruelling training regimins the MMA fighter endured, and MMA survived.  Want to know the dope on Frank and Ken Shamrock, what makes the Gracies so great, how did a kickboxer (Maurice Smith) take MMA by storm, and who the future of MMA rests with (arts, athletes & promotion companies)?  This book will answer your questions.  There is waaay too much info for me to even begin with all the names and events this volume covers.  Very worth the $, a long-awaited gem for the literary martial arts world.	2002-12-24
US	52661871	RDQDQPHLCLQXO	0804832692	707310644	Arnis: History and Development of the Filipino Martial Arts	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Collection of Academic Filipino Martial Arts Articles...	Be advised there are no pictures in this book, it is an academic undertaking.  If you are looking for something with visual historical material in it, try the two books authored by Mark Wiley: &quot;Filipino Martial Culture&quot; and &quot;Filipino Fighting Arts: Theory and Practice&quot;.<br />The placment of Mark Wiley's name on the front cover suggests he is the AUTHOR, where he is in fact, the EDITOR of this collection of articles (he is also a contributor).  Not Wiley's fault--he credits the collective group in the introduction.  Small point that only matters to us fans of footnotes, I know...now, on to assessing this collection of articles!<br />In Part 1, writers offer perspectives on the origins of the Filipino arts, including five articles such as &quot;A Question of origins&quot;, by Felipe Jocano, Jr., and &quot;Questioning the Origins of Escrima&quot;, by Dr. Ned Nepangue, etc..  Part 2 focuses on Historical Perspectives with five offerings like &quot;A History of Eskrima in Cebu and Negros&quot;, by Krishna Godhania.  Part 3, Cultural Perspectives, includes eight articles by different contributors, including &quot;Passion from the Crescent Moon&quot; by Marilitz Dizon, and &quot;The Making of the Batangas (Balisong) Knife&quot; by Dr. Jopet Laraya.  Part 4, Facing The Future, includes three articles including Combative vs. Competitive Escrima by Krishna Godhania, and &quot;The Implimentation of Arnis in the Physical Education programs of Tertiary Schools in Cebu City&quot; by Abner G. Pasa.<br />Overall, this is a good collection of topics of a calibre more advanced than most newsstand martial arts magazines could tolerate.  The tone is clearly academic in nature, although less than half of the article include notes of some sort at their conclusion.  Wiley does include a well-rounded list of source materials for further reading.  If you are tired of how-to manuals, here is a book which will present new information, even for those of us who have pretty well &quot;been around the block&quot; when it comes to learning about other cultures and practice.  The variety of perspectives are insightful.	2002-12-24
US	52661871	R3UY0I05DIPH6F	0865681805	506352491	Filipino Fighting Arts: Theory and Practice	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	A New and Different FMA book by Wiley...	In the introduction of his third book, Author Mark Wiley states that his purpose is not to rehash materials already presented in his previous two books (&quot;Filipino Martial Arts: Cbalas Cerrada Escrima&quot; (1994), and Filipino Martial Culture&quot; (1996)).  Unlike his volume  &quot;Filipino Martial Culture&quot;, the focus of this writing is on 27 different specific Filipino arts, rather than the history of the masters or organizations which propagate them.<br />Wiley admits his work is not exhaustive, but it is (as I write) the most exhaustive guide to concern itself with he stylistic differences between different schools of Filipino arts.  Wiley describes training, training methods, theory, fighting concepts and progressions, strategies, and photographic depictions of fighting techniques.  You will gain as I did, a better understanding of the similarities and differences between different schools, from practice and theory to custom and tradition.  The closest I have come to seeing a collection Like Wiley's is the out-of-print book, &quot;Masters of Arnis, Kali and Ecrima&quot; written by Edgar Sulite of the Bakbakan, which focused on teachers and styles of Filipino fighting.  It is nice to be in the middle of the Filipino arts renaisance, and finally have the resources available to understand these practical combative methods.	2002-12-24
US	52661871	R39MWZ4W6ZP033	1883319676	620997884	Martial Arts America: A Western Approach to Eastern Arts	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Ever Wonder about Tradition vs. Modernity in M.A.?	Have you ever done a technique and known in your heart of hearts it was highly impractical?  Have you ever guiltily wondered about some of the promotion, rank, and respectibility games some martial artists play?  Have you ever felt torn between ancient methods and recent technology?  Bob Orlando broaches many of these unspoken topics which affect martial artists today.  <br />While this book does not tear down and dismiss altogether the traditional methods of training, Orlando offers insights into many of the concepts and practices traditionalists (including myself) have been wrestling with for a long time.  Morover, Orland serves up these topics with good humor, and does not pretend to be feeding his readers any absolute answer.  As a long time student and teacher of the martial arts, I found these views helpful and long overdue (in print, at least).  It is nice to know there are others out there who often wonder about and question our &quot;sacred cows&quot;, and it is good to see someone who can do this without the snobishness of some so-called &quot;modern&quot; martial arts practitioners.  <br />Orlando's background includes Chinese Kenpo-Karate, Kung fu under Al Dacascos, and Chinese Kuntao and Indonesian Pentjak Silat under master teacher William de Thours.  Here is a quote which I really liked: &quot;Rank[...] is excess baggage.  It becomes a hinderance to learning because everyone expects that you already know everything&quot;.	2002-12-23
US	52661871	R2MUKONBCB9UF3	0865681759	499201453	Practical Chin Na: A Detailed Analysis of the Art of Seizing and Locking	Books	5	20	21	N	N	HOW and WHY of Chin Na Studies	Finally we are seeing a number of well-written martial arts books which deal with the technical aspects of a technique instead of just attempting to demonstrate what a technique looks like (i.e., &quot;this is a front kick...&quot;).  Author Zhao Da Yuan, a student of Ba Gua great Li Zi Ming commences with detailed descriptions of how the human body is constructed, and how we move.  These are the keys to understanding how Chin Na and virtually every other grappling form works. For the first time in a martial arts book, we have set before us a concrete treatis (rather than the oh-so-popular abstract theory, which conveniently does not require proof!) on patterns of siezing, locking, twisting...and the throws (and possible damage) which result.  <br />Zhao Da Yuan discusses Basic Knowledge, Basic Principles, Basic Requirements of posture, Chin Na mechanics, a catalog of Chin Na hand techniques, Mechanics II, Rang of motion of the arms with specific techniques shown, and range of motion with the lower limbs demonstrated with specific techniques.  For anyone who is on the path to becoming an accomplished body mechanic and wants to advance their understanding of how to apply pressure point and joint locking techniques, this study guide is a must.  One of the most interesting points mentioned by the guide is the fact that virtually all styles of Chinese arts include Chin Na as an advanced study--from specific regional styles to Ba Gua.  Chin Na is what is behind so many of the &quot;flowery&quot; looking kung fu techniques which grace many of our forms.<br />Another superb volume similar to this one in structure and explanation is written by the man who translated this book, Tim Cartmell.  His volume, &quot;Effortless Combat Throws&quot; is an excellent companion to this one, along With Yang Jwing-ming's &quot;Analysis of Shaolin Chin Na&quot;.  The key to these simple looking but difficult to execute techniques is knowing how to grab, how to move.  No longer do we have to rely on mystical explanations--the knowledge is all here for us to learn should we dedicate ourselved to its thorough study.	2002-12-22
US	52661871	R2MXMGEMGKE2G1	0940871041	448477848	Analysis of Shaolin Chin Na: Instructor's Manual for All Martial Styles (Ymaa Book Series)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Advanced Chin Na Studies for Instructors	A very complete follow up to Dr. Yang's first book, &quot;Shaolin Chin Na: The Seizing Art of Kung Fu&quot;, I consider this manual to be complex enough that it will probably be best understood by peole who have studied a grappling/locking art of some sort for at least a year (Kuk Sool, Jujutsu, Shuai Jiao).  Like most of Yang's other books, there is so much information here it borders on being exhaustive...and we all know that is not a bad thing! <br /> Yang explains the principles of Chin Na, and builds upon this foundation by offering strengthening exercises for joints which often bear the brunt of punishment in this type of training.  His treatment of techniques is thourough.  Those with the patience to read this manual and practice the locking and siezing techniques contained within will undoubtedly gain further insight to the workings of their (respective) arts. Yang also offers an important chapter (page 168) on correcting injuries sustained in practice, in addition to six special herbal formulas for martial arts training (bruise remedies, dit Da Jau, etc.) at the end of the volume (page 185).	2002-12-22
US	52661871	R2NJIAKN8PO49E	0865681767	755993658	Principles, Analysis, and Application of Effortless Combat Throws	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Most Complete Analysis of Throwing Techniques....	This volume is to throws as the volume &quot;Practical Chin Na&quot; is to joint locking.  Finally we have books which explain exactly how and why the techniques we have been using for years work.  Tim Cartmell gives us a complete guide to throwing, explaining and grouping techniques by the principles under which they are executed.  Cartmell's roots are, interestingly enough, in Jimmy Woo's ever practical San Soo Kung Fu, although later Cartmell moved to Taiwan and then China and trained there with a number of extraordinarily skilled teachers, including Hsu Hong Chi and Hsu Chen Wang (Hsing Yi), Chen Tso Chen (Hsu Hsi Tao), Lin Ah Lung (Tang and Chen Taiji), Kao Liu-te (Yi Chuan), Hsu Fu-chin (Chen Taiji), Luo Te-hsiu (Kao-style Pa Kua Chang &amp; Chen Pan-ling Taiji), Sun Jian-yun (daughter of the famed Sun Lu-tang &amp; present headmaster).<br />Author Tim Cartmell begins by describing types of throws (arc, circle, and spiral) and the basic principles which guide their application.  Next, he explains principled of body use, and then the bulk of the book, comprised of an analysis and application of each throw.  Cartmell is extremely thourough in his description of each stage of the technique, describing every little facet of motion, how to balance, how to turn, what you will feel and what is happening to your partner.  Each technique offers an analysis of entry, analysis of the technique, of body use, of practical application, of counters and combat use, and variations on the throw.  While there are plenty of illustrations, you will need to be a patient reader to glean the most from this volume.  It is with words that Cartmell makes the whole picture come together.  Whatever your discipline (Chinese style or not), if your art includes throwing techniques, this is the volume to explain the how and why's.	2002-12-22
US	52661871	R1QFKGYVMZB9XX	0967528305	711376359	Kung Fu San Soo: Secret Art of the Fighting Monks	Books	4	3	4	N	N	History of Jimmy Woo's San Soo Kung Fu! (Chai Li Fut)	This volume is NOT a &quot;how-to&quot; book.  It IS a very thorough and detailed explanation of Kung Fu San Soo as originally taught by Jimmy Woo.  For the first time, there is a decent explanation of Woo's San Soo Kung Fu history, which should put to rest rumors that he was an American Kenpo breakaway (he wasn't).  Jimmy Woo, this volume explains, was originally schooled in Chai Li Fut (aka Choy Lay Fut) kung fu, and a chart on page 37 of this volume illustrates his lineage.  Gatewood offers all the specifics of Woo's hostory, including his immigration to the US via forged papers (one of the reasons he changed his name--don't confuse him with James Wing Woo!).  There are also some very good pictures of Jimmy Woo and other san soo folks.  A lot of sensible theory is included in this book as well.  I should add here that I am not a San Soo stylist, and have had no problem relating to or understanding the material presented in this book. Another good source for those wanting to learn more about San Soo KF history is the San Soo Journal, Volume 3 #4, which includes an article by a San Soo practitioner who visited Woo's mother in China, and described his converstaion with her (pictures included) concerning her missing son.	2002-12-21
US	52661871	R2WZOQEHNTDHVC	1886969493	721679727	Chinese Fast Wrestling for Fighting: The Art of San Shou Kuai Jiao Throws, Takedowns, & Ground-Fighting	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Quality In-depth Assessment of Shuai Jiao!	By far the most exhaustive guide to the art of Shuai Jiao (Aka Shuai Chiao) in English.  Prior to this volume, there was only a single other work in English on this most practical of wrestling styles (&quot;Fundamentals of Shuai Chiao&quot; by Daniel Weng, who was a student of Chang Tung-sheng's).  Authors Liang Shou-yu and Tai Ngo offer a thorough history, in-depth explanation of the theory behind this form of fighting, and important body-toughening exercises.  Then they demonstrate a rather complete catalog of techniques from throws and locks to holding and locking on the ground.  It will probably come as no surprise to seasoned martial artists who have had the opportunity to watch a Shuai Jiao match that the main differences between this art and others is the speed at which techniques are executed upon a subject (one of the reasons Shuai Jiao body training is sooo tough!).  <br />Prior to this volume, the only exposure most of us (outside China and Taiwan) had to Shuai Jiao were a few scattered articles dealing with the great fighting master, Chang Tung-sheng, who maintained an incredible level of fitness even beyond his '70's!  The one point which is neglected in this book is the importance of striking PRIOR to the execution of a Shuai Jiao technique (Chang Tung-sheng's theory).  Of course, Author Liang Shou-yu is from Mainland China and not Taiwan, and may simply offer a path which deviates from Chang's known methods.  <br />This book is a vast improvement over other Shuai Chiao books (mostly Chinese language), which limit themselves to a few illustrations.  The editors and authors have teamed up to make sure the photographs convey correct direction and motion.  A sequel dealing with either competitive Shuai Jiao or advanced applications (striking + locking &amp; throwing) would be most welcome.  What a pity this magnificent art isn't more widely known and taught outside of China.	2002-12-21
US	52661871	R2TDW0DBWKIZRU	0866352082	380042032	The White crane kung-fu style =: [Pai ho kung fu men]	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Unusual Book on White Crane Kung Fu!!!	\\"White Crane Kung Fu Vol. 1: History & Forms\\" is another good Koinonia Productions book. You won't see a pretty glossy cover or spectacular photographs in this book...but you will learn plenty about the White crane style. Written by Ralph Caputo and James I Wong, This volume includes the White Crane school Plum Blossom Boxing form (Pai Hao Hsiao Mei Hua Chuan), and a condensed version of this form as well (different from plum boxing form in the Great Sage Monkey book). There is a history specific to NORTHERN white crane, which stands in contrast to the great focus placed upon Fujian (southern) crane boxing schools by Okinawa karate practitioners of late. As far as I have been able to ascertain, this is the only book on Northern White crane out there in English--this one. James I Wong's other books are recommended, and most can be obtained for about 10 clams or so from Leo Fong's private publishing company, Koinonia Productions. And in case you're wondering, there was only one volume in this series. Maybe Mr. Wong or his successor will grace us with more in the future? Happy Reading!	2002-12-21
US	52661871	R2EA3VS2J3IUB	0873644654	292770461	Sudden Violence: The Art Of San Soo	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Practical Assessment of Traditional Methods...	Author Greg Jones presents the style of Jimmy Woo (not to be confused with James Wing Woo) in a practical and complete light.  A brief history of Jimmy Woo's San Soo Kung Fu is offered, with indepth handling of topics such as striking, leverage, balance, etc.  There is a lot of writing in this book, it is not a picture how-to book.  You will find a detailed explanation of how to understand why these methods work.  Jones offers detailed reasoning behind all of the major theories of San Soo, and professionally shot photos give examples which help explain concepts.  Jimmy Woo's San Soo is a descendent of Choi Li Fut kung fu, stripped down to its most practical elements.  Woo was a strong believer in using what was effective and winning the battle without delay.  Jones does an excellent job of explaining that message to those of us who haven't studied Woo's San Soo Kung Fu but would like to understand the concepts of the art and gain an insight into how a fighter and survivor like Jimmy Woo thought.	2002-12-21
US	52661871	RPE75IADUT7NJ	092012917X	906456160	Okinawan Kempo	Books	3	28	28	N	N	Reprint of a Karate Classic	This was the second of what are now 4 special edition reprints of older karate books issued by Master Publication of Canada, run by Don Warrener (Goju).  Although this edition of Karate pioneer Motobu, Choki's book is useful and should a part of any historical karate collection, there are several issues which anyone wishing to purchase this edition should be aware of.<br />The photos have been retouched, severely.  Most of what you will see are not reproductions from an original text, but apparently paint or charcoal reproductions (or extreme enhancements, if you will) of the photos from an earlier edition.  I found these no more difficult to understand than photos in earier reprints, although some of the ambiance is lost.  This Masters Publications \\"translation\\" bears a striking resemblence to the English translation put out nearly twenty years before by Okinawa Karate teacher Oyata, Seiyu in 1977(\\"Okinawa Kempo: Karate-Jutsu on Kumite\\").  Comparing the two texts sentence by sentence, I could not help feeling that the Masters Publications \\"translation\\" was simply lifted from Oyata's earlier work, although neither Oyata nor any other translator is credited with this book's work, unlike other volumes in this series.  I also found it odd that Masters Publications was not able to translate into common pharmacological terms the exact same herbs Oyata left untranslated.  Certainly a professional with today's resources would have had better luck? <br />Although This newer edition is beautiful (cloth covered boards, cloth covered box, dust jacket, etc.), I must admit that I treasure more the unretouched little booklet translated by Oyata in 1977.  For an English translation of Motobu, Choki's OTHER book, contact Patrick McCarthy of the International Ryukyu Karate Research Society.	2002-12-21
US	52661871	R2PARZVVZMYA8T	0866352058	981273279	The great sage monkey system =: Ta sheng pi kua men	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Superb Explanations & 2 Forms!!!	I can't recommend the books of James I. Wong strongly enough.  This volume offers an extremely thorough explanation of the history of the Ta Sheng Pi Kua Men (Great Sage Monkey School), from its origins in other non-Shaolin Chinese styles to the present grandmaster of this specific school at the time of publication (1979).  Wong explains characteristics of the style, including specoific schools which lead to the development of Ta Sheng Pi Kua Men, including style such as Pi Kua Men (Sage school) and Hou Chuan (monkey boxing).  In depth considerations of the Monkey system, characteristics of different Monkey and monkey influenced schools and such.  Includes a bibliography of sources (YAY!).  Wong also includes a list of Chinese terms with their appropriate characters, perfect for those wishing to pick up some Chinese pertinent to the focus of study. This volume shows and explains two forms from the Ta Sheng Pi Kua Men school. They are: \\"Lu Wi Hsiao Mei Hua Chuan\\" (Small Plum Blossom Form), and \\"Er Mi Tsung Chuan\\" (Labyrynth, Lost track form).  While the photos are nothing to write home about, they aren't terrible, and serve their purpose.  You will be happy to know this volume and others by this publisher, Koinonia Productions, is back in print and available for around ten clams new.  I recommend this volume and others by Wong to anyone who has an interest in the history of Wu-Shu (Kung Fu) styles.  Wong is academic in his approach and treats his readers like the intelligent adults we are.	2002-12-21
US	52661871	R36R6WSMF8FHB1	0962201200	884826968	Modern Karate: Scientific Approach to Conditioning and Training	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Scientific Karate Training for Non-Dummies	For the practitioner or instructor who wishes to achieve peak performance and/or understanding, whether for serious competition or for personal edification, this book is strongly recommended in conjunction _with_ Okazaki and Stricevic's \\"The Textbook of Modern Karate\\" (1984).  Despite the similar titles, these books are not identical, and while they contain some overlapping information, they have more complementary information. <br /> <br />It is tough to find serious books on karate practice, although not as bad now as say, twenty or thirty years ago.  This book fills an important niche, explaining and demonstrating the impact of scientific training on karate.  Although the author's experience tends to be in Japanese Shotokan style karate, this book can be applied equally to any of the kicking/striking arts regardless of style (Karate, Tang Soo Do, Kung Fu, Okinawa Karate). <br /> <br />Throughout the book Stricevic and company explain and demonstrate various experiments which show which methods are effective, for instance in the chapter on kicking techniques attatching electrodes and breathing aparatus to 20 male karateka to measure and analyze the effect of executing kicking techniques on respiratory functions: \\"According to protocol the athlete executes leg techniques at an imaginary target at chest level with an intensity that suits his abilities for a duration of 5 minutes[...]\\" (page 90) Results of this experiment show the length of time it takes to achieve an optimum heart rate and oxygen consumption in milliliters per kilogram of body weight per minute.  What does this mean?  In the words of the authors: <br /> <br />\\"The fact that oxygen consumption is 64.5 ml/kg indicates the potential of Mae-geri [front kick] in fitness exercise.  The observed oxygen uptake is sufficient for skiing, swimming, rowing, and the 400 meter dash, which rank among the most strenuous sports.  In other words, the technique can have a training effect and athletes should take advantage of it.  This should be kept in kind when exercise is being planned\\" (92) <br /> <br />You don't need to be a rocket scientist as formulas are explained and provided--but if, like me you aren't, take your time reading and considering. <br /> <br />The section on Modern karate technique includes an especially interesting section on sweeping techniques, including defense against sweeping.  The explanations are unparalleled in terms of description of exact position, purpose and reasoning.  Also eye opening is the section on kicking techniques, and a very useful chapter on the use of equipment in training.  Also of use are chapters on tactics of sports competition (applying principles such as ma'ai--distancing, additional exercises, automization of techniques, etc. The chapter, \\"Modern Karate Training\\" actually offers programs for determining specific workouts for individual athletes based on individual workrates--very important for achieving maximum efficiency in training. Chapters break down as follows: <br /> <br />1.  The History of Karate: A Martial art and Competitive Sport <br /> <br />2.  Modern Karate Techniques: The Principles of Executing Techniques, Sweeping and Defense Against Sweeping <br /> <br />3.  Arm Techniques: Tsuki and Uchi-waza <br /> <br />4.  Kicking Techniques: Keri-waza <br /> <br />5.  Equipment: Use in conditioning and training of Karate Athletes <br /> <br />6.  The Tactics of Sports Competition <br /> <br />7.  Modern Karate Training: Program Exercise Workrates <br /> <br />A special and unique book which deserves serious study and consideration.  If you're willing to put in the time, this volume will reward your efforts.	2001-11-05
US	52661871	RCFD4U5TBADBP	0804832102	239658843	Judo Training Methods: A SOURCEBOOK (Tuttle Martial Arts)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	An Excellent Academic Judo Work	I have found no other Judo or martial arts work that approaches the academic level of this one in scholarship and completeness.  Draeger and Ishikawa have been VERY thorough in their assessment of HOW to train for Judo, offering for the first time a catagorized breakdown of training techniques into four areas: Preparatory, supplementary, compound, and auxiliary.  Training is approached for the first time in English, as a scientific undertaking which like many other sports, is based upon and helped by the study of kinesiology (study of movement, body &amp; muscle, etc.).  The authors don't simply tell us, they give us the &quot;why&quot; of things.  Helpful diagrams and quality sequence photographs help convey the ideas, though I wouldn't recommend this volume for someone who doesn't have the patience to read.  Training methods utilizing partners, weights, belt, equipment, and gravity are detailed.  Originally printed in 1962, This recent re-release paperback edition is affordable and a welcome return.  Don't let the age of publication dissuade you from learning from this volume, it was revolutionary upon its oroginal release, and little approaching its depth has been published  in the popular press since.  There is another terrific judo book by Draeger &amp; Inokuma which I hope Tuttle will consider rereleasing again soon, called &quot;Weight Training for Championship Judo&quot;, which goes even deeper into advanced sports theory.  Judo was Draeger's first martial art, and I was surprised years ago to discover how deep and ground breaking his research with Kodokan colleagues had been.  Altogether a superb volume.	2001-11-05
US	52661871	R2M9DURK3CKMQW	0965313204	917127086	Unsettled Matters: The Life & Death of Bruce Lee	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Unique Information about Bruce Lee	If you liked Thomas's &quot;Bruce Lee: Fighting Spirit&quot;, you will like this volume as well.  Here is a book which offers not only a thourough look at who Bruce Lee was (strengths and weaknesses), but for the first time offers a tangible rethinking of the cause of his untimely death.  Since the early 1970's when Bruce Lee died, medicine has come a long way.  Bleeker has researched the matter thouroughly, offering several rational theories about what may have contributed to the death of the &quot;Little Dragon&quot; and his own tangible theory for the cause.  Thankfully, this volume stays far away from the fanciful thinking of those who posit tenuous tales of triad assasinations or poisoned cocktails, examining instead substances that Lee was known to have taken (Cortazone shots for his back pain, ingesting hashish to relax and alleviate pain, the possibility he may have taken anabolic steroids, the dreaded equagesic tablet at his mistresses' house), and presenting new information on the negative effects and interactions of those substances.  You will definately learn something new, as I did.  Bleeker also backs up his sources, even naming the man from whom it is thought Lee obtained his hashish and steroids (the man was a documented dealer...go figure).  <br />People intent on believing in Bruce Lee as an eternal and perfect diety aren't going to like this book, it definately does not toe the &quot;party line&quot; according to Linda Lee, who stands to profit the most from the myth of Lee as a near-perfect man and martial artist.  Practicing martial artists, celebrity trivia buffs, true crime fans and anyone looking for a unique read should enjoy this work immensely.  Bleeker is honest about his past relationships with Bruce Lee (he was a one time student), Linda Lee (Once her husband), and his words have been written with an air of driven sincerity, which appears to be led by his own desire to know the facts about this fascinating actor and man.  <br />I notedwith surprise that Bleeker mentions Linda Lee and Raymond Chow acted separately to legally block publication of this book.  Since the threats have not been followed up, I can only guess that they were unsubstantive, and issued in hope of intimidating Tom Bleeker into silence.  I for one am glad he decided to share what he discovered with the rest of us who haven't the time or connections to take personally researching this topic on.	2001-11-05
US	52661871	R3EVVACILLKTVD	0201626195	536505521	My Father's Guru: A Journey Through Spirituality and Disillusion	Books	4	40	44	N	N	An Honest look at the De-volution of Spiritual Arrogance	Jeffrey Masson recounts his experiences growing up with a family under the direction of self-appointed Guru and misdirected(-ing?) &quot;Eastern Star&quot; Paul Brunton.  Masson makes no attempt to hide the illusions he and his parents and sister were held by, telling how &quot;P.B.&quot; (Paul Brunton) was able to hold sway over his impressionable if well to do and world traveled, educated parents while himself undergoing no scrutiny.  Indeed, I found this book to be a blueprint for many families that have chosen to drop everything, and seek &quot;spiritual improvement&quot; from an outside source.  It seems so much easier sometimes to get all of the answers from the source, a teacher or minister, rather than be truely introspective and fix the very real personality problems and faults we all have.  <br />Masson unflinchingly includes excerpts from his younger years, when he was convinced he was on a higher spiritual plane than most of his fellow beings.  The arrogance and naivete of his youth is humorous if somewhat worrisome, though we find that he is gifted with a humble introspection that allowed him to outgrow the worst of these.  He also explains how over the years through his own education he came to find that most of Brunton's teachings were manufactured or misquoted, the man he'd once so admired didn't know the difference between Sanskrit and Hindi, and certainly was confused as to the texts he supposedly had mastered.  Perhaps most interesting, Masson documents his years at Harvard when he has the opportunity to meet other &quot;spiritual&quot; minds in the orientalist religious movements, and discover that supposedly great spiritual men like Alan Watts and Edward Conze were hardly above treating their own families with disregard and cruelty (see page 160).  Slowly Masson comes to take critical account of what the &quot;spiritual masters&quot; around him, including family guru Paul Brunton, lack--compassion and a base in reality is traded for the freedomof power over others.  Paul Brunton is humiliatingly debunked by the newly savvy Masson upon his return from college--a lesson in developing critical thinking skills and overcoming pithy know-it-all canned &quot;spiritualism&quot; for all of us, written in a thoughtful and reflective manner.  Why after all, do the &quot;spiritually developed&quot; so crave the &quot;Maya&quot; of worldly recognition and devotion?  Masson is critical too of his old self, and closes on a gentle note.	2001-11-04
US	52661871	R17QFHKJUV5PZO	0767404599	429807275	Frauds, Myths, and Mysteries: Science and Pseudoscience in Archaeology	Books	5	33	40	N	N	An Excellent Guide to Reason vs. Faith in Archeology	Kenneth Feder has collected a whooole bunch of examples of funny hoaxes and archaeological misadventure in this curiously good book.  Read about the Cardiff Giant scam, the Piltdown man hoax, Noah's ark tomfoolery and fakery, the slippery slope of Creationist craziness, Atlantis Atrophy, the Shredded evidence for the Shroud of Turin, and more!<br />Feder's volume is interesting, stimulating, and even if you are a well read skeptic, you will probably learn something new.  I personally was reminded how easy it is to fool people who want to believe something and aren't moved to investigate or challenge the beliefs they are comfortable with.  The gist of the book seems to be that people who rely mostly upon faith can end up believing just about anything, while those who are inclined to question and test new information via logic, scientific methods, and common sense are more likely to actually uncover the facts for themselves, doing away with faith altogether.	2001-10-31
US	52661871	R5VBAJ0G3UT6O	1573928429	503354810	Odd Gods: New Religions and the Cult Controversy	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A Decent basic guide to Unusual Newer Religions,	Especially those in the U.S.A.  Although most chapters are by no means all inclusive, they offer a good source of basic information relating to the founding and general beliefs of each group.  The information is presented in an unbiased way (this is the first comprehensive guide to small religious groups and &quot;cults&quot; not done by a christian group), and includes information on the legal boundaries of religion in the US of A, as well as some past cases involving the exercise of religious freedoms.  Most of the book goes over the means and methods of various sundry religious movements, such as the Children of God, American Sikhs, Hebrew Israelites, and so on.  <br />This book will make a good addition to any school or library collection, especially since it is not Selling any particular brand of faith, but simply presenting information and allowing the reader to draw conclusions.  Anyone with an interest in religion, mind control, sociology or psychology should appreciate the interesting information herein!	2001-10-31
US	52661871	R2D50BI0PJG1WT	0933449275	119310288	Modern Intercity Coaches: A Review of Over-The-Road Coaches and Manufacturers Active in the United States and Canada from 1953 to 1993	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	The Best All-Around Coach Guide...	Plachno offers a diverse range of makes and models from well known and not-so-well known companies, accompanied by quality black and white prints.  If you'd like to get to know &quot;Big Cars&quot; better, here is an extensive guide to Intercity Buses used by large and small carrier companies throughout the U.S.  While Plachno goes out of his way to be specific and provide a lot of information about the manufacture of each OTR coach, some of it is repetative...my only complaint, should not lessen the usefullness and uniqueness of this book.  Roll On...	2001-10-31
US	52661871	RJ33E7MLS28ZG	4770024770	43122709	The Heart of Karate-Do	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Thought Japanese Karate had No High Kicks?	Think again!  But for the pioneering spirit of Shigeru Egami...Egami pioneered certain flexability and strength exercises that are demonstrated in this book.  Included are several kicking exercises which are similar or identical to many done by Korean and Chinese stylists, like the jump split kick, jump double front kick (both feet out at the same time), and so on.  Also many jumping and flexing exercises.  If you are familiar with the martial art of Shintaido, founded by Horoyuki Aoki, you will note many similarities, for Aoki, a disciple of Egami's, encorporated many of Egami's flexibility training ideas and techniques directly into Shintaido, making them the foundation of the art and doing away with much of the ridgidity that had taken over Shotokan since Funakoshi.  Egami was an accomplished karate man, unafraid to innovate, experiment, and include new helpful training methods.  Advanced &quot;hard&quot; stylists should enjoy this book, especially Shotokan, Wado-ryu, Sh'to-ryu, Kyokushinkai.  Egami is seen in some circles as the &quot;Tohei of Shotokan&quot;, innovating and changing karate in a manner similar to the way Koichi Tohei changed Aikido.	2001-10-31
US	52661871	R3JQ5HIQHFD89A	4770026811	437560825	Karate Jutsu: The Original Teachings of Gichin Funakoshi	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Excellent Historical Material.	Here is a book I reccommend for ALL Itosu/Funakoshi lineage karate lineage people (Shotokan, Tang Soo Do, Chung Do Kwan, etc.).  This version, published by kodansha, is an improvement over the edition put out by Master's publications with regard to the actual translation (I own and have read both, as well as the original Japanese version).  It is also more affordable than the original hardback by Master's Publications, although the same company has since issued a paperback version, and I did not find the differences to be confusing throughout either work.<br />As a historical work, this book offers a look at Funakoshi himself, who was the starting point for so many Japanese and Korean lineages, demonstrating kata and technique.  This is not an in-depth study, and although all of 3 kata are shown in sequential photographs of Funakoshi (Pinan Sho-dan, Naihanchi, and Koshokun aka Kusanku), the other 13 kata only include 1 or 2 extra photographs and written descriptions...so if you are looking for a kata bible to refer to in your practice, you'd be better of with Nakayama's technically astute &quot;Best Karate&quot; series.<br />For the era in which it was published, Funakoshi's work was truely an advancement, especially in that it was one of the (if not the) first karate books to include so many illustrative photographs as opposed to just drawings or written descriptions.  Due to it's primative nature though, it is a less than complete guide for the beginner or anyone looking for perfect technical instruction.  As a device to shed light on the origins of modern Shotokan and Tang Soo Do forms (and the like), to show the evolution of an art for the interested martial acholar this book is a must.	2001-10-28
US	52661871	R39QKLIHECLKNZ	0804820899	937168763	Tales of Okinawa's Great Masters (Tuttle Martial Arts)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A  Personal Glimpse Inside Okinawan Karate's Complexities	I am among those who are very pleased to see so many works by Okinawan martial artists become available in the English language.  In &quot;Tales of Okinawa's Great Karate Masters&quot;, translated by Patrick McCarthy, Shoshin Nagamine offers an honest look at the roots of the art he practiced and taught for over 50 years. This is not a 'how-to' karate book, there are no technical pictures although there are some decent historical pictures of people and documents, and some illustrative ones of the author, Nagamine.<br />If you have Nagamine's first book, translated into English as &quot;The Essence of Okinawan Karate&quot; and focusing mainly upon the 17 kata of Matsubayashi Ryu Shorin Ryu Karate (an Itosu-ha lineage), this second work of his provides the literary heart of the art.  It does not dwell merely on the roots of Nagamine's style, but includes fascinating information on a myriad of styles, teachers, Okinawan history, and karate folklore.  There is plenty of new information: this is not simply a 're-do' of old data.  One chapter for instance, focuses on Okinawa's Native art, a form of wrestling called &quot;Tegumi&quot;.  Book includes endnotes, and an Appendixed article by Nagamine called &quot;Okinawan Karate and World Peace&quot;.	2001-10-28
US	52661871	R1KXAMDFZYNQZW	0962607827	685205827	Chinese Herbal Patent Formulas	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Of All the Guides to Chinese Patent Medicines, My Favorite.	Fratkin has done an excelleny job of offering a guide to the sometimes murky realm of Chinese patented herbal compounds.  This volume has helped me navigate the aisls of local herb shops and locate bone bruise medicine with the aid of the non-English speaking shop clerk.  I especially like this guide because it includes a list of ingrediants, and shows what percentage of each herb, animal, or mineral is included.	2001-10-22
US	52661871	R1UIT06FB198CO	0966088808	804028622	Atemi - The Forgotten Art: Understanding of Grappling & Grippling	Books	1	7	7	N	N	Kinda an Embarassment...	I bought this book at a tournament a few years ago without really looking it over first, and was surprised recently to find it offered by a supplier like Amazon.  I noticed many of the same problems the last reviewer did, and although I understand that it isn't politically correct to criticize people in the martial arts, especially teachers or those calling themselves 'master', being a teacher myself, I will be honest without being rude.<BR>   <BR>   While some of the techniques in this volume can be applied effectively by the average person, there are many impractical ones included in this volume as well.  Technique wise, I would give it two to three stars.  But overall, reviewer M.C. Busman below has a valid point with asking why the huge kanji mistakes on the cover and why the claims of tournament victories and studying with masters in Japan that cannot be verified by Irving Soto.  I did not find his stories about sudying with a Japanese master or winning a huge number of tournaments believable either (a la Frank Dux, almost), he just made too many mistakes and said too many things in this book which make absolutely no sense about Japanese martial arts and culture.  He is wrong on many points regarding custom, how he studies and got his rank, and so on.  I also noticed that there are no pictures of the man he says he learned from in Japan, or Author Soto himself in Japan. This also strikes me as very suspicious, and has planted strong seeds of doubt regarding his veracity.<br />   That having been said, I question the motives of Irving Soto as a teacher and writer.  So many things claimed by Soto in this volume don't make any sense no matter how hard you squint at them with an open mind.  For what I received (this book), I do feel that I greatly overspent my money.  Had I taken the time to glance through this book first, rather than blindly trusting someone who told me he was a master, I probably would not have bought it.	2001-10-22
US	52661871	RP6R900DL5SXP	0312184441	853031476	Path of the Warrior: Consult the Oracle for Everyday Guidance on Your Life Journey	Books	4	3	4	N	N	I'll Admit it, I Bought it for the Pictures!	But the text isn't bad either.  This is a smaller sized book, only about 5 by 7 inches, slightly larger than standard paperback size.  The author has written a modern personal Tao Te Ching.  Uplifting brief paragraphs acompany vivid and colorful prints from China and Japan.<br />This little volume offers an opportunity to take a short jaunt away from the usual humdrum. It's perfect for next to the computer (while waiting for things to download), waiting in line at the post office, or on top of the toilet tank (you need an explanation?).	2001-10-22
US	52661871	R24EFZDXYJUIKU	0966024036	922076197	Chen Pan-ling's Original Tai Chi Chuan Textbook (Tai Chi Chuan Chiao Tsai)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Tai Chi Quan before it was the Groovy Thang...	...Chen Pan-ling was a practical martial artist who had a background in not only Tai Chi (Yang &amp; Wu), but also Hsing Yi and Bagua.  The book not only includes clear photos (clearer than in my original Chinese version of this book) and precise descriptions of the proper movements and applications, but also descriptions of how you should feel.  This is Tai Chi at it's most practical, not a new-agey easy to learn sequence.<br />Chen was a pioneer in that he did away with a lot of the superstition and ritual associated with martial arts teachers at the time.  His attempt at educated scientific study of this martial art is a welcome addition to the mibrary of the scholarly martial artist.	2001-10-03
US	52661871	R10D1QHD43X0NR	0804832455	655061299	Looking at a Far Mountain: A Study of Kendo Kata (Tuttle Martial Arts)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A Very Fine study of Kendo Kata and Philosophy...	...this is just a very well done book, appealing to the eyes and full of useful information.  Importantly, it covers the kata of kendo and presents them in a meaningful way.  <br />A well done volume which goes beyond the basic repetitive kendo books which have been &quot;done before&quot;.  What a delight that this volume was finally reprinted!  Enjoy!	2001-10-03
US	52661871	R1TL8384KNJBYR	1893765008	740526006	Martial Musings: A Portrayal of Martial Arts in the 20th Century	Books	4	14	15	N	N	A Personal Book...	...Bound to annoy those who want a nice, squeeky-clean image of martial artists as saints and quiet, tea-sipping old men.  Smith is highly experienced, he unlike most of those writing today, has really 'been around the block', so to speak.  I certainly don't agree with all of his opinions, but that doesn't diminish the value of this book to me.  I rather wish more martial artists of experience and repute would dare to publish their honest views, prejudices and all, and stimulate some honest discussion and debate in the martial arts community.    The book itself is a decent hardbound affair printed on quality acid-free paper.  The photos are a nice sepia tone, a cool departure from the usual stock fair.  Agree with him or not, Smith's works make for interesting reading.  Are you really looking to become a well-rounded, educated martial artist?  This book is one you can't do without.  There really is something for everyone in here.	2001-10-01
US	52661871	RKCBAS23COGOW	0394755111	786458413	Iron and Silk	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	This Wonderful Autobiographical Account...	...is must reading for those with an interest in Chinese martial arts and culture.  The author describes his journey through China, the people he meets on the way including the legendary Teacher Pan.  Quite a bit of the book describes his enounters with ordinary Chinese people and how be comes to appreciate the culture through his experiences.  In essence, Salzman learnes to see things with Chinese eyes--including his martial arts training in Wushu.    I also recommend the pre-quel to this book, \\"Lost In Place\\",  Salzman's second autobiographical book, before or after this one.  The two volumes go well together and provide a fascinating portrait of academic and martial growth.  PERFECT for young people who are interested in martial arts as a lifelong pursuit, or anyone with an interest in Chinese culture & living in China to study.	2001-10-01
US	52661871	R87WE82WDBN34	155643085X	767390498	Chinese Boxing: Masters and Methods	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Why I Enjoyed This Book...	This was the first English language book by someone who had actually studied Chinese martial arts in Asia (Taiwan, as China was 'cleansing' all their old school martial arists at the time--before their potential as $-making tourist attractions became evident).  Some of Smith's observations seem exaggerated, but he is a believer in chi gung, so this deosn't surprise me, and shouldn't annoy skeptics who can read around the personal beliefs/handicaps of martial arts writers.  Smith is a VERY knowledgeable martial artist (even if you don't buy into all of the chi stories), and his experiences are worth reading about.  He discusses many teachers whi have made a huge impact on the Chinese-martial arts world without trying too hard to sell himself.  Other good books in this vein (Chinese martial arts books which are semi-autobiographical works describing the training and experiences of the authors) include Mark Salzman's two books, &quot;Iron &amp; Silk&quot; and pre-quil &quot;Lost In Place&quot;, and a book by Howard Thomas called &quot;Tai Chi Training in China&quot;.  Smith's latest book, &quot;Martial Musings&quot; is worth a read too.	2001-10-01
US	52661871	R2H1QQBLFIHCHW	0804831386	810399919	The Sword Polisher's Record: The Way of Kung-Fu (Tuttle Martial Arts)	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	An Excellent Historical & Philosophical Overview	Hsu's book dispells many myths, including the story of the Shaolin Temple being the ancient home of Chinese martial arts.  He discusses many topics including teacher student relationships, the difference between \\"Northern\\" and \\"Southern\\" style kung fu, forms, two man fighting sets, and more.  The great pity is that there are not more serious books of this caliber on Chinese (or other!) martial arts.     This is NOT a how-to book, there are no sequences of techniques or instructions on forms.  It is however, an invaluable aid to those seeking helpful factual information on Chinese martial arts, written in a straightforward and non-self-promoting way.  I have bought copies of this to send to friends who are studying kung-fu in remote areas, away from the constant supervision of a teacher.  It serves as a good textbook for beginning and advanced alike, doing away with superstitious information and offering a well thought, gracious and full view of the depth of Chinese martial arts.  I hope Adam Hsu offers his other Chinese-language books up for translation in the near future, he is truely someone worth listening to.	2001-10-01
US	52661871	R194R1SS26X38D	0806518731	556846403	The Invisible Ninja: Ancient Secrets of Surprise	Books	1	6	8	N	N	An Unfortunate Disappointment	Another Ashida Kim Flop.  Kim blends all he knows into one martial art.  Unfortunately, it is not historical or authentic ninjutsu (he spells it wrong, &quot;ninjitsu&quot;).  Kim mixes terms from Japanese martial arts with some chinese kenpo terms, creating a strange and confusing cultural mishmash that would seem more at home in a thriller comic book.  Again, we are left with pictures of the author in a black ninja suit &quot;sneaking&quot; past a sentry in broad daylight, highlighted by a big white wall in the background that would make him stand out even at night.  <br />The hand postures and kicking techniques are closer to kung fu and taekwon do, nothing like authentic bujinkan or genbukan ninpo.  Ashida Kim claims to be affiliated with the Black Dragon Fighting Society, but recently the head of that group, Bill Aguiar took legal action to stop Kim from claiming association with the group, of which he was never an official member. Ashida Kim is the pen name of Christopher Hunter, who went maskless in his first book.  There are authentic books on ninja arts by authors Hatsumi, Hates, and Daniels.	2001-05-14
US	52661871	R6KZPUJ1987I0	0865680442	466842541	Northern Sil Lum Form Number Seven Plum Flower Fist (Unique Literary Books of the World) (No. 7)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Form &amp; Application	A very good demonstration of the Moi Fah form.  Unlike some of the books that came out of Hong Kong in the early 1980's, Kwon Wing Lam includes the applications of the techniques.  Also includes Chinese and English table for the techniques of the set, and well written sections on the history of Northern Shaolin (or Sil Lum) and kung fu in general.	2001-05-14
US	52661871	RA84YKGRYP0E5	0901764094	683719211	Praying Mantis Kung Fu	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Decent Book, Basic Information	In this little green volume, Un presents some of the basics of Praying Mantis Kung Fu, including a decent section on the history of the style through his lineage.  The form Bong Po is demonstrated, and the major complain I have with the book is that Author Un wears a dark uniform against a dark background, which makes some of the first pictures in this form difficult to understand for a beginner or anyone who is trying to learn this form solely from this book.  There is also a section at the rear of the book showing applications from the Bong Po set.  Altogether it is not a bad book for its size.	2001-05-14
US	52661871	RKV1CP0C6SWVX	0918869013	316856722	Spear Hand (Praying Mantis Kung-Fu Series, Vol 1)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Very Good Introduction to Praying Mantis Kung Fu	Paul Eng introduces the art of Praying Mantis Kung Fu in this, the first of a four volume series on Mantis forms.  Introductions are provided by Chan, Pui (Wah Lum), Wai Hong (Fu Jow Pai), and Kam Yuen among others.  A section on Mantis Kung Fu history, and then Eng demonstrates the Spear Hand form in 48 sections, including separate photos which show the correct application of the techniques.  An excellent introduction to the art of praying mantis.  Text is in Chinese and English, instructions are precise.	2001-05-14
US	52661871	R2J6255AX91RIW	0897500873	805287922	The Tiger/Crane Form of Hung Gar Kung-Fu (Literary Links to the Orient)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Clear and Precise Form & Application	Buck Sam Kong gives us a Step-by-step demonstration of the Tiger-Crane Set (form) accompanied by application of the form.  Not much on history, etc.--this is first and foremost an exhaustive technical guide to the Hung Gar Kung Fu Tiger Crane Form.  Includes transition photos which document the entire technique.<br /><br />This book is Kong's third, after \\"Sil Lum Gung Fu: Lau Gar Kuen\\" (privately published and not to be confused with Fung's book of similar title), and \\"Hung Gar Kung Fu\\" (also by Ohara Publications).	2001-05-14
US	52661871	R2DE962N1G94JO	0939427311	644764849	4: Praying Mantis Kung-Fu: Plum Blossom Hand	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Excellent, #4 in Series	&quot;Plum Blossom Hand&quot; is the fourth volume in the Praying Mantis Kung Fu series.  Sifu Paul Eng demonstrates this form in 32 movements, including applications.  Directions are written in Chinese and English, and are clear and precise.  Paul Eng has studied Seven Star Mantis under Kam Yuen (the fellow who taught David Carradine everything he knows for the &quot;kung fu&quot; t.v. series back in the '70's), Tai-chi Praying Mantis under Jiu Jook Kite, and several other kung fu styles from other accomplished teachers.	2001-05-14
US	52661871	R3562LPK5862WA	0317028391	325048201	Modern Kung-Fu Karate: Iron Poison Hand Training, Book 1 (Break Brick in 100 Days)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Of Phenomenal Historic Value!!!	This is a rare original publication with the green cover, known as the \\"Green Book\\" issued by James Yimm Lee, long deceased.  Revised and expaned from the 1957 and 1958 Orange Book.  Worth owning for the historical photographs alone, not to mention kung fu information from a master teacher!!! <br /> <br />There were several printings of this volume.  I have one with J.Y. Lee breaking a brick, and two others with different pictures feauturing Bodybuilder and Kung Fu fighter Al Novak smashing a brick with an open hand strike.  The back cover shows Jasper Cummings, Jack Headrick, and Earl Maddox as well as another shot of Al Novak Breaking.  This book offers complete instruction on how to break a brick in 100 days with absolutely no superstition and no pretentiousness.  It also shows trick methods for demonstrations.   <br /> <br />According to James Lee's son Greglon Lee in the newly released \\"The Dragon and the Tiger...\\",, these books were sold in kung fu schools and martial arts shops in the Bay Area (near San Fransisco), and also by mail order. <br /> <br />Notably absent is any hint of arrogance on the part of author James Lee.  He explains things in plain and sensible language, offering personal advice and encouragement throughout.  Lee's drawings and photographs illustrate the text.  There are no allusions to secrets, no reference to magic!  Lee comes across as the readers biggest fan as far as encouraging people to learn kung-fu.  Lee also suggests students serious students take up the study body building, judo, and other styles for variety as he has!  So much for the image of the \\"closed door\\" kung fu school!  All of this information is right here in this little book.  Is it any wonder James Yimm Lee and Bruce Lee were fast friends?  I have often thought that much of Lee's philosophy of fighting came straight from James Yimm Lee, who was a welder by trade and also built many training machines for Bruce and his own students. <br /> <br />James Yimm Lee, known as J.Y. Lee on this volume and as Kien Lee in his earlier edition of this volume (the original orange book called \\"Fighting arts of the Orient\\" which he followed with a volume co-authored with his Sil Lum or Shaolin teacher T.Y. Wong entitled \\"Chinese Karate Kung-Fu: Original Sil Lum System\\" before publishing this \\"green book\\") introduces what was technically his third published work.  He later followed with a second volume to this one, as well as publishing Bruce Lee's \\"Philosophical Art of Chinese Gung Fu\\". <br /> <br /> <br />This \\"green book\\" also has a number of historic persons and photographs throughout, including a picture and information on Kenpo Man Paul Pung, who was a student of both James Mitose and Mitose's top disciple, Thomas Young (page 101).  Also Judo and jiu jitsu instructor James Moynihan of Moscow, Idaho (page102-104), kenpo great Ralph Castro who studied under William Chow and Ed Parker (page 105-108), Ed Parker on page 109, Wally Jay on page 110 and the Island Judo Club on 111-113.   <br />	2000-04-09
US	52661871	R2NE5172K13DJ7	0809249510	53406844	Mind of the Ninja: Exploring the Inner Power	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Great overview of Traditional Ninpo in a wide social context	Includes an overview of the history of authentic ninjutsu, explores the common public perception of what a &quot;ninja&quot; is both in western culture and in the east.  Interestingly enough, includes a chapter on  &quot;modern&quot; (non-lineage schools, such as Chris Hunter/Ashida Kim's,  and Frank Dux, which blend several arts such as kung fu, shurei karate,  and/or tae kwon do, etc.) ninja schools, which compares the major  differences between these, and the traditional, legitimate schools  (Hatsumi, Tanemura's lineage, etc.).  Unfortunately for the general public,  Peterson is not overly specific here--otherwise, his book is fine.    Focuses on philosophy from a psychologist's viewpoint (he holds a doctorate  in clinical psych), which is something I wish there were a bit more of in  this subject area. . .Although originally published in 1986, most of the  information in this 300 pager is still relevant.	1999-05-04
