US	52660802	R2IIMU7YD7AZ2D	0380778874	724089567	Pawn's Dream	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent fantasy novel that anyone would love	This well written fantasy novel opens with Roland Pritchard living a fairly dismal life as a convenience store clerk. He is treading water through life trying to care for his crazy mother ... but is she crazy? You'll need to read the book to find out. Meanwhile, assassins come after him and he is saved by a benefactor who tells him that the elaborate dreams he has been having about his scholarly life in an isolated Abbey in another time, are actually real. During sleep he travels back and forth between those worlds.<br /><br />All of the above starts at the beginning of this amazingly detailed, well written novel. Non-stop action, espionage, and trickery fill this book and keep the suspense brewing. All the while, the writer creates worlds that are entirely believable. I enjoyed this book immensely and believe you will too.	2005-08-20
US	52660802	R1KADYUGBJK4E7	0446341916	500414558	The Naked Face	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Dated, but still a good read	This is one of Sidney Sheldon's early works. Written in the 80's, there is some language that is a bit dated. For example, the phrase \\"he was a big mother.\\" Okay, haven't heard that phrase in a long while.<br /><br />Judd Stevens is a psychoanalyst. The people he sees are very disturbed with the exception of one patient, Anne, who won't get to the bottom of her problems. In the opening of the book, one of his patients leaves his office wearing Judd's raincoat and gets stabbed in the back. Shortly after that, his secretary is murdered in his office after hours. The homicide detective assigned to the case believes that Judd is actually guilty of the murders and begins to try to slant the evidence against Judd.<br /><br />Though this is dated and not one of Sheldon's best works, it is very suspenseful and held my attention to the bitter end. It was a satisfying read and, though not necessarily a keeper, it was worth the time. Sidney Sheldon's writing improved dramatically over the years after this book was first written - if you want to read one of his best, read Master of the Game.	2005-07-31
US	52660802	R13TAHYV8GUX13	073931212X	303170656	The Taking	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Excellent commuter audio with one flaw...	First off, the narrator can make or break an audiobook. This narrator had a pleasing voice and rendered the author's words to near poetry.<br /><br />This was a thrilling portait of the world in chaos as alien invaders begin to methodically kill off humans and destroy the environment. Molly and her husband Neil, who have never been able to have children of their own, see it as their duty to save all the children who are scattered about, now parentless and in terrible danger. Local heroic dogs become their guides in the quest to find all the lost children (a touch I liked as a dog lover). Meanwhile, chaos reigns, people die gruesome deaths. Molly and Neil are tireless in their journey.<br /><br />I listened to this unabridged audio during my commute to work. There were times when I would arrive at my destination wishing I could listen a little longer because I just had to know what would happen next - surely the mark of an excellent story. The only reason I gave it a four was because the resolution was too quickly and very suddenly arrived at - even though it makes you think long and hard on so many levels. Even with this flaw, this audio is still well worth your listening time and I highly recommend it.	2005-06-26
US	52660802	R1WPBTK324BVS2	0515123684	83305055	Distant Dreams (Time Passages)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	5 star time travel - excellent story	I picked up this romance figuring it would be a quick read - it turned out to be an excellent one. This book grabbed my interest right away. The way this story was crafted, it was easy to imagine that a ring could wisk you off into the past. Once able to suspend belief, I was able to enjoy the very well created characters and well written story. You can picture the estate by the sea and our heroine falling in love.<br /><br />Shaelyn has agreed to take part in a living history re-enactment on board a historic ship. She is to be the bride in the re-enactment to be married on board the ship deck. Meanwhile, back in time Alec is prepared to marry a woman who has traveled across a vast ocean to marry his younger brother in an arranged marriage. Alec wants to set his younger brother free to wed the woman he really loves by marrying the stranger. Fast forward back into the present - Shaelyn is a journalist, now dressed in a beautiful old-fashioned gown, drops her pad, pen, and tape recorder on the floor of the cabin and in searching for them, she finds a ring wedged into the floor boards. She resolves to slip it on so she will remember to return it to the ship captain. When she slips the ring onto her finger, the ship lurches about and all the lights go out. Unaware that she has been transported back in time, Shaelyn goes up on deck and Alec, believing she is his brother's betrothed, steps up onto the deck and marries her.<br /><br />Thus begins a well created time travel romance. It's easy to suspend belief in this one. You grow to care about the characters. To say more would give too much away. It was a very enjoyable tale and earns 5 stars all the way.	2005-04-09
US	52660802	RCQ45O14E1VU2	0763175684	369688766	German Shepherds 2005 Weekly Engagement Calendar	Books	5	2	2	N	N	look no further ....	If you or someone you love has a fondness for German Shepherds and if you are looking for a weekly planner, look no further.<br /><br />This weekly planner has a rigid cardboard cover with glossy picture overlay. Inside, on the first couple pages there is a year at a glance planner for 2005. The weekly calendar pages start on December 26th. Every week features a beautiful picture of a German Shepherd - they include pictures of adult dogs and their beguiling little puppies - sure to warm anyone's heart. In the back there are a couple pages devoted to yearly panning for 2006 as well as several lined note pages for telephone numbers and special notes in the back. Probably the best feature of all is the rigid front and back cover, so this calendar can easily survive going into a purse, brief case, or backpack and come back out just as beautifully as it went in.<br /><br />This would make a wonderful gift for someone you love or make a great gift to yourself.	2004-12-20
US	52660802	RCAK31QNT9JET	0805068015	998738670	Eva Moves the Furniture: A Novel	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Riveting -- a definite keeper! Excellent	This story will break your heart.<br /><br />It is so perfectly beautiful that writing this review is an amazing challenge.<br /><br />The story is told in first person narrative by Eva McEwen a lonely girl whose mother died in childbirth. She is adored by her widower father and her aunt, who has come to help raise her. Though beloved by her family, she is lonely, friendless, and very isolated. When she is six years old the \\"companions\\" visit her for the first time.<br /><br />From her childhood through her adult life we watch Eva mature and grow into a woman, eventually becoming a nurse during WWII in Scotland. The companions are with her from start to finish.<br /><br />Are they good or are they evil? You'll have to read the book to find out.<br /><br />This gut-wrenching story is one you won't be able to put down until the last page. I sat silently for several minutes after the last line of the book - it had such a great impact. This book is a keeper.	2004-08-16
US	52660802	R29KW3FBTA1JOM	0764563432	295119423	Frommer's Portable Maine Coast (Frommer's Portable)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Not quite what I hoped for, but still a good book	This book is not quite as comprehensive as I had hoped. At approximately 200 pages, it tries to cover the most popular areas of the Maine coast.  It does list prices and reviews hotels - perhaps the best feature of all. The print is also quite small in this little guide. It is indeed portable/pocket size, but you may need other guides to help supplement the information given in this book.	2004-07-20
US	52660802	R2GU8N415TKSWI	0849917077	928950294	The Wishing Jar: A Novel	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	Heartwrenching &amp; simply beautiful ...	This is the story of Edith, Abby, and Neal Grace - three generations of Quinn women who all occupy the family's ancestral home. Edith, the grandmother is a widow who has recently suffered a stroke. Abby, her daughter and mother to Neal Grace, is a widow still mourning the loss of her husband. Neal Grace, Abby's daughter and Edith's granddaughter, has lost both her father and her grandfather. She also feels that she has lost her grandmother to the stroke that paralyses her left side and slurs her speech.<br />Edith is very depressed as she sees that Abby and Neal Grace don't relate to her in the same way. Neal Grace can hardly bring herself to even look at her grandmother - what she sees is just a shell of the Granny Q she always loved. Abby sees her mother as feeble and pays little attention to anything she has to say. Abby races off to her work as a journalist, continually worrying over whether mother will burn the house down or have some sort of accident while she is home alone. Neal Grace begins skipping school to see a boyfriend who is emotionally and sometimes physically abusive. Believing that her whole world has come crashing down around her ears with the death of her father and her grandmother's stroke, she clings to him like a life raft. Edith, left to mourn all her losses, wishes that the stroke had taken her life. So begins the story of loving and longing ... of three people occupying the same house, yet emotionally light years away from each other.<br />The wishing jar itself is not central to the plot. It's a jar passed down through generations of Quinn women. It symbolizes for them the ability to change as well as a symbol of prayers answered.<br />This inspirational story will grab at your heartstrings as the three generations of women begin to grow and change. They begin to find in each other the strength to go on, to move past their losses, to love and laugh again. I highly recommend this book - reading it will enrich your life.	2004-07-05
US	52660802	R4O5GH7DLI440	1880254271	733042409	God on a Harley	Books	5	25	25	N	N	A fable that will make you examine your own life ,,,	I got this little treasure from the library.  I say little because it is very short, but it is jam packed with such truth, such faith.<br />It's the story of Christine, a burned out nurse who is lonely and downright angry with the way her life has turned out. She bases her life on whether she has a relationship or not and is increasingly miserable and angry at the start of this fable.<br />Then God arrives. He comes in the form of a handsome stranger on a Harley. Slowly, through this fable, he teaches her what she's been doing wrong and helps her find the meaning of life.<br />This short book packs a very heavy message ... one that will make you reexamine your own thought processes and the direction of your life.  It's a story that will linger in your thoughts for a long time ... it will hopefully make you think ... make you change ... grow.	2004-06-28
US	52660802	R2IR7ZGAA7004P	1843950685	699007444	Hiding From The Light (CH)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	You will believe in ghosts ....	... and possession and witches if you read this book.<br />I've been a huge Barbara Erskine fan since reading Lady of Hay. Unfortunately this book (at least the regular-size type edition) has not been released for sale in the United States yet. Fortunately I was able to order it through Amazon.uk.<br />This is a long, virtual door-stopper size book - at just over 540 pages, this hardcover is a hefty read. Though there were a few spots where it did lag a tiny bit, the plot was well done and the action continued to move at a brisk pace keeping my interest through the entire book.<br />Emma Dickson is a successful business woman living in London with her fianc&eacute; Piers. During a visit to her dentist, she leafs through a magazine and sees a cottage for sale on the Essex coast. It's a house she remembers from her childhood summers in the country. She immediately senses that she must buy the house. Piers wants nothing to do with it. He loves their life in London and flatly refuses to even look at the cottage. Emma goes out to the country herself, falls immediately in love with the house, and puts in an offer for it. She buys it against the wishes of her fianc&eacute;, quits her job, and leaves Piers behind in the city. ...the excitement is just about to begin for Emma.<br />The cottage Emma bought is haunted, as is the local shop, by long-dead spirits who were once in a heated battle - one was a witch (the ghost in Emma's cottage) prosecuted by the Witch Finder General Matthew Hopkins (the ghost in the local shop). The spirits of these people begin a war against each other using the living players in the tiny village, pitting one against the other. Slowly a tide of evil builds in the town. Senseless crimes are committed. Life in the village is thrown out of balance. To restore the balance the age-old battle between warring spirits needs to end.<br />I don't want to spoil the story by telling any more of this tale. Suffice it to say, this is a very well written ghost story. You will believe in ghosts when you read it. The tales of the persecuted witches is thoroughly engrossing, the glimpses into the past are seamless, and the ending is so well crafted that you will believe it could all so easily happen. This was a highly enjoyable read and is a keeper of the best kind.ill believe in ghosts when you read it. The tales of the persecuted witches is thoroughly engrossing, the glimpses into the past are seamless, and the ending is so well crafted that you will believe it could all so easily happen. This was a highly enjoyable read and is a keeper of the best kind.	2004-06-23
US	52660802	R3SVNM4JN2M0P3	0696200376	509140210	A Cross Stitch Christmas: Handmade Treasures (Better Homes and Gardens)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	TONS of beautiful cross-stitch desings, beautiful book	First off, this book is put together beautifully just as so many other Better Homes and Gardens crafts books are (I know, I own several).  It's a large 128 page hardcover book with so many beautiful designs you'll want to make them all.<br />Though this book is called &quot;A Cross-Stitch Christmas,&quot; it has so many designs that could be used year round and in many different projects.  For example, the angel tree topper could easily be made into an angel wall hanging or angel pillow. There are also sun, moon, and star designs that could be used year round. Also here, you'll find a wreath design that is a circular motif made up of fruit - you could use it to make a pillow or wall hanging for year round also. There are also items for the fisherman in your life that include a fly-fishing case (for all their lures), and several pocket designs that include fly fishing, golf, racing, and tools. For the lady in your life there is a stunning design for a jewelry roll and accessories. That said there are tons of Christmas designs from ornaments and wreaths to an assortment of embroidered Christmas stockings.<br />I typically mark my favorite pages in my stitchery books with tiny post it notes - I found that there were so many designs I admired, that I had a virtual storm of post its all over the insides of the book. This beautiful book was so full of wonderful designs! I'm so glad I purchased it, you would be too.	2004-06-08
US	52660802	R31AVG2KQXS2NT	1859746411	482290512	Celtic Cross Stitch: Over 40 Small, Exciting and Innovative Projects	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Contains 40 projects using many of same stitches	This stitchery book is misnamed perhaps? Perhaps not. The title says that it has over 40 small, exciting and innovative projects. What it doesn't say is that many use variations of exactly the same design.<br />This book centers on the themes of water, fire, air, and earth. One water theme that repeated far too often for my liking with salmon - the identical salmon design was used on a scented pillow, a salmon cushion, a salmon tissue sachet, salmon card, and salmon gift tag.<br />Now that all having been said, there are a few stunning designs that made buying this book worth every penny. A particularly beautiful design in the water category is that of a &quot;water jewel purse&quot; - it's a beautiful little jewel tone purse designed in alternating stripes of Celtic knots in alternating colors. The design could easily be used, with a little imagination, to create a larger purse. There are also a few other fish designs, a sea serpent design, a knotwork bookmark, knot key rings, a dragon eyeglass case, a Celtic angel pincushion, an eagle bookmark, a triskele box (a sort of spiral design), a saint and birds, a durrow saint sachet, a durrow know clothes hanger, a bird headed triskele scissor keep, a grape vineyard design used on several projects, a design for a chessboard and fabric case for chessmen, a Celtic cross picture design, and most beautiful of all the designs - a Celtic swan needle case.<br />In the final analysis, this book was well worth buying for two reasons - 1. there were enough beautiful designs inside to make it worth it, and 2. with a little imagination and the instructions for a few types of projects, a crafter could create their own designs.	2004-06-08
US	52660802	R32RAL2FVS7ZQ2	0553583441	789284175	Touching Evil: A Bishop/Special Crimes Unit Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Psychic thriller .... too many psychics render unbelievable	This is the story of Maggie, a psychic empath who listens to crime victims horrible experiences and creates an exact sketch of the criminal.  She's very successful up until she begins to help the police with their hunt for a serial rapist who wears a plastic mask and blinds his victims by gouging their eyes out.<br />John, a wealthy business mogul, joins the cast of characters in this story after his sister is victimized by the killer. After healing from the attack she commits suicide - at least that's what the police think - Maggie and John know better.<br />Enter the plot points that spoiled the story: Maggie's brother is also psychic and talks to someone who isn't named during the course of the story at all. Then John brings in two friends from an FBI special unit to help with the investigation. They are also psychic.<br />So there I was reading a thoroughly engrossing story when suddenly the story contained FOUR psychics.  That was a bit much.  I almost abandoned the book at that point, but didn't. The other spoiler was that all the characters said &quot;Yeah&quot; when they agreed with something - wasn't there an editor involved in this book?  Fortunately the story was entertaining enough to finish, but it's not a keeper.	2004-06-05
US	52660802	R193FIWKNP9DCE	0425152499	713884628	Practical Magic	Books	5	111	118	N	N	Completely different from the movie - beautifully written	The movie version of this story is one of the most fun, exhilerating movies - a favorite in this household. This book bears very little relation to the movie.  The only similarities are that the main characters exist as they do in the movie, but they don't live with the aunts and magic is not quite the focus as it was in the movie.<br />Now, that said ...<br />This is one of the best books I've had the opportunity to read. Written in the beautiful prose Alice Hoffman is so well known for, it follows the life of Gillian and Sally as they go on their diverse paths. Sally is the stable widow with two girls in tow. She leaves the aunts in New England, leaving her sad life behind, and moves to a Long Island suburb with her two girls where tries to live a normal life.  Meanwhile, Gillian is a bad girl who is in and out of relationships and in and out of trouble. She finds the awful, abusive Jimmy and eventually kills him accidentally while enroute to visit her sister. Unsure of what to do, she brings him to her sister's house dead in the passenger seat of the car - she thinks stable Sally would know what to do to keep her out of jail. Sally meets the situation with borderline hysteria at first, then the two decide to bury him in Sally's backyard. Gillian moves in with Sally and her girls and tries to forget the body in the back yard. Sally's boring, stable life changes dramatically while Gillian's naughty life changes to a more stable one.  Meanwhile they are haunted by the evil spirit of Jimmy, threatening to destroy the tenuous stability they try to build.<br />This book is not written in standard chapters - instead it is written in four large sections.  Fortunately there are enough scene breaks in each section that you can put it down and read it in separate sittings.  The thing is, once you're drawn into the story, you won't want to put it down.  You'll want to read this one in a day, in one sitting if you can read fast enough. It is so beautifully written with an edge of suspense and just a tiny touch of magic. It will become a treasure on your bookshelf and one you'll only loan to your most reliable friends.  Excellent!e of suspense and just a tiny touch of magic. It will become a treasure on your bookshelf and one you'll only loan to your most reliable friends.  Excellent!	2004-05-31
US	52660802	REGPUWEOIFZ7S	0446612812	841117264	Have You Seen Her?	Books	5	39	42	N	Y	Hair raising suspense	Well, I found out what Romantic Suspense is by reading this book.  It is a mix of sizzling romance with mystery/suspense.  I read a variety of things, but have never read a book quite like this one.<br />Special Agent Steven Thatcher is the lead investigator on a series of serial killings in his small town - the killer targets young, innocent teenage girls. He meets his teenage son's teacher, Jenna Marshall who is concerned about his son's falling grades.  They feel an immediate attraction for one another, but due to losses and disappointments in their previous relationships, they resist each other's affections.<br />After the initial chapters, which included sizzling descriptions about how the main characters felt about each other, I almost put this book down.  I was afraid the book would be more romance and very little suspense.  I was wrong.  I am so glad I didn't give up on this one.<br />Though romance is at the core of this story, the suspense is so hair raising and realistic that I stayed up way past my bedtime to finish reading this book.  As with any good mystery/suspense, this writer managed to throw out enough clues to lead you along the path of who the killer was yet still hit you with a big surprise you at the end - the killer is not the person you think he is.<br />This was a highly entertaining read, I highly recommend it. You may just stay up past your bedtime reading it too.	2004-05-31
US	52660802	R4H4716IYJLHT	1401397514	891971809	The Five People You Meet in Heaven	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Listened to unabriged audio and nearly cried in the car	Though there have been hundreds of reviews written for this novel and my review will likely be buried among those reviews never to be seen, I feel compelled to write this review anyway ...<br />I borrowed the unabridged audio version of this book from my local library. It's a short novel told in very few audio cassettes so I thought it would be a quick easy story to listen to on my daily commute to work.  Though it was completed in a few days commute, it wasn't so easy - I found myself wanting to sit in the parking lot on arrival to work to listen to more and then looked forward to listening to more of it at the end of the work day on my commute home.  If you read this with book in hand, you would never want to put it down.<br />This is the story of Eddie, chief maintenance person at Ruby Pier amusement park. He thinks his life has been a waste, that he hasn't impacted anyone. At the beginning of the story we meet the elderly Eddie, sad, lonely Eddie. He makes the rides safe for everyone, except one day something goes terribly wrong. In one last heroic act in his sad life, Eddie throws himself in front of a runaway roller coaster to save the life of a little girl who becomes caught on the track.  But did he save her?  Eddie's death is so sudden that he doesn't know if he saved her or not ... and neither do we.<br />Eddie procedes on his path in heaven meeting five key people throughout this engaging, heartwrenching story. It is told in a series of flashbacks through the eyes of those five people. The story is crafted so well and so beautifully that you may wish it was longer. I listened to the last portions of the story of Eddie's life and death with more than a slight glimmer of tears in my eyes.  It is such a beautiful story that it will touch your very soul and leave a mark there forever.	2004-05-31
US	52660802	R382VM7BQYTJO9	0425195473	728441185	Remember When	Books	5	4	4	N	N	excellent story - mystery &amp; love	This book consists of two novels - the first one is the story of Laine Tavish and Max Gannon on the trail of stolen diamonds.  This was excellent - the Nora Roberts we've all come to expect - mystery, romance, and a good, well written, well plotted story.  I truly enjoyed this portion of the audio book.  It is followed up by the second novel which features Eve Dallas working to solve a mystery case, involving the same diamonds and the grandchild of Laine &amp; Max 56 years in the future.  It's completely different in style - written as J.D. Robb it follows her formula in her &quot;In Death&quot; mystery series.<br />This was a highly enjoyable set of stories (especially the 1st of the two stories) and I highly recommend them to any Nora Roberts fan - you won't be disappointed.	2004-05-09
US	52660802	R2M49AMHA7Q559	0333761294	291612741	The Magic Cottage	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	Enchanting, magical, edge of your seat reading	This was one of the most enchanting, gripping stories I have ever read. Unlike some of the horror Mr. Herbert has written, this was more suspense/thriller than horror, though it does indeed have it's horrifying moments.<br />The story centers around a couple from London, Mike and Midge, who begin to search for a house of their own. Midge starts scanning the newspaper and is drawn to a little add for a cottage called Gramarye. When they go see the house they find out from the realtor that is being sold as part of the estate of a very old woman who lived there most of her life and died suddenly. When they go to the house Midge is completely enchanted by the little cottage, feeling like it is home. Mike sees the flaws that need fixing. Still, passion wins over and they buy the little house and work to restore it's beauty. They seem like the perfect couple who has just found the perfect home.<br />Yet there is something strange and disturbing about Gramarye, Mike can feel it, Midge seems oblivious to it. Animals come into the house and eat out of their hands, they befriend a little red squirrel who comes in daily and chatters away at them. Wounds heal spontaneously. It all sounds pretty silly, but it is all part of the magic that is Gramarye.<br />Soon the enchanting life starts to take a turn when they meet young people who live in a house on the other side of the forest behind their house. Midge becomes entangled with their group, which ends up being a cult. The cult wants the house and will stop at nothing to possess it. Thus begins the battle of wills while Mike tries to save Midge from the cult and his new home from their possession. Don't worry, I haven't given anything away.<br />This book was a mystery loaded with magic and danger. It has ghosts and spirits, both good and evil. It begins by sparking the imagination, and the tension grows stronger and stronger in this well wrought story, until it reaches a crescendo that will leave you breathless. This was such a good book that I'm now buying the hardcover - yes, it's good enough to read again. Buy this book, you'll love it as much as I did!a good book that I'm now buying the hardcover - yes, it's good enough to read again. Buy this book, you'll love it as much as I did!	2004-03-23
US	52660802	R3MD0I70KYS3HR	0440393353	487126614	Voices of a Summer Day	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon hasn't posted an editorial review, here's the description from the cover to help you decide if this book is for you: &quot;Four decades of American life are re-created through the dramatic reminiscences of Benjamin Federov, a typical yet very special man, son of Immigrant Jewish parents, a husband, a father, an admirer of women, a one-time soldier ... and finally, and always, his own man.  Federov's story is relived while watching his teen-age son play baseball in the sunshine of a summer day. It tells of the intrigue and exultation of his first love affair, his war experiences, the volatile warmth of his marriage, and the special meaning of his infidelities. Through it all is his quest for a point of balance as he stands on the edge of conventional society, desirous of entering, refusing always to do so.&quot;	2004-03-07
US	52660802	R12V89QLJME50R	0708843697	308103223	Love and Mary Ann	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Storyline ....	From the cover: &quot;Mary Ann may have grown up, but she hasn't changed. As irrepressible as ever, she's still doing what she does best: interfering in other peoples' lives. She's never one to resist a bit of matchmaking herself, but heaven help anyone who tries her at her own game. Though she may not yet know much about love, Mary Ann knows who's stolen her heart.&quot; Part of the series of &quot;Mary Ann&quot; books written by Catherine Cookson.	2003-11-08
US	52660802	R2JXN3SVCGQQ1R	0312854064	481360910	The Falling Woman	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Supernatural, paranormal mystery	Elizabeth is a troubled woman archeologist. She left behind her husband and daughter to pursue a dream. She also sees the shades of the past. Are they just visions of what once was, or are they ghosts?  This haunts her through her life and she wonders about her own sanity.<br />Her daughter Diane comes to the latest archeological dig in search of her mother. Why did her mother really leave her? What haunts her, troubles her? Diane seeks to understand her mother while just barely able to bury her own resentment for the abandonment she experienced.<br />This story, however, isn't just about family dynamics, or lack thereof. This is a story of the present which abruptly becomes entwined with the past. One of Elizabeth's visions see her and talks to her.  Elizabeth and Diane become embroiled in a dangerous game where they may not survive. Can love triumph over the danger they face?  You'll have to read this WONDERFUL book to find out.  This was a truly satisfying read that kept me up past my bedtime and wishing for more.  Read this book!	2003-10-26
US	52660802	ROSBZ50O9A7Q6	0765306905	479515818	Gateways (Repairman Jack)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	My first Repairman Jack, but not my last!	This is the first book I ever read by F. Paul Wilson.  What a treat I've been missing!  Having read Gateways and enjoyed a thrill ride like no other, I plan to read the whole series!<br />Repairman Jack is a man without a history, skirting the edges of society, setting wrongs right.  This book opens with Jack inside the home of a private detective who is using the evidence and pictures he gathered about people's personal lives to blackmail them.  Jack has been hired by one such person, but destroys the evidence of many blackmailing schemes, trying to set many wrong to right.  He's a fringe-of-society character with a strong conscience.  You immediately take a liking to Jack.<br />From there this story takes off at blistering speed as Jack travels to Florida to investigate a life threatening \\"accident\\" that his father has been in.  Here's where you need to suspend belief, as this story takes a turn toward fantasy, science fiction. It is so well written that you don't have to be a fan of fantasy to enjoy it.  The suspense and danger - you actually wonder how on earth the main characters will survive - builds to a breathtaking conclusion.<br />It is so well written that you hate for the story to end.  Fortunately there are more Repairman Jack novels to dive into.  Though this is the most recent installment in the series, well after the series is established, you can enjoy this book on its own merit. Run, don't walk, to the shelves to buy this book.	2003-10-26
US	52660802	R2V18XNUF60SIG	9998084164	214525551	Transcendental Meditation Primer: How to Stop Tension and Start   Living (R197)	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon hasn't posted an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: &quot;TM. More and more people are trying it. But just one book tells you step by step how to do it and why it works .... Pat Hemingway has taken the mumbo jumbo out of meditation. Her Book is so straight-forwardly written that for the very first time meditation for the masses is not only possible but, with this highly readable, easy to understand manual, even probable ... &quot;	2003-10-18
US	52660802	R3RMYO58G92857	0425068145	206886699	Promise Me The Dawn	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon hasn't posted an editorial review for this book, here's the description from the back cover to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"BELINDA - a beauty with hair of fire, an orphan cast adrift in cold, bleak Salem, a woman of passionate destiny. JUSTIN - a handsome pirateer, dashing and strong with silver gray eyes, a wealthy landowner feared by the colonists, a man of powerful desires. Drawn together by a force as relentless as the tides of their love begins with a kiss as sweet as a dream ... their passion promises immeasurable ecstasy. But cries of witchcraft ring in the night as the twisted conscience of the townspeople wails its curse - to punish Belinda for her beauty. For her dark-cloaked guardian would have the price of love be death. Only Justin can save her ... but a woman has sailed from England to be his brid. And Belinda waits in her darkness to be rescued by the unceasing fire of his extraordinary love, by an ardour that knows no fear or defeat, a passion to make hearts tremble, a dream of undying love ...\\"	2003-09-14
US	52660802	R1D96UZNRZ2SVV	069810496X	687336317	Triad: A Novel of the Supernatural	Books	4	6	9	N	N	a further note ....	Another reviewer mentioned that this book was the one Stevie Nicks was reading when she wrote Rhiannon and that the song was related to the story. A long time Fleetwood Mac fan, I pulled out the CD and listened to the song both while I was reading the book and after I was finished with it. Though it does follow to a very small extent, the mythology of the name Rhiannon, it doesn't reflect on the story at all. The Rhiannon of the book is cruel and extremely vicious, a character with no virtue, yet the song is not about a character like that.<br />The same reviewer recommended the book if you like mythology. Celtic mythology is discussed in only the barest terms. It isn't discussed at length, only to the slightest extent.<br />So if you are looking for insight into the song Rhiannon or looking for extensive mythology discussion, this is not the book for you. Buy a Celtic mythology book for the myths and buy the music CD for the beautiful song.	2003-08-24
US	52660802	RH2HYW0SAPPY6	0441009727	849730505	The Summer Country	Books	5	7	8	N	N	WOW!  So good I'll have to buy my own copy now!	I borrowed this book from my local library. It's so good that I know I'll want to read it again someday!<br />This is story of a quartet of characters drawn into amazing circumstances - Maureen, Jo, Brian, & David. The main character is Maureen. She remembers stories told to her of the old country, the summer country, told by her departed grandfather. She assumes those are stories of Ireland. Maureen also talks to trees and sometimes hears things and sees things that no one else hears or sees. Maureen believes she is insane. She lives with her sister Jo who also believes her sister is insane. By some unspoken agreement with her highly dysfunctional family, Jo keeps watch over her sister.<br />In the beginning of the book Maureen is stalked by a large man on her way home from work. He corners her in an alley and as he approaches is hacked to bits by Brian. Though dressed in ordinary clothes, he is actually a Pendragon - a knight who protects human's from the \\"old ones.\\" Maureen believes Brian must also be insane until she sees her would-be attacker consumed by blue flames and disappear. Initially she believes in him, then later does not trust him, blaming her suspicions of her own insanity for creating the deadly scene. Her sister Jo and boyfriend Brian are lovers who live under the same roof with Maureen. Their relationship irritates Maureen. She believes Jo stole David from her.<br />As the story progresses Maureen is drawn into the summer country by one of the \\"old ones\\" by magic. The summer country, once a wonderful placed, is twisted and full of hate and fear, and terrible violence. Jo sees her sister disappear before her eyes. She stands still and closes her eyes and wills herself to find her sister. Both Maureen and Jo are of faery blood, but don't know it. Jo opens her eyes and finds herself in the summer country in the middle of an enchanted, dangerous forest. Brian and David discover that both women have disappeared into the summer country and go there after them.<br />What follows is not a sweet faery tale. It's a fearsome faery land filled with terrors beyond belief and dangers that stretch the bonds of love. To tell more would ruin the story.<br />This book is so well written that the characters seem real to the reader and you actually learn to care what happens to them. Scenes are so well crafted that you can picture everything. As you close the last page of the book and the story ends you feel like you are saying goodbye to an old friend. Not many books can evoke that feeling. I sincerely hope the author comes out with another book. I would stand in line to buy one. I'll be buying this one for my own shelf as it is one of the most engrossing, wondrous stories I have every read!er them.<br />What follows is not a sweet faery tale. It's a fearsome faery land filled with terrors beyond belief and dangers that stretch the bonds of love. To tell more would ruin the story. <br />This book is so well written that the characters seem real to the reader and you actually learn to care what happens to them. Scenes are so well crafted that you can picture everything. As you close the last page of the book and the story ends you feel like you are saying goodbye to an old friend. Not many books can evoke that feeling. I sincerely hope the author comes out with another book. I would stand in line to buy one. I'll be buying this one for my own shelf as it is one of the most engrossing, wondrous stories I have every read!	2003-08-24
US	52660802	RBQN6EAQDGQHY	0895778599	188266396	Celtic cross stitch	Books	5	16	17	N	N	GREAT Celtic cross stitch book!!!	This book is worth the cover price for the lettering patterns alone!<br />I anxiously awaited delivery of this book. So many books are full of designs you'll never use. This book is a wonderful exception. The beginning of the book has a short section on how to instructions that could help the novice cross-stitcher. Then the remainder of the book is devoted to classic Celtic designs and a wonderful array of projects that range from the simple Celtic cross book mark (a nice quick project) to a Celtic designed rug.<br />Best features of all -- 6 different alphabet designs and a pattern library in the back to fuel your stitching creativity even further. This is a great addition to any stitcher's library and especially those who love Celtic design!	2003-08-24
US	52660802	RF0MHJLCJZEUC	B00005VEF6	574265260	The Anglophile	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon hasn't posted an editorial review for this book, here is the description from the DJ to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"From the time Dennis McDermott was smuggled to France as a boy to obtain the education denied him in Ireland by the Penal Laws, he was consumed with hatred of the English. The memory of his father's corpse hanging from a gallows and his mother's scream haunted him until he had only one purpose - to return and fight. When he did return to Dublin, it was ostensibly as a gentleman-lawyer wearing the mask of Anglophile, the name for native Irish who renounced Catholicism for the Church of England. But actually it was to join a group of Patriots and risk his life day and night arranging for young boys to be smuggled out of the country as he had been. The arrival of Anne Deering, a young English heiress and niece of one of his prominent clients, presented him with the opportunity he sought. By marrying her, he could solidify his position as Anglophile, achieve wealth and position, and contribute heavily to the Irish cause. Completely aware that one day his luck might run out and that Dennis McDermott, elegant Anglophile gentleman, might be hanged as a traitor, he still had not counted on the persistent efforts of Major Sir Harry Quintain, Anne's old friend and rejected suitor, to destroy their marriage by ferreting out his secret activities. Nor had he planned to fall in love with Anne ...\\"	2003-08-24
US	52660802	RQALDAPHACNQY	0740725378	554809502	ME For The Love Of Books	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Adorable set, perfect as a child gift set, not for adults	I had this item on my wish list and finally bought it only to find that it didn't live up to my expectations. Still, as a diehard ME fan who loves book accessories, I do like the set.<br />The set is very well made and created to really last. The exterior is of very hard construction that reminded me of a heavy cigar box shaped like a book. Inside there is a bookmark with a little machine embroidery on it. a deck of book plates, a small notebook to keep track of your favorite books, and a little pad of lending pages. The only thing I don't like about this set is the bookplates. They are very small and the design on them is a more childish design that you might find pasted into a child's book - specifically a little girl's book. I think the only part of this set that I would ever use would be the little notebook.<br />If you are thinking of winter holiday gift giving, this would be very well suited to giving to your favorite little girl, granddaughter, niece, or other little girl on your gift giving list. If you have a little girl on your gift giving list who loves books, this would be the perfect present. It is far more suited to a child rather than an adult. Oh, and don't give it to a boy - all the designs feature a little girl.	2003-08-24
US	52660802	R3K60GM5G0AXQ9	0446691437	757683089	The War of Art: Break Through the Blocks and Win Your Inner Creative Battles	Books	5	74	86	N	N	Will knock writer's block to pieces &amp; get you back to work	Are you creative, yet are facing writer's block? Read this book and it'll shake your block loose and help set you free!<br />In this slim volume Stephen Pressfield discusses the inner naysayer we all have within us, also referred to as an inner critic by most writers.This book helps you identify and defeat the negative self talk any creative person must deal with. It does so in a serious tone, sprinkled with lots of humor. For example, the heading of one of his essays is &quot;How To Be Miserable&quot; - it was an essay that had me chuckling. It also had me nodding my head as I recognized myself in what he wrote.<br />Written using a variety of short essays, this book is easy to pick up and read at any point. I read it from the first page to the last, in order. You don't necessarily need to do that to benefit from Stephen Pressfield's wisdom about the inner struggle creative people face from day to day. Read from beginning to end does have it's advantages though -- the author takes aim at resistance, procrastination, rationalization, and finally at the end winning the war. When we win the war of art we are free to create, free to be truly happy.<br />This is one of the best books I've read on the subject. It helped me identify my own foibles then smash the blocks holding me back. I saw myself in each page and triumphed along with the author. This is an excellent book for any creative person. I highly recommend it.	2003-08-10
US	52660802	R1LF4I4QZPJFQ6	0812827139	472218434	Solo	Books	4	75	77	N	N	Satisfying & suspenseful	I was in the mood for a quick read and this book fit the bill at just under 200 pages. This is a superb international good vs evil tale. I gave 4 out of 5 stars simply because the ultimate resolution to the story was very quick and the protagonist finds out who the killer is almost by coincidence. Truth be told, this would have been a far more satisfying story if it was a little longer and relied a little more on the cunning of the characters at finding each other rather than coincidence.<br /><br />Solo is mainly the story of John Mikali, grandson of a wealthy Greek business man. He's a sensitive person who loses both of his parents during infancy. He is raised by his maternal grandmother and a doting Greek woman who could have no children of her own. His grandfather, an equally sensitive person is a central figure in his life as well, but lives far away from the boy on an island in Greece. His grandmother dies leaving him alone with his Greek nanny and the grandfather who lives far away. He is a character who has some part of his soul missing. Though he loves the nanny and grandfather dearly, there is a coldness in his heart. Finally, when they are both killed, something in John Mikali snaps. He takes revenge on those who were responsible for their deaths and finds that he enjoys killing. He becomes an international hit man. At least half of the book is devoted to telling the story of John Mikali. It is extremely well crafted and, though he is evil through and through, you understand his character and care what happens to him.<br /><br />Where John Mikali is the mouse in this cat and mouse tale, Asa Morgan is the cat. Asa Morgan is a soldier of great cunning and is off at war when he is called home because his 14 year old daughter has been hit by the getaway car of Mikali as he flees the scene of an assassination he has committed. Asa Morgan builds up a fury in his heart toward John Mikali and will stop at nothing to find him and kill him. He is a fundamentally good character, but also enjoys war and killing. His character isn't built up to the extent that Mikali's character is.<br /><br />Enter, Dr. Katherine Riley, a foremost authority on terrorist mentality. She meets and falls in love with John Mikali. She becomes the only person that Mikali actually cares about. Asa Morgan meets her as well when British intelligence brings her in to analyze an ongoing case. He develops an attraction to her, but his desire for revenge is foremost in his mind. She is a minor character in this cat and mouse tale, a minor diversion.<br /><br />I don't want to tell much more as it could ruin the story for those who wish to read it. I haven't given anything away that isn't brought out from the beginning. It rates 4 out of 5 for the reasons stated in the first paragraph of this review. All in all, this was a satisfying read.character, but also enjoys war and killing. His character isn't built up to the extent that Mikali's character is. <BR> <BR>Enter, Dr. Katherine Riley, a foremost authority on terrorist mentality. She meets and falls in love with John Mikali. She becomes the only person that Mikali actually cares about. Asa Morgan meets her as well when British intelligence brings her in to analyze an ongoing case. He develops an attraction to her, but his desire for revenge is foremost in his mind. She is a minor character in this cat and mouse tale, a minor diversion.<BR> <BR>I don't want to tell much more as it could ruin the story for those who wish to read it. I haven't given anything away that isn't brought out from the beginning. It rates 4 out of 5 for the reasons stated in the first paragraph of this review. All in all, this was a satisfying read.	2003-08-04
US	52660802	R31VSC5F7JRDND	0821762818	594896475	The Silent Rose	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Completely satisfying ghost story &amp; romance	Here is the story of Devon James, a successful writer with a relationship that is on the rocks. Deeply unsatisfied with her personal life, she develops writer's block. She has a deadline for her next book looming in the near future and a relationship that is suffocating her. To solve the two problems, she books a weekend at an old bed and breakfast on an island off the state of Connecticut. The trip there is gloomy with rain, an impatient fianc&eacute;, and what turns out to be an old Victorian house in the midst of renovation. Devon and her fianc&eacute; Michael try to make the best of it and they stay overnight in the house against their better judgment. That evening they make love and Devon can sense a spirit in the room with them actually participating in their lovemaking. (No, this isn't a graphic love scene.) Well after fianc&eacute; Michael falls asleep, Devon has a terrifying vision of another spirit in the room and is so terrified by it that she is unable to go to sleep for fear that she'll be injured by the malevolent ghost. Michael sleeps restlessly beside her while she is awake the entire night. When they wake up they resolve to leave as quickly as they can.<br /><br />They return to New York City and Michael wants everything to go back to normal, but they never do because Devon is so fascinated by the old house and the ghosts she encountered there that she begins to research what happened at the old house. Rather predictably, she breaks up with Michael, who, though not a bad guy, never took her writing seriously. He wants her to settle down and become the perfect corporate wife. She has known she doesn't love him and gives up trying to make things right with Mr. Wrong.<br /><br />During the course of the research on the old house, Devon meets the wealthy Jonathan Stafford, owner of the old house. He lives in New York running a huge conglomerate. His son is at a special hospital, crippled from the waist down. Jonathan is very protective of his son and as the owner of the old haunted house, he bristles at Devon's research. He's afraid that something in his family history will come out to embarrass him and more importantly, to embarrass or traumatize is crippled son. We don't find out why his son is wheelchair bound until the conclusion to the story so I won't say much more there.<br /><br />Jonathan will use any means possible to persuade Devon to drop her research of the old house and the history of his family on the island. Devon has a complete and justified mistrust of Jonathan's motives. In spite of that, a relationship develops between the two characters. Now that I've set the stage for the story I can tell no more as it would ruin the suspense. This was a very chilling ghost story mixed with a sizzling romance. The ghost story is so well done that it could have easily stood on its own without the romantic element. The romance is so well done that it'll send you looking for your husband or significant other. This was a very satisfying read.ted house, he bristles at Devon's research. He's afraid that something in his family history will come out to embarrass him and more importantly, to embarrass or traumatize is crippled son. We don't find out why his son is wheelchair bound until the conclusion to the story so I won't say much more there. <BR> <BR>Jonathan will use any means possible to persuade Devon to drop her research of the old house and the history of his family on the island. Devon has a complete and justified mistrust of Jonathan's motives. In spite of that, a relationship develops between the two characters. Now that I've set the stage for the story I can tell no more as it would ruin the suspense. This was a very chilling ghost story mixed with a sizzling romance. The ghost story is so well done that it could have easily stood on its own without the romantic element. The romance is so well done that it'll send you looking for your husband or significant other. This was a very satisfying read.	2003-08-04
US	52660802	R2AGAK3QCIT78Q	1590710037	757683089	The War of Art: Winning the Inner Creative Battle	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Will knock writer's block to pieces &amp; get you back to work	Are you creative, yet are facing writer's block? Read this book and it'll shake your block loose and help set you free!<br /><br />In this slim volume Stephen Pressfield discusses the inner naysayer we all have within us, also referred to as an inner critic by most writers.This book helps you identify and defeat the negative self talk any creative person must deal with. It does so in a serious tone, sprinkled with lots of humor. For example, the heading of one of his essays is &quot;How To Be Miserable&quot; - it was an essay that had me chuckling. It also had me nodding my head as I recognized myself in what he wrote.<br /><br />Written using a variety of short essays, this book is easy to pick up and read at any point. I read it from the first page to the last, in order. You don't necessarily need to do that to benefit from Stephen Pressfield's wisdom about the inner struggle creative people face from day to day. Read from beginning to end does have it's advantages though -- the author takes aim at resistance, procrastination, rationalization, and finally at the end winning the war. When we win the war of art we are free to create, free to be truly happy.<br /><br />This is one of the best books I've read on the subject. It helped me identify my own foibles then smash the blocks holding me back. I saw myself in each page and triumphed along with the author. This is an excellent book for any creative person. I highly recommend it.	2003-08-04
US	52660802	RK0Q5CYFWPLAA	0449234118	354943253	The Power and the Passion	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Storyline ....	Here is the description from the back cover to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"The Tsar's mistress is what they called Lorna. But she was her own woman and she loved only one man. From colonial America to the dazzling court of St. James and the barbaric splendors of St. Petersburg, here are the riveting adventures of Lorna MacMahon, who was mistress and plaything to three monarchs. But what Lorna really wanted was to find the young Swedish lieutenant who once saved her life and from whome she first learned the meaning of love ...\\"	2003-07-26
US	52660802	R255M9CB81FJZ0	038000562X	495974588	Dawn Of Desire	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Storyline ....	This novel is set in ancient Egypt. Here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Their story comes to us across the centuries - the splendrous immortal saga of a love which begins in a far-away time by the shores of the ancient River Nile. The unbounded passion of the incomparably beautiful Princess Nefrytaten and the tawny-skinned Prince Ameni sweeps across the torrid landscape of Egypt as the two lovers, wrenched asunder by treacherous events, must brave peril, degradation, and intrigue before their twin desires can find release and once more, in a surging tide of full-blooded passion and joy.\\"	2003-07-06
US	52660802	R2KCKANXGV5VT5	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Touching, haunting, deserves 10 stars!	This is the story of Susie Salmon who is murdered by a serial killer who happens to be a neighbor.  The book isn't so much about the murder, but about how adolescent Susie deals with being in Heaven watching her family and about the traumatized family left behind, and how the family deals with their grief.<br />Susie is in \\"my heaven\\" which seems to be a heaven where restless spirits go.  Her spirit is very restless as she was killed during the bloom of adolescence, before she ever had a chance to grow up and become a woman.  She also had very close relationships with both of her younger siblings and had an especially close relationship with the tender father who is most crushed by her death.  She watches her family crumbling, unable to deal with their loss and tremendous grief, yet unable to reach out to each other.<br />During the story her family fractures apart and as she watches it happen, she tries to reach out to them.  She develops an amazing maturity watching the course of events as years pass.  She knows she needs to let her friends and family go, to go live their own lives, to mend their broken hearts, but can't seem to pull herself away.  She misses them and life itself so much.<br />This was so well written that you can imagine how the family left behind might feel.  You can also picture poor Susie, helpless in Heaven, unable to help and unable to move on.  Alice Sebold wrote this book with tremendous skill and the literary symbolism in the story really strikes a cord -- you want to read those passages again and again.  I read this book in two days and when I finished it this morning I sobbed ... when a writer can evoke that feeling, you know she's done her job well. This is one of the best books I have ever read and will treasure it always.	2003-06-15
US	52660802	R2GU6UUSHDPKD5	0671786601	756884641	To Trust a Stranger	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Taut, exciting tale!	This is a very taut well crafted thriller about Julie and Mac (a police detective) on the run from Julie's mobster husband and his connections. It's loaded with excitement and thrills. Amazon's editorial review does plenty to describe the plot.<br />The reason I am writing this review is because there is just one cautionary note I would add here. There are some extremely graphic sensuous scenes -- one went on for three pages straight, never letting up. For those who enjoy these scenes, it's great reading, but for those who don't want to read the raw sensuality in part of this book, you may want to skip a few pages. Still well worth reading.	2003-06-12
US	52660802	R1EL2ETBU5SLZG	0451064542	251925877	Drums of Winter	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon hasn't posted an editorial review for this book, here is the description from the back cover to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Somewhere in the unknown country was the man she loved and had risked everything to find again .... proud and beautiful Anna Haynow could hardly remember the luxury and gracious aristocratic life she had known in Europe. In a heartbreakingly short time, all that had been swept away by the currents of intrigue and the winds of war. Now she was a stranger in a strange land -- America, where marauding armies ravaged the countryside and no place promised her safety. Somewhere was the man who had once loved her dearly -- the man who would make her desperate gamble worthwhile, or mock her folly. Somewhere in the storm of conflict around her lay the happiness she sought, or the doom she could not escape.\\" This is a novel of early America.	2003-06-10
US	52660802	R31OLKO6OI9PWU	0451064542	251925877	Drums of Winter	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Storyline ....	Since [there isn't] an editorial review for this book, here is the description from the back cover to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Somewhere in the unknown country was the man she loved and had risked everything to find again ... proud and beautiful Anna Haynow could hardly remember the luxury and gracious aristocratic life she had known in Europe. In a heartbreakingly short time, all that had been swept away by the currents of intrigue and the winds of war. Now she was a stranger in a strange land -- America, where marauding armies ravaged the countryside and no place promised her safety. Somewhere was the man who had once loved her dearly -- the man who would make her desperate gamble worthwhile, or mock her folly. Somewhere in the storm of conflict around her lay the happiness she sought, or the doom she could not escape.\\" This is a novel of early America.	2003-06-10
US	52660802	R25LJ2PZUUJEZ5	0373482302	307630878	Silhouette Christmas Stories 1990	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Storyline ....	Anthology includes stories by Ann Major, Rita Rainville, Lidsay McKenna, and Kathleen Creighton. Here are the stories lines from the back of the book: (1)&quot;Santa's Special Miracle&quot; by Anne Major -- All widowed Noreen Black's son wanted for Christmas was a daddy, but even Santa couldn't bring the man she loved into their family. Grant Hale's comforting arms almost made Noreen forget why she'd run from him years ago. Yet when he discovered the child she'd kept secret, only a miracle would grant a little boy's wish ... (2)&quot;Lights Out&quot; by Rita Rainville -- Despite a grandfather named Kris K. Ringle, Carroll Stilwells' holiday's weren't starting out well. Grandpa's experiments with seasonal decoration kept putting out lights all over town, and their handsome new neighbor was complaining about the power failures. But despite his anger, Carroll kept wondering how he would look under her tree! (3)&quot;Always and Forever&quot; by Lindsay McKenna -- Fighter pilot Kyle Anderson waged a private war against desire for the one woman he could never have. Gale Taylor had sworn never to give her heart again ... until a twist of fate at Christmas sent her into Kyle's arms for always. (4)&quot;The Mysterious Gift&quot; by Kathleen Creighton -- Christmas looked bleak. Karen Todd was broke, with eight-year-old Andrew to support. Only nechanice -- and guardian angle -- Tony Angelo stood between her and total poverty. After all, no car, no job. Then Andrew asked Santa for a very special gift. Would Tony be an angel one more time?	2003-06-01
US	52660802	R3JZWKO9XCDGIE	0380399091	901277705	Winged Love	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon hasn't posted an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"\\"Winged Love is the story of heroism, danger, and extraordinary love. From war-darkened London to the lush countryside of southern France, two courageous World War II pilots fall for the same beautiful French girl -- and are caught in a conflict of passion versus duty. Neir Richardson, an R.A.F. flight lieutenant, fought side-by-side with the French flyer Maurice Dupont. And when the Englishman was wounded, his comrade-in-arms insisted he go to recuperate at a romantic village in Provence. There Neil discovered Julie, Maurice's fiance -- and a love such as he had never known. To hurt Maurice would be unthinkable, but love in war is a once-in-a-lifetime affair.\\"	2003-06-01
US	52660802	R2PMSNOLWUOR7E	0375703055	220076440	Ellen Foster	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Engrossing, heartwrenching, wonderous ....	I stood by my bookcase looking at the spines of a half dozen books I haven't read yet and there was a diminutive little hardcover wedged into the mix -- Ellen Foster. I half-heartedly pulled it from the shelf and opened it to the first page and started reading a little just to see if it would be interesting enough to read.  Well .... I stood rooted to that spot, standing by the bookcase, reading for some time. I was so engrossed in the story immediately that I forgot the time.  This was a story that just pulls you right in and holds your heart until the end.<br /><br />Poor little Ellen Foster is born to a very sickly mother with an abusive husband. Her poor mother dies near the beginning of the book, the one person who seemed to really love poor little Ellen. She is shuttled back and forth from relative to relative. They are cruel and selfish and let her know right up front that they don't want her. Gosh, your heart just breaks for this dear child. Don't want to say much more as I don't want to ruin the story for anyone.<br /><br />This story is told in narrative form. It's as though little Ellen, very wise beyond her 11 years on this earth, is sitting right there next to you telling you the story of her life. There are no quotation marks, no dialog in the sense that you are used to, it's a rambling monologue about her life. You know what? You don't notice that, you just live this child's life as she tells it.<br /><br />It's not all sadness as misery. It's also about triumph over the worst odds, triumph over what would knock most of us down, triumph of this wonderful little girl and where her life takes her. I love Ellen Foster.<br /><br />You have got to get your hands on this book and dive in. You'll enjoy it to the point of forgetting time itself. You'll feel that Ellen Foster is a real person sitting there telling her story. Read this wonderful book ... doing so will enrich your life.	2003-05-31
US	52660802	R10YUM1VC1TJZM	0441779239	16725270	Stalking Horse	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Storyline ....	...<br />Here's the description from the cover to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"She danced to the music of magic, danger, and love ... Glennys had come to the dazzling city of St. Lucien to seek her fortune. No longer under the protection of Baron Fulk, unable to return to her strict Alaminite folk, she soon found work as a Horse Skiller with the Queen's Opera. But her Heart's true desire is to appear with the Opera ... performing onstage in the intricate and demanding horse-dance. And Glynnys has the gift that could make her the greatest of all dancers. But to reveal her gift is to expose her true identity, for only one of the noble blood has the power. And amid the courtly intrigues of St. Lucien, to claim her birthright could put Glennys is gravest peril ...\\" This book is a mix of fantasy and suspense.  Excellent read.	2003-05-11
US	52660802	R16O0OVCJ1SRNQ	0740715046	863563740	Mother O' Mine: A Mother's Treasury	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	BEAUTIFUL tribute to mother's!	I was lucky enough to get this book for Mother's Day.  What a beautiful treasure it is!  This solid hardcover has a satiny ribbon mounted in the binding to mark your place &amp; it's page edges are shimmery gold. It's loaded with the whimsical art of Mary Engelbreit along with lots of stories and poems written by multiple authors.<br />This is one of the most delightfully beautiful books. I feel fortunate in owning it and will derive hours of pleasure from it. When the day grows hectic, it's a delight to pick it up and remind yourself of what really matters in life. It would make a wonderful gift for your mother or any special mother you know, even a new mom.  A truly wonderful book!	2003-05-11
US	52660802	R1DTWGHPZ1A39S	0871316404	92206066	Arden's Touch (EVANS NOVEL OF ROMANCE)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon hasn't provided an editorial review for this book, here's the description from the DJ to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Ever since On Assignment aired three yesrs ago, audiences tuned in each weak to watch the news reported with Arden's touch, the wit and savvy of rehead Charlie Arden. Now a network wants Charlie to research a story for national broadcast, but charly is dismayed by the topic. A ghost hunt at McCrimmon manor is just the sort of fluff she cuts out of each show, and the ghost story is sure to be a hoax to creat publicity for one of the McCrimmon brothers who is about to enter the political arena ...\\"  I read this one.  It's a neat contemporary romance with a ghostly twist.  Are there ghosts, or aren't there?  You'll have to read to find out.  This was a fun read.	2003-04-11
US	52660802	R2BPL8ON62DG5F	0395262933	330656207	Links	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Yikes! Suspenseful!  Couldn't put it down!	This book was a real nail biter! Once I started reading it I couldn't put it down.  At just under 200 pages this book is a short thrill ride that leaves you holding your breath at the end.<br /><br />The main character is Ben West, a university professor and psychotherapist. His fianc&eacute; Alison suffers terribly nightmares and in an effort to help release here from these nightmares he begins to hypnotize her.  He was once fascinated by a paper he read involving 2 hypnosis participants actually hypnotizing each other - he enlists a student/friend Stan to become a participant in the hypnosis. Unknown to Ben a special bond forms between the two that occurs only during the hypnosis sessions. At some points during the sessions Stan refuses to follow directs thrusting Alison deeper and deeper into hypnotic trances that endanger her life. As Ben begins to unravel the puzzle of what's happening to his fianc&eacute; and her worsening mental status during her waking hours, a grim discovery occurs and a race against time begins as he tries to save Alison from certain disaster.<br /><br />I can't tell you more than that as it would certainly destroy the mystery here. This was a fascinating and completely absorbing story. Excellent!	2003-04-06
US	52660802	R1YTIENJ8K0IYR	0688032435	399969858	Rachel, the Rabbi's Wife	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Thoroughly enjoyable story	This is a thoroughly enjoyable story about a year in the life of Rachel Sonnshein, the wife of a rabbi in the suburbs of Long Island. It's an interesting peak behind the scenes as the rabbi works to renew his contract then becomes involved with the wife of one of his rich congregants. Meanwhile Rachels forms a close bond with her son. This was a warm, witty, intelligent read.  Highly enoyable.  Don't miss it.	2003-03-31
US	52660802	RCG2ZNAE4RLDU	0821728563	451434324	Cat's Cradle	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A terrifying tale ....	Here's the description from the back of this book to help you decide if this book is for you:  \\"No one knew where she had come from. She was just a scrap of a girl clinging to a black cat with eerie yellow eyes. A lost child or an orphan, maybe. It was a miracle she had survived on Eden Mountain at all. Suddenly strange things began to happen in placid Ruger County, bizarre killings that the police couldn't solve. Horrifying accidents that the people couldn't comprehend. An insatiable beast was stalking their lovers' lanes, their swimming holes, and their children. No one noticed how quickly the little girl's pale cheeks turned pink with health. How her frail body filled out with sleek, lithe muscles and feline grace. And no one noticed that at night her innocent blue eyes turned an eerie, evil yellow ...\\"	2003-03-30
US	52660802	R3BX6MRQEM6YRX	0789429373	671019729	Perfect French Country Cooking	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Description ....	Since Amazon hasn't provided an editorial review for this book, here's the description from the back to help you decide if this book is for you:  \\"The step-by-step cookbook that shows you what each dish should look like, teaches you exacltly what to do, tells you how long it will take.\\" This book is loaded with picutres of every dish as well as some hints and techniques.  A very nice cookbook no matter what your level of skill.	2003-03-23
US	52660802	R28GQKWPJDCDVP	0449243001	275948091	Daneclere	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon hasn't posted an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"With its jumble of grey wings and towers and teh river winding clear below ... into its dark and brooding halls comes Honor Thwaite ... bride of Richard Sawtrey. Now, Honor was mistress of the manor -- a house of terrible secrets that would not remain unspoken. Of Mrs. Anna, Richard's mother, who had murdered her stepson so that Richard could be heir. Of Richard, who had bedded the tavern wench and sired many bastards. Of Francis Wolffe, the Daneclere bailiff who would do anything to have his way. And of Honor herself. She had been warned to never again cross the ford to the Thwaite farm until a time of gravest trouble or danger. Now that time had come.\\"  A great tale of historical, gothic suspense.	2003-03-23
US	52660802	R3K9LIIPIT1GCU	0425098605	525781628	The Vision	Books	5	43	46	N	N	A perfectly gruesome book for a rainy afternoon!	This book completely took over my rainy afternoon and turned into a study in facinating mystery!  The central character of this book is Mary Bergen, a sweet, sensitive, psychic.  She endured a torture at the tender age of 6 that she can't remember. Through the physical and emotional trauma at that tender age, she developed psychic ability.  She uses that psychic ability to help police solve homicide cases and find the killers.<br />With her during these endeavors is her devoted brother Alan, always at her side, pained with concern over her.  Also there is her tough, but tender husband, Max. Max is depicted as a tough character with eyes of cold steel that only show tenderness when he is with Mary.  Of course Alan and Max don't get along, each hating the other.<br />Soon a series of brutal murders begin to take place.  Mary sees the crimes committed, can feel the pain of the young women who are murdered, but never manages to develop a vision of the killer's face.  Soon, she knows, this killer is going to come after her.  Can she solve this series of brutal crimes before she becomes the next victim?<br />This story is well written but short enough to read in a single day.  Koontz crafts characters that you genuinely care about, and some fearsome, evil chracters as well.  None are comic book, stereotype characters, which makes them all the more believable.  The story is so well told that it'll draw you in and keep you held in it's grip until the brutal end.	2003-03-02
US	52660802	R3PC3X1UDGVVM	0380806479	213280528	Time and Time Again	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Magical fantasy, incredible suspense, &amp; a touch of romance	This book was appropriately categorized by the publisher as a FANTASY novel. There was another review that referred to it as a romance - not so. Yes, there is a little romantic element to it, but it takes a back seat to the mystery, suspense, fantasy story.<br />This is a story about Marion Mead, a historical society librarian and part-time novelist. She comes across an old news clip from 1779 concerning a runaway wife, Susanna Grier.  The clip ignited her imagination and gave her the inspiration for her next novel.  Three chapters into the novel she feels blocked and can't figure out how to proceed with the story. At a whim she places an add in the New York Times book review asking that anyone with historical information pertaining to the Grier family to contact her. A handsome, mysterious Raymond Lord responds to the add. He has an old diary from a member of the family who lived some 100 years after the original news character.<br />What happens next is the stuff of fantasy. Believe in reincarnation? You will. Believe in ESP? You will. Are these two ill fated people, Marion &amp; Raymond, tragic lovers through time? You'll need to find the answer to that one as you enjoy this WONDERFULLY imaginative tale.  I highly recommend this book to any fantasy enthusiast.	2003-02-15
US	52660802	R38AXNUS0J07WH	0345259025	137562299	Season of the Heart	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon has not posted an editorial review for this book, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Swedn 1432 ... a wolf-winter ... fires burn in the mine pits and in the great hall of the manor .... Lord Ivar sits at table with his lovely wife Donna and Kirt, his neighbor and cousin ... he does not see the fires dance in the meeting of eyes as they lift their wine cups ... Kurt Arnsion, leader of the mountain men, and Lady Donna, unwilling wife of his bitterest enemy ... A love struggling against almost impossible odds in a frozen, implacable world in which black magic still survives and the punishment for adultery is burial alive! But theirs is a passion that knows no surrender and the seeds of ecstasy planed in the season of the flesh must live to blossom ...\\"	2003-02-14
US	52660802	R33KFZIKYGDIKN	0822507315	182202494	A Flight of Angels (Lerner Mysteries)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review for this book, here is the storyline from the DJ: \\"Sheila and her classmates don't expect anything out of the ordinary when they choose to focus their class project on the ancient caves beneath their town. But in the cellars of Peblow's shop, where Sheila's father works, the four friends discover a mysterious walled-in archway -- and bump into a present-day problem as well. Will Peblow's have to close? Will Sheila's father lose his job? With the help of a local librarian, the young detectives follow the clues of the mysterious archway back to a 16th-century puzzle. Eventually, they find that the solution to their puzzle is tied to the fate of Peblow's. Reader's will share the excitement as the four detectives discover that events of 400 years ago can seem as exciting as those that are happening today.\\"  This story is set in Nottingham, England.	2003-01-13
US	52660802	R2Q005A3XD4E4H	0446609404	95144783	Cradle and All	Books	5	3	4	N	N	WOW!!  Intense, excellent book!	Here's a book that has gotten a bumm rap here on Amazon from some other reviewers. I almost didn't read it because of the negative reviews.  I'm so glad I ignored them and read it anyway.  This ended up being one of the best books I've ever read.<br />I've read quite a bit of James Patterson -- this book is decidedly different from many that I've read. This is not the usual good guy vs. bad, evil, murderer guy. This is a story about two girls who are pregnant virgins -- one in the US and one in Ireland. It's confirmed that they are indeed \\"intact\\" and are virgins. Both are being watched by the Catholic church and it's investigators because it has been prophesied that one child will be the saviour of mankind while the other will be the child of the devil himself. Which is which? Both girls are sweet & endearing, both would seem to be the perfect picture of a virgin mother.<br />This book has the classic Patterson breathless suspense well populated with a good relationship story, peppered with a great good vs. evil plot. You grow to care about the characters and what happens to them.  There is that classic Patterson twist in the story as well.  Don't miss this incredible story.	2003-01-12
US	52660802	R1RK213UF2D1B1	0425115801	134454761	Lightning	Books	5	2	2	N	N	EXCELLENT!!	This is the first Dean Koontz book I've ever read. I avoided his books in the past because I thought they were purely horror.  Then a friend advised me to read this one.  What a great book!<br />The main character in this book is Laura. When this book opens we are at the moment of her birth -- a handsome stranger appears and stops a drunk doctor from going to the hospital to assist in her delivery. He is very polite and kind to the drunk doctor as he ties him to a chair and calls the hospital to let them know he won't be going there to deliver her. As a result she is delivered by other doctors, mother dies in childbirth, and a sweet wonderful father is the only remaining family she has. Through her life a few major incidents occur where this kind stranger appears and saves her from danger.  Who is this man who arrives in a flash of lightening?  Laura begins to think of him as her guardian angel.<br />Throughout this well written tale we see Laura wed and have a wonderful little boy. The guardian angel appears sporatically in her lifetime. As an adult she begins to wonder just where he comes from.<br />I won't tell you more as it would spoil the rest of the plot.  The book had lots of twists and turns, an enormous amount of suspense, a love story, and an element of science fiction/fantasy that'll keep you glued to your seat. Once you start reading you won't want to stop. This is a great story no one should miss. After you finish reading it you'll find yourself saying to your friends as I have: &quot;you've GOT to read this book!&quot;	2003-01-12
US	52660802	R2K18G5QOAZQUL	0911403345	520741631	To Writers With Love: On Writing Romantic Novels	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent resource for an aspiring romance writer	This book is an excellent little resource for the aspiring romance writer as well as the writer of any genre.  The author has many romantic novels to her credit and has written this little tome sharing some of her secrets. She also gives tips on research, putting together your plot and setting, beginning and ending your story, dialogue, and a whole lot more.  Probably my favorite chapter of all is her chapter about the excuses writers make for not writing -- she puts together a dozen excuses and then writes several paragraphs about how to knock it off and get over your excuses so you just start writing!  Great chapter, I saw myself in a few of those excuses.<br />Though this book is aimed at helping a writer who wants to write romance, I believe it would be useful to any aspiring writer -- she explores not only getting started and keeping at it, but setting up a writing schedule, writing and keeping your plot moving, creating a setting to capture the reader's attention, and a lot more.  She winds up her book near the end with dealing with your publisher &amp; publicity for your book.  I consider this book an excellent resource no matter what your writing genre is. Now get writing!	2002-12-22
US	52660802	R1FND5YXUU6100	0380724774	946978997	Where Old Bones Lie	Books	5	3	3	N	N	spellbinding & delightful all at once	This is a well woven story of a murder and the tangled web the main characters Meredith Mitchell and Chief Inspector Alan Markby must untangle to find the killer ... or killers.<br />The story opens with a young Ursula Gretin, an archeologist on a dig with a former married lover, Dan Woollard.  Ursula broke off the affair with Dan who refuses to give up on her.  He's married to a romance novelist Natalie Woollard.  During the opening of the story, Dan calls Ursula to come to his home to see him on an urgent matter.  Urgent to him that is.  Once there, Ursula realizes that his main motive is to try to rekindle their relationship.  She flatly refuses, insisting that their relationship is over.  While there Dan tells her that his wife has gone off to visit her mother ... yet, Ursula spots her pocketbook, complete with wallet and car keys and begins to suspect the worst.  What woman in their right mind would leave home without her purse, wallet or keys.  Ursula suspects the obvious, that Dan has done away with his wife so he can spend his life with her .... or did he?  Ursula confides to her friend Meredith her suspicions that Dan has done something to his wife, who then confides to her friend and police detective Alan.  Together the two sleuths unravel a few mysteries -- not only the present one of Natalie Woollard's disappearance, but also a murder that is some 25 years old.<br />This is a well written, well told, spellbinding tail of love, betrayal, murder, guilt and innocence.  Find this book and find out the conclusions.  You'll hang on each and ever page until you come to the amazing conclusion.  This is a great read!	2002-12-14
US	52660802	R2XXWW6WM4UEEP	0761125221	181484066	365 Days in Ireland Cale 2003	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Doesn't disappoint -- BEAUTIFUL!	I must admit, I have been purchasing the 365 days in Ireland calendars for years.  This one is an overwhelming winner in our household!  The upcoming year's calendar doesn't disappoint.  It is stunning.<br />Ever dream of going to Ireland? Go there through the beautiful pictures -- spread out over many present and historic sites, you can see the beauty and color of the Emerald Isle.  This calendar is a full size wall calendar with one large picture on the top fold and small pictures on each day as well on the bottom fold. Each month depicts an area in Ireland, then each little picture is a small shot of different places in the main area. Though loaded with beautiful pictures, daily blocks are plenty large enough to write appointments and special occasions.<br />This is a beautiful calendar that would be stunning in any home for residents and their guests to admire from month to month.  Buy this one, you won't be disappointed -- a true beauty to behold!	2002-11-27
US	52660802	R1BDO33RONOO49	0446607657	408200678	When the Wind Blows	Books	5	1	2	N	N	You'll want to finish it in one day!  Great story!	I've read a few James Patterson books and enjoyed them immensely -- this one is the first I would characterize as a bit of science fiction fantasy. He carries off a science mystery thriller with flair and skill that'll keep you glued to the edge of your seat. I must say this is one of the BEST books I've read by Mr. Patterson.<br />The main character, Frannie O'Neill, is a veterinarian whose doctor husband was killed a year and a half earlier outside the local hospital/clinic where he worked.  More recently, a friend's husband, also a doctor at the same clinic, is brutally murdered as well.  Is there a connection?  You'll have to read to see the answer. Enter the next character, Kit Harrison, an FBI agent on a mission forbidden by his agency.  He's on the trail of a band of rogue scientists who had been carrying on illegal genetic experiments.  He suspects they're back at work on those experiments in an instillation hidden somewhere in Colorado.  He is also fighting his own demons, the death of his beloved wife and two sons a few years ago.  Both Frannie and Kit are committed to their work and struggle to reconcile their pasts with their present. Kit has rented a house Frannie owns and after going over a few stumbling blocks they develop a friendship where finally Frannie feels brave enough to confess something to Kit that she has never told anyone else -- she has seen a little girl with wings and watched her fly away. Soon both Frannie and Kit find the little winged girl again and the evil medical mystery begins.<br />This novel takes off at break neck speed and never lets up. Though it has a science fiction aspect with it's portrayal of genetic experimentation and the outcome, it still has the classic James Patterson flair we all know and love -- tons of action, murder and mayhem, fast pacing, solid plot, and a story you can sink your teeth into.  Don't let this excellent story pass you by.  It's a MUST READ that'll keep you glued to the edge of your seat until it's stunning, action packed conclusion!'s stunning, action packed conclusion!	2002-11-27
US	52660802	R1RF95IUXB8VBP	0425099490	602273645	Ammie, Come Home	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Kept me up way past my bedtime!  Excellent!	This neat little book was written fairly early in Barbara Michael's writing career.  Though originally published in 1969, it holds its strength and value still today, telling a thrilling ghost story that is timeless.<br />The book begins with the enchanting story of Ruth Bennet, owner of a historic old Georgetown home, inherited from an elderly aunt, and her niece.  Her niece Sara, who she dearly loves, came to live with her while attending college nearby. Ruth meets one of Sara's professors who takes a liking to her and asks her out. She goes with him to a party at his wealthy mother's home where a s&eacute;ance is held with very little result -- the medium feels little.  Ruth, out of sympathy for hostess and medium, invites them to come to her home for a dinner party.  While there, they hold a s&eacute;ance with far more complex results. Sara is briefly possessed by a lonely spirit and the medium feels the intensity of an evil spirit. The party breaks up with the medium fleeing with fear from the party.<br />Four characters are central to this story, Ruth, the professor friend, Sara, and her boyfriend. They all reserve some degree of skepticism regarding whether the house is actually haunted. During the story they read into past Georgetown history to find answers, all the while experiencing escalating supernatural events that they cannot explain.  It finally wraps up in a stunning conclusion that'll take your breath away.<br />If you love ghost stories and love mysteries, this book is a sure bet for you.  I started reading it and stayed up way past my bedtime!  Buy it, borrow it, get it, read it.  You'll be glad you did!	2002-11-27
US	52660802	R1PLLKXM5FMUW1	0373303114	519638735	An Unpredictable Bride	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon.com has not posted an editorial review for this book, here is the description from the back cover to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"How could she marry her enemy? Forced to surrender her home to the invading army, Jane Marlow had thought her troubles could get no worse. But she soon found herself faced with a far more dangerous foe -- her long-lost betrothed, who had returned to claim her! Lord Edward Talbot had left home to take up arms against the king. Now, embittered by years of civil war, he had returned, determined to honor his commitments. For it had been Jane's father's dying wish that Edward protect his daughter by marrying her. But the bride had other ideas ...\\"	2002-11-12
US	52660802	R10PX6T6D8XFRX	0843923318	600965208	Resurrexit	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Utterly terrifying tale .......	This is a terrifying tale not to be missed.  Since Amazon[.com] hasn't posted an editorial review of the book, here's the description from the back of this book:  \\"The old maid .... nobody in the little town of Newtown, Maine paid much attention to the elderly spinster calling herself Florence Willowby. Apparently lonely, somewhat eccentric, she held herself aloof from the rest of the townspeople. No one knew the story of her past -- of the passion that had consumed her in her youth, of the jealousy that had driven her to madness and to murder, or of the unholy rituals she was secretly preparing with one end in view -- to resurrect the man she had loved and lost. No one had an inkling of the hideous sacrifices she was about to make on the alter of her obsession. Nobody knew a thing about Florence Willowby, and nobody cared. And by the time the truth was revealed, it would be too late ....\\"	2002-11-08
US	52660802	RTXQSDPEV2FCC	0515103322	479818039	Worlds Great Comeback	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon hasn't posted an editorial review, here's the description from the cover to help you decide if this book is for you:  The book is titled -- The World's Greatest Comebacks with the subtitle -- Eight Steps to Success, how to overcome the obstacles on your path to success. Per the back cover: \\"You have the power to change your life! Do you give in when you should be fighting back? Defeats, setbacks, and obtacles are a part of everyone's life. But you can learn the winner's way of meeting these daily challenges - and turn failure into success! Bestselling author Robert A. Schuller shows how you can dramatically transform your life - by making your setbacks work for you. You'll discover how to channel negative throughts into positive action, how to overcome the fears and guilt that hold you back, the roles that faith, wisdome and love play, true success stories from the Bible to the worlds of business, sports, and entertainment, the prepare-repair-care formula - for changing troubles into triumphs. It's within your power to change your life and come back stronger - and better - than ever.\\"	2002-10-03
US	52660802	R285HU9ZNKR1BY	087542368X	481878654	ESP, Witches & UFO's: The Best of Hans Holzer, Book II (FATE PRESENTS) (Bk.2)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon hasn't posted an editorial review for this book, here is the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Exciting explorations of the supernatural and the wonders of the human mind ... Dr. Hans Holzer, best-selling author and psychic investigator, examines many fascinating and ever-changing subjects. Read exciting and true accounts of: the powers of extrasensory perception, telepathic messages sent and received from thousands of miles away, prophetic dreams, reincarnation dreams in which past lives are revealed, UFOs and visitors from other worlds, witchcraft and paganism, healing and the occult sciences, survival after death.  Many people have preconceived ideas on most of these subjects -- frequently ideas held over a lifetime. Dr. Holzer dispels the misconceptions and falsehoods by presenting new ideas, new evidence to endorse, correct, or supplant the old. Today the world is changing rapidly, with new discoveries and tremendous advances. ESP, Witches and UFOs helps to adjust our thinking -- even start thinking for ourselves.\\"	2002-09-26
US	52660802	R1445NBZ76WX6D	0451401069	291612741	The Magic Cottage	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	growing suspense & magic.........	This was one of the most enchanting, gripping stories I have ever read.  Great book!  The story centers around a couple from London, Mike and Midge, who hunger for a house of their own.  Midge starts scanning the newspaper and is drawn to a little add for a cottage called Gramarye.  When they go see the house they find out from the realtor that is being sold as part of the estate of a very old woman who lived there most of her life and died suddenly.  When they go to the house Midge is completely enchanted by the little cottage, feeling like it is home.  Mike sees the flaws that need fixing.  Still, passion wins over and they buy the little house and work to restore it's beauty.  They seem like the perfect couple who has just found the perfect home.<br /><br />Yet ... there is something strange about Gramarye, Mike can feel it, Midge seems oblivious to it.  Animals come into the house and eat out of their hands, they befriend a little red squirrel who comes in daily and chatters away at them.  Wounds heal spontaneously.  It all sounds pretty silly, but it is all part of the magic that is Gramarye.<br /><br />Soon the enchanting life starts to take a turn when they meet young people who live in a house on the other side of the forest behind their house.  Midge becomes entangled with their group, which ends up being a cult.  The cult wants the house and will stop at nothing to possess it.  Thus begins the battle of wills while Mike tries to save Midge from the cult and his new home from their possession.  Don't worry, I haven't given anything away.<br /><br />This book was a mystery loaded with magic and danger. It has ghosts and spirits, both good and evil. It begins by sparking the imagination, and the tension grows stronger and stronger in this well wrought story, until it reaches a crescendo that will leave you breathless.  This was such a good book that I put my owner bookplate in it and made it a keeper for my own shelf.  Find this book and read it, you'll love it as much as I did!s much as I did!	2002-08-23
US	52660802	R39X7OUW5FBHSU	0523424914	985553279	Endgame	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon.com hasn't posted an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Fedin is Russia's master assassin. Cold, cautious, and precise, he is a steely threat to the human links in the espionage chain linked across Western Europe by the CIA. But now Fedin seems to be cracking. Alive, he could be a threat to the Soviets. Dead, he could serve a treacherous purpose in a game with the only two remaining moves.  THEIR MOVE: In Leningrad, a modest man carrying state secrets plots a defection to the United States -- carefully orchestrated by the Russians.  OUR MOVE: Outside Boston, a woman, who has kept secrets of her own prepares to play out the chilling finale in a twenty-year-old drama of deadly deception.\\"	2002-08-23
US	52660802	RDYPQLRRZCNKT	0452278538	442657971	May the Road Rise to Meet You: Everything You Need to Know About Irish American History	Books	5	0	0	N	N	entertaining and informative	This little book was a real treat to read.  Chapters in this book are as follows: there is a forward written by Robert F. Kennedy Jr., Chapter 1: Clannishness: some background, Chapter 2: Ancient Ireland, Chapter 3: The Middle Ages: Christianity comes to Ireland, and the Vikings Invade (meanwhile the Irish discover America), Chapter 4: Troubles Brewing, Chapter 5: Fighting Irish, Founding Irish, Chapter 6: An Ulster American Miscellany, Chapter 7: Boston Bound (or, Philadelphia here I come), Chapter 8: The Fightin' Irish in the Wild, Wild West, Chapter 9: Irish Nationalism, the American Role, Chapter 10: The Lit'ry Life (and other Artsy Pursuits), Chapter 11: Sporting Irish, Chapter 12: The Road Rises: Irish Americanism in the Twentieth Century, Chapter 13: From County Wexfor to Camelot: a family saga, Chapter 14: The Road from Here.<br /><br />This book doesn't cover everything in extreme detail -- you'll have to find a bigger, more serious tome for that.  This book gives you a little background on Irish ancestors in Ireland and the US and the Irish in America today.  It was a great, enjoyable read.  I highly recommend it!	2002-08-12
US	52660802	R315X8B75KNEUG	0553253158	407475347	Friend	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Horrifying tale	The main character, Paul, in this book is a mathematical genius who is made fun of by the kids at school.  He builds a robot that he uses as his only friend.  Finally when his family moves he meets a friend named Sam.  They become very close.  Then one night Sam's father goes into a drunken rage destroying Paul's robot and killing his own daughter Sam.  Paul is completely devastated by the loss of his friend and ends up implanting the brain of his computer friend into his friend Sam's skull and brings her back to life.  But the person she comes backas is a monster bent on destruction and revenge, a creature Paul can't control.  Truly horrifying tale.	2002-08-07
US	52660802	R3GQGAZWC9UAW4	0451140036	538220427	The Killing Gift (Signet)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	psychic killer .... quite suspenseful	This is a story about a woman who is a recluse.  Attacked by an armed man, the main character kills him by wishing him dead.  The homicide detective who investigates the crime becomes enthralled with this woman and her killing gift.  Excellent suspense story, more suspense than horror.  It's a Putnam Award Novel.  definitely worth a look.	2002-08-07
US	52660802	R32WI3A5UG2B73	0373240325	6528908	Marry Me, Now! (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon.com didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"The one who got away .... Wyoming rancher Nick Reynolds was Dacy Fallon's first love, the man she could never forget. They'd been just seventeen when life life had taken them on separate paths. Now, fate had brought Dacy back to town -- and she was determined to reclaim her man. But Nick Reynolds no longer fancied himslef the marrying kind. The dark-haired cowboy had enough trouble raising his two young daughters and keeping his ranch afloat. And nothing was going to make him open his heart to anyone again. Not even a unique proposal from the woman he used to love ...\\"	2002-08-02
US	52660802	R2XSTM99FIEMAK	0553205889	688066656	Pigeon Project	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"The secret. Every man and woman has dreamed of it. Now it's within reach ... and they'll do anything to possess it. The screen goddess. The contessa. The wily priest. The American public relations man looking for a cause. And his lover who may die for it. They are all caught between life's wildest dream ... and death.\\"	2002-08-02
US	52660802	R33TKCKCU4TBHM	037370769X	272147494	A Child's Christmas: Xmas Flash (Harlequin Superromance No. 769)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon.com didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"One child. One Christmas. Ten-year-old Eric Archer finds himself at a new school and living a new life. He's still despondent over the loss of his grandparents and non of his teachers -- except Monica Powell -- seem to understand him. Eric's father, Lyndon, has left him in the care of his brother, Dave -- Eric's uncle. Thus Dave comes to meet -- and fall in lvoe with -- Monica. (Despite the clear disapproval of Val Langstrom, his business partner and would-be wife!) Then Lyndon meets Monica's friend Lisa. And Dave's friend Duke befriends Monica's disabled father ... and the circle of love and friendship continues to expand, drawing other people into its sphere. It all starts with one small boy. And it all culminates at Christmas ...\\"	2002-08-02
US	52660802	RQR8CPCKVT7FK	0440085268	747822558	The Storm and the Sword	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"From the days of knights in armor, the powerful epic of a woman's love and a man's quest for honor and glory .... The Age of Chivalry 1132-1159 .... This rich, epic saga tells of the men and women who lived in the High Middle ages -- re-creating the loves, the violence, the beliefs and forbidden desires of an extraordinary era of human history. Here are the high and the low, the mighty and the poor -- from the rulers of the lush, rich province of Aquitaine to the paupers and beggars who haunted the countryside, pleading for scraps of food. From the rigid traditions of the castle to the free, romantic life of the traveling troubadours, from the privacy of a maiden's bedchamber to the bloody battlefields where the Crusaders met their foes, the Age of Chivalry is richly drawn and vividly brought to life in these pages.\\"	2002-08-02
US	52660802	RUKRHURHLDLRY	0380007002	221742702	George Sand: A Biography	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Storyline ....	This is a biography of a woman writer who's real name was Aurore Dupin, who lived in Paris in the 19th century -- Since Amazon didn't provide an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Hailed in her lifetime as the first female genius of any country or age -- even while condemned as the pipe-smoking, pants-wearing mistress of Frederic Chopin, Alfred de Musset, and numerous others -- George Sand, born Aurore Dupin, both captivated and scandalized nineteenth-century Paris. Foreshadowing the women's movement by more than a century, she shook the foundations of European literature and culture with her consuming desire to discover her identity through her art. A provacative, daring and truly gifted writer, George Sand emerges as large as life in this splendidly realized, lusty biography -- an insightful narrative as romantic, as intense, as meomentous as the life that inspired it.\\"	2002-07-31
US	52660802	R1HFIACGQVJZIW	1558172440	226734381	Love, Forever More	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review for this book, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you:  \\"\\"An enthralling new novel of romance and passion by the author of the multi-million copy bestsellers Love's Avenging Heart and Love's Wildest Promise ... Young Serena Foster daydreamed of love and wondered when it would happen to her. Suddenly tragedy struck and her parents were killed leaving her totally alone ... with young Rory Clendenning. He too was alone and searching for something. Their one night together was a passionate affair, a mutual grasping for dreams and ideals. It was a first affair ... In the cold light of morning it seemed this brief blaze of passion was not meant to last forever. And when Serena then met the ruggedly handsome and sophisticated Darrel Quick all of her concepts of love and romance became a m&eacute;lange of emotions that tormented her mind and teased her body ... Into her confused life now came the shattering experience of being sadistically humiliated, beaten and raped by brutal men who held her captive ... with no hope of survival. Despite her misery and pain Serena was able to gain control of herself and see the qualities of the kind of love that she had experienced with Rory and Darrel. In the midst of such anguish and violence she had found a new vision of her destiny as a woman. But could she escape her hideous and deadly captors? And would it be Rory, or Darrel, or still another man who'd finally join her in her quest for a love that would be forever ... and more?\\"	2002-07-22
US	52660802	R15CHFM9QX4H3D	0385129718	665428426	Irena	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Storyline ....	A romantic suspense by the author of \\"These Tigers' Hearts\\" -- \\"She had risked her life to follow the man she loved. Now she must find a way to survive .... On a romantic impulse she married a complete stranger. A stranger whose possessiveness of her was almost frightening. A stranger who at other times seemed completely to forger her ... Later it seemed to Irena almost as if she had acted under a spell. Her impetuous marriage to a fiery Polish count had swept her from the drawing rooms of Vienna to a crumbling estate in Poland, where political intrigue awaited ... Count Drozda is determined to see his captive nation free from oppression. His fervent patriotism will not be compromised even if it threatens the safety of his young bride ...\\"	2002-07-15
US	52660802	R5TZXEAD5Q80L	0553283588	570807373	Juffie Kane	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon hasn't posted an editorial review, here is the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Who is Juffie Kane? An irresistible beauty ... a woman of mystery ... a legendary star whose one reckless mistake forces her to risk everything. JUFFIE KANE -- everythng about her was extraordinary from her birth on Boston Common the hot August afternoon her mother was protesting the executions of Sacco and Vanzetti ... to her disappearance in a freak glacial avalanche in a tiny Swiss village ... and all of the thirty years in between. JUFFIE KANE -- a woman who captures the hearts of millions, who loves deeply and fully ... yet whose public triumphs and private victories are threatened by a terrible secret. At the height of her famie, Juffie has to gamble everything on one last desperat chance to break the bonds of the past.\\"	2002-07-15
US	52660802	R35BG81G2IGWHL	0821736299	358203757	Seaswept (Lovegram)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"RELUCTANT BRIDE -- Sailing against her will to a faraway Pacific Island and forced into an arranged marriage to a missionary, lovely Alyssa Whitlock had only her dreams for comfort. Dreams of a handsome stranger who would rescue her and sweep her into his embrace. She certainly had no intention of surrendering to the passion-filled gaze of the ship's captain, handsome Jason Draper -- until a sudden storm marooned the two of them on a lush, uncharted island. Alyssa was utterly unprepared for the wave of passion that swept over her as she looked into Jason's deep blue eyes and felt the heat of his strong muscular body as he carried her ashore. And when he caressed her and whispered her name, Alyssa knew she could not help but yield the most secret treasures of her body in sweet, shocking abandon. PERSUASIVE LOVER -- Captain Jason Draper had mastered the turbulent South Pacific seas, and he certainly wasn't going to let a stubborn missionary miss disrupt his ship's routine or get the better of him! He'd get her to prot as quickly as possible -- and resist the forbidden temptations of her delicately-curved body and glorious golden hair. But when he saw the sweet fire in her innocent green eyes, felt her soft warm arms drawing him nearer, and tasted the oney of her lips, he was swept nearer, and tasted the honey of her lips, he was swept into the swirling, rapturous currents of a passion he could no longer deny ... or control.\\"	2002-07-15
US	52660802	RUDNOCP4LGL54	0140123997	601137032	No Special Hurry (Penguin Crime Fiction)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Storyline ....	\\"Jail doesn't agree with Tony Curbel. That's not surprising: he used to be a proper businessman, a currency trader. It also happens that he's innocent of any crime. Worse still. Tony was framed, and he suspects that his father is responsible. Enter Skinny, a mercenary cop who know that the Curbel familu business is something less than respectable. He presents Tony with a wrenching choice: Tony can stay in prison for another few years, or he can spy on his own family. Working udnercover for Skinny sounds like the better bet, and Tony has some investigating of his own to do anyway. Then he discovers that his family's \\"employment agency\\" isn't all that it seems. There's a reason his father and uncle can provide New Orleans with an endless supply of cheap labor: they buy children. They buy them in Central America, set them up in menial jobs in the United States, and get rich skimming their wages. But then Tony's father disappears, and only by digging up long-buried secrets can Tony prevent his family from tearing itself apart.\\"	2002-07-15
US	52660802	R225ZHHMGBA509	0434349259	265042665	Molecule Men: Two Short Novels	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Storyline ....	From the flyleaf: &quot;Dr. John West, Cambridge don and private investigator, was present at the trial of an odd duck, R. A. Adcock, who was being most uncooperative in answering questions about a bank robbery. At length, Adcock had made a dash for it from the courtroom -- through a glass window, and what should have been a three-story drop to the street. But suddenly Adcock just wasn't there, and at once a swarm of bees came into the courtroom. Thus begins THE MOLECULE MEN, which takes many fascinating and terrifying turns to it's chilling conclusion. In the second story, THE MONSTER OF LOCH NESS, Tom Cochrane, an independent scientist, determines to find out why the waters of Loch Ness are inexplicably warming up. What was it taht cuased the waters of the loch to pour up into the air like the worst rainstorm any one of the observers had ever seen. What was at the bottom of the loch? These two short novels by a celebrated father-and-son team will hold the interest of the science fiction fan from page one on.&quot;	2002-07-15
US	52660802	R3KKM788CXGGFD	0898793912	949748392	How to Write Irresistible Query Letters: An easy-to-follow guide to writing professional queries that produce sales--for articles and nonfiction books	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Very general book about query letters .....	.... with instruction and a different slant for so many different mediums.  The beginning of the book serves up a valuable lesson on how to develop an idea that may sell, how to slant for different markets, hooking the editor and selling yourself.  Then there is a short section on research and interviews.  This dynamite little book not only tells you how to write and slant your query to different markets, but give concrete examples by using sample letters.  This is a nice little introductory book with a concrete process that'll help you write a great query letter.	2002-07-14
US	52660802	R281KH6HPSJOSO	B00005XA0Y	262147449	The books of the Black Current	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the book to help you decide if this book is for you: This book contains three of Ian Watson's novels: The Book of the River, The Book of the Stars, and The Book of Being. From the flyleaf: \\"From time immemorial, the Black Current has defined Yaleen's world. Separating the eastern bank from the unknown western side, it cuts the river -- and the world -- in half, a black strip running down the river's center, from the towering, unscalable Precipices where it seems to ooze out of the solid rock, to the depths of the ocean: huge, mysterious. and alive. For like the goddess some believe it to be, the Black Current is aware. It allows men on the water only once, a second try invides madness and death. Only women are granted the freedom of the river, and Yaleen years to experience that freedom. So, in search of adventure, she drinks the black essence of the Current and joins the River Guild, beginning a series of voyages that will take her farther than she had ever imagined. For no one really knows what the Black Current is, and no one has ever crossed it. No one, that is, until Yaleen's brother Capsi dsicovers a way to get to the western side. The deadly consequences of the forbidden deed thrust Yaleen into the center of a maelstrom of events that could end the world as she knows it. For the long silent Black Current has been watching, planning, growing into consciousness. Now after patient eons, it is about to act. As the far shore called to her borther, the Black Current will summon Yaleen. Young, terrified, yet determined to save her world, she answerss it's challenge -- and discovers a being who can turn death into paradise ... a being who wants to become a god. But even gods have foes ...\\"	2002-07-09
US	52660802	R2T7H5UPC34JS3	0373116845	582600818	The Touch of Aphrodite (Harlequin Presents, No. 1684, Postcards from Europe: Cyprus)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's information from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: Part of the Postcards from Europe series. \\"DESINATION: Cyprus, ATTRACTIONS: the Fountain of Love, Temple of Aphrodite -- and Nikolaos Konstantin ... Emily's stepfather had insisted she spend a year in Cyprus managing his hotel empire. His will also stipulated that she learn the business under the guidance of his nephew, Nicolaos Kontantin. Nik's condescending air guaranteed trouble, but when business turned to pleasure, Emily simply couldn't resiste. Unfortunately, Nik insisted that falling love wasn't part of the deal.\\"	2002-07-09
US	52660802	R3F5U3AE8X3YJJ	0373116845	582600818	The Touch of Aphrodite (Harlequin Presents, No. 1684, Postcards from Europe: Cyprus)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's information from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: Part of the Postcards from Europe series. \\"DESINATION: Cyprus, ATTRACTIONS: the Fountain of Love, Temple of Aphrodite -- and Nikolaos Konstantin ... Emily's stepfather had insisted she spend a year in Cyprus managing his hotel empire. His will also stipulated that she learn the business under the guidance of his nephew, Nicolaos Kontantin. Nik's condescending air guaranteed trouble, but when business turned to pleasure, Emily simply couldn't resiste. Unfortunately, Nik insisted that falling love wasn't part of the deal.\\"	2002-07-09
US	52660802	R3FOMXV9MOC3IO	0843933097	258720671	The Rose & the Flame	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Storyline ....	... here is the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Reunited with Luis de los Santos, the man who shunned her years before, Elena suffers a double blow when she discovers that Luis belongs to another ... Sultry and exquisitely beautiful, Elena was sought after by every man in Mary Tudor's court, but only one held her heart. As golden as the sun, Luis de los Santos had given her a taste of ecstasy in his strong arms, but he offered illicit passion instead of a wedding ring. Dirven apart by prive, they would be reunited by destiny on the sun-drenched plains of a Spanish rancho. Now Luis belonged to another, but his forbidden love for Elena knew no bounds, obeyed no strictures. Side by side they would battle the dangers of their turbulent era and forge a new life together ...\\"	2002-07-09
US	52660802	R2LMHYAY3EQA2F	0843928476	563132079	Tough Bullet/the Killers (Double Barrel Western)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Storyline ....	Two complete stories in one book. \\"He was the fastest gun in the west -- and now he's back with a double shot of hard-riding western action.\\"<br /><br />\\"Tough Bullet\\" -- \\"Carmody was looking for a good time in New Orleans. With eleven thousand in stolen money in his pocket, he figured to enjoy some good liquor and bad women before he headed back to Texas. But just as he was getting comfortable, he found himself framed for a brutal murder.\\"<br /><br />\\"The Killers\\" -- \\"Dodging a posse, Carmody came up with the perfect cover -- acting sheriff of Salter City, a quiet little town in the middle of nowhere. But things didn't stay quiet for long. A green-eyed blonde named Sally Thornton had just run away from her husband, and into the arms of the notorious Eldredge clan, the meanest bunch of sheriff-hating woolhats who ever shot a man in the back.\\"	2002-07-08
US	52660802	R1LFH5ED4GIW6H	0373706693	255025248	A Mother's Love	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Her ex-husband had stolen her son! When Anne Leighton sent her son, Scotty, to England for a holiday with his Air Force father, she had no reason to suppose he'd never return. But he didn't. So Anne flew there to bring him back. She found an unexpected ally in the attractive base commander, Colonel Grant Sarver. When she was arrested for trying to see her son, Grant put her under house arrest. At his house. They soon wanted more from each other than they could possibly have. Because the military was her enemy -- it was keeping her from her son -- but it was Grant's whole life. For Anne, this was a no-win situation: the Air Force was a law unto itelf. Well, maybe it was time she took the law into her own hands ... She wanted her son back. And her lover.\\"	2002-07-08
US	52660802	R1RETRP8AT0OFT	089083704X	83799301	Rhinelander Center	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"RHINELANDER CENTER, part of the huge medical complex known as Rhinelander Pavillion, was a world unto itself. Situated in the heart of the big city, its long, stark corridors were constanting pulsating with critical medical emergencies ... DR. PATRICK DAIN, Chief of Staff and top administrator, had to meet the constantly growing needs ob his patients and staff. But what about his own desires and the needs of his new wife -- would their marriage survive ... MATT LANSING, a brilliant, ambitious young surgeon, was so obsessed with building a \\"perfect record\\" in order to be named the new Chief of Surgical Services that he betrayed his Hippocratic Oath -- and now an epidemic threatended the hospital's existence ... ANN O'HARA DAIN would never have married Patrick if she still had feelings for her ex-husband. But when he unexpectedly walked back into her life she was forced to make an earth-shattering decision -- would her new-found happiness be destroyed?\\"	2002-07-08
US	52660802	R2GX2GQWJGB3A9	0373033168	87687008	The Baby Battle (Kids & Kisses) (Harlequin Romance, No 3316)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"I intend to assume guardianship of the boy.\\" \\"You what!\\" Suzanna laughed incredulously. \\"We're not communicating are we? You see, I'm Timmy's guardian. Me.\\" \\"Not legally.\\" Logan Bradford stared down his straight imperious nose at her. \\"I trust you're going to be reasonable about this and not turn it into another --\\" \\"Reasonable? Shipping a recently orphaned four-year-old to a strange house full of strange people is reasonable? Mr. Bradford, you'd better get off my property right now! Before I call the police.\\" \\"All right, enough.\\" She saw fury flash in his eyes. \\"I admit you've invested time and effort in my brother's son. How much compensation do you want?\\"	2002-07-07
US	52660802	R2PW9BKDD66DDK	0441067794	740930422	Blood Fountain (Swords of Raemllyn, Book 3)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"\\"With the giant changeling Goran One-Eye once more by his side, the freebooter Davin Anane has entered the realm of the sorcerer Lorennion ... there to steal from him the enchanted sheath of Kwerin Bloodhawk. But Anane and Goran are not alone in challenging Lorennion's terrible magicks. The seductive sorceress Valora, escorted by the dread Faceless Ones, also seeks his stronghold. And the beautiful Lijena, escaped from the palace of the golden-winged demons, is now a prisoner in Lorennion's very citadel ... at the mercy of his horrifying Blood Fountain ...\\"	2002-07-07
US	52660802	RQD7AH1JAL9K1	0373700040	680096054	Love Beyond Desire	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Robin knew it was wrong to love him ... Robin Hamilton's archaeological job on a Mexican hacienda promised to be an exciting venture. But she soon found herself drawn into the midst of a dark devastating turmoil. She should never have let herself fall in love with her employer, the proud and fiery Ernesto Lopez. He full intended to marry the highborn beauty Ynez as family tradition dictated, all in order to gain a precious jade legacy. Robin had no choice -- she must fight her hopeless love. For a future as Ernesto's mistress was no future at all ....\\"	2002-07-07
US	52660802	R2M6CVDNB57FW	0553229184	683245454	A Marriage Made in Heaven (Bantam Romance Books #165)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Without thinking, simply because her terror about what had occurred was still with her, Samala ran towards the Duke and flung herself against him. \\"You ... are safe!\\" Her hands had reached up towards the Duke's neck, and as he put his arms around her she held onto him frantically. He looked down at her, her eyes misty with tears, her lips trembling, and he thought no one could be lovelier ...\\"	2002-07-07
US	52660802	R2AL57EC9GQUKK	0373705875	733161774	Dance of Deception (Harlequin Superromance No. 587)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Far more a suspense than a romance	Here's what it says on the back cover of this book:  &quot;Her memory was his worst enemy ... SHE WAS DETERMINED TO REMEMBER .. Young, beautiful, wealthy, her face on the cover of a CD -- Shelby Rourke had the world in her palm. Then why the nightmares, the nameless fear? Why could she remember nothing about the first eight years of her life? To find out, she put her L.A. career on hold and ventured back to Vancouver Island, where she'd spent her childhood summers -- where the accident had happened. Cullen Pierce had supposedly been her buddy back then. Now he had his own business and was nothing at all like a buddy -- more like irresistible. Then her memory started coming back! Cullen, her mother .... it was too awful to even think about.&quot;	2002-07-07
US	52660802	R1I1WX3GLLBTUR	0446344281	456445166	Angels of September	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Storyline ....	Anne Reilly is beautiful, successful ... and terribly afraid. Demons from her past have come back to haunt her as her Chicago art gallery exhibits a notorious mad priest's paintings of obsession and horror. Suddenly Anne finds herself slipping into a hell she cannot escape, unable to free herself to the fulfilling love of the man she so desperately needs. Father Blackie Ryan and other \\"angels\\" of the faith now join in her struggle against the mystery that threatens her life and her sanity -- against the terror of things seen through a glass darkley, and feelings that lie closest to the heart ...\\" The Chicago Sun-Times called this book: \\"Devilishly good!\\" and the Richmond Times Dispatch called it: \\"The best this prolific author has produced.\\" Clearly and excellent story!	2002-07-07
US	52660802	R1I7SWF73JH8W3	0553119613	57457875	The golden shores of heaven	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Nashville -- it's the 'Golden Shores of Heaven' to a country singer and heaven itself is the chance to sing. Eighteen-year-old Mary Curlew landed in Nashville with a fine old Gibson guitar and a fierce amount of ambition. She was going to make it. Perform on the 'Grand Ole Opry.' Sing her heart out. Be a star. But first she had to find somebody who would listen.\\"	2002-07-07
US	52660802	R3E2K0YGH8EC0Q	0821731548	737123462	Outlaw Lover (Heart Fire)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Samantha Savage loved her job at the local newspaper, until she learned her society column was the butt of every joke in Collins, Wyoming. Determined to prove her reporting skills, the gree-eyed beauty went in search of a big story ... and stumbled onto handsome loner Tyler Dalton. She knew for a fact he'd been framed for murder, and she vowed to write a story that would prove his innocence, even if that meant pretending to be his hostage to shield him from the posse's bullets. But Samantha soon discovered she was in real danger when Tyler took her in his arms and claimed her with seductive caresses that made her tremble with longings she couldn't resist ...\\"	2002-07-07
US	52660802	R99CD04410I3O	0373705956	856512978	Not Quite an Angel (Harlequin Superromance No. 595)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Storyline ....	On back cover: &quot;It was as if she were from another planet ... Sameh Smith looked like an angel, but something about her bothered hard-bitten investigator Adam Hawkins. Hired to check into her past by a vindictive and jealous woman, he found she didn't seem to have one! Still nothing about the endearingly clumsy Sameh seemed dangerous -- except her effect on his heart ...&quot;	2002-07-07
US	52660802	R21B0LVWFY7REC	0380725398	474304675	Jamaica Inn	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	WOW -- fabulous story, great suspense!	As this story opens, Mary Yellan's mother dies leaving this young adult on her own in a dangerous time.  On her deathbed her mother tells her to go live with her Aunt Patience at an inn called Jamaica Inn near the Cornish coast (Corwall, England).  Immediately upon arrival at Jamaica Inn she knows something is wrong since her once colorful Aunt Patience has turned into a simpering wimp and her Uncle Joss Merlyn is a towering cruel character with dubious past and present.  Soon Mary learns about criminal activities surrounding Jamaica Inn and it's inhabitants.  She is drawn into a mystery so intense and frightening that she'll brave the trecherous moors to escape.<br /><br />This is one Daphne Du Maurier's best books.  Don't miss this tale of twisted greed and terrible peril -- this is an EXCELLENT book that'll keep you up past your bedtime as you won't be able to put this book down!  Buy it!  This book earned itself a permanent place on my shelf!	2002-07-07
US	52660802	RLW97VQPSUQEG	0434455040	201948812	The Link	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"The bizarre and licentious life of James Steede, a young aronet, unfolds within a stunning portrayal of Victorian society and among a group of colorful and vivid characters, moving from Public School and great estates in England to lurid bars and brothels of Mexico's West Coast, Australia's rugged gold fields and, finally, to Sessions Court at Westminster. It is when James Steede meets another man who totally and uncannily resembles him that the story takes a fantastic and dramatic turn which moves with terror and surprise to an unforgettable climax. what is the \\"link\\"? What is the dark mystery behind this sinister relationship between two men whose identities are exchanged and whose fate and fortune depend upon the exchange? The Link is a spell-binding novel and a raw, bold revelation of the intricacies and strange variations of human relationships.\\"	2002-07-07
US	52660802	RMA6F0EOWG77Q	0515131229	12771112	Dance upon the Air (Three Sisters Island Trilogy)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Fun, suspenseful, magical read!	This is the first book in Nora Roberts' latest trilogy.  It's set on an island called Three Sisters Island off the coast of New England.  The island is home to 2 women with a magical legacy in the past and future.  Enter person number 3 (the 3rd sister) -- our main character.  She is running from an abusive husband, has changed her name, and taken a job offered by one of the island's magical inhabitants.  She has never heard of the legends the other two have heard of and only learns slowly about her own powers and her place in the legend of the three sisters.  As a side note, each of the three books deals has one of the three key &quot;sisters&quot; as it's main character.<br /><br />Though the suspense portion of the book was quite predictable, this was a lot of FUN to read.  It's a keeper!	2002-07-07
US	52660802	R1NZRW6TW15V5R	B00005XBO3	960659551	Castle in the swamp, a tale of old Carolina	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Storyline ....	...here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"A tale of old Carolina in which two lovers defy an evil master ... A prophecy ... it shall come to pass through one whose name is last, one unknown now to the murderer and seducer, but who at last will steal upon him like a thief in the night, bringing fire and sword .... it was an island of evil, an old plantation ruled like a kingdom, where murder went unpunished and madness ruled unchecked ... unitl a stranger came on a mission of love -- and vengeance!\\"	2002-07-07
US	52660802	R1HITEKAK992KN	0688011152	245154288	The Circle	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Storyline ....	This is actually a mystery/spy & intrigue novel.  Here's the description from the book cover:  \\"The best-selling author of The Formula blends, suspense, sensuality and intrigue in a brilliant international thriller. From the first page, the reader is caught in an ever-tightening web of mystery and terror. The Circle takes us nonstop from a clandestin meeting in the Glass Room below the headquarters of the CIA to the exotic Angel Cloud Houses of Korea, and on to the heroin factories of Sicily. Phil Ricker, U.S. Deputy Attorney General, exposes a political assassination that leads him to a sensuous and breathtakingly beautiful Korean girl, an agent of the insidious KCIA. The web tightens with the appearance of Claudia Cassini, the mysterious link between the power brokers of the Overworld and the godfathers of the underworld. Together they are thrust into a global quest for a missing FBI file belonging to the late J. Edgar Hoover. The file, code-named \\"Gemstone\\", exposes a group of self-appointed demigods who have placed us all on the cutting edge of Armageddon.\\"	2002-07-07
US	52660802	RU383CZBNHN4S	0449147258	717021687	Devon	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"During the American Revolution, a bold English beauty becomes a prisoner of love ... society miss by day, daring thief by night ... Determined to save her ancestral home, Devon Mackinsey turns to a life of crime as the notorious Shadow, but a bungled burglary puts her under the thumb of Hunter Barclay ...\\"	2002-07-07
US	52660802	RDZVOOUBYG07Z	0373222165	942978896	Cold Summer (Harlequin Intrigue, No 216)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Nature had gone awry ... when caro Hardin returned to the isolated north country as she'd vowed she never would, the friend she'd come to rescue had vanished. All that remained was an uncannily cool July -- and the object of a school-days crush on whom Caro hoped to rely. Under usual circumstances, Mike Schaeffer wanted nothing more than to reestablish romantic ties with Caro, but now a murderer was in their midst ... and Caro could possibly provide the psychological profile, the much-needed map of the deranged madman's mental terrain ...\\"	2002-07-06
US	52660802	RWB2SIPJ9DVJE	0440014263	311097108	China Clipper	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"The wild and wonderous novel of the glory days of sailing ships -- of Cleo Penhallow, a tantalizing beauty who is all things to all men and more ... Cleo propped herself up on her elbows and studied Mark's slim body. She reached over and playfully unbuttoned his trouser front. He didn't move, instead he closed his eyes and smiled. She quickly stripped off her undergarment and like a mountain wildcat she pounced upon him, her warm breath exciting him all the more ... There is a sub-plot of murder as we follow the sailing routes around the world during the gold rush and tea trade era, before the advent of steamships.\\"	2002-07-06
US	52660802	R1M8DI2MHWF1H7	0804103607	607334129	Kramer vs. Kramer	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"In the beginning they were three. Joanna and Ted Kramer, and four-year-old Billy -- his big brown eyes bright with curiosity and wonder. A perfect family. Then on day the mother abandons them. Divorce. And now they are two. Father and son. Caring and cared for, learning what loving and belonging are all about, until there is a bond between them that nothing can break. Nothing and nobody -- except maybe a mother who, almost two years later, changes her mind and wants her little boy back ...\\"	2002-07-06
US	52660802	R1HQRHWYK3DA82	0440118662	252034531	Defects of the Heart	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Her life was in perfect focus. First there was her career. Then Ben -- every Thursday night. At thirty-five, award winning reporter Jessica Lenhart had arrived. Famed for her searing documentaries, her professionalism, and headstrong independence, she'd helped make New York's newest nonprofit TV station a contender ... then her camera's laser eye took aim at a new 'miracle' drug -- a drug that promised miracles but was rumored to cause monstrous birth defects. Joining forces with a dangerously attractive lawyer, Jessica is driven to discover the truth at any cost. And the price is high -- a journey into her own heart of darkness, where passion and principle will tear her life apart.\\"	2002-07-06
US	52660802	R2ZR61NNQRDOT4	0553260030	95286495	No Love Lost	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"For the men in Lindsay Thresher's life, money, luxury and adoration were never enough. There was always another woman. Haunted by the secret in her father's life that led to her parent's divorce, the lovely Lindsay rushes headlong into a too-young marriage to dashing Geoff Murray. It is a union torn by conflict yet Lindsay struggles to keep their passion alive during the war years. Then, tragedy strikes the family and the last frail bonds that unite husband and wife, are ripped apart by scandalous liaisons and sordid affiars. In a shattering moment of revelation, Lindsay is able discover the meaning of true loyalty ... and love.\\"	2002-07-06
US	52660802	R1OSMG7C0MCM2E	0446314692	335730734	Sisters and Strangers	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"A superbly moving novel of women apart -- and together ... Home for their parents' golden wedding anniversary, the three sisters come together again: FRANCES -- to confront the one man whom she had never managed to forget. ALICE -- to find herself at the scene of the sin that had long ago shattered her life. BARBARA -- to try to pretend that her liberated life-style was all she ever wanted.\\"	2002-07-06
US	52660802	R3H5VCJICFU87W	0345311906	489818160	To Escape the Stars	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Just how far would a money-loving freesailer go to find the master key to every planet in the galaxy? And how would he get back? ... when freesailer, plunderer James Oregas and his beautiful business partner set out to bilk the unsuspecting denizens of the backwater planet Llango ... it got complicated ... when Jamas, who knew the ins and out of stargates was doublecrossed and had to disappear -- and fast, it moved into high gear ... when Jamas landed on Prime -- a repository planet of galactic history -- and learned of a mysterious lost race that held the master key to all the stargates for all the worlds ... when Jamas himself decided to scour the galaxy, looking for that long-lost race, following a trail that would lead him to power beyond his wildest dreams -- if he somehow managed to stay alive!\\"	2002-07-06
US	52660802	R3FI3WQPPODE9G	0932513239	34549172	How to outsmart your allergies	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"You don't have to suffer from allergies anymore. This easy-to-read guide by one of America's most trusted physicians will show you: how allergies cause symptoms, how to identify and avoid your allergy \\"triggers,\\" when to see your doctor and what to ask, which drugs can prevent allergy symptoms and when to use them, when you need to see an allergy specialist.\\"	2002-07-05
US	52660802	R24TYXM27JHYSR	055329217X	609653743	Seneca Patriots (White Indian Series, Book XXII (No 22))	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"As a young nation flexes its muscles, the White Indian struggles for his life ... and a new generation battles for justice.  THE THREAT -- General James Wilkinson is a notorious scoundrel -- treasonous and corrupt. Yet as an American commander on the Southwest frontier, he wields power with a deadly grip. That is, until he falls under the lascivious thrall of the witch Melisande of New Orleans. Through her manipulation, Wilkinson plots to exterminate once and for all Renno, the White Indian.  THE LEGACY -- Meanwhile, young Little Hawk has been selected for President Jefferson's pretigious new military academy at West Point. There, despite excelling in every field, he struggles in the terrible grip of prejudice. In the Southland, the young Mingo warrior White Blanket, a fervent follower of Tecumseh, joins a new Inidan Union to fight the white man as the tumultuous young United States tests its newfound strength by annexing the Louisiana Territory and waging a faraway ware with the Barbary pirates.\\"	2002-07-05
US	52660802	R2HRXZ0N4AWO9K	0515081752	6555340	There Was A Time	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Two beautiful women wanted FrankClair -- the handsome, talented, sensitive artist aflame with an adventurer's passion for life, and with a bursting lust for money, fame, and women ... One would give him all she had -- a voluptuous blonde beauty forced by poverty into prostitution. It was she who first took this twisted, angry young man and taught him his earliest, sou-shattering lessons in tenderness and passion .... And one would take all he had to give -- a ravishing, highborn, dark-haired vixen who taunted the young writer for his crude, urgent longings, and yet spurred him on to incredible heights of literary achievement and fame ...\\"	2002-07-05
US	52660802	R5PKPL702Y8T9	0397320132	892835736	Dark Hour of Noon	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Tosh told Trina stories of Wanda, a Polish warrior queen who, when vanquished by a German prince, chose death under the waves of the Warta River rather than marry him ... of knights in gold armor and their white horses who sleep inside a hollow Tatra mountain and wait ... for Poland to need them ... \\"Why don't they wake up now and chase the Germans out?\\" asked Trina. \\"Because,\\" answered Tosh, \\"the story is only a myth. The real sleeping knights are all of u -- all the Polish people, and when the time comes we will fight.\\" Trina shivered as she remembered Tosh's words. The time to fight for Poland's freedom had come. Trina organized a small group of resistance fighters and they called themselves the Gray Knights -- none of whom was older than 14. The small band of children was part of an enormous group -- the Polish Resistance -- and this is the story of their part in the Polish Rising, August 1, 1944.\\" Wow! What a story!	2002-07-05
US	52660802	R30VMFY505DDL	037303394X	568835637	Passion'S Prey	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Storyline ....	It certainly wasn't Goldilocks! It took Petra a moment to realize it, but the strange man occupying her bed was Jaret Tremayne! The years since her last meeting had been kind to him. If anything, he was more handsome, more charming than ever, certainly more infuriating. Unfortunately, not only was Jared back in the neighborhood -- he was the neighborhood! The irrepressible man had moved in next door! Petra had told herself that she had long since gotten over her teenage infatuation for him. She had Simon: safe, sensible, dependable Simon. But Jared evidently found her a lot more fascinating as a grown up, and the fact that she was involved with another man only made him even more determined to woo her. Could it be that having a hero next door was playing tricks with her heart?&quot;	2002-07-05
US	52660802	R1JL8GPZ61UU7V	0553561421	787935079	Red Stick (White Indian, No 26)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Torn between blood and honor, the children of the White Indian must take a stand in the fiery battle for America's future ... A new danger -- in a time of internal intrigue and betrayal, America faces the threat of war against an old and powerful foe: the British. At the same time a formidable new enemy has risen in the West. His name is Tecumseh, leader of a great Indian confederation stretching from the Great Lakes to the Gulf of Mexico. Little Hawk, son of the legendary White Indian, has proven his allegiance tohis nation and his bravery in battle; now he must make the painful decision to take up arms in a bloody conflict that has already taken a terrible toll on his own family ...\\"	2002-07-05
US	52660802	RMICMFDVKDVFD	0553238477	658277649	Realm Seven	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"They've trapped her daughter, violated her privacy, now they want her life ... Andrea Matteson's daughter, Patty, is behaving strangely. The reason behind her behavior: fear. And the catalyst of her fear: Realm Seven, a bizarre, addictive and dangerous game with the highest stakes of all -- life or death. Now Patty is trapped in its sinister, Andy's lover is critically injured, her phones are tapped, she's followed constantly -- and no one can help. Terrified and alone. Andy is driven to investigate on her own. But the henchmen of Realm are everywhere, violating her privacy, undermining her sanity. And the worst is yet to come. Soon Andy finds herself at the heart of a monstrous conspiracy so shocking its evil cannot be measured. Now there can be no turning back. Now she must make the ultimate sacrifice to try and beat Realm at its own deadly game.\\"	2002-07-05
US	52660802	R1E3472IL6OFLA	0821741098	856889743	Tender Trust	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon posted such a limited editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Her father's tragic death left Anna Dudley to manage the family tavern all alone. She needed business, so although there was a war on, she housed all travellers, regardless of their sympathies. That included the new minister who had just arrived in town. A handsome man with a confident air, he had a sensual manner that hinted at earthly pleasures. Who was Jordan Kent? His steady and commanding gaze made Anna feel brazen -- and she yearned to feel his hands caressing her all over, bringing out her most wanton desires .... Jordan Kent's current assignment for George Washington included masquareading as the new minister in this Connecticut town so he could keep an eye on Lowell Tavern. But Jordan was too much of a sinner to keep himself away from the tavern's alluring proprietress. A willowy innocent with lovely gray eyes, Anna's strength and spirit tempted Jordan constantly. He had to have her ... and vowed to uncover her trule loyalties in his bed, where he could boldly sampler her treasures as she revealed her innermost secrets!\\"	2002-07-05
US	52660802	R7OTGTD5F3020	0373032293	726718521	Signs Of Love	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Was she fated to love him? That was what Genie Compton began to wonder -- and fear -- when she met reclusive artist Byron de Stefano. Fear because her fiance's sudden death had left her wary of love, despite her sister's claims that a romance with Byron was \\"in the stars.\\" Geneie was instatnly and intensely attracted to Byron: that much was true. And he seemed to feel the same way about her. But she knew he had his own torments, his own tragedy, to contend with. So here they were, two people passionately drawn to each other, two people still suffering the pain of loss. Were the \\"signs\\" right? Could fear and doubt be vanquished by love?\\"	2002-07-05
US	52660802	R12W8P877YJYD1	037309647X	530235626	Shadows On The Sand (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Storyline ....	.....here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Millionaire Derek Van Heusen believed only in what he could buy or build, and dreamy do-gooders rarely broke his stride. Until fiery Abigail Eldredge nearly stopped him in his tracks. Even as she slowed the mightly wheels of modern progress, his beautiful adversary aroused a surge of traditional tenderness -- and old-fashioned passion -- the determined developer couldn't quite ignore ... Abby was desperat to save her town's historic windmill, yet she was drawn to the man about to demolish it. Though she put stock in the power of the past, Van heusen dollars could quickly bury it. Though she believed love could move mountains, a future with Derek looked as fleeting as the shadows a windmill cast on the sand.\\"	2002-07-05
US	52660802	R1F4B6HMUJH951	0395354196	663403295	The Saviors	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"The Saviors is both a love story and a tale of adventure -- a young innocent's amorous entaglement with men and women who are out to save the world in our century of tumult. Against a background of the privilege worlds of Fifth Avenue and the eccentric British upper classes in the 1920s, Maddy Brewster becomes passionately involved with the Universal Society of Brotherhood -- a strange, enclosed milieu in whose lights and shadows she must take her suspenseful way. She meets Vidhya, the beautiful young Indian \\"messiah,\\" with whom she falls in love; Victoria Younger, the modern dancer who shocks all but Maddy; and the handsome, patrician Dwight Philips, a zealous supporter of the Spanish republic, who becomes her husband. Maddy's path extends from the Bronx to the Mideast to India. With faultless artistic control, Helen Yglesias charts Maddy's course from youthful naivete to a recognition of the charlatanism that underlies the saintless intentions. Yet Maddy's journey does not strip her of the idealism with which she began it. The Saviors is a novel about the innocence of love and faith, and a herione who insists on believing, intelligently, in both. As Susan Isaacs said of Helen Yglesias, \\"Her vision is acute; she sees through the fog ... and peers right into the human heart.\\" Written with consummate intelligence and feeling, The Saviors is Helen Yglesias's finest accomplishment.\\"	2002-07-05
US	52660802	R32CHVG1UC1CBV	055325099X	100759218	The Hawk and the Dove (A Saga of the Southwest, Book 1)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"THE HAWK. Wild and free, the sole survivor of a brutal massacre, John Cooper Baines lives by his wits as he treks across the unclaimed wilderness.  Brought to manhood in an indian village, he moves on to New Mexico -- a turbulent land ravaged by bandits and stamped by the legacy of aristocratic Spain.  AND THE DOVE. Headstrong and beautiful, the daughter of an exiled Spanish nobleman, Catarina is torn by warring passions, haunted by a vibrant dream.  Only a man who can tame the savage land can subdue her defiant heart. Together they will live the glorious beginnings of a dynasty as proud as royal Spain, as reckless and bold as frontier America.\\"	2002-07-05
US	52660802	R1L5JU259Q4D42	037303220X	981913866	A Matter Of Honor (Harlequin Romance, No 3220)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Giles was missing! And Beth Carson had to find him. Her stepfather was dying, and without Giles signature, her mother would be left homeless. But since coming to Ital, Beth had made no progress at all. Worse still, she had a shadow -- Signor Lorenzo dei Cesari, the high-and-mighty master of all he surveyed. And that apparently included Beth. One could swat away a fly, but wherever she turned, this particular pest appeared as if by magic. What was she going to do?\\"	2002-07-05
US	52660802	RR1JOUBKXQA0L	055327161X	27706823	Spirit Knife (White Indian Series, Book XV)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Fiery action sweeps across thirtheen New United States as America's greatest indian warrior begins a new battle for freedom .... and for love.  THE ENEMY -- A vibrant frontier nation has beaten back the mighty British Empire and let freedom ring throughout the land. But the bells of liberty may be silenced as the English form a secret alliance with bloodthirsty renegade tribes. Only Renno, proud inheritor of the fighting skills of the legendary White Indian, can unite the Five Nations of the Iroquois in America's noble cause. Yet even Renno cannot foresee an enemy so powerful, so insidious in his cruelty and lust, that all whom the great Senecan loves may be doomed to die. THE WEAPON -- Deadly with his tomahawk, English longbow, and razor-sharp stiletto, Renno still needs a gift from the sacred Manitous -- a spirit knife -- to do battle with a more-than-human foe. For now supernatural wolves and a black and evil soul must be vanquished on the trail that leads to the arms of a flame-haired woman and victory for the White Indian's country ... and his heart.\\"	2002-07-05
US	52660802	R23E3AEV3Q58GY	0886773946	925843206	Celestial Hit List (Sand Wars)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Death stalked the Dominion Knight from the Emperor's Palace to a world on the brink of its prophesied age of destruction ... death by laser was just one of the ways in which Dominion Knight Jack Storm's unknown enemies were trying to eliminate him. And Jack was only one of the many targets on someone's worlds-spinning hit list. Assassins had alredy struck in the very heart of the Emperor's palace, bringing down a prominent broadcaster, and casting suspicion on Amber. Gifted -- or cursed -- with incredible psychic abilities, Amber had been programmed to kill with her mind. Yet she didn't know what secret code would key her to destory -- or who her targets would be. And only on the distant world of Bythia -- where the alien Thraks were seeking to undermine Dominion rule, while the natives prepared for the long prophesied Third Age, when the Holy Fire would bring either rebirth or total annihilation -- would Jack and Amber find the hope of answers and the nameless opponents they each sought ...\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R6HZ20L6GDVB4	0515098671	274798308	From This Day Onward	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Storyline ....	A romance set during the Civil War.  Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"While the War Between The States consumed our nation in flames of bitter opposition ... a single, fateful moment brought two strangers, two enemies, together on a northbound train ... JILLIAN WALSH, a beautiful Yankee widow, never expected to find herself at the mercy of a Confederate soldier -- an escapted prisoner of war. But now, she dared to risk her life for his freedom. RYDER BINGHAM was a handsome as he was dangerous. Though he captured Jillian's heart, his need to avenge his brother's death swept both their lives into a reckless turmoil. Bestselling author Elizabeth Kary presents her most stunning achievement -- a vast American tapestry of love and war, filled with the colorful events and courageous men and women who changed the course of history. Rich and compelling, it is the unforgettable story of two unique destinies, eternally bound ...\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R2IUJDEUILUZC3	082174934X	417970480	Warrior's Destiny	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Storyline ....	...\\"Betty Brook's magnificent Viking saga continues with the story of Brynna Nordstrom. In the wilds of 13th century America, Brynna is on a quest to find her brother. But when she finds herself caught between warring tribes who seek her as a prize or a prisoner--she discovers passion in the arms of a banished Anasazi warrior. From the author of Viking Mistress\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R346JJL3XF3ESH	0425126757	171017175	Lower Your Blood Pr	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"A simple and effective program for the detection, treatment, and possible prevention of high blood pressure .... Lower You Blood Pressure and Live Longer gives you: all the facts on high blood pressure, a workable treatment strategy that fits into your lifestyle, tips on avoiding unnecessary medication and medical expense, important advice on pregnancy and high blood pressure, dietary guidelines and exercise programs, straight talk on fad diets and miracle cures, keys to choosing a doctor and assessing your medical options, essential facts on smoking and alcohol ... and much more! Dr. Marvin Moser is a clinical professor of medicine at the Yale University School of Medicine.\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R2PH5EKNZGY01J	0523410069	818451322	The Tender and the Savage	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Should her Indian man reject her, she will always find another: his enemy -- and her next lover .... When Joseph Two Hearts, a loyal Sioux with the blood of the white man running in his veins, rescues the beautiful young Crimson from rape, her honor is spared, but her emotions come under siege. But theirs are different cultures, so Crimson seeks another love -- the brother of General Custer. Caught between two warring camps, the Sioux and Custer's Army, torn between two desperate and conflicting loves -- an army captian and a white man with an Indian soul -- Crimson's fate is in the hands of the gods. And her love, destined to be eternal, will be decided by history ...\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R4QVH77CGGEI	0671458523	468113626	Shining Nights	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"After her father's death she soon fell upon the charity of the young Queen Elizabeth ... but who was this handsome stranger that mesmerized her at the Queen's table? ... He looked down at her and caught his breath. He leaned forward and kissed the pink fullness of her lips, while tasting her sweetness. His skilled fingers traced the slick smoothness of her flesh. Her body quivered at his touch, but she didn't pull away ...\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R3LM6BH1H1S0AD	0373287259	336398419	King of Swords (Harlequin Historical, No. 125)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"His sworn enemy ... Devlin Kyle was bound to serve in Napoleon's army, but the Irish patriot vowed that someday he would make the English pay for their crimes against his family. So when he inadvertently captured Englishwoman Thorne Somerset, the lovely young lady fell very neatly into his plans ... A Gypsy raised among the well-heeled, Thorne understood her captor's bitterness. But beneath Dev's hard-edged soldier's exterior, she also sensed the gentleness of the man. Could she convince him to deny his thrist for vengeance and give that place in his heart to their love?\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R2UWR1DZH8IMDA	0671493957	833507396	Flame On The Sun (Tapestry, No 23)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"I've come ten thousand miles to save my family's ships. No man will stop me now!\\" So Erin Conroy declared as the Yankee shipping heiress arrived in Japan to discover that Storm Davin, the proud Southern aristocrat she had refused to marry eight years before on the eve of the Civil War, now controlled the fate of her bankrupt legacy. The beautiful but spoiled young girl Storm remembered had grown into a woman of rare courage with a spirit valiant enough to face the challenges of an ancient empire swept by the winds of change. But was she bold enough to confront the bittersweet promise of love once lost yet never forgotten?\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R2ZXFDRBKI2CXS	0671806106	207696639	Spencer Brade, M.D.	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Married in name only .... the marriage of Spencer Brade, M.D., to Carol Grahame was one of simple convenience. He needed money to start the practice -- wanted it desperately -- she needed a husband immediately. With the Grahame fortune he could set himself up. In return, Carol was able to give her unborn child a name. But soon Spencer Brade found himself in love with the beautiful girl who was his wife. The money she had given him seemed like an inrumountable barrier between them. He decided that he must make money quickly, without caring too much how he got it, and pay Carol back. Only then could he hope to win her love in return and make their marriage one in fact as well as one in name .... Spencer Brade, M.D. is the thrilling story of an idealistic young doctor who allows himself to be corrupted by the medical vultures of a great and honorable profession ...\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R34BH50OX9K4BX	0821731106	272685752	Santa Fe Fantasy (Heartfire Romance)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Adeline Montclair was utterly shocked when she stumbled across a naked man staked out under the hot sun along the Santa Fe trail. Unschooled in frontier survival, the hazel-eyed beauty struggled to free the stranger from his bonds and nurse him back to health. And as she drove her wagon onward, Adeline began to think of the man as hers; hers to care for, hers to touch, hers to kiss. So when his eyes fluttered open, his fever gone, the auburn-haired beauty barely hesitated when his arms reached for her, pulling her down beside him in a molten, breathless embrace ...\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R1JA75A7J3QXY	0370301293	703495209	Innocent Employments	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"There is only one game more exciting than sex ... The ultimate fantasy ... The game -- make as much money in one year as you can. The players -- three men and one woman, each a financial genius. The scene -- New York, London, Paris, the Middle East ... anywhere power and pleasure are for sale. The rules -- anything goes.\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R2PSB850YNINBB	0373312016	719341713	Lord Barton'S Honour	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Honour demanded that he marry her ... When William, Lord Barton, found Amanda Stratton stowed away in his cabin on the Cumberland Rover, he immediately assumed the worst. What could she be but another of those infernal fortune-hunters he'd been dodging for years? Except this one was more clever than most -- she had caught him. What he didn't know was that she was fleeing a far worse fate thanmarriage to a stranger. Her uncle had promised her to I'Ange Infame, a decadent French nobleman who had not given up his designs on her person. Nor did he understand Amanda's opposition to his proposal. She was far from the compliant and grateful bride he had expected ...\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R20QLQ59PG3XI6	0312927460	152211102	Summer Secrets	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Storyline ....	Here's the more detailed description of the book from it's back cover: &quot;They came together one summer ... and discovered what it meant to be alive. A JOURNEY FROM LOSS TO LOVE -- To the sun-bathed coves of Cornwal, Marina Meredith came with her only son, her grief over a tragic loss, and the pain of a marriage as rocky as the rugged Cornish coast. A JOURNEY FROM PAIN TO PASSION -- Into a summer-bright swirl of feasts and fairs and long days on secluded beaches, Meredity reawakens to the promise of life, the restoring magic of friends, and the unexpected challenges of a dynamic man's love. A TRIUMPHANT CELEBRATION OF LIFE -- Jean Stubbs, a storyteller of immense insight and power, invites you on an unforgettable odyssey of painful endings and bright beginnings, of hurtful secrets and redeeming love. SUMMER SECRETS -- a moving novel of discovery as involving as life itself, she takes us to the places of the heart where we all live.&quot;	2002-07-04
US	52660802	RR08IEI250FTG	0399120475	492763567	Outrun the Dark	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Storyline ....	...here's the description from the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"A four-year- old boy is dead. His eight-year-old sister, Billyjean, is accuses of murder. Here is the story of Billyjean, thirteen years later---the powerful portrait of a young woman's journey from madness back to reality. Billyjean lies in an unreal world where terror resides in the next room. Billyjean has returned home after thirteen years in a mental assylum. She has listened carefully to her kindly, patient psychiatrist about what to expect. She looks at her new life with a unique, completely personal logic, and the clarity of a child discovering a new alphabet... Her only friends are two precocious young neighbors who persuade Billyjean to open her own investigation into the murder. Told with penetrating psychological insight and a deft sense of drama, OUTRUN THE DARK will haunt the reader after he has turned the final page.\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	RNYZXZHF93QNX	0373287038	119492794	Thomasina	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"An imposing figure of a man ... Dr. Brendan Rafferty's size belied the gentleness with which he treated the sick of the tiny Mexican village where he lived and worked. He was a single man, with few pretensions, until the arrival of the lovely Thomasina Wentworth turned his idyllic life upside down. Thomasina knew that she had caused a stir by signing on as the doctor's assistant. It was only natural that he had assumed she was a young man. Still, that wasn't reason enough for him to break their contract -- and given the chance, she would soon show him that she was more than just another pretty face.\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R2GQ4XNLNL76HM	1558175539	929539778	Whispers of Love	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Storyline ....	a story of compelling passion and unforgettable romance .... Impatient with the restrictions of a ladylike Boston education, spirited Skylar McRae joined her soldier father at Fort Phantom Hill on the Texas frontier, never dreeaming that adventure and romance would claim her on her first solitary ride through the sun-drenched countryside. Swept away as a hostage by a vengeance-seeking stranger, Skylar tried every means of escape she knew, though the touch of Dakota Delany's muscular body made her blush with desire. The more miles they covered, the more her defenses crumbled, and it wasn't long before she yearned to surrender to his ardent kisses -- kisses as hot as the desert sun -- and melt into a rapturous embrace that would last her whole life through ...&quot;	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R3RBCXGW34FOXS	0671417843	279344094	The Sun Dancers	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"She was the queen of the bullfight ... but found her greatest challenge in teh arena of love ... they called her La Gringa -- beautiful blondge bullfighter Mariana Toscano, daughter of film goddess Pat Palmer and the late great matador Roberto Toscano. But it wasn't until Mariana fled the glitter of hollywood and the fierce jealousy of her competitive mother ... until she discovered the raw beauty of Mexico and the compelling power of the Toscano legacy .. until she met the dark brilliant bullfighter Miguel Santos and first felt the thrill of the ring ... only then did Mariana Toscano know that she had come home at last. Together they would perform their dance of life and death beneath the sun's hot gaze ... together they would weave the dangerous magic of the sun dancers.\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R3O2I6U1Q35UDI	0821727710	271890461	California Caress	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Storyline ....	... here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Hope Bennett was determined to save her brother's life. And if that meant paying notorious gunslinger Drake Frazier to take his place in a fight, she'd barter her last gold nugget. But Hope soon discovered she'd have to give the handsome rattlesnake more than riches if she wanted his help. His improper demands infuriated her; even as she luxuriated in the tantalizing heat of his embrace, she refused to yield to her desires. She'd accept his terms, then find a way to escape him ... somehow ...\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R3B83BGAF67XNO	0440201349	85678040	Passion's Captive	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"ALONE ON THE FROZEN KANSAS PRAIRIE ... Charity Burkhouser didn't stand a chance. Without a man's help the beautiful young widow would lose the homestead she'd traveled so far to claim and worked so hard to hold. When fate dropped a savagely wounded stranger on her doorstep, she knew she must fight to make him her own. She challenged the two bold Indian maidens entranced by the stranger's beautiful blond hair, and defied the town gossips who were shockec to discover a handsome man living in her cabin, sleeping in her bed -- without benefit of clergy! But most difficult of all, for the sake of the future, fearless Charity would have to confront the wild demons and beloved ghosts of Beau Claxton's past. She swore it wasn't a matter of love; it was a matter of survival. And she was determined to save him, to keep him, to make him ... passions captive.\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R3VOBJRF3H75ZY	0425100677	881938117	I Would if I Could	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Storyline ....	Subtitled: \\"Program Your Personality for Success\\" with the following on the cover: \\"1. Stop Smoking, 2. Make Friends, 3. Advance in your Work, 4. Lose Weight, 5. Improve Sexual Performance, 6. Feel Confident, 7. Master any Skill, 8. Safeguard Your Health, 9. Conquer Pain & Fear\\" Description per the back of teh book:  \\"YOU CAN DO IT by following the proven techniques in this book, you can change your life -- releasing the full potential of your abilities and energies. James Hoke knows how. Once a cripple, he conquered his own paralysis and has helped thousands to free themselves from crippling fears and realize their ambitions. Now it's your turn. Let him show you the easily mastered, completely safe, thoroughly proven techniques that will change your life forever ...\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R2JXRVI1Y77LJN	0373097824	821451700	It Must Have Been The Mistletoe (Silhouette Special Edition, No. 782)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"All auto mechanic Dominic Fabino had in common with prim professional Martha Townsend was the clunker of a car she entrusted to his skillful hands. He'd do well to remember that the lady herself was strictly hands off. Her kind demanded high-test for their corporate careers, while their emotions ran on empty. Not for Dom this sterile blend -- he required a richer mix of play and puppies, kids and kisses. Still, something bleak in Marti's beautiful eyes made his masterly fingers itch to banish whatever cruel legacy had hurt her spirit, to fill up her heart with a holiday glow. It would take some talented tinkering, gut maybe, just maybe, he could maneuver her under some mistletoe ...\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	RJX885ZH2MRJP	0373707738	532034561	Deception: 9 Months Later (Harlequin Superromance No. 773)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Her mistake was falling love with a cop. Now she's pregnant -- and he's missing. Shelby Beaumont is madly in love with homicide detective Johnny Spencer. They've been together for the past year, they've just become engaged. And though Johnny doesn't know it yet, Shelby's pregnant with his child. But Johnny's been investigating a possible case of police corruption. And someone on the force has found out ... Then a bomb is rigged on Johnny's boat. And Johnny's onit. Or is he?\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R2Q5EHPBL9CS8T	0671831291	869436712	Emmie's Love	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Emmie Dashwood was left only one family treasure: magnificent, innocent beauty ... she was sold as a wife to an aged Canadian general, a crony of her libertine grandfather who engineered wanton orgies from his sickbed ... Taken as a prize of flesh, time and time again, by American Indians, French Fur trappers, Irish soldiers, and upperclass Englishmen who dared her to tell ... Hounded for life by Snakey, the \\"gentleman\\" slave trader who lost her th moment he almost had her ... Man after man craved careless pleasures from her, but only one man ever truly cared ... Nathan Grant, a sea captain whose love for her survived the battle's clamor on an angry sea, saling from America to England and back again, always wanting, always waiting, never for a mement surrendering a deep desire for Emmie's love ...\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R1KN03V0W10R4Y	0671509977	928642349	Pick-Up Sticks	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Imagine the urbane John Putnam Thatcher, senior vice president of Sloan Guaranty Trust, striding down the Appalacian Trail in boots and breeches, loaded with backpack and dehyrated rations, accompanied by an old Down East crony, Henry Morland. Imagine the odds of their finding, along that 2,000 mile trail, one Steven Lester laid to rest (albeit wtih a hammer) in a picturesque housing development with the wildly inappropriate name of Fiord Haven. Consider the improbability of Thatcher and Morland -- both men of great martial experience -- trangling with Steven Lester's two wives, Amanda and Eunice, either of whom had reason to profit as a widow and both of whom intend to. In the midst of the hectic milieu of hig-pressure salesmanship and murder, their cat fights add a special poignancy to the genveral discord and bolster the notion that either of them could have done in Steven Lester ...\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R1YFKF3OMI9BB1	0373116942	220769652	Snowdrops For A Bride (Harlequin Presents, No. 1694)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Free to love ... When Strome Galbraith appeared at Nairne's cozy bed-and-breakfast, Nairne couldn't miss the aura of unhappiness surrounding him. But as a widow trying to manage a group of troubled teenage boys, she simply didn't have the time to deal with the dark, seductive man and his angry cynicism toward the female population. But she couldn't ignore Strome's presence -- after all, his son was living under her roof. Nor could she ignore the honeyed warmth of Strome's demanding embrace ...\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R2JS2IKNLMG0C0	0373706472	465973762	Father Takes a Wife : Family Man (Harlequin Superromance No. 647)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"If Sharon wants to be with you, that's all that matters.\\" Brave words, but it had seemed so straightforward in the beginning. After all, Hallie's wonderful new husband, Kyle, had every right to custody of his daughter. Still, what had ever made Hallie think the girl would welcome her with open arms? It was hate at first sight -- at least on Sharon's part. And the child's grandparents ... Not content with fighting tooth and nail to retain custody of Sharon, they were actively trying to poison Hallie's mind against Kyle. They'd hinted at terrible secrets in Kyle's past -- dangerous secrets. Well, Kyle had warned Hallie not to believe everything they told her. She remembered her blithe promise: \\"nothing they say can ever change the way I feel about you.\\" Now she wasn't so sure. Because Kyle was keeping secrets ... \\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R37RG59NS98WG9	0373030932	265508448	Master Of Glen Crannach (Harlequin Romance, No. 3093)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Storyline ....	This is a Harlequin Romance set in modern Scotland.  Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Why didn't you tell me who you were?\\" The man Camilla now knew to be the Honourable Ross McKeown, the man she had taken for a shepherd, seemed to appreciate the joke more than she did. From the moment they met, sparks flew between them. Camilla thought he was the most contemptible, ill-mannered man she'd ever met. Still she had come to Castle Crannach to photograph the Celtic jewels there and was determined to remain professional despite his provocation. Only she certainly hadn't expected to find among the Scottish Highlands something far more precious than jewels.\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R2YEUOQ5BS8KSE	0373287062	314365591	King's Man	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Deadly secrets ... beloved enemy ... Lord Nicholas Spencer feared no man. Empowered by King Henry's royal night, he set out to uphold the kings justice. Wiping out a nest of pernicious smugglers would be no trouble for his stalwart troop. As for himself, he longed to come face-to-face with the brawny seaman rumored to be their leader .... Widowed Rosalind Barlow plotted to win at a man's game. By day, she ran a quiet inn; by night, she defiantly captained a band of smugglers. Rosalind had sworn to outfox the king's man, only to find her woman's heart had played her false ... into the arms of her enemy.\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R1SO369KSI9CC	0553255614	588077825	Goddess	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"No one knew who she was or where she came from, and no one who saw her ever forgot her. The camera loved her. The public adored her. But only one man -- one passionate, powerful, unattainable man -- could touch the heart of the GODDESS ...\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R32O97TY717DT0	0312909357	713525015	Beauty	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Steamy ... Erotic ... a page-turner\\" -- Publishers Weekly. \\"In the glittering world of modeling, fame is the goal, sex is the key, but first comes beauty .... SHE IS THE ALL-AMERICAN WOMAN: Cathering Ward radiates a breathtaking brand of dazzling blonde beauty that could turn her into a star model. Yet her bright future is shadowed by a dark past. Ravishing Catherine is no man's woman. Until she meets Lynell Alan. HE IS THE PERFECT MAN: with sea blue eyes, classic cheekbones, and a body that could inspire fantasies in any woman ... and some men. Lynell Alan is the stuff of modeling legends. He knows he has what it takes to reach the top. BUT BEAUTY IS SKIN DEEP: In the chic salons and sleek studios of the fashion jungle, two beautiful people find each other. But in a world where passion and betrayal are cheap allies, love can be destroyed by one vicious, gilded blow ...\\"	2002-07-04
US	52660802	R3PGC97ISCE8ML	0446361267	682200700	League of Terror	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon hasn't posted an editorial review for this book, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"The armistice has been all but signed. The Cold War is over. The world has no further use for spies. Or so it would seem.  Fortunately, Devereaux -- the spy the call November -- knows better. Even now, he finds himself and his implacable nemesis locked in a deadly battle.  The backdrop is a secret war of terrorism waged by an insidious mastermind combining the bloodiest back-alley tactics of Irish republicanism with the sleek financial machinations of Wall Street.  The stakes are deeply personal, for an assassin has struck at Rita Macklin, the journalist who loves the November Man. Now Devereaux has but a single goal: kill Henry McGee, before he can strike again.\\"  Very taut suspense thriller.	2002-07-02
US	52660802	R3OKI6ZI4YOTQ4	0373705948	823933513	The Princess and the Pauper (Harlequin Superromance No. 594)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't provide an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"FORBIDDEN FRUIT ... falling for Cade was taboo, out of the question. He was considered Jessica Hartman's brother, for goodness' sake. Thought they'd never shared their childhood, she'd idolized the renegade from afar. But now her father was gone, leaving maddening instructions in his will. In order to inherit anything at all, she and Cade had to work at Jessica Cosmetics for six months to get the company back on its feet. Like it or not, Jessica would have to confront the forbidden feelings Cade ignited in her.\\" Part of the WOMEN WHO DARE series	2002-07-02
US	52660802	RBT3OP8PS84EW	0515076449	61999637	Albatross	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review for this book, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Who was the mole called Albatross? Was he Brigadier James White, the revered head of British Intelligence, now about to retire after a career of dazzling achievment? Was he Humphrey Grant, his second in command, and a man whose secret sexual life made him an all-too-likely tool in Soviet hands? Was he John Kidson, the perfect technocrat and brother-in-law to the woman assigned to unearth Russia's most deadly mole? Was he Tony Walden, the man assigned to be that woman's cover, and who was turning her into his puppet? British intelligence had to find out -- befoer it was too late for Britain, and for the world ...\\"	2002-07-02
US	52660802	R1I1DJH6WVCK3R	0373705824	689595455	Mooncaller (Harlequin Superromance No. 582)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Storyline ....	...\\"They were as different as sun and moon ... WHITNEY BALDRIDGE-BARROWS -- she looked like a china doll, but was tough as nails inside. A competent, no-nonsense physician, she'd taken a year off the fast track to serve the community of Havasupai Indians living at the bottom of the Grand Canyon. GABRIEL BLADE -- if ever there was a man who fit his name, Gabe was it. He'd spent his wholelife using blades, either real ones on the streets or verbal ones in the courtroom. Gabe stood for everything Whitney despised -- greed, arrogance, selfish ambition. He and his repulsive patrner were determined to turn the little Havasupai village into another theme part. Was she crazy to let herself fall for such a ruthless predator?\\"  Part of the Women Who Dare series	2002-07-02
US	52660802	R1W582TSKAXKSZ	0373098235	611525367	Kate'S Vow	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review for this book, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: Part of That Special Woman series -- it takes a very special man to win that special woman. \\"Overwhelmed by single fatherhood, widower David Winthrop feared he was failing his savvy, sad-eyed, ten-year-old son. Still, he never expected hotshot divorce attorney Kate Newton to descend upon him like some avenging angel, bristling with maternal indignation on behalf of Davey junior, her pint-size \\"client.\\" Worse, David found himself itching to peel away Kate's power pinstripes ... But could this tough lady lawyer, so adept at wrenching marriages asunder, prove woman enough to make David's tattered family whole?\\"	2002-07-02
US	52660802	RW39DFLLK6CVM	0446326143	18156708	Treasures Golden Dream	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review for this book, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: Early fronteir love story. \\"A swindler's lechery and greed drove luscious Treasure Ryan out of Tennessee in search of a new life with her kin down in Natchez. Only getting there meant a perlious trek down the wild and lawless trail they called the Nathez Trace. True, golden-haired Treasure knew how to ride and shoot, but she was innocent of the ways of men -- until a cocksure adventurer named Fortner Copeland came along. With his bare fists, Fortner fought for Treasure's honor, rescuing her from a mob of cutthroats. He was gallant and kind, but at night, under the open skies, his hard body laying so close to hers taught her passion -- and torment...\\"	2002-07-02
US	52660802	R1OQ4JQN9OH1GJ	0373098855	60153069	Vow To Love (Vows) (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review for this book, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"The first time Penny Hayden and Sam Roberts met as teenagers, she stormed off in an outraged huff. The second time, nine years later, she hauled off and kicked him in the shin! It was then that Penny's grandfather knew they were a match made in heaven ... Oh, sure, Penny said that Sam was an insensitive jerk. And Sam insisted that he didn't need anyone in his perfectly solitary life. But her grandfather could read between the denials. And even if it was the last thing he accomplished, he vowed they would fall in love!\\"	2002-07-02
US	52660802	R2S4KD2POS16LE	0425128202	326001951	Point Of Honor	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Storyline ....	...\\"A startling adventure of epic proportions, Point of Honor unveils the stormy lives of two unforgettable families, the Camersons and the Holdens, driven by their lust, honor, and betrayal. Their fates were joined by the turnmoil of an everchanging world: the legacy of World War II, the downfall of the British Empire, the fight for freedom in Malaya, and the brutal uprising of communist terrorists ... but a single act of violence shattered their lives more than anything else in the world. A secret too shocking to reveal ...\\"	2002-07-02
US	52660802	R14WWY09V4Y1KR	0373097816	690999652	Cherish (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review for this book, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: Part of the Love, Honor and Cherish series -- three generations of Halloran men. \\"In a long, splendid life rich with struggles and satisfaction, above all Brandon Halloran treasured family. So the proud patriarch had meddled shamelessly in his darling brood's love lives ... until finally the tables had turned! For the merry widower harbored a secret from his nearest and dearest: cherished memories of sparkling, scandalous Elizabeth Forsythe, who'd once put wings to his flyboy's heart, only to vanish when he'd soared home from the war. And with Lizzy at long last on his horizon again, the one thing that could prevent his long-overdue second chance at happiness was ... family!\\"	2002-07-02
US	52660802	R3RVT0A1YKE9IZ	0373116578	66785503	Gracious Lady	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Short of calling out the cavalry, Sophie could only do her best when it came to handling the enigmatic Maximilian Grant and his headstrong daughter. The catalog of disasters that had followed since she'd agreed to become the teenager's companion were as disturbing to her equilibrium as her new employer. Under Maximilian's autocratic rule, Sophie and her past were subjected to enraging scrutiny. Moreover, she and the arrogant Mr. Grant alternated between being defiant adversaries and would be lovers. Sophie knew there would be an explosive outcome -- but would they emerge fighting or loving?\\"	2002-07-01
US	52660802	R1U2XXKUBR2PDT	037311897X	949521905	Daddy Deal (From Here To Paternity)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Taylor Pryce could be described as a professional bachelor ... until he discovered little Justin. The nephew he never knew he had. Only, Justin belonged to someone else. Brooke Davenport. She'd adopted him in good faith, believing him to be an orphan baby. Taylor will do anything to gain custody -- even marry! He just needs to persuade Brooke that he's the ideal husband she didn't even know she wanted!\\" FROM HERE TO PATERNITY -- men who find their way to fatherhood by air means, by foul, or even by default!	2002-07-01
US	52660802	R1TT0VJID5ITX4	0373114532	792197664	Illusions Of Love (Harlequin Presents, No 1453)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Was Madeira big enough for both of them? At times, Stella doubted it. Especially since Lennox Brodey constantly managed to misinterpret her actions and refusted to listen to reason. \\"You're even more of a cheap little tramp than I toodk you for,\\" he accused her. Was he bitter because some woman had hurt him in the past -- or was there some deeper reason? Stella found herself intrigued by Lennox and attracted to him. And yet she wondered if they would ever reach any kind of an understanding -- if they would overcome their illusions of love ...\\"	2002-07-01
US	52660802	R3LWBQ9VQBRIYK	0373289022	526313842	Lydia	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"The war was over, but the battle had just begun ... Sarah Parker had tried to escape her past in a dusty mining town. But nay hope of redemption was lost once Donovan Cole arrived, carrying battle-seared memories and a bellyful of hate -- all for the woman she'd been during a time she'd hoped to forget! \\"The Angel of Miner's Gulch\\" they called her. Fallen angel, more likely, Donovan swore. For the \\"sainted\\" Miss Sarah had been a lying, coldhearted Yankee spy who knew how to capture a man and make him her own -- forever!\\"	2002-07-01
US	52660802	R20NDUBOMG9DP4	0373028792	126772160	Sell Me A Dream	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Would they try again or finally say goodbye? Stephanie hadn't expected to see Jordan Kendall ever again. In the years since their young marriage had ended in disaster, she had managed to build a career for herself in real estate as well as make a home for her small daughter. Their small daughter, although Jordan didn't know about Katie. And there was Tony: staid, dependable Tony. Their engagement was the final piece in her new life. A life of security. A life totally different from the one she had had with Jordan. So, after all these years, why did he have to come back and mess up her life now?\\"	2002-07-01
US	52660802	R38I57DB7P8NW0	0842348867	645652963	The Preacher Had 10 Kids	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"A heart-warming story from an old-fashioned parsonage ... love, courage, humor, and faith never go out of style ... no longer do we pay our preachers in turnips, ployw our fields with mules, or get a good restaurant meal for 35 cents. But family spirit remains the same, whether one lives in the countryside of Kentucky at the turn of the century or in the fast-paced America of the 80's. And in the home of the itinerant preacher, the Rev. Jeremiah Taylor Cherry, ten active children produced a poverty of money but a wealth of spirit. The last of the ten was a lively redhead. Frances Willard Cherry. In this charming book she relates the true story of her family life with a sparkle and warmth that makes it as irresistible as the Walton saga. The family moved almost yearly, and the three brothers and seven younger sisters were dressed out of the \\"missionary barrel.\\" The author, now in her eighties, can still smell those musty, outdated clothes. Here is the story of a way of the life which is past but should never be forgotten.\\"	2002-07-01
US	52660802	R2VGRY5KXNEZKV	0373117930	403323288	One And Only	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Valentine's night spent in the arms of Marcus Ballantyne! It happened to Joy -- but not without the leading actor in the TV series \\"Pilgrim's Game\\" thinking that she was a married woman with a string of lovers! In reality, Joy was a provincial librarian who hadn't had a date since her boyfriend jilted her -- how on earth had she landed herself in this mess? And how could she convince Marcus that she wasn't just another good-time girl hoping to be a notch on his bedpost ... but that he was the one and only mand she'd ever love?\\"	2002-07-01
US	52660802	R88KT6FI6XT60	0843931779	502719325	Sweet Enchantress	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Chatelaine ... to some she seemed a seductress, to some a sorceress, but to the people of Montlimoux she was chatelaine, mistress of moonlit spires and sunlit meadows, of a sleepy contented land that time had left behind. The bewitching Countess Dominique de Bar had devoted her life to making Montlimoux a place of peace and harmony; now all her efforts were threatened by a single stranger disguised in beggar's garb. Paxton of Wynchester was a leader of men, a conqueror who knew more of war than love. He demanded Dominique's surrender, taking first her lush holdings and then her vulnerable virgin's body. But in the sweet ecstasy of their union lay an unexpected twist. which of them had been seduced, and which truly conquered? As he feel deeper under Dominique's silken spell, Paxton realized he had seriously underestimated the power of a woman's love.\\"	2002-07-01
US	52660802	R1WB0QU9W9KIYA	0373704631	90791432	Soulbound (Harlequin Superromance No. 463)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Jake and Desiree had a lifetime of happiness ahead ... then tragedy struck. Desiree almost drowned in the icy waters of Redd's Pond saving their two-year-old daughter from a similar fate. Now she lay in what appeared to be an irreversible coma. Jacob refused to give up hope. How could he give up on their once-in-a-lifetime love? But all he had to sustain him were his friends -- and his dreams. Was Desiree truly contacting him while the rest of the world slept? Adeline Van Cleeve didn't think so. And Jake's former law partner had plans of her own for his future.\\"	2002-07-01
US	52660802	R3SQPNQOK5LTMV	0553275399	353264738	Wild, Sweet Promise	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"FIERY PASSION -- he claimed her heart and she made him a prince. Now Princess Alysa and Prince Gavin possess a bond stronger and deeper than they have ever known before -- a bond of undyng passion ... and royal power. But fierce Viking hordes in dragon-prowed ships suddenly appear through the cold northern mists to plunder and threaten their kingdom on the isle of Britain. Now, not only will Alysa and Gavin's bravery be tested -- but their love as well ...\\"	2002-07-01
US	52660802	R2E9A20G3ZQQYA	0373222467	609402073	Spirit Warrior	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"SHE UNCOVERED THE PAST -- Ancient history lay at Marla Garret's fingertips in te sands of New Mexico, but so did ghostly occurrences that kept her from the treasures she'd uncovered. HE DENIED HER FUTURE -- The ancieht land of the Navajo nation was what tribal attorney Sam Nex sought to protect. And the dangerously alluring Marla was his greatest threat. THEIR DESTINY COULD NOT BE IGNORED -- Like the Navajo, Sam believed that evil haunted the site, that spectral warriors walked there. The only otherworldly occurrence Marla believed in was her passion for the man who was her swarn rival. But when it came time to confront the sinister spirits, whose side would he be on?\\"  This is a paranormal suspense.	2002-06-26
US	52660802	R1VQW3WT3VTT5Y	0553289705	528794987	CALIFORNIA GLORY (Holts: an American Dynasty)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"1893 .... Desperate workers strike on railways and at coal mines as a nation shudders with the passions of men and women who demand a share of the American dream. Violence and tears touch every heart when the cities of America rock with the shouts of police and rioters, strikers and scabs. Where is honor in this strife-torn land? Where one bold family dares to raise its voice for freedom, fairness, and justice for all: THE HOLTS.\\"  This is volume 4 in the Holt family series.	2002-06-26
US	52660802	R2LLBTKF5SLZ5L	0440026229	530696149	The Frontier War (Freedom Fighters, Book 8)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Storyline ....	Since [there wasn't] an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Two brothers -- comrades in arms, rivals for the love of one dazzling woman -- face the massed armies of Chief Crazy Horse ... Driven by their lust for the great frontier, men and women -- redman and white settler -- mingled their blood on the prairies, mountains and valleys of the West, as Custer and his men of the U.S. Seventh Cavalry moved arrongantly towards the Little Bighorn. Alex DeWitt and his brother, Buck, were rivals for the love of the beautiful, high-spirited Kelly, but stood together against the ruthless frontier trader, Barrow, who with his wanton woman, plotted the betrayal of Indian and settler alike. When the shadow of Crazy Horse, Warrier Chief of the Sioux Nation, loomed over all their lives, these proud and passionate people found themselves caught up in the West's most infamous massacre and its bloody aftermath -- a fierce struggle for survival that shook and shaped a nation.\\"	2002-06-23
US	52660802	RBRM72CAE7BKN	0312903626	701040058	Seedtime and Harvest	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Mary E. Pearce had written a rich and magical novel -- the triumphant conclusion to her powerful and moving saga of English farming life and those who live by the land. Set during the troubled years of World War II, this is a vivid portrayal of the Mercybright family, their tragedies and their triumphs. Above all, it is the portrait of Linn Mercybright, an ambitious and single-minded woman. As she struggles with a world that has been irrevocably changed by yeat another world war, Linn searches passionately, and sometimes blindly, for self-fulfillment, success -- and love.\\"	2002-06-23
US	52660802	R3JAIF34E7U9K2	0380624141	178645597	Greenstone	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon hasn't posted an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you:  From the back cover: \\"Like the Thorn Birds ... Greenstone has all the ingredients of a hit ... guild, grief, and love in a story of revenge, manipulation, and fate.\\" .... \\"There was only dead silence. And then her mind went blank, unable to grasp the horror that had shattered her childhood ... Even from the ruins of a tragic moment, Juliette Peridot would emerge a beautiful young woman with a spirit that could not be defeated by either the harshness of the New Zealand wilderness or the cruelty of those who would betray her. Pursued by shameful secrets of forbidden love and violent revenge, she struggled for a dream her heart refused to surrender ... until fiery passions so long denied exploded in a triumphant moment of truth and love.\\"	2002-06-18
US	52660802	R2FNY8GWRC5FQD	0441766099	62858917	Silver Huntress	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't provide the editorial review for this book, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"From the Colorado wilds to London's opulent ballrooms, she was Starchild -- beautiful keeper of the Shoshone flame. Starchild belonged to her people, but it was James Sinclair, the fearless wagon train scount, who had captured her proud heart. The, her peaceful world shattered by a rival tribe's brutal massacre, Stardchild was rescued by two visiting Englishmen and spirited away to the safety of Victorian London, where she was touted as an American princess. Caught in the glittering prison of aristocratic society, Starchild vowed she would someday return to her homeland. For it was there that she would rekindle the spirit of the great Eagle Clam, and fight her last battle with James Sinclair -- the man whose betrayal had destroyed her tribe, the man she still loved beyond all life or reason ...\\"	2002-06-18
US	52660802	R12619STW6X5U2	0890839468	30860026	A Time for Roses	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Storyline ....	Since [they] haven't posted an editorial review for this book, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"A WOMAN -- that was what Magdalena was, a wildly beautiful, sensuous female whose child-like innocence and provocative smile made every man's blood run hot, made every man ache with desire. Yet Magdalena had eyes only for one man -- Tullio Barragatto -- her husband. A MAN -- That was what Tullio was -- a tall, strong, handsome male who believed in love, loyalty, family, and honor. He adored Magdalena, needed her more than anything else in the world -- except for his beloved country, the vast, lush, green vineyards of his beloved Italy. A LOVE -- That was what these two strong-willed people had -- a passion that was as deep as the ocean, as endless as time.  But each had different needs, different hopes, different dreams.  And when Tullio asked Magdalena to leave America and go with him to Italy she was torn between devotion and desire. She had always kept her wedding vows: to love, honor and cherish -- only this time she couldn't obey ...\\"  This is an historical family saga.	2002-06-18
US	52660802	R3OFNPBNTV3QCL	0930168038	124988158	The psychoanalyst and the artist	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the cover to help you decide if this book is for you:  \\"The major discover of The Psychoanalyst and the Artist, which pursued clues Freud left us, was and is that human talent-genius configurations have the distinctly and exclusively human capacity -- in an infinite number of ways -- of \\"turning a true dream inside out' and superimposing it and weaving it or interweaving it with the strans of the reality of our everyday life. Hence, in great art (or in quite antoerh way in great science) we 'identify' adn 'thrill to the comprehension at all articulate and inarticulate levels' of the thus universalized dream presented in whatever medium of teh seven arts and the innumerable divisions of human sciences ... Talent has this ability in a dilute and occasional way. Genius possesses it in a steady torrent, though at times blocked and even twisted with frequently disastrous personal consequences, e.g. suicide.\\"	2002-06-17
US	52660802	R1CTMAFE2N5JHR	1558173447	410906448	Love's Pagan Heart	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the original paperback book to help you decide if this book is for you:  \\"A tempestuous story of passion, innocence, and a love that triumphed over sin ... Liliha -- she was a beautiful young princess, born of mixed parentage, half-Hawaiian, half-English. Her lithe and sultry figure was in wild contrast to her placid, childlike face ... a combination that reflected the best of two races and captivated all who saw her. Although she was betrothed to a handsome young chieftan, there were others who wanted her ... jealous native men, rough and randy seamen, even lecherous missionaries supposedly at work saving souls. But Liliha saw non of this. Her thoughts, even while roaming naked in the cool forest, or swimming in the warm surf, were as delicate, innocent, and natural as her island paradise. Could her primitive world survive this onslaught of foreign ideas and alien cultures? And what of love -- could it endure against such odds, against men who lusted for her inheritance, her body, her soul? Death and treachery would be visited upon her, every hope and dream cruelly dashed to pieces. One man alone could save her, a man named David. If only she would find out in time, if only she'd let him capture her pagan heart ...\\"	2002-06-17
US	52660802	R6RT990NCZ64J	0312000235	62671321	The Uninvited Corpse	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review for this book, here's the description from the dustjacket to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"Rosa Epton, England's answer to Perry Mason, turns her formidable powers to solving another baffling case ... It is an intriguiing group of individuals who occupy the four apartments on the sixth floor of Mongton-On-Sea. The oldest and richest of these, Vernon Gray, has recently succeeded in involving Rosa Epton in his legal affairs after hving seenher on television. Not only has Rosa been hired to draw up a will for the elderly gentleman, but she has also become an unwilling agent in finding new housekeepers to look after him. Housekeepers did not last long with Vernon Gray. Not long after th will is drawn up, however, Vernon Gray vanishes along with his current housekeeper. He leaves behind a series of puzzles and strange clues that baffle the police ... and Rosa Epton.\\"	2002-06-12
US	52660802	R3DP0DG2F5SXV7	0804100748	489193450	The Finer Things (Fortunes)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review for this book, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you: \\"She rose magically to a position of shimmering acclaim ... stunning Laurel Reed's honey-blond hair and sugar-sweet voice have made her American's favorite game show hostess. Newly married to screen idol Graham Burke, Laurel is the envy of every woman, proof that romantic fantasies sometimes do come true ... never dreaming she would have to fight to stay there. But Laurel is prey to secret insecurities and fears. As she struggles to emerge from the shadow cast by Graham's first wife, brilliant actress Minna Davis, her sense of inferiority is increased by the shame of her won dubious past. Unsure of herself, doubting her talents and abilitties, Laurel must also compete with two high-powered rivals for Graham's attention -- his publicist, Elinor Bloodworth, and his former lover, advertising executive Diana Scott -- both of whom intend to manipulate her to achieve their own ends ...\\"	2002-06-12
US	52660802	R2WCWAAA700R6B	0373707045	914887806	A Family of His Own	Books	5	0	4	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon hasn't posted an editorial review for this book, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you:  \\"He's never met a woman he couldn't charm -- until now! Jason Van der Bollen is -- to put it bluntly -- a womanizer. Dashing and delightful ... still a womanizer. Lately he's been thinking there's something missing in his life. Maybe that's why he moves back home to west Texas. After all, his brother's family is there ... and the idea of a family has suddenly become very appealing to the confirmed bachelor ... when Jason meets Laura Ghant, mating for life doesn't seem like such a bad idea. At least, not to Jason. Laura, on the other hand, wants nothing to do with him. Poetic justice?\\"	2002-06-12
US	52660802	R1Z8CYP9WXAE4V	0316842028	232500521	Wild Bananas	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't provide an editorial review for this book, here's the description from the flyleaf to help you decide if this book is for you: From the flyleaf: \\"Wild Bananas is the story of a brief marriage of the Feldmans, Barry and Baby (formerly Salina Jane). He is a halfhearted law student at the Appalachia School of Law in Birmingham, Alabama; she, who once majored in Sartre and Camus, is investigating old-age homes for the Department of Relief and Security. Barry and Baby had a whirlwind courtship in Miami based on their mutual enthusiasm for jazz. In Birmingham they drink bourbon and Kool-Aid and lie naked for hours on blue sheets. But the passion Baby feels for Barry is soon in the doldrums. An adulterous misadventure is followed by an assertion of independence that surprises Baby even more than the husband she leaves behind. This is a memorable first novel by a writer whose deliciously laconic voice is both evocative and acidly funny.\\"	2002-06-10
US	52660802	R8ZKR8ET8WY06	0553256777	219651068	Wings of the Hawk (Saga of the Southwest)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Storyline ....	...here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you:  \\"From the producer of the Wagons West series -- the moving saga that began with \\"the Hawk and the Dove\\" now blazes across the great southwest. John Cooper Baines -- The Hawk -- comes of age. Strong and bold, his restless spirit drives him to challenge the vast unconquered wilderness of Texas and New Mexico. But when destiny lures him into bloody feuds with Mexico's outlaw barons, the young American is forced to choose between protecting his pregnant wife or battling for his country's freedom. Swept up by the seething currents of a lawless era, John Cooper Baines charts a daring course for a generation of bold adventurers -- the iron-hard men and fiery women who forged a new world from the savage frontier.\\"	2002-06-10
US	52660802	R30T00HH6UPC10	042508020X	208894521	Time Between	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A great historical read	The main character of this story is a passionate journalist. She covers the prohibition, bootlegging, movies, &amp; other top stories of her time.  Enter a married lawyer named James Riordan.  Her life becomes more complicated and she becomes part of the story herself.	2002-06-09
US	52660802	R3VE75MIS384QT	0821724002	317829692	Caribbee	Books	5	119	124	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't provide an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this story is for you: \\"In the bestselling tradition of James Michener and James Clavell -- a magnificent saga of slavery, piracy, and revolution ... Barbados, 1648. The lush and deadly Caribbean paradise, domain of rebels and freeholders, of brigands, bawds and buccaneers. Where the flames of revolution exploded a full 130 years before engulfing the American mainland. And where a dark, enslaved race secretly practiced the mysterious religious rites of a distant continent while daring to whisper the forbidden word ... \\"Freedom\\" The sweeping tale of Hugh Winston, lusty, swashbuckling captain of The Defiance, and the lovely, tempestuous firebrand Katherine Bedford; two lovers trapped in a bloody pitched battle against the overwhelming forces of British tyranny. A story of love and betrayal, of slavery, war, and piracy in the exotic land that gave birth to the fiery American ideal of \\"Liberty or Death\\"	2002-06-09
US	52660802	R3I678A91T4IF3	0867211237	230659209	Black Fire	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Storyline ....	From the back of the book: \\"A world of haunting passion and dark desire, of monstrous evil and throat-clutching terror ... BLACK FIRE -- it will menace the lives of two frightened and desperate lovers -- Lorna, a red-haired, green-eyed beauty, and Paul, her handsome roguish lover. BLACK FIRE -- it will pursue the lovers across oceans and continents, from the shadowy evil of Constantinople to the wilds of Asia, from the storm raved Black Sea to their only remaining hope of refuge -- a horror house of carnal temptation.\\"	2002-06-09
US	52660802	R38UNZY48ZGEO1	067143537X	512607882	A Lasting Splendor	Books	5	2	5	N	N	a hot romance	A passionate romance set in Edwardian England -- a pretty hot story	2002-06-08
US	52660802	R19G5U4O7ZB0MR	038000366X	403969835	Kingston Fortune	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Storyline ....	...here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this book is for you:  \\"The great romantic epic by the bestselling author of The Pedlocks ... THE PRIDE OF THE KINGSTONS ... At last their strange and unforgettable story is revealed, an epic of romance and creation rooted in the American soil and a fortune built on the rails of a vast empire. Begin the saga with ENOCH KINGSTON -- a brawny, daring Western adventurer on a relentless climb toward wealth and power ... a man whose burning ambitions matched his consuming passion for two women: MAUDE ALVAREZ, aristocratic daughter of a landed Spanish family, and BROOK DE LEON, a proud black woman whose strength and spirit equalled his own. Follow the intertwined lives of this magnificent family across three generations and a turbulent centuryof sacrifice and greed, deeply felt love and unbounded lust, incomparable wealth and all-too-human failty ... and discover, in its full fury and emotional sweep, the thunderous heritage of THE KINGSTON FORTUNE.\\"	2002-06-08
US	52660802	R1B66U4QUYKT85	0821720872	265312769	The Lion's Way	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review, here's a quote from the back of the book to help to you decide if this book is for you: \\"This is the compelling saga of men and women torn between family and tradition, ambition and fame, passion and need ... a story of the troubled and talented Daniel Kirshbaum, whose struggle to rise above his poor immigrant heritage becomes the driving force in his life. It is a tapestry of lives interwoven and intermingled, a world of glamor and ghettos, crime and passion, love and hate, war and peace, triumphs and tears -- and above all, of one man's unrelenting determination to survive ... an all-consuming saga that spans four generations in the life of a fascinating, gifted man, and the remarkable women who enriched his world.\\"	2002-06-08
US	52660802	R1UTBUVIJ7EYSE	0843921463	374450061	Woman Alive	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Storyline ....	...here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this story is for you: \\"Suddenly widowed, Jessica had two choices -- she could suffer, or she could survive ... When Jessica's husband suddenly died, leaving her deeply in debt as a result of bad investment, she was confronted with more than her share of problems. Not only would she have to overcome her grief, but she would also have to earn a living with no experience and no skills. Surrounded by caring friends, she was nevertheless an ousider, alone in the two-by-two world she'd taken for granted all her married life. Faced with the alternatives fo becoming either a victim or a survivor, she chose the latter. With courage and humor, Jessica set out to make a new life for herself, and in the process, rediscovered the possibility of love.\\"	2002-06-08
US	52660802	R3O7WEHG1SZ891	0373627076	273637061	The Hobo Woods (Vietnam: Ground Zero)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review for this book, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this story is for you: \\"After spending one year back in the World, U.S. Special Forces Captain Mack Gerber returns to Vietnam smack in the middle of a political boondoggle. Although the Americans have incontrovertible evidence of a major enemy buildup in the Hobo Woods region, they are advised to exercise extreme restraint against the NVA. This mandate is the result of a press-whipped U.S. administration bucking under severe antiwar sentiments. The ripple effect touches officers in the field in Vietnam, and they are cautioned to keep all missions low-profile. Mack Gerber is stunned at these new events, especially since the American military has now been allowed to shed its adviser role and openly take part in combat. Gerber can't believe his orders: Go look for the enemy, but don't find him!\\" Eric Helm is the pen name of two Vietnam veterans, men who were there and who now tell it like it was.	2002-06-07
US	52660802	RCU0MHY8B8J3L	0872168921	231958444	So Wicked My Desire	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Storyline ....	... here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this story is for you: \\"A wild, turbulent tale of hot young blood and blazing passion. It sweeps the reader across oceans and continents, from the wilds of 19th Century Australia to the New World, from the holocaust of the great Chicago fire to the San Francisco earthquake to the most horrendous debacle in the history of man -- the volcanic eruption of Krakatoa in the South Seas. ADELAIDE TRENT -- the blindingly beautiful vixen who broke the hearts of all who loved her and whose beauty swept men after her -- even to the remote corners of the earth. DAN BOYLE -- Tall, angular, red-haired, a raging firebrand, who raced halfway across the world to win Addie's love. NED KELLY -- A killer, a robber as different from Dan as night from day, but consumed with passion for Adelaide and driven by the desire to posses her very soul.\\"	2002-06-07
US	52660802	R14I85N495DEXC	0686729072	848479816	Music of Passion	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post an editorial review for this book, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this story is for you: \\"She knew the pain of loving was inevitable ... marriage had left Megan emotionally shattered -- her faith in men destroyed as her husband, Erich, had destroyed himself. Now, years after Erich's death, his aristocratic brother, Kurt, summonned her to Austria. Two shocks awaited her there: a valuable inheritance, and a man to rekindle flames and feelings she'd thought were buried with her husband. Overwhelmed by Kurt's seductive, destructive charm, Megan fell in love with him. But his love brought a heritage of hatred and deceit -- a heritage that threatened her happiness, and her life ...\\"	2002-06-07
US	52660802	R1GNYFEL9QYNFR	0373077262	497029302	The Baby Assignment (Assignment: Romance) (Silhouette Intimate Moments, No 726)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Storyline ....	... here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this story is for you: \\"Watch out women! Because when the Cotter brothers take on a case, it's hearts that are in danger...\\" \\"After her husband's death, Shelby Henderson didn't trust any law enforcement agancy to keep her -- or her daughter -- safe. but suddenly FBI agent Jack Cotter barged into her life to warn them of trouble ... and brought a more personal danger with him. Now Shelby was on the run with a tough, loner agent who could make her daughter smile ... and Shelby's heart race. But once Jack's assignment was over, would Shelby be facing a future alone?\\"	2002-06-07
US	52660802	R3ESS1HMW4FP9O	0446916676	835858730	The Summer Day Is Done	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon did not post an editorial review, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this story is for you: \\"The haunting story of a forbidden love betweenthe agent of the British king and the daughter of the Imperial Czar .... From a window of the Imperial train a young girl looked out. Startled blue eyes met his. He was aware of a girl soft with colour and enchantment. The warm sunlight danced on the windows, was reflected in her eyes and made a shining cloud of her chestnut-blonde hair. He feld the strangest sense of indefinable communications as in shy, suspended animation she returned his gaze, the train bringing her to him, taking her away. The fleeting seconds stretched. He could not resist smiling. And at the very last moment before she vanished, she gave him the shyest of smiles in response. It was the first time John Kirby, British secret agent, saw Grand Duchess Olga. It was the beginning of a tender love that would blossom in the summer's sun while the storm of the Russian Revolution gathered. A perilous, precious love -- all the more beautiful becuase it was never meant to be.\\"	2002-06-07
US	52660802	R3HRCC3W9V6237	0373289618	928994214	Bogus Bride	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Storyline ....	... here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this story is for you: &quot;He married the wrong sister ... ten years after he left England, Sam Jardine wrote home for a bride, but instead of the angelic beauty he remember, the fiery Caitlin Parr had arrived on America's shores. A decade of silent infatuation had finally paid off. Caitlin knew she wasn't Sam's first choice, but she vowed the he would never regret making her his wife, and the fire that sparked between them only proved that her rightful place sas by his side.&quot;	2002-06-07
US	52660802	R3FJ8WWX2IKKCF	0373223277	802429946	Indiscreet	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Storyline ....	She was running from her past ... when Andrea Uchello picked up the wrong briefcase at an airport's baggage claim, the bonded courier found herself nose to nose with Federal Agent Victor Mondragon. Could she convince her attractive captor that she was a victim, not villainess, before he realized she was living under an assumed name?&quot; A romantic suspense	2002-06-06
US	52660802	R2RXRLOUPNYPXH	0373223552	100525549	Undercover Vows	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Storyline ....	... here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this story is for you: &quot;Special Agent Noah Bannister knew Keely Travers hadn't forgiven him for what he'd done to her ten years ago. But now he was back -- older, more jaded and hiding even more secrets. This time, Noah forced Keely undercover with him to expose a ring of counterfeiters. Noah left his ex-love no choice but to pose as his adoring bride. He didn't expect the fantasy of their marriage to tempt him -- or her. But as their old passion flared anew, Noah began to fear that Keely would suspect the truth -- that the dangerous secrets he withheld would tear them apart again ... this time forever.&quot;	2002-06-06
US	52660802	R1CO6SINJ2GTBA	0515087920	566253647	Scarlet And Gold	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Storyline ....	... here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this story is for you: &quot;Where ecstasy and destiny meet ... there is love .... ATHENA COURTLAND: she was beautiful as a goddess -- too wild to be tamed by any ordinary man. On her grand white stallion she raced free over the sprawling countryside of colonia New York, while the desperate fighting of the French and Indian War exploded around her ... CAPTAIN LICHIEL BLACKMOOR: his silver eyes burned with desire from the moment on a starlit night when he first saw Athena ... and he knew he must possess her. Her wild, impetuous ways stirred him to the very depths of his soul, and only she had the power to quench the fires that raged within him .... HER UNBRIDLED PASSION, HIS UNYIELDING STRENGHT: each was a flame that fed the other. Together they dared to follow their desire to the limits of ecstasy -- and discover a love as vibrant and alive as the new land that was theirs ...&quot;	2002-06-06
US	52660802	R2NNKHS32RFY9Z	0399523383	897576556	Writing Together: How to Transform Your Writing in a Writing Group	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not quite what I hoped, but still a good book	When I purchased this book I was looking for more instruction on the basics of forming a writing group &amp; keeping it together, as well as discussion of the group critique process.  There was a very small amount of info on the above.  The majority of the book focuses on the group writing together at their meetings using a word or sentence prompt.  There is no discussion about outside work being brought into the group -- the way most writing groups operate.  It was still worth the read, but lacked a well rounded presentation on writing groups -- related only to the one the authors' were members of.  Sadly, not a keeper.  I did give this book 4 stars though since it was well written and informative on other aspects of writing groups.	2002-06-04
US	52660802	R13KUBO3IT6PQX	0373032463	430472281	Torrid Conflict	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Storyline ....	... here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this story is for you: \\"Working for Mel McKinley was no pleasure. The business relationship between Kerry Davis and Mel McKinley had certainly started off on the wrong foot. Kerry thought the handsome Australian was an impossible slave driver. And Mel thought Kerry expecterd special treatment, simply because her grandfather owned shares in his company. But worse still, Mel actually believed that Kerry was involved with a married Man! In fact, the only thing they could agree on was that they didn't like each other. So when the two of them ended up taking a business trip to the Great Barrier Reef, sparks were definitely on the agenda!\\"	2002-06-02
US	52660802	R3JPF83JE3107H	0373970714	307381641	Forever Love	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Suspenseful story!	This is a story about one woman's reincarnation. In her previous life she was murdered during World War II.  In this incarnation she is determined to solve her murder.	2002-06-02
US	52660802	R8Y4GUNI1YGCH	0440102677	208802217	American Baroness	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon didn't post the editorial review for this book, here's the description from the back of the book to help you decide if this story is for you:  \\"She was sold like a racehorse to the highest bidder: Julian Herriot, Baron de Verlaine. Regina Pierce, with her beauty and an embarrassment of riches, exchanged a gold miner's dowry for one of the oldest titles in France. Sheltered, spoiled Regina entered a world where marriage was business and love was something else. Something like ravishing Simone de Lamartine, who made it clear that money was Regina's only passport to aristocracy -- that Julian was forever beyond her reach. Theirs might have been a marriage of convenience like many others, but for one thing: Regina had fallen desperately in love with the man she married. And she was determined to win him -- by any means.\\"	2002-06-02
US	52660802	R2WY859MUDWYMS	1892738058	790114958	Matters of the Heart	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Storyline ....	from the back of the original paperback book:  &quot;They were the unforgettable, passionate men and women bound together by an era of turmoil and tears ... blood and passion, by a search for love, happiness and fulfillment ... FRANCES -- a beautiful, pround Englishwoman torn between her dreams of romance and the reality of her marriage, about to be swept into a maelstrom of secrets, betrayal and forbidden sensuality. HADLEIGH -- the daughter, alone and vulnerable, too hungry for love to know the difference between caring and desire. ARTHUR -- the husbandf, obsessed with a woman he should never forgive, but whom he cannot forget ... or stop wanting. AMANDA -- the other woman, very lovely, very desirable, very devious, ready to fight for the man she loves, ready to destroy the rival she hates. Sweeping across decades from war-torn London to the promising landscapes of New York and Connecticut, from the stormy secrets of the soul to ... MATTERS OF THE HEART.&quot;	2002-06-01
US	52660802	R2BGMWOSWHX8AB	0373191243	147636639	Cody's Christmas Wish (Silhouette Romance, No 1124)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Storyline ....	...here is the descrption from the back cover: \\"A letter to Santa brings a special delivery Dad .... Arianne Landis ached to fulfill her son's Christmas wishes. But five-year-old Cody demanded Santa bring a father. And that Arianne couldnt' buy! thena blizzard blew ... sleigh bells jingled ... and dashing stranger landed on their doorstep! A stranger with Cody's hair, Cody's smile ... and secrets smoldering in his gaze ...\\"	2002-06-01
US	52660802	R2XE064452077R	0373706324	80049875	Premonitions	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Storyline ....	From the back of the book:  &quot;ALI VAN HORNE -- A psychic. After &quot;watching&quot; the brutal slaying of her husband, a police detective, she just couldn't take it anymore. So she picked up the pieces of her life and fled to a small town in upstate New York. SAM TREMAINE -- A cop. He had no use for psychics and wasn't impressed when his chief ordered him to enlist the aid of Alessandra Van Horne to solve the Munro case. But when he met Ali, he was totally confused. How could he be so attracted to a woman he didn't trust? Ali and Sam form a reluctant partnership -- each afraid to believe in the other, each afraid to risk falling in love again. But in the background lurks a killer. A killer who wants Ali off the case ...&quot;  This is a book filled with mystery and a hint of the paranormal -- fun read!	2002-05-30
US	52660802	RWPK0D81PUODU	0373097069	913271262	Home Court Advantage (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Storyline ....	...Silouette Special Edition #706. \\"Jenna Lauren wouldn't call herself happy exactly; settled was more like it. Thirteen years after the best and the worst time of her life, she was back in High School, as a teacher, and back on an even keep ... until Rob Fagan returned to rock the boat. After graduation he'd gone off to chase rainbows, leaving Jenna with bittersweet memories, a lonely secret and a determination never to lose control again. Yet, in no time, Rob had her reliving the past -- even smooching in the same school hallways! Trouble was, they weren't teenagers anymore ... and, as Jenna knew too well, temporary love could have lasting consequences. Dare she hope to convince Rob that the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow was right in his own backyard?\\"	2002-05-30
US	52660802	R2WNCZ6O9NCAQL	0373289502	882182970	Lucky Bride (Gabriel's Lady, Book 2) (Harlequin Historical, No 350)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Storyline ....	From the back of the book:  &quot;Parker Prescott had no intention of ever settling down, but Molly Hanks was the kind of woman who could stop a man in his tracks -- with or without her buffalo gun! Molly knew a smooth-talking drifter when she saw one. A man with charm like that was dangerous. And she had better things to do than keep an eye on some silly cowboy.&quot;  A nice western historical romance with a lot of charm.	2002-05-30
US	52660802	R13IMXDB537JAB	0440108446	413816062	Bread upon the Waters	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Storyline ....	...  \\"Anger and compassion, insight and intimacy ... a rare novel of substance, Shaw hits the top of his mark in this novel about gratitude and the entangling relationship of giver and receivers ... a crackling story of happiness, tragedy, bathos, unkindess, failure to communicate, hope, selfishness, and minor revelations ...\\"  Excellent book!	2002-05-30
US	52660802	R2SWE2QYAT7KZM	0761508589	940252853	If You're Writing, Let's Talk: A Road Map Past Writers' Blocks from Page One to The End	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Like sitting down with a few friends......	This excellent book by Joel Saltzman chronicles the trials and tribulations of a group of writing students through a 10 week course with him.  This is like a dream course I wish I could have partaken in.  The writer's are supposed to write freely during the days they are not in his class -- which takes place at his home rather than an a cold, impersonal classroom.  Some of these writers don't try very hard at it and give up easily.  Some are gritting their teeth through bouts of writer's block and insecurity.  Some are so captivated by their art that they go on to write through their blocks and fears, conquering the challenge writing brings to us all.  There are six students.  Three master their craft enough to complete their stories, which are published in the back of the book.<br /><br />At the beginning of this review I said this book was like sitting down with a few friends.  Here's why, the class most closely resembles a writer's group in that the participants bring in their work and read it to the group where it then is critiqued by their teacher and their fellow students.  In reading this, you recognize things in yourself and your writing that need improvement as well as those that you have accomplished.  A couple times you will smile and say, ah, I've done that.  These are writers with fears and accomplishments that you can enjoy identifying with.  And ... the whole thing is written in a style that makes you feel you are there, an observer of the group.<br /><br />Now!  Buy this book -- sorry mine will never be for sale.  Get in gear, and write!  This book will make you feel that you can.	2002-05-25
US	52660802	R3O7VHT5G62KER	0671664921	838270193	Satisfaction	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Book description -- a fun read	Here's the description of the storyline per the back of the book: \\"Autumn, 1972. Four Radcliffe women become roommates, friends and furious rivals -- for the love of one man who would brand his memory into their hearts, in very different ways. For Rosaline, a delicate heiress, Schuyler would her first exquisite love ... for Miranda, a sensual rebel, he would ignite havoc and revenge. Katie Lee, a nouveau-riche climber, pursued him with relentless ambition; and December, a gorgeous, working-class blonde, tried to forget him with drugs, fame and high-powered lovers. Schuyler, the rangy cowboy-journalist, loved them all in turn as they conquered the heights of big business, Hollywood, and high society. Through ten turbulent years, their lives would weave an unforgettable drama filled with passion, scandal and elusive dreams. And at the end, one woman would triumph, as she smiled at Schuyler on her wedding day -- the woman he had chosen out of four friend, the one who would love him best and longest of all.\\"<br /><br />I enjoyed this book, a fun absorbing read	2002-05-20
US	52660802	R6RGLWEN76BOV	1565970489	247504713	Lightning strikes twice (Kismet romance)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Storyline ....	Since Amazon hasn't posted a description for this book, here's what's on the back cover -- thought it might help you decide if this is the book for you!  \\"For the past six years, the most difficult part of Stryker McGuire's job was rescuing the boss's daughter. Tempest Whitney-King's life was fraught with danger and derring-do as she raced across foreign lands, chasing wild adventures. When this eccentric, rich girl blossomed into a fiery woman, Stryker coulnd't resist loving her. But his love could not calm the sotrm in Tempest's heart. Then came the day when Stryker nearly lost her. Tempest's close call ina hang-gliding venture clarified the truth for him. She was playing a crazy dice game with death, and he couldn't bear to stand by and watch the gamble. He would no longer taste the full lips that invited a man's kiss or stroke the hair that reminded him of red-hot flames. For the sake of his sanity he had to end his relationship with this daredevil ...\\"	2002-05-20
US	52660802	R344VT6SN34NLE	0689304587	470735794	Chad and the Elephant Engine	Books	5	0	0	N	N	my child loved it!	This is a kid's historical book about the legends surrounding the Denver railroads.  My son loved this book!	2002-05-20
US	52660802	RTP2SS2DOIV1P	1557737363	80744766	Touch of Heaven	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Can her guardian angel help spark love .....	Susan Whitten needs a loan to keep the family ranch. Meanwhile she has a guardian angel watching over her from above named Tabitha who meddles in her life and the life of Hunter Carson.  This was an enjoyable read.	2002-05-20
US	52660802	R3HXEIBW4H2RWV	0373700458	432393093	Dawn of Passion #45	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Storyline ....	Per back cover: &quot;A potent magnetism drew her to Egypt ... Robyn Douglas, Ph.D. candidate in ancient languages, was deeply moved by the mysterious desert land. She felt she was home at last -- doubly so when she met Sayed al-Rashad, the dizzyingly attractive archaeologist she would be working with. He obviously didn't share her reaction. Instead he pegged her as a starry-eyed American coed who, like many other before her, would probably fall in love with him to the detriment of their work. Robyn faught the powerful response she felt whenever Sayed came near her. But she couldn't fight the inner voice that whispered this man was her destiny ...&quot;	2002-05-20
US	52660802	R1BLPJ7PHOMFQS	0373166753	663436581	Love, Marriage And Other Calamities (Harlequin American Romance #675)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Book description	Plot as per back of book: &quot;Jolie Duval often leapt before she looked ... that's how she wound up losing so many jobs. And needing this one badly enough to marry Mike Kramer to get it. Which led to CALAMITY #1 -- Maybe signing on as cook hadn't been such a hot idea. Well, actually, it was hot. The kitchen that is. From the fire. But that was only because of CALAMITY #2 -- Mike. Jolie knew why she wanted him -- although once they were stranded together in a secluded paradise she got a few ideas. But what did he want with her? It was definitely a mistake to marry a stranger -- but that wasn't half as bad as CALAMITY #3 -- Falling for him.&quot;<br /><br />A humorous take on romance	2002-05-19
US	52660802	RSIFIPFDD7133	0446610038	30029813	1st to Die: A Novel (Women's Murder Club, No 1)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Wow!  Great story, excellent beginning to series	First off, I'm truly baffled by the negative reviews here.  If I could give it more stars I would!<br /><br />This is the story of a serial killer who murders brides and grooms.  Sounds pretty gruesome, and it is, but not in so much descriptive detail that it would make someone more sensitive sick.  It was enough to build a taught story and a baffling mystery.  Now, the main story is the group of women who come together to try to solve this seemingly unsolvable crime -- The Women's Murder Club: 4 San Francisco professional women, the female homicide detective assigned to the case, the medical examiner, a journalist, and the assistant DA.  This is really their story.  The story of their interpersonal relationship's, the main character's battle with a crippling disease, a love interest, and a baffling mystery.  Mr. Patterson wrote the female emotions so well that I got teary-eyed over one of the scenes; he wrote the story so well that I was left breathless with anticipation of what was going to happen next.  I can't tell you much more because it would ruin the mystery.  Let's just say there are many plot twists and turns that leave you guessing until the very end.<br /><br />When I finished reading this book I ran to my husband and said \\"you have GOT to read this book!\\"  Well, you have got to read the book too.  You'll be so glad you did.	2002-04-23
US	52660802	R2SIEK97REYP2	0449241505	965521578	WAIT FOR WHAT WILL	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Great Gothic mystery!	American teacher Carla Tregellas is the last remaining heir to a huge mansion on the cliffs of Cornwall. When she arrives she is confronted by an elderly housekeeper who tells her the tale of one of her ancestors disappearing on a stormy night, apparently taken by a mysterious merman. Carla is the practical type who is not dissuaded by old legends and decides to stay the summer. She becomes entwined with the housekeepers grandson, the local vicar, a young doctor, the lawyer handling the estate, and a myriad of other interesting characters. Carla notices that they all seem very intent on her leaving and she stubbornly refuses to give in. Meanwhile she has dreams and some real horrors in the house. In spite of all that she falls in love with the old estate and plans to stay. That's when the real fireworks start.  This was an excellent mystery keeps you guessing until the amazing conclusion. Great fun to read.	2002-04-19
US	52660802	R1UNPIPYJNDH94	0061013382	84794701	The Seven Secrets of Slim People	Books	5	36	41	N	N	Helps you to look at WHY you overeat ....	This is not a diet book -- now that said, it may help you loose weight better than any diet you have ever been on!  This book helps you to examine your relationship with food. It also helps you to understand why most diets fail and why many of us regain weight we lose on a diet, if we are lucky enough to lose weight on a restrictive diet at all.  Any diet can be successful if you stay on it, but what happens after you stop dieting?  This book also helps you examine why you overeat in the first place. It helps you see how you can still eat in moderation and live a normal life while getting to the size you want to be!  No, this is not a diet, but it may very well revolutionize the way you see yourself and your relationship with food.  This little book can change your life.	2002-04-19
US	52660802	R10PEHJ6YG8MO8	0844240117	665851762	Teach Yourself Creative Writing	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Basic book for those thinking about writing .....	This book is a good overview for people who are considering a writing career, but are not sure what direction they want to go in.  Here is a sampling of the basic chapter outline: (1) Developing your talent, (2) How to write an article, (3) The radio talk, (4) Working arrangements, (5) Presentation of manuscripts, (6) the short story, (7) the radio story, (8) the art of revision, (9) characterisation, (10) Dialogue, (11) setting, (12) style, (13) poetry, (14) the non-fiction book, (15) How to conduct an interview, (16) the novel, (17) writing for children ..... has 22 chapters.  Now all this is covered in 143 pages -- so you realize that there are only a couple pages covering each topic.  Also, when the writer talked about typerwriter ribbons I looked and saw that this book was first released in 1983 and this copy was re-released in 1999.  So the information is a little dated as well.  For example, a reader probably shouldn't follow the manuscript layouts given based on the original date of publication -- they could be well outdated.<br /><br />Though this book would likely be a waste of time for the seasoned writer, or even the unpublished writer who knows what direction they want to pursue, it would be a good basic resource for those who just want a basic idea of the multitude of writing options they have.<br /><br />Though I enjoyed reading it, I turn to more specific writing books for my purposes. I'm glad I didn't buy this book, I got mine from the library. Perhaps the reader of this review should do the same before they decide to purchase this book.	2002-04-02
US	52660802	R3FM13RCTUFKCK	0312966938	516203133	A House By The Side Of The Road (Dead Letter Mysteries)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Well written mystery that keeps you guessing to the very end	This is the story of a young woman who inherits her aunt's house out in the country. She moves in and begins what she hopes will be a peaceful life. Meanwhile things are moved around in her house in the middle of the night and when she's not home. At first she thinks it's just her imagination, then she realizes there is a more sinister force at work -- who is doing it? You'll have to read to find out.<br />Meanwhile, enter a cast of diverse characters, one of whom is the murderer who murdered the former renter of her aunt's house ... but no one knows she was murdered, they all think she moved off to Boston (not giving anything away here, the victim is killed at the very beginning of the book).<br />This book is about the slow unraveling of the mystery, wherein the murder is discovered and the killer is unveiled ... Ah, but not until the very end. Ms. Gleiter keeps you guessing all through the book about who the killer is - you don't find out until your reach the final pages of the book when you find out it wasn't who you expected at all. Her writing style is very much like Barbara Michaels, spunky heroine, all sorts of nice people around her, one of whom is evil.  Yet this book isn't predictable in any sense.<br />Set aside a whole day to read and enjoy - you'll enjoy this book so much you won't want to be interrupted. It will also make you want to find all the books this author has written and devour them as well. What a great read!	2002-03-27
US	52660802	R2M00NH49RQB7A	0399148027	453088490	Blue Diary	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Just couldn't bring myself to finish it .....	I love the works of Alice Hoffman ... but this one is a bit much.  It goes on for pages, and pages, and pages ad nauseum describing the town, the characters, the aching feelings of the cast of characters ... at the beginning they ache with happiness and absolute perfection -- sorry, that went on WAY too long.  Ms. Hoffman almost lost me there, but a devoted fan, I kept plugging away -- honestly it went on SO long she could have told the whole story in half the pages she took.  Well, valiantly I trudged through this story until the wonderful, perfect character in the book is arrested for and admits to the rape and murder of a 15 year old girl (child), the editorial comments already told of this happening.  Anyway, The town is crestfallen and holds rallies for him and bake sales.  CLAP -- that's when I closed the book..  Sorry, I can't feel anything good about a story that talks about redemption of a ..murderer of an innocent child (or anyone for that matter).  Ms. Hoffman, you lost me on this one.  If you don't mind reading about a child dying, a killer being worshipped, while wading through HUNDREDS of pages of description, go ahead and read this book. Sorry, I couldn't even bring myself to finish it.	2002-03-27
US	52660802	R34SAS3UKLRPCF	0440205492	291062196	Guest of Honor, The	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The presidency, an international affair ... riveting	In this book the main character is Matt Underwood -- President of the United States.  He has an affair with Noy Sang -- ruler of a small asian country.  Ultimately they fall in love.  This is the intricate story of his wife finding out, the CIA entering the deadly game, and how their love affair ultimately threatens world peace.  Excellent storytelling by a great author!	2002-03-11
US	52660802	R12I67YK8MOU2G	0394491971	25419063	Act of Love: The Killing of George Zygmanik	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Riveting true crime story ... euthenasia	George Zygmanik was paralized from the neck down after a motorcycle accident.  His younger brother Lester loved and idolized him.  George begged Lester to kill him.  Lester shot George to help fulfill his death wish.  What follows in this book is the riveting true crime story of Lester's indictment for first-degree murder of his brother George.  This book is mostly about the trial and all the parties.  It's a truly riveting story!	2002-03-11
US	52660802	R3H7FRPAS6LVYX	042514366X	103989281	The Search for a Soul: Taylor Caldwell's Psychic Lives	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Fascinating, whether you believe in reincarnation or not	Jess Stearn and Taylor Caldwell were friends. They shared the same literary agent. At the opening of this book they were at a social gathering and debated the premise of reincarnation. Taylor Caldwell stated flatly that she didn't believe in it. Stearn admitted he was skeptical as well.  Hence, their search for the soul began -- Stearn full of enthusiasm, Caldwell full of doubt and denial.  Jess Stearn took Taylor Caldwell to a hypnotist and lo and behold, the skeptic Taylor Caldwell told of the many lives she lived, all revealed over numerous hypnosis sessions. I won't say much more (don't want to spoil it for you), but I will tell you that this was a fascinating (and fun) read.  Jess Stearn's skillful writing makes you feel like an old friend is sitting with you telling you a story. This book is very much worth your time and energy to read. Don't miss it.	2002-03-10
US	52660802	R1URNF4GXAUIWF	0912608757	461665544	East Coast Ghosts	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good old-fashioned ghost stories!	This is an old-fashioned set of ghost stories written by a host of authors, the most famous ones being Henry James &amp; O. Henry.  They are pretty standard fictional fare, well written, and full of mystery. Though the language and often old-fashioned writing can be a bit of a stumbling block, this set of ghost stories was fun to read none-the-less.  Many had subtle clues and held their secrets to the very end.  If you like mystery stories and ghost stories, then this book is for you.  I would have given it 5 stars, but gave it 4 stars due to the old-fashioned writing, which at times was a little hard to follow.  Take a copy out of your library, you'll enjoy it.	2002-03-04
US	52660802	R6P9XRKLMIS05	0061092541	588591274	The Dancing Floor	Books	5	6	6	N	N	WOW -- fabulous story, excellent mystery	This Barbara Michaels mystery is first rate, well written, completely absorbing. I read it in two nail biting days. Excellent book.<br />The heroine of the store is Heather Tradescent. She lost both her parents in a car crash and was left with a lot of life insurance money and the desire to complete a dream of her's and her late father's -- to visit historic gardens in Great Britain. Sounds dull? Trust me it isn't. Heather visits all the gardens before the story begins. This book begins with her determination to see the last garden on the list she and her father made up. Though the grounds are closed to visitors, she isn't deterred and ends up crashing through a hedge at the feet of the very wealthy homeowner and his son. When the home owner hears her name (an name linked with the history of his land) he asks her to stay and help him restore the garden. Sound dull? It's not. This book isn't about restoring an old garden, it's about complex relationships that develop intertwined with a mysterious plot that involves some one plotting Heather's murder.<br />OK, here's where I have to stop, I don't want to give any of story away, but will say that the end had some twists and turns that will take your breath away! This is an excellent book and the mystery ... well let's just say, Ms. Michaels keeps you guessing. Mixed up with the mystery is a romantic story as well, so you have just the right mix of suspense, mystery, and a little romance to spice things up and keep you guessing. I borrowed this book from the library and will now be seeking a keeper copy for my bookshelf.	2002-02-25
US	52660802	R3D8IN0GFUHTXW	0805334971	433107335	Clinical Companion for Fundamental Nursing	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent resource for the first year nursing student	This is a fundamental overview and clinical companion.  It's a pocket size book that fits in your lab jacket pocket or backpack with ease.  Inside you find all the necessary basics from the basic universal precautions through diseases processes and management -- it really did help me through nursing school and helped especially when writing care plans.  This is a great resource. I highly recommend it!	2002-02-23
US	52660802	R3MGAZSTXFES5Y	0397551622	220173263	Handbook for Brunner and Suddarth's Textbook of Medical-Surgical Nursing	Books	5	35	35	N	N	An invaluable tool	This little powerhouse helped me make it through nursing school!  It's a GREAT resource!  Its 673 pages are packed with every conceivable disorder and/or disease with methods of diagnosis, diagnostic tests, medications for treatment followed with a full nursing process from assessment through management and outcomes.  I used this book to write many, many care plans &amp; carried it back and forth from classes to clinical to home -- it's a very portable, invaluable tool -- I wouldn't have survived nursing school without it.	2002-02-23
US	52660802	RWT8DR5NAEMW	0801663199	31227373	Pocket Guide to Medical-Surgical Nursing	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent resource for the nurse or nursing student	This is an excellent book for nursing students or practicing med-surg nurses. It has tons of diagnoses with care plans spelled out and is organized in chapters as follows: (1) Respiratory Disorders, (2) Cardiovascular Disorders, (3) Renal-Urinary Disorders, (4) Neurologi Disorders, (5) Endocrine Disorders, (6) Gastrointestinal Disorders, (7) Hematologic Disorders, (8) Musculoskeletal Disorders, (9) Reproductive Disorders, (10) Sensory Disorders, (11) Providing care for patients with Special needs, and has 3 Appendix as follows: (1) Caring for the preoperative and postoperative patient, (2) Caring for patients on prolonged bedrest, (3) Caring for patients with Cancer and other life-disrupting illnesses.<br />This book will help nursing students to write their care plans and manage their clinical patients. It will help nurses who are already practicing to manage their med-surg patients.  I used this book through nursing school to write tons of care plans -- it was invaluable. What a GREAT book!	2002-02-23
US	52660802	RX9U155ILIRWK	0061044709	377492121	Here I Stay	Books	4	7	11	N	N	Richly textured, well written, but .....	This is the story of a woman and her younger brother inheriting a house from a great aunt ... yes, a haunted house. There are just enough spooky things in this story to satisfy those who like a little bit of ghostliness in their books -- not a lot of ghostly stuff though.  This book was very well written.  Ms. Michaels described her characters so well you come to care about them.  One flaw to this book is that the main character is not a very nice person, she's downright nasty most of the time -- sarcastic.  She was not a sympathetic character at all.  You come away from this character thinking she is a complete jerk. The characters around her are wonderful &quot;people&quot; and they are often hurt by her sarcastic words.  No she absolutely has no redeeming qualities. Also, there is a surprise ending that I found very disappointing.  That all said, I gave this book a 4 because it was well written and held my attention until the very end. Get your copy from the library if you must read it. Save your money.  This book is not a keeper.	2002-02-14
US	52660802	R152IF80L2NM8P	037370626X	211481510	Out of the Darkness (Showcase) (Harlequin Superromance No. 626)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Vampire novel	Per the cover: &quot;In the fifteenth century he had been a man -- in the twentieth, he was a vampire!&quot; This is the story of a vampire who seeks revenge on the &quot;creature&quot; who made him less than a man. In his quest for revenge he meets and falls in love with a mortal woman. Very suspenseful book!	2002-02-12
US	52660802	R16ZCJR9H8JQG5	1571201734	16761174	The Crazy Quilt Handbook, Revised 2nd Edition	Books	5	173	175	N	Y	Jam-packed with great info & ideas!	I have quilted in the past, but I have never made a crazy quilt. I was interested, so I purchased this slim 80 page book from Amazon. It is a large format (magazine-size) book.  I didn't expect to learn much in 80 pages, but this slim volume packs a lot of information.  There are a few pages devoted to the history of crazy quilting, showing some made in the 1800s that look like they were made yesterday -- yes everyone, our work will probably outlive us as well. Then there areas devoted to getting started (fabric selection, texture, balance), the basic how to regarding crazy quilting (including how to build on the foundation & piecing), problem solving, trims & finally embelishment.  There are also 12 step-by-step projects with complete instructions and full size pattern drawings for you to trace and use for the projects.<br /><br />This is a super book for crazy quilting!  I feel like I could confidently start one today.  This book was a great purchase.	2002-02-06
US	52660802	R2326FL2FUKOOW	0441008283	199569263	Eccentric Circles	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Blend of mystery, fantasy & a touch of romance. EXCELLENT	This is the story of Piper Pied.  She comes from a very eccentric family -- she seems to be the only stable member of that family. Upon the death of her Great Grandmother, she inherits her house and all her belongings. Most surprising of all, she inherits an entrance to Fairy. She meets an elf named Aelvarim who insists that her great grandmother's death wasn't due to natural causes, but murder.  Thus begins Piper and Aelvarim's hunt for the true cause of her great grandmother's death.  The mystery remains just that through most of the book, which I believe is the mark of a good mystery -- keeps you guessing.  In the midst of that mystery you meet the colorful characters of Fairy -- some sweet, some malevolent.  Woven through the story is a burgeoning love story. All of the mystery, fantasy & romance of the story culminates in a well depicted climax.<br /><br />This book was a very satisfying read.  The characters were well developed and sympathetic, the plot was well paced and taught, the fantasy elements were colorful & very magical.  I won't let my copy of this book go.  Go buy your own, you'll be so glad you did!	2002-02-05
US	52660802	RLVEEW7V6A8T5	0671619985	779939531	Living Heart Diet	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Excellent book for everyone ....	This review is for the book: Living Heart Diet<br />by Dr. William Debakey, et al.<br /><br />This is an excellent book for those who have had heart problems and for those who do not want to develop heart problems. Poor diet (high fat/cholesterol) is one of the main risk factors for heart disease -- excess cholesterol lays a foundation of plaque in your arteries that can eventually cause heart attacks and/or necessitate heart surgery. This book was developed to help us all eat right and help avoide disease. This book contains recipes, education about heart disease, and nutrition and sodium tables for most of the foods you eat. This is an excellent resource! Use it in good health!	2002-02-02
US	52660802	RO0AZPF6R1ADH	0764224441	345074394	Silent Pledge (ER Trilogy #3)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Likeable characters, well written ....	This book was very enjoyable in that it held my attention and was quite suspenseful.  Also, as a nurse with experience in the ER, I have to attest to the authenticity of this writer's work -- yes it really is like that in the ER.  This was also very well written and you could picture the characters in your mind, almost as though they were friends you've known all your life.  So why just 4 stars?  Almost every page has the characters praying.  Some of us, including me, do pray often through the day, but to be honest -- I want to escape through reading.  All the praying became a bit too much and the end result was a turn off.	2002-01-29
US	52660802	R8WVI0Q2QD658	0385505833	999720718	Skipping Christmas: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A parable that is wonderful no matter what the time of year	I just finished this wonderful little book and enjoyed it tremendously! This is a parable about Luther and Nora Krank and their first Christmas without their daughter Blair (who has left to join the peace corps).<br />Nora is ready for the same old Christmas festivities - which they spent a small fortune on the previous year. Luther, an accountant, adds up the previous year's receipts and convinces his wife that since it is just the two of them that they should save their money and go on a cruise instead. They agree and forgo all of Christmas, no lights, no tree, no gifts, no parties, no hassles, no expenses. They become quite delighted with their plan to skip all the Christmas festivities and go away together on the cruise. They watch the days go by, go get tans in tanning booths, and skip gleefully through their days as their cruise vacation draws near.<br />Unfortunately, their neighbors and friends are shocked by their decision to go away and lay on the pressure. The neighbors turn on them, tease them, and mildly harrass them. Now, that all sounds awful, but what happens next will surprise and delight you. This book takes you through many laughs due to its satyrical nature as well as giving you quite a lump in your throat at the end. John Grisham has stretched his wings with this one and comes out on top! This is great fun to read, read it. You laugh like I did, you'll get choked up like I did. Get this book and enjoy it!	2002-01-10
US	52660802	R2Q7AWWDZG0T18	1551660504	389250905	Skin Deep (The O'hurleys)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Not just a romance -- suspense as well	Nora Roberts has the ability to write about her characters in such a way that you not only can picture them, but you also learn to care about what happens to them.  Ultimately, that's what holds a reader's interest in a book.  She was able to hold mine fully!  I was looking for a quick read and at 248 pages this PB fit the bill.  Well, quick ended up meaning reading it in one day -- this book is not just a romance, but also a suspense thriller.<br /><br />The main character is Chantel O'Hurley.  She's a famous actress/movie star.  Unfortunately she has attracted the attention of a fan who begins to stalk her and ultimately terrify her.  In steps Quinn Doran, hired by Chantel's manager to find out who the culprit is while protecting her from the sick fan who is stalking her.  Though most of the story is developed around the budding relationship between Chantel and Quinn, there is enough about the stalker to hold your interested and ultimately you're unable to put the book down until its thrilling conclusion.<br /><br />Ms. Roberts is indeed a gifted storyteller. This is one book you'll enjoy so much that as the end you'll draw a breath and say &quot;Wow!&quot;	2002-01-06
US	52660802	R2MFCSRQ0JGE3N	0761122761	72536706	365 Days in Ireland Picture-A-Day Calendar 2002	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	BEAUTIFUL!!	I purchased this calendar last year and not only did I enjoy it, but my entire family as well as visitors really enjoyed the pictures. It's a full size wall calendar with one large picture on the top fold and small pictures on each day as well on the bottom fold. Also the daily blocks are plenty large enough to write appointments for the day. Each month depicts an area in Ireland, then each little picture is a small shot of different places in the main area. I loved the calendar so much last year that I just purchased the one for this year -- I got it and it's every bit as beautiful as the one from last year!  Buy it, you will be glad you did!	2001-12-29
US	52660802	R3BYNCW5YKOV7J	0891904425	273069570	The Mistletoe and the Sword	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Great Britain during the time of the Druids &amp; Romans	This is a colorful story about the pre-Christian period in Great Britain during the time of Roman domination of the country. It is obviously very well researched. Rich in historical detail, this fictionalized account of the time period depicts some Druid rituals and the country's resistance to Roman rule. It also depicts the view that Rome had that it improved upon the quality of life for citizens of countries they ruled. Not only did Anya Seton write colorfully about the time period, but also wove a bit of mystery, a lot of suspense, as well as a love story. All wrapped up in one, this is a thoroughly satisfying read. I'm keeping my copy forever. Buy one, you'll be glad you did!	2001-12-26
US	52660802	R1YFA9J5072NHX	0373708068	671865080	A Man Called Jesse: Love that Man! (Harlequin Superromance No. 806)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Entertaining, well written	This is about a man named Jesse who is fighting hard to save his neighborhood from a developer. Enter Tori, a former air force captain, daughter of the developer and partner in his developing firm.  When Jesse and Tori meet sparks fly and a relationship is kindled.  entertaining book.	2001-12-11
US	52660802	R31YRR4JCCGCFK	0743410653	418692542	Booked to Die (Cliff Janeway)	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Thoroughly entertaining, excellent mystery	In this story we are introduced to a tough homicide detective named Cliff Janeway.  Cliff also has a soft side -- the side of him that has a passion for the printed word and collectible books. The story opens with an investigation of the murder of a Denver bookscout (a person who finds treasure at resale shops and Salvation Army stores, among other places, &amp; sells it to used collectible book dealers). Cliff suspects a vicious criminal that he has been after for years, Jackie Newton.  Cliff and Jackie enter a spiral that changes their lives forever. However, nothing in this book is quite as it seems .... one important part of the mystery isn't solved until the very last page!<br /><br />The author made his characters thoroughly believable &amp; thoroughly likeable. Mixed into this well written mystery are details about collectible books woven skillfully into the story.<br /><br />A friend loaned me the paperback and I enjoyed it so thoroughly that I ordered the hardcover available on Amazon -- the book is that good!  Buy it, if you love books as much as I do, you'll really enjoy and treasure this book!	2001-12-05
US	52660802	R20ODKSTSEP90G	0441049133	998724176	Bard	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An enchanting fantasy tale	This is a story of ancient Ireland. This story wraps around ancient mythic tales of magic, faery folk, unicorns, druids and sacred groves. The story is based on the travels of Felimid mac Fal -- Bard of Erin, descendant of Druids and the Tuatha de Danann, the ancient faery race of Ireland.<br />This is a thoroughly enchanting fantasy tale, well worth your time!	2001-10-20
US	52660802	R3CX99GC10MQLP	0345301706	536260491	Disturb Not the Dream	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Very gripping & intense	I stayed up way past my bed time reading this one -- you know that a book has really grabbed you when you don't realize how late it is until you see that it's 1:30 in the morning when you gaze at the bedside clock. This is a very well written book.  It has some graphic violence in it that could be disturbing along with quite a bit of sex, which unfortunately includes incest -- not appropriate for a young adult audience.  The book grabs you immediately and doesn't let you go until the grinding conclusion.  One major flaw of this well written book -- all the characters were basically selfish individuals who were not likeable in the least, so unfortunately this writer didn't manage to create characters you care about or even like. You might well wonder, if the characters aren't likeable (not even one of them was), then why would anyone continue to read this book -- through out your reading you not only constantly wonder what will happen next, but you also wonder how this story could wind up to its inevitable conclusion.  I'm not entirely sure I would recommend this book because of the subject matter and graphic nature of it, but I did enjoy the suspense of it.	2001-10-03
US	52660802	REDNGAK7T1POF	0892960973	501969918	The Garden of Weapons	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Excellent mystery	&quot;In our world we live on lies&quot; When Big Herbie Kruger used those words to break the KGB defector, he didn't realize just how much his own life had been built on a lie. In his world though, where love is just another conduit for information, it could be no other way. Now the lies planted when Herbie created his network in East Berlin have borne their bitter fruit. The lives of men and women who trusted him are in danger and his master in British intelligence won't let him go back to Berlin to help them. Herbie Kruger has no choice, then. He must tell what may be his final lie ...&quot; -- from the back of the book	2001-09-03
US	52660802	R26YDNTWHCKZCO	0590411365	296540826	Eight Tales of Terror	Books	5	11	17	N	N	Published by Scholastic, Classic Poe	Eerie ... Weird ... Terrifying ... Chilling stories by Edgar Allan Poe, the master of terror: &quot;The Fall of the House of Usher,&quot; &quot;The Mask of the Red Death,&quot; &quot;The Cask of the Amontillado,&quot; and five other tales that hover on the edge of madness and pull you into a nightmared world -- from the back cover.	2001-09-03
US	52660802	R5IJLQBUYZ3OY	0373708491	893423477	Her Own Ranger (Harlequin Superromance, 849)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A fun read	In Florida's Everglades, Carson Ward &lt;i&gt;is&lt;/i&gt; the law ... as a ranger, he's sworn to protect the land. But Carson's taken a private oath, too -- that he will track down the poachers who killed his father. Alisha Jamison is a well-known wildlife photographer. This assignment in the Everglades will be her last -- the poachers who attacked her have seen to that. Carson and Alisha team up to search for poachers ... and find strength in their partnership of two. they're alike in their independence, their willingness to take risks; they're also alike in their capacity for deep love -- and for passion. Danger in the Everglades brings them together. Will it also tear them apart? -- from the back cover	2001-09-03
US	52660802	R2HKQTF5HX19JS	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Darkly disturbing, engrossing, kept me up past my bedtime	My daughter has received this for the second time now as required reading for school (summer reading requirement). &quot;Oh Mom this book is awful&quot; she said, now for the second time. She read me a paragraph of the book and sure enough, it does sound awful when you read small snippets of the book. This book is not an easy read at all, not because it is overly intellectual -- it's not written very well, sorry Mr. Bradbury -- the author wrote in the afterward, that he wrote it in his early days of writing in various rooms of his house, finally ended up sequestered in his garage. I imagine that if the book was written later in Mr. Bradbury's career, that it would have been written far better than it was -- this is no literary masterpiece, but the concept it contains is a timeless one.<br />That said, my daughter gave it to me to read and I read it in one sitting, wondering what was going to happen to the main character and how this book would end. This book is about a future society where books are illegal. The government has built a society where simple pleasure is the main goal in life, not meaningful pleasure. People live their lives around TV that takes up entire walls of their homes, no truly educational programming is allowed for the same reason that no books are allowed. The TV in this book creates not just light programming for society, but a family in the wall/screens -- it is mind numbing for that society. People become puppets where they live their lives out in simple ignorance and if you dare question the way things are or attempt to hide any books you are persecuted for it. People are simple minded and unquestioning. Enter Clarissa, the sweet teenage next door neighbor who takes simple pleasure in taking walks, letting the rain fall on her tongue, staying up late in the night actually talking to her family, no TV walls active in her home -- people actually listen to each other. The government is suspicious of her family -- not because they are subversive or publicly questioning society, but because of the way they live and think. Though Clarisse is a character in the book for a very short time, she makes an impact on the main character, Guy the fireman, who envies that she and her family talk to each other, listen to each other, and care so much for each other in a society that only cares about keeping the status quo and not getting in trouble. He begins to question what he is doing, burning books -- not so much because of the book burning itself, but for the lives of the book lovers he wrecks in the process. He begins to wonder what is inside the pages of books that people are willing to die for them and steels one of the books from a home his is destroying. He adds this book to the huge stash of books he has already hidden in the air ducts of his home and actually begins to read them and thus begins his own persecution.<br />Though this isn't a literary masterpiece, as I said earlier, it is engrossing and very disturbing. The future society created in the pages is a nightmare. The importance of education, reading, and simply caring about your fellow man are the concepts the reader walks away with. I suspect that's the reason it is tirelessly assigned to kids at school.ive or publicly questioning society, but because of the way they live and think. Though Clarisse is a character in the book for a very short time, she makes an impact on the main character, Guy the fireman, who envies that she and her family talk to each other, listen to each other, and care so much for each other in a society that only cares about keeping the status quo and not getting in trouble. He begins to question what he is doing, burning books -- not so much because of the book burning itself, but for the lives of the book lovers he wrecks in the process. He begins to wonder what is inside the pages of books that people are willing to die for them and steels one of the books from a home his is destroying. He adds this book to the huge stash of books he has already hidden in the air ducts of his home and actually begins to read them and thus begins his own persecution. <br />Though this isn't a literary masterpiece, as I said earlier, it is engrossing and very disturbing. The future society created in the pages is a nightmare. The importance of education, reading, and simply caring about your fellow man are the concepts the reader walks away with. I suspect that's the reason it is tirelessly assigned to kids at school.	2001-08-24
US	52660802	RWUA6RT2U7B5I	0515127019	769969641	Magic by Daylight	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	More fantasy novel than romance. Fun reading!	I really enjoyed this book.  I must say that it doesn't fit the usual romance mold -- in bed by a certain page, etc.  It is far more of a fantasy novel than a romance novel, but it has just enough romance -- a fun read for romance readers &amp; fantasy readers alike.  It's about a woman living in the early 1800s England.  She's wealthy and has a devoted staff and devoted tenants on her land. She wanders one night and finds herself on a &quot;tor&quot; where a rider comes out of nowhere and rides off, she has not been seen by the rider, but is completely terrified of him.  She is alternately attacked by a &quot;dark rider&quot; and protected by one who has been sent by the faeries to protect her. About half the book takes place in the faery world -- full of intrigue, danger, war.  I won't say more because I don't want to destroy the story for anyone.<br />On balance, die-hard fantasy reader's will feel this is more romance than fantasy &amp; die-hard romance fans will feel this is more fantasy than romance. All will have different take on this book.  All in all though, this book was a lot of fun to read!	2001-07-14
US	52660802	R9HAOS4EHWRKY	0028621905	843816420	How to Write Articles for Newspapers and Magazines (Arco's Concise Writing Guides)	Books	5	48	50	N	N	A little powerhouse full of great instruction for writers!	I picked this little (113 page book) up at the library and thought it might be of passing interest.  I never thought such a little book could be packed with so much great information!  I started out reading this book with a little post-it note pad next to me, figuring I would put a couple little notes on a few interesting pages, make some notes, then be done with the book. Well, now the book has a million little post-it notes in it and I think it's time to buy my own copy!  Here are  few chapter headings: Getting started (generating ideas &amp; focusing on the subject), gathering information (fact vs. opinion, observation, interview, etc.), writing the effective article lead ...there are 10 useful chapters in all.  They are written clearly and to the point -- no fluff here to fill in pages.  One truly useful item in the book is a sample query letter (for an article). This is a great little book! Now I think I'll buy my own copy -- maybe you should too!	2001-07-12
US	52660802	R1MISQPYV4B667	1884956238	767687297	The Portable Writers' Conference: Your Guide to Getting and Staying Published	Books	5	8	9	N	N	This is a pot of gold!  EXCELLENT BOOK!	This hefty volume chock full of gold!  There are tons of articles written by accomplished/published writers -- these are not so much articles of their own experiences, as they are sort of &quot;how to&quot; type articles that are very helpful to the reader.  Topping all that off there is a section called &quot;Writer's Resources&quot; which includes questions to ask literary agents, standard manuscript format, proofreader's marks, royalties and advances, average book print runs, sample magazine writer's guidelines, sample book publisher's writer's guidelines, magazines and newsletters of interest to writers, and the list goes on and on.  Having recently attended a writer's conference, I can see that this book would indeed be helpful to people who have never been to one as well as people who have.  This book is a font of helpful information &amp; insightful articles -- truly a pot of gold!  Buy one, you'll be glad you did!	2001-07-01
US	52660802	R2G34FLIG7A50I	0373116829	398311688	Elegant Barbarian	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A fun read	According to the back of the book description the two main characters are: Laura Mitchell &quot;positively wanton&quot; and Jackson can &quot;barely excehange a civil word.&quot; Laura falls for Jackson who she can have a brief affair with, yet she really wanted lasting love.<br />An entertaining, unusual love story from Harlequin Presents.  A fun read.	2001-07-01
US	52660802	R2ASXNL74CQ9BV	0312866321	163883772	Dark Sister	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Mesmerizing .... disturbing ... not a favorite book	This book was a mesmerizing read. In fact, I stayed up last night far past my usual bedtime to finish it, biting my nails the whole time.<br />This is the story of a family that uncovers an old fireplace in the old house they live in.  When the chimney sweep comes to clean, he comes upon a hidden diary.  The main character, Maggie, starts to read it and becomes fascinated by the herbal remedies in it.  As she explores further, it turns out that this is in fact the ancient diary of a witch who died long ago.  Maggie goes further and actually begins to practice some magic. An evil spirit is awakened after the diary is unearthed as well. As the story unfolds, Maggie's tinkering in the diary, and tinkering with magic, begins to disrupt and endanger her entire family. I can't say much more because I will reveal too much of the plot if I do so.<br />Graham Joyce wrote this story well, but left a few things unexplained ... even poorly explained.  Though I did find the story mesmerizing, it's not one of the best books I have ever read. I am not tempted to read any more of this author's works. I got the book from the library and am glad I didn't spend the money buying it. It isn't a book you would read more than once -- not a treasured keeper.	2001-06-03
US	52660802	R16QGJTFSQEXV8	089879868X	153002294	You Can Write a Novel	Books	3	17	22	N	N	How to organize your writing	I have to admit that I was turned off by the techniques encouraged in this book.  The writer of this book encourages the use of index cards, lists & folders. This is not a writing technique I like, but that's just me.  So, I thought, maybe it'll be filled with some other inspirational stuff. Nope. To be honest, this didn't seem all that creative to me.  Everyone uses a different method for their writing. If you like using tools like those mentioned above, then you'll probably like this book. If not, then you will find this book a turn off, as I did, and it might even hinder the creative process for you altogether. Not a great book unless you like to outline and use index cards and other tools. If you're a fly by the seat of your pants writer, then this book won't be helpful for you.	2001-05-20
US	52660802	RQUOKTF8SCV7D	0553579215	491128519	Legend of the Sorcerer	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Blend of romance and fantasy -- excellent story	This book is a mix of romance and fantasy -- sort of a cross-genre book.  Here is the story of a sculptor, Jordalyn, and a fantasy novelist, Malacai. They meet, and though drawn to each other, avoid passion at all costs, until they are artfully drawn together by Malacai's grandfather -- keeper of the Dark Pearl. To say much more about the plot would ruin it for future readers so I'll stop there. This romance novel sweeps you up into a world of fantasy and magic and comes to a nail biting conclusion.  I would say that the central theme of the book is romance, though the reader is also swept up into a world of fantasy. There was also just enough suspense and danger involved to keep you on the edge of your seat. This book is well written and well worth your reading time. You won't regret reading it, and will remember the characters long after you read the last page. EXCELLENT!	2001-05-13
US	52660802	R3HKSO6I51HGB	0684807807	880716538	Action Grammar: Fast, No-Hassle Answers on Everyday Usage and Punctuation	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	EXCELLENT reference -- gives what it promises &amp; more	This excellent little book promises instant answers to grammar questions and delivers! Its chapters are all separated into &quot;parts&quot; with headings that include: Grammar Gripes, Then and Now (includes a chapter entitled fives lies your english teacher told you), Punctuation Points, Mechanics(includes how to handle numbers, capitalization and many other chapters), Grammar, Mastering Business Writing, and an Appendix (it includes troublesome words and phrases, words that are easy to misspell, business words &amp; formatting for letters and memos). By the way, even your kids will find this an easy reference to their grammar questions -- it's a good book for all ages.<br />The day I got this book I actually was able to put it to use immediately -- I was writing something and had a question about the word &quot;that&quot; (as in &quot;she told her that...). I was able to open the book and get the answer immediately! On closer inspection I found that it deals with just about any grammar question you might have.  This is a truly powerful little book! I'm glad I bought it, you will be too!	2001-04-29
US	52660802	R3VKXC23G6YF1X	0898795176	968746059	Get That Novel Started! (And Keep It Going 'til You Finish)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Start reading this book and you WILL get your novel written!	I have had a story brewing in my mind for a long time.  Also, from the time I was very young I knew I wanted to write. I didn't have enough confidence to do so ... until now.<br />Donna Levin approaches the subject with humor, but also is very practical with her approach.  One thing I like about her approach as well is that she maintains an upbeat attitude throughout the book.  The other cool thing is that she includes anecdotes about other famous writers and their insecurities and ultimate success.<br />I read 1/3 of the book and promptly jumped up and started writing my book.  Now I have three chapters written.  I never dreamt I would ever get even that far! This book filled me with inspiration and hope. If you want to write as well, you should buy this book!!	2001-04-25
US	52660802	RUE3IRBFK5JSH	1884910424	530590226	Novelists Notebook	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great tool for the aspiring author or the seasoned one	This nice hardcover book is exactly what it says it is -- The Novelist's Notebook. It is in journal format with key notes on each page with plenty of space left for you to write your own thoughts and answers to the questions Ms. Henry poses.<br />The book is broken down into categories: Planning, Beginning to Write, Necessities, Possibilities, When You're Stuck, Double-Checking and Revising. Each of those categies has multiple subtopis and writing prompts, advice, and quotes from published authors.<br />I believe this book would be helpful in any stage of the writing process, whether you are a published author or not. The ideas and exercises would be useful with your first book all the way through your last. Though you can certainly write in the book, I have found I can also use it along with my writer's notebook -- that spiral notebook we all carry everywhere.<br />I'm thrilled with the format and content of this book and am very glad I purchased it.  Buy it, you won't be sorry.	2001-04-21
US	52660802	RORLMJ2VCQ6E4	0060929294	285523413	Escaping into the Open: The Art of Writing True	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Inspiring, thought provoking, extremely useful	Ms. Berg begins her book with some personal notes about her life and how she came to write -- she's an ordinary person just like you and I, who loved to write and followed her dream. Reading this book made me feel like I could conquer the world -- of writing that is. Ms. Berg helps you knock your feelings of inadequacy aside and dive into the written word. Throughout the book she gives homework and writing exercises that are very inspiring and thought provoking and ends the book with a couple recipes, which I thought was a nice, quirky touch.  I love my copy of this book. It is the first one I reach for when I need to explore another writing exercise, to get those creative juices flowing.	2001-04-21
US	52660802	RIE3U4W9IJF3W	0966722167	329021170	The Blue Book of Grammar and Punctuation	Books	3	13	15	N	Y	Bare bones -- not much else -- waste of money	I reviewed this book already once and for some odd reason the review never appeared.  Well here I go again.<br />This book is published by a company called &quot;Bare Bones&quot; .... well that's exactly what this is.  The editorial comment was that it is &quot;entertaining&quot; and &quot;indispensable&quot; -- it is neither of those.  This book is very, very, very basic.  It does not cover all the grammar you need, as it would suggest.  In fact, if I knew how little it covered I would have never purchased this book. One more thing buyers may wish to know, this book is put together much like a magazine -- just plain old stapled together, no binding at all.<br />If I knew how little this book actually covered and how poorly formatted it was I would have never purchased it, ESPECIALLY for the high price!  It isn't worth wasting your money over -- I wish I never bought it, spare yourself the same mistake.	2001-04-16
US	52660802	R3BXVBGEI4FW49	0312868901	476026932	The Angel and the Sword	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	All I can say is WOW!!!	This is an incredibly well detailed book, well written and extremely satisfying to the last page.<br />This is the story of a legendary hero of the 9th century called Roderick the Beardless. The story centers around a princess from Spain. As the book opens, her mother is on her deathbed -- Ragney, the main character, believes that somehow her barbarous father has had a role in killing her mother so that he can rule the area of Spain on his own. He is so barbarous and cruel that he even decides that after her mother's death, that Ragney will wed him, her own father. Her mother prays some death bed prayers summoning a spirit who helps protect her throughout the book -- the spirit is alluded to throughout the entire book, and stating that doesn't give away the story at all since it appears in the beginning of the story. Ragney escapes and disguises herself as a male to elude her father's search for her as she flees his grasp. She becomes &quot;Roderick&quot;.  Thus, the main substance of the book begins ...<br />All of the above is just the beginning of this great tale.  To tell more would give away far too much of the story.  Let it suffice to say that this is one of the most richly rewarding books I have ever read.  It had enough suspense in it that I was on the edge of my seat during the conclusion of the story.  I borrowed this book from the library and now plan to purchase it. It's a keeper.  Buy it, you will be glad you did!	2001-04-09
US	52660802	R2BXZY6VUIAS99	0312875916	441662734	The Merlin of St. Gilles' Well (Joan of Arc Tapestries, Book 1)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	EXCELLENT historical fantasy -- myth &amp; magic gallore, great!	I borrowed this book from the library and found it so captivating and enjoyable that I plan to buy. It is definitely a book you would likely read more than once.<br />The basis of the book is a story of pagan religion &amp; magic in France -- it is told from the point of view of the main character (a child) who grows up seeing horrible violence and wonderful magic. He learns about life and love and the wonders of magic and the world.  Ann Chamberlin tells the story with such clarity that you can picture what it was like during that century, you can picture the fantastic situations as they happen -- a wonderful writer! Any fantasy enthusiast will enjoy this story. Wonderful book!<br />I look forward to book two with great enthusiasm!	2001-03-24
US	52660802	R170T1SIAS87HQ	0373290403	847185714	A Warrior's Passion	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent writing, great story!	I don't usually read romance novels.  I picked this book up in a thrift shop because the time period in the story and the cover captured my interest.  Today I decided that I would read a few pages then probably lose interest. Well, I was very wrong!!! I read the whole book (296 pages) in one day -- I couldn't wait to see what would happen next! The characters were well developed and I came to care what happened to them.  The story was more of a love story with a mix of intrigue, danger, suspense.  This read like a good novel. This book has earned keeper status on my shelf, not many books do.	2001-02-16
US	52660802	RO0DRIU2EA4BE	0886778263	248170543	Guardian of the Balance (Merlin's Descendants, Vol. 1)	Books	5	10	15	N	Y	Deaply moving, fabulous writing -- EXCELLENT BOOK!!	I have never before read an Irene Radford book -- oh what I've been missing! Ms. Radford's writing is so fabulous, that you can actually feel the ground beneath your feet when she describe's Wren's contact with nature.<br />This not just a retelling of the Arthur story, so much more! It goes deeply into the heart of the main character, Merlin's daughter Wren. You learn to care about what happens to her and how she feels -- truly the mark of good writing!<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone -- fantasy reader as well as all those who enjoy good fiction. Buy it, read it, you'll be glad you did!	2000-11-30
US	52660802	R2VRQE9C1VFVNH	0061008737	244235272	The House Next Door	Books	4	2	7	N	N	Well written, held my attention to the conclusion! Then THUD	I have read other books by Ms. Siddons and found them to be very satisfying. This book held my attention all the way through and was very well written and plotted out, but left me completely unsatisfied.<br />I was in the mood for a good ghost story and when I found out that this one impressed Stephen King so much, I thought it would be a satisfying one. Unfortunately I was let down. It wasn't scary, it wasn't spooky, and in the end it didn't deliver.<br />This is the story a very nice couple living in a wealthy neighborhood.  Next door is a beautiful wooded lot that they enjoy looking at and are dismayed when bulldozers come and a gentle architect begins building the house next door.  They get to know him and care for him, they become the best of friends. You learn to like and care for all three of the central characters in this story -- that is truly the mark of a good writer. In succession, three different families live in the house and come to disaster -- you never get to know them well, but you feel sorry for them. Eventually this wonderful couple and this sweet man are drawn to the end together and that's where the major \\"thud\\" comes in. The ending was very unsatisfying and didn't seem well thought out at all.<br />The reason it isn't scary or spooky is because the ghost story portion of the tale is never fully delved into, only alluded to. This book did not gain keeper status on my shelf and I probably will never recommend it to friends. Also, the ending was a little too quick and convenient to be believable.<br />...If you really want to read it get it from the library then you'll be glad to give it back at the end.	2000-11-25
US	52660802	RB8G8EBHGP5F6	0449223043	318658068	Guardian	Books	4	2	3	N	N	engrossing and then horrifically sad, sensitive beware	I would have liked to give this book a lower rating than a 4, however, it is so well written then you can picture the events and during the story you grow to understand and like the characters so much, that it deserves at least a 5 just for that reason. No one can deny that Mr. Saul is a very good writer. The reason I reduced the rating is because of content.  As I said, you come to genuinely care about the characters.  There are a lot of children in the book, those are the characters I most cared about.  The problem is that children start to get killed in particularly horrific manners -- one sweet child who died in the book, could have been spared and the book would have been fabulous. The death, a grisly one, was not necessary to the plot, and did not help in the building of the conclusion.<br />I was so upset by this book at the end that I swore I would never read another book by Mr. Saul.	2000-10-08
US	52660802	RPSIPM755DMB5	0345350499	627223385	The Mists of Avalon	Books	5	4	5	N	N	My favorite book of all time!!!!  Great book!	As you can see by all the reviews, this book has impressed a great many people!<br />This book explores the King Arthur story from a woman's point of view, specifically that of his half-sister Morgaine (AKA Morgan Le Fay). Each character is richly developed. There are the great, the wonderful, the evil, the tragic, the doomed characters ...<br />This book is full of magic and wonder. Fantasy lovers, if you are looking for dragons, look elsewear.  There is mention of one mythical dragon being slayed by one of the heroes of the story, but it is mentioned after the fact, which was just fine for me.<br /><br />This book has just the right blend of magic and wonder, without the incredible -- dragons, faeries and the like.  There is an alternate place, called Avalon, which can only be visited with the help of magic.  It is veiled from the world, but still looks much like the real world. Though such a place could qualify for some as incredible, could never really be, Ms. Bradley wrote about it so well, that you don't think it's so incredible after all, that such a place could really exist.<br />When you finish this book, you could almost believe that it is all true, you could almost believe that all of it could have really happned. You don't have that, wow, what a great fantasy, but that could never really happen feeling.<br />This was the first fantasy book I ever read and now I'm hooked! I have a keeper copy on my shelf and know that I'll be reading it again and again in the future.  Once you get your hands on a copy, you won't part with it either!	2000-10-08
US	52660802	RRLQAPC7YXPDR	068816112X	761772754	Replay	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Interesting concept, hard to put down, deeply moving	This book has an interesting concept wherein the main character dies of a heart attack at the beginning of the book, then wakes up again as himself when he was a young college student.  Through the story he keeps dying on the same date and time and coming back as himself -- hence the title &lt;i&gt;Replay&lt;/i&gt;.  Through the story he falls in and out of love during various replays, examines the meaning of life and love ...<br />This was an engaging read.  The reason I gave it 4 stars instead of 5 is because somewhere in the middle I felt like giving up the book all together.  It was becoming a little repetitive.  My husband read it before me and I actually said, &quot;just tell me what happens in the end, I don't want to read this anymore.&quot; He refused to tell me.  Well, I finished the book and was glad I did -- riding through the few pages that weren't enjoyable, the pages that dragged.  It was very deeply moving and in the end was well worth reading.	2000-09-26
US	52660802	R1YZB9TZ2DU7D1	0446898813	809981971	Guinever's Gift	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Mystery, adventure, and a love triange reminicent of Camelot	I found this book in a used book store and didn't know how lucky I was!!  This book is about a shy American girl, Lydian Wentworth, left in England after her father's death.  She meets and marries an old family friend, Charles, who is a scholar studying King Arthur, a subject which interests Lydian also. He is trapped in a wheelchair, since an accident, which turns out to be part of Lydian's past that she can't remember -- there's the mystery. Enter the third character in this love triangle -- Lawrence, an archeologist who is on a dig to find King Arthur/Guinever artifacts.<br />Lydian suffers nightmares which she knows lead to a memory in her past long-buried, a memory somehow connected to King Arthur's legend.  As Charles' mental and physical health declines, she find herself turning to Lawrence more and more. Finally she sees that she is indeed reliving the love triangle between Arthur, Lancelot and Guinever ... to say much more would ruin this lovely book!<br />Though there is romance in this book, it is not a romance novel so much as a stirring mystery.  What a great read!	2000-09-26
US	52660802	R2YYJ16XV6DRAU	1884822738	560071830	Big Little Book of Irish Wit & Wisdom	Books	5	27	27	N	Y	A Wonderful Little Book!  Deserves all 5 stars!	This is an enchanting little book that encompasses a collection of Irish  Blessings, Irish Toasts, Irish Proverbs, Irish Riddles, Irish Laws, and  Irish Wisdom.  They are inspiring, funny, uplifting.  Each saying is  accompanied by a beautiful illustration.  I would recommend this book to  anyone, you don't have to be Irish to enjoy it!  This is a keeper on my  shelf!	2000-09-17
US	52660802	R23FAYYP66KMOO	0345443284	471049102	While I Was Gone (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Gripping, unsettling, melancholy	My title says it all!  I found the story to be very well written and  interesting enough to read overnight.  However, the main charater, Jo,  continually makes bad decisions which come to unsettling, upsetting  conclusions.  I didn't feel good after reading this story -- I felt quite  melancholy reading about this woman nearly destroying a good marriage and  her good life. I could have lived without reading this book...	2000-08-09
US	52660802	R2S7I8LSFSB6W0	0671024817	332301994	Wither	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Frightening!  Completely captivating!	This not normally the type of book I would read, but I borrowed this book from the library and read it in two days!  The first day I went to bed with the book and was so captivated that I was shocked when I looked at the  clock and saw 3:00 AM!  I was halfway through the book and finished it the  next day.  HOWEVER, I didn't sleep well since the story was so haunting and  utterly terrifying!<br />Mr. Passarella portrays in this book a charming  college town on the brink of terror beyond imaging.  The town has a  centuries old history of three witches condemned to die in the only witch  trial the town.  Unlike many innocent women convicted of being witches  during their time, these were not innocent women, they were evil to the  core -- the worst of all three was one called &quot;Wither&quot;.  The  three witches come back to terrorize the small town in the 20th century and  steel the lives of three innocent people -- a college professor, a young  college student, and an 8 year old girl.  To tell much more of the story  would ruin the mystery that unravels in it the book.<br />The characters are  well developed, particularly the character of Wendy a girl who dabbles in  white magic and believes she has brought the terror to her sleepy town  accidently and also believes that she must find away to banish it on her  own.<br />Read it, but make sure you leave a light on because you won't sleep  well when you do!	2000-07-25
US	52660802	R36866ZGNFIFHI	0373483104	82269627	Lovers Dark and Dangerous	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Surprisingly good reading!	I don't normally read romance, but saw this book in a thrift shop and was intrigued by the story ideas -- psychic powers, ghosts and evil spirits.  I wondered how a romance book could be built around all that.  Well, I was  pleasantly surprised at how well written this book is and how intense the  three stories were!  Romance was a part of these stories, but more than  anything they delved into these special people and their experiences and  was really quite well written.  My favorite story was the last one!  One  cautionary note: if you don't like romance books which allude to sex then  don't buy this book -- it's not graphic, but it isn't spotlessly clean  either.<br />There are three stories.  I won't say too much because I don't  want to spoil it for anyone.<br />&quot;Seeing is believing&quot; which is  about a sensitive psychic and a war weary-mercenary.  The two go on a quest  to find a missing person.  The relationship develops between the two of  them (this was more romance than the other two) -- the hardened mercenary  learns to share his feelings and rekindles the sensitivity in his soul.  Along the way Diana experiences different psychic feelings which Wes, who  only believes in what he can see or touch, learns to trust and respect.  When they reach their goal the conclusion is one that is completely  different from what you would expect.<br />&quot;Storm-tossed&quot; is a  ghost story.  It was a story that starts with few people left behind in a  hurricane to fend for themselves.  A mysterious person arrives on the scene  with the main focus of trying to save these people from certain death.  This person arrives out of no-where, and one of the people he is trying to  save believes he is a ghost.  The writing makes you feel and hear the storm  around them -- well written.  It has a touching and unexpected conclusion.<br />MY FAVORITE &quot;The Ancient One&quot; is a story of good and evil and  ancient wonders -- it has mythical qualities.  There is a mysterious  village that can only be seen by a certain trick of the moon.  The main  character finally finds her way there and that's when the battle between  good and evil begins.  It deals with keeping a horrible evil entombed away  from the world.  If I say much more I'll give away the entire story.  The  romance is secondary to a very well written story-line that captured my  attention more than the other two.<br />EXCELLENT BOOK!is a mysterious  village that can only be seen by a certain trick of the moon.  The main  character finally finds her way there and that's when the battle between  good and evil begins.  It deals with keeping a horrible evil entombed away  from the world.  If I say much more I'll give away the entire story.  The  romance is secondary to a very well written story-line that captured my  attention more than the other two.  <br />EXCELLENT BOOK!	2000-06-24
US	52660802	RNV64I5ISZ8WP	0385335121	870989999	Tara Road: Oprah Selection #26	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An insightful, well told story of love, loss &amp; friendship!	This was the first book I have ever read by Maeve Binchy.  I wish I had known sooner what a great story teller she is!  The center of the story: Ria and Marilyn, both dealing with tremendous loss.  They are surrounded  with characters you either love or dislike (won't say hate, because they  all have a certain chink in their armor that you can sympathize with).  Through the story they triumph over their losses and a friendship blossoms  between the two.  This story is full of sensitivity and it is so well  written you can see these people in your mind and feel their raw emotions.  Goodness!  Now I'll have to read more of this great writer's books!  What a  great introduction (for me) to a great story teller!	2000-06-21
US	52660802	R3REFLRTDIR6QO	0440216745	567976695	Whispers	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Well written, held my attention to the conclusion!	This book was well written and I learned to care about the characters enough to read it over a two day period (not an easy thing to do in this busy life) -- though it did take the main character a little too long to  reach the inevitable conclusion.<br />Still, Belva Plain is one of the  great story tellers of our time and this book, therefore has earned a spot  on my bookshelf, to stay.	2000-06-07
US	52660802	R2XNHRWDH7XX46	0061044695	404397901	Be Buried in the Rain	Books	3	3	9	N	N	Not as good as I hoped -- a disappointment	I have read many of Barbara Michaels' books and enjoyed most. This book, however, lacked the suspense and excitement that most of her other books have. This book was quite a disappointment. After reading the blurb on the back of the book, I expected there might be a ghostly element to this story.  There was absolutely no ghostly element at all. If a good Barbara Michaels ghost story is what you want, read \\"Ammie Come Home\\" - a spectacularly thrilling ghost story. If you want a simple mystery that is predictable from the start, read this one.	2000-05-09
US	52660802	R24L6FMPV5SYR7	0425118312	604465221	Witch	Books	5	32	40	N	N	One of her best!  Couldn't put it down!	I have read several of Barbara Michaels' books and have to say that this may actually be the best one I have read!  I borrowed it from the library and was so entranced by the story that I read it in one day.  Now I plan to purchase a copy from Amazon for a place on my bookshelf - which isn't that  easy to qualify for! Only the very best books gain a place there.  And this  book is a great one!	2000-05-09
US	52660802	R52NFWE73PMIW	0553260111	561287091	The Bourne Identity (Bourne Trilogy No.1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The greatest spy thriller I have every read!	Robert Ludlum is a master story-teller! His writing is superb! One thing to note, whenever you begin one of his lengthy books you need to devote enough time for 50 pages in the first sitting just to get to know all the characters. It is well worth your time to do so.<br />This book is probably the BEST spy thiller I have ever read. The main character, Jason Bourne, is a character you learn to really care about. Not all writers are capable fo creating that feeling with their writing. Ludlum is a master. Though this book is part of a three part series, this book DOES stand well on it's own. I have read all three -- I highly recommend this -- and now all three have a cherised spot on my bookshelf. Good enough to read more than once in a lifetime!	2000-05-09
US	52660802	R3KB9I2PXPVEV1	0425110451	849106337	Wings of the Falcon	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Historical Fiction -- A great work!	This book is a bit of a departure from the mystery/suspense that Barbara Michaels is best known for.  It is more of a historical work of fiction.  It does contain the suspense that Ms. Michaels' is known for.<br />The book  is well written and held my interest enough that I read it in one day!  It was spooky and atmospheric with a haunted cave and a whole lot of suspenseful detail.  It is one of my favorite Barbara Michaels books! It  now has an honored place on my bookshelf.  If you buy this one it'll gain keeper status on your shelf too.	2000-05-09
US	52660802	R3SRIR8Q8E6G5H	0831724331	474714897	Prince and the Pauper	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Timeless tale: good vs evil &amp; being happy with your life	This beautiful book is a full color adaptation from the disney movie of the same name.  The illustrations captured my child's attention and made for great story time.  Timeless tale of good vs. evil, and also about being  happy with your lot in life no matter how grand or how simple!  A great  read for any generation!	2000-04-08
US	52660802	R665LCQATO6NQ	0831756055	654735519	The Little Mermaid	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Wonderful book with full color illustrations from the movie!	This beautiful book is a full color adaptation from the disney movie of the same name.  The illustrations captured my child's attention and made for great story time.  Timeless tale of good vs. evil.  A great read for  any generation!	2000-04-08
US	52660802	R2KS4YFAQIBWEL	0831700203	176250388	One Hundred and One Dalmatians (Disney Classic Series)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great adaption of the movie, beautifully illustrated!	This beautiful book is a full color adaptation from the disney movie of the same name.  The illustrations captured my child's attention and made for great story time.  Timeless tale of good vs. evil.  A great read for  any generation!	2000-04-08
US	52660802	RF22DG09YMDC0	0803626509	922611811	Nurse's Pocket Guide: Nursing Diagnoses With Interventions	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Indispensible resource for nursing students!  Great book!	I used this book during nursing school (1995-1997) and it was probably the best off all my nursing texts.  Gives interventions for all the NANDA diagnoses.  Nice, short, informative.  Particularyly helpful developing  care plans.	2000-02-14
US	52660802	R1DKWDC45TDWP0	0312865511	441662734	The Merlin of St. Gilles' Well (Joan of Arc Tapestries, Book 1)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Captivating fantasy	I borrowed this book from the library and find it so captivating and enjoyable that I plan to buy it now.<br />Any fantasy enthusiast will enjoy this story of pagan religion mixed with magic.  Wonderful book!<br />I look  forward to book two with great enthusiasm!	1999-10-16
