US	52660557	R3E7046K0V0ZCY	0470845732	947339261	The C Standard: Incorporating Technical Corrigendum 1	Books	3	16	16	N	N	Content you need... but too expensive and very poorly bound	I want to own a paper copy of this book; I have been programming in C for over fifteen years, and also reading and correcting other programmers' code. While I've got some good references on hand, sometimes when I come across some bizarre abuse of the language, there is just no substitute for the ANSI standard to help me understand why something is wrong. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, this is the content I want, but, like the C++ Standard book which also recently became available, the binding is one of the poorest I've ever seen in a hardback book. The cover is thin, there is no cloth in the binding, and the gluing is very flimsly. Just flipping through some pages in the bookstore, I was afraid they were going to start falling out. A sturdy well-bound paperback edition would be much more welcome than this flimsy hardcover. <br /> <br />This is inexcusable for a book that lists at $65 and for one that is designed as a reference. The standard is available for download for $18, although you won't get the extra introductions. You'd be better off downloading it, then taking it to a Kinko's or other print shop to have it printed on sturdy paper and bound with a coil. It won't be as pretty, and it might cost you just about as much, but it will certainly last longer.  <br /> <br />I just can't bear paying so much for such a poorly made book. The C standard should be in the hands of every serious C programmer, and this is the only authorized edition, but I'm sure no one involved with the standardization effort \\"authorized\\" Wiley to rip off buyers with this flimsy, overpriced effort.	2004-09-13
US	52660557	R1G25K34YPBNGM	0061020613	532931410	Witches Abroad	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Granny and Nanny and Garlick -- Oh, My!	Witches Abroad (4/5) - This is the most character-centered of the Witch books, and one of the funniest: I'd say it does not quite have the same quality of storytelling as _Wyrd Sisters_ and _Maskerade_, but makes up for it with the increased depth of the witch characters. When fairy godmother Desiderata dies, she leaves her magic wand to Magrat Garlick, the young &quot;wet hen&quot; of the witch trio Weatherwax, Ogg, and Garlick. For the first 200 pages or so, this book is an enjoyable if meandering travelogue, as the witches fly, walk, and ride across the disc on their way to the city of Genua, unintentionally blundering into, and rewriting, various fairy tales along the way. Then the plot kicks into higher gear, and for the next 150 pages or so we're in Genua trying to save the young Snow White-like Princess Emberella from her fate, to marry the prince Duc. We're fighting against the tide of storyhood itself, orchestrated by the mysterious Lilith, and opposed by voodoo priestess Mrs. Gogol and the mysterious zombie Saturday. The cast is a strange group, but don't worry; other than the witches, most of them don't matter very much in the resolution of the plot, which happens quickly and without much in the way of suspense. The theme of this novel is storytelling itself and the way in which stories, like history, repeat themselves and draw us along after them. The book is rounded out with the dwarf Casanunda, cajun food, and banana daiquiris, but the high points are, very simply, Granny Weatherwax, Nanny Ogg, and... not Magrat, who comes off a bit flat by comparison to the other two, but the tomcat Greebo, who gets some of the funniest scenes when he takes on human form.	2004-06-23
US	52660557	R3W4GY7J63ZY6O	0061020656	226014260	Pyramids (Discworld Book 7)	Books	2	6	12	N	N	Not a Monumental Achievement	A young prince from the kingdom of Djelibeybi is sent off to Ankh-Morpork for training at the guild of Assassins. His final exam is vividly imagined and well-told. But just after graduation his father the eccentric pharaoh of the realm, considered a god, dies, and young Teppic must return to ascend to the throne. His father's ghost gets to hang around and watch himself get mummified, and Djelibeybi begins building its biggest pyramid yet. In this book Pratchett throws in an awful lot of funny detail in: we get a send-up of Zeno and his paradox, a mockery of the whole notion of \\"pyramid power\\" (subject of many silly pseudo-science books that I remember from my childhood), and a nasty but mathematically inclined camel... in other words, a whole lot of bits and pieces with \\"Laugh! This is funny!\\" stamped on them... but they aren't, and I didn't. Teppic is never developed further as a character; although as the new pharaoh himself, he finds his orders constantly reinterpreted by his high priest. This makes for good satire of Egyptian government but results in a situation where nothing Teppic says or does really seems to matter. Teppic's love interest, Ptraci, is even less interesting; she is described as a voluptuous handmaiden schooled in the exotic arts of love, and scented with intoxicating perfumes. But rather than give her anything interesting to say or do, Pratchett simply takes her off-stage for most of the book, and focuses instead on nerdy quantum instabilities, reanimated mummies, a parody of the Trojan Wars, the Sphinx, the internal squabbles of the high priests, a bevy of bizarre gods, and a mishmash of other distracting details. Erotica is not Pratchett's style, and I wasn't expecting a real X-rated Kama Sutra send-up, but we don't get even a budding romance or a love-hate relationship; instead, we get a disappointing plot twist that effectively neuters the characters. Although I admire some of Pratchett's big ideas in this book about Egyptian culture's obsession with death and time, and found the story of Teppic's assassin's guild examination to be fun reading, the book ultimately becomes quite dull and hard to finish. This is a shame, because there is a the seed of a very good Discworld novel about Teppic the Reluctant Assassin buried in here, and that would have been much more fun to read. For a far better Discworld standalone read _The Truth_ instead.	2004-06-15
US	52660557	R2IE4QETNNXSB2	0061059056	514374276	Hogfather (Discworld)	Books	2	6	23	N	N	One of the Weakest Discworld Novels	An incoherent mess. When a crazed asassin is hired by the Auditors to bring down the Hogfather, the reduction in overall belief allows new gods to pop into being as quickly as they are thought up: the \\"oh god\\" (the god of hangovers), the god of indigestion, a sock-eating fairy, and a miscellany of vicious childhood fears all come to life. Death has to take on the Hogfather's job so that people will keep believing in him. This setup has humor potential -- the pagan roots of Christmas could have made for an interesting subject -- but this book comes off as entirely too dark and mean; it plays at presenting a real philosophy, but this is really just a kind of cover or excuse glued on to a wretched excess of weak storytelling and bad editing. The humor features enemas, urinating pigs, vomiting gods, horrifying gluttony, a deranged crow constantly on the hunt for eyeballs to eat, and is largely just distasteful, a kind of Grand Guignol of snow, holly and mistletoe. Teatime is a vicious sociopath. Susan, Death's granddaughter, plays a major role here, and she's a great character, but not likable enough to make the whole book enjoyable. Worst of all, the Hogfather himself doesn't ever actually make an appearance as himself, but only as a sort of mythological object; we never do find out quite what happened to him and how how the army of mind-controlled children actually brought him down. Instead of this much-needed basic storytelling and characterization we get pliers-wielding tooth fairies and developmentally disabled thieves. The effect is rather like the trick played on the diners at a fine restaurant: instead of the delicacies on the menu, they get boiled shoe leather in mud sauce, but like the average reviewer on Amazon, the diners seem unable to taste the difference. Pratchett does supply his usual quota of great puns, and there are funny moments in this book, but speaking as someone who is more cynical about Christmas than just about anyone I know: Pratchett must truly despise the holiday to give us this steaming pile of... um, holiday cheer.	2004-05-31
US	52660557	R3C3RLOT46VRMU	0441003257	624269601	Good Omens	Books	3	3	11	N	N	American Gods and Neverwhere are Better	I was hoping this would be very good, given how much I liked American Gods, but it isn't. The angel characters are funny, as is the young Antichrist and his dog, but the world just doesn't come into focus very well. Too much of the plot hinges on way-out last-second magical intervention.	2004-05-17
US	52660557	R1BWU14E7V8RQ7	0061020397	545755908	Carpe Jugulum (Discworld)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Funnier than Lords and Ladies	Funnier than Lords and Ladies, we also get some Igor. The vampires are done well; these are modern vampires (&quot;vampyres,&quot;) and there is a reason they tend to resemble Marilyn Manson wannabees. The pixies are great, the young priest is great, and the pop-horror and pop-horror-parody references come thick and fast. Granny Weatherwax features in this one and saves the day as usual, but it isn't quite clear exactly how (she has a talent for &quot;borrowing&quot; in which she can leave her body and take over animals, but in this case she apparently puts a bit of herself into a number of different people; this is a bit too &quot;magical&quot; for my taste, and seems to violate the spirit of Discworld, where magic is real, but has specific limits and constraints). If you don't care about consistency, though, this is not a bad choice.	2004-05-17
US	52660557	R2OPXIVNPM5LIG	0061020672	469869447	Sourcery	Books	2	1	7	N	N	Read Equal Rites Instead	The back cover makes it sound like this is a sequel to The Color of Magic (\\"when last seen... Rincewind had fallen off the edge of the world\\"), but it instead appears to follow The Light Fantastic. We've got the luggage again, the Librarian, a magic hat, and a storyline involving a \\"sourceror\\" (a sort of super-wizard of the sort long gone from the disc). There are some moderately funny barbarian characters Conina (daughter of Cohen the Barbarian), and Nijel (a young boy who has apparently mail ordered a book on how to become a barbarian hero), but they are somewhat under-used. There are some alternate-universe science fiction cliches; the funniest involves the potential infinite regress of carrying a Djinn's magic lamp into the magic lamp itself; if you like Escher, it won't be anything new to you. A lot of the action takes place in Klatch, and there are lots of silly references to the Rubaiyat, 1001 Arabian Nights, flying carpets, etc. I'd describe this as a perfectly adequate but completely lackluster Discworld book, with little in it to stick in the mind; in particular, there's very little character-building, world-building digression or significant detail. It reads as if it was written from an outline, and barely fleshed out. In a few months, I doubt if I'll be able to remember much about it. Pratchett fails to achieve any real dramatic tension, partly because there are no clear limits to the Sourceror's power; he's able to easily dispatch the Disc gods and bring on the apocralypse (yes, I spelled that right; in the Discworld, the apocalypse is probably apocryphal). In typical Rincewind fashion we mostly try to avoid danger until the Sourceror's storyline plays itself out. This book does end having left Rincewind in an interesting state, though: he's trapped in the Dungeon Dimensions, having (rather uncharacteristically) thrown himself into grave danger in order to save the young Sourceror. The luggage goes with him, thank God; now, if only it would stay there.It's a shame that when we finally see Rincewind do something interestingly out-of-character, or perhaps revealing a bit of depth to his character, the book is ending.	2004-05-17
US	52660557	R25OV6YHIHRP7U	0061020648	390521147	Guards! Guards!	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An Excellent Start for the City Watch Discworld Novels	In my humble opinion, the novels about the city watch are the most consistently excellent subset of the Discworld novels, and well worth reading in order. This is the first, and introduces Vimes, an interesting character destined for great things. This book is also a great introduction to Pratchett's humor; where most fantasy novels would give us impressive, glittering beasts with no grounding in physics, in _Guards! Guards!_ we first meet \\"real\\" dragons, the swamp dragons: noisy, gurgling creatures capable of eating anything flammable and producing flame via worrying chemical reactions in their complex, gurgling digestive tracts. Unfortunately this also endows them with an unnerving tendency to explode messily when startled. The \\"noble dragon,\\" by comparison, summoned by magic, seems rather unreal -- how could a creature that heavy actually fly around? But that is the point: the city watch books are the least magical of the Discworld novels, and this means they are not as outrageously funny as some of the others, but they are the most grounded and convincing satires about _this_ world. We meet Lady Sybil, who will be the great woman behind Vimes, helping him to become a great man, and Carrot, a human raised by dwarves who is an innocent abroad, without prejudices, and an oddly heroic born leader. All together it is quite a mismatched crew, but somehow it all works, and watching the whole crew lurch to life is entrancing.	2004-05-17
US	52660557	R3501SLO1JHWGM	0061020702	727722067	The Light Fantastic	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Better than #1, but Skip It	The plot continues unbroken from the first book, but Pratchett's style has settled down dramatically into more-or-less its current form. This one is not episodic but a single story; it moves well, it is fairly funny, and the main plot line involves the Discworld's arrival at a giant, menacing red star, the spell stuck in Rincewind's head, the gender of A'Tuin, the great turtle, and the reading of the Octavo, the most powerful magic book. We visit Death; we meet Cohen the Barbarian. At this point I'm fed up hearing about the Luggage; Pratchett's insistence on trying to make an animated trunk funny and menacing just bores me. The story concludes in a satisfying way, and we find out why pretty much the whole gang of wizards from Unseen University, introduced in the first book, is replaced by a new gang of wizards in the later books. While this one is decent, it is a continuation of the wretched first book, so I'd only read it if you're feeling up to taking on the whole Rincewind sequence, in order.	2004-05-17
US	52660557	RIIZR46YERHRF	0061057649	861145707	Feet of Clay (Discworld)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Worthy Addition to the Watch Sequence	Someone is poisoning the Patrician of Ankh-Morpork, and Vimes must solve the mystery. This is the basic plot of _Feet of Clay_, and it is a serviceable plot; it gives this Discworld book more structure than many of them, ensuring that there is enough of a story to support all the digressions and subplots. These digressions, along with Pratchett's good use of the minor City Watch characters, are the tidbits that make this Discworld book so much fun. I enjoyed especially the College of Heraldry and the bad jokes and Latin puns found on the heraldic devices. This is the kind of comic detail that is hard work, but really fleshes out Pratchett's world. We meet Cheery Littlebottom, a dwarf who joins the city watch and is apprenticed to Angua and whose experience in alchemy makes her a natural as a kind of forensic crime-scene investigator, and we experience some of the details of life in the Patrician's castle. We also meet the golems of Discworld, and face the interesting moral dilemmas inherent in a labor uprising and civil rights movement among beings that are essentially animated pottery.	2004-05-17
US	52660557	RVQEA8JOYQD26	0061092193	308641592	Men at Arms	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Not the Best of the Watch Sequence	A disgruntled aristocrat steals a mysterious weapon (a rifle) from the assasin's guild and inflicts a reign of terror on Ankh-Morpork as he becomes a sniper. Features more of Carrot; Carrot and Angua get together. The minor characters (Nobby, Detritus, etc.) are also featured extensively. Has some funny and twisted material on the Clown's guild and the city's gargoyles. Not quite as tight as the others, and a bit too much of a morality play on firearms, so it gets demoted slightly, but essential if you're now hooked on the Night Watch stories.	2004-05-17
US	52660557	R2U2Y1EH1D0XGM	0061020664	260706411	Wyrd Sisters	Books	4	2	4	N	N	One of Pratchett's best efforts	Plays off MacBeth. Since I read these hopelessly out-of-order, it is nice to go back and figure out just how the former Jester became King and Magrat his (eventual) queen. The old King Verrence is murdered, but his ghost gets to hang around and haunt the castle, and his son is spirited away to join a troupe of roving actors and a dwarf playwright. This one moves well and finishes well (finishing well is kind of unusual for a Discworld novel), there are quite a few great puns, and we get to know the three witches better. It is up-to-the-eyeballs in Shakespearean references, avoids being too pat, and ranks as one of Pratchett's best efforts.	2004-05-17
US	52660557	R1A1740QHJDWZM	006105691X	114801696	Maskerade (Discworld )	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Among the Best of Discworld	This Discworld novel plays off Phantom of the Opera. Granny Weatherwax and Nanny Ogg set off to Ankh-Morpork to find out why they have not received royalties due Nanny for her best-selling cookbook of naughty erotic and aphrodisiac delicacies, and to check up on Agnes Nitt, who has gone to seek her fortune and is singing in the background for a young airheaded opera starlet who looks good in a sequined costume, in a sort of Milli-Vanilli scenario. She has not yet joined the coven, but has found she doesn't seem to fit in anywhere else; her alter-ego, Perdita, is also not yet developed into the alternate personality it becomes in later books. This one is quite funny, and the plot moves along well. There's a pseudo-Italian imposter tenor, Greebo makes an hilarious appearance in human form, and we get to experience a lot of Granny, my favorite witch character. It loses a star only because it dissipates some of its energy on one too many minor characters and subplots.	2004-05-17
US	52660557	R1DXP31BYJ4MNY	0061020710	181852028	The Color of Magic	Books	1	30	51	N	N	Skip Ahead to Later Discworld	The first Discworld book; I borrowed it from the library and read it for curiosity's sake. It makes me really appreciate how far Pratchett's writing has come. Although a lot of the typical Discworld elements are here, most of them fall flat. It is broken into chapters, more like distinct short stories, and they vary wildly also. (Perhaps this is why Pratchett now does not use chapter breaks?) The first story introduces Rincewind, Twoflower, and life in Ankh-Morpork, and starts off the book fairly well. By the third we are stuck in a very muddled, uninteresting story involving dragons, and the language veers wildly back and forth between the Pratchett we've come to know and love, and badly cliched serious fantasy. Pratchett doesn't seem to know which way to turn to get through this one. The fourth segment redeems itself slightly but ends in a cliffhanger. If you can get through this without grinding your teeth, you're a tougher reader than I am (or you've just got a tin ear for bad dialog). My recommendation is to skip the first two, and perhaps all the Rincewind books entirely, and start with Equal Rites or the standalone The Truth.	2004-05-17
US	52660557	R3ORWIC3BUF6K1	006001315X	224677970	Monstrous Regiment: A Novel of Discworld	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Serious Satire or Slapstick?	In far-off Borogravia, the kingdom is at war and has used up its supply of male cannon fodder, and so it is up to the girls to protect the motherland. Our hero(ine) Polly joins up, and winds up in a regiment containing a vampire, an Igor, and a troll, and with several other members who are, predictably, not quite what they seem. There is a great critique of militarism and military culture buried in here, and Borogravian society is a great send-up of theocracy in which the god Nuggan is suffocating his followers in endless new commandments about things to avoid. Then there's the mysterous and creepy Duchess: the book gets an extra half-point for some unexpected genuine spookiness. Reviewers are calling this Pratchett's best book to date. I'm not sure I agree, but I acknowledge that over his last few books he has become a satirist to take seriously, if that makes any sense; I think it yields mixed results when this is a writer whose appeal comes largely from his wordplay and humor; I'm not sure he can quite pull off both Jonathan Swift and Mark Twain at the same time. As is usual in his books, the final plot twists and surprises are not very interesting by the time we get to them. Vimes, Angua, Otto, William de Worde, and an Igor show up, and so it all makes more sense if you've read Fifth Elephant, The Truth, or Carpe Jugulum, but this is best thought of as a standalone.	2004-05-17
US	52660557	R7GORWWT4KH7Z	0061031321	461879486	Thief of Time (Discworld)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Best of Discworld	This is partly a Death story, but it can stand alone; it is, in part, a great spoof on western society's fascination with Tibet and Buddhism, and quite funny. It is probably my single favorite Discworld novel so far, and I have only a small handful remaining to read. Jeremy Clockson is an obsessive-compulsive clockmaker who has to stay on his medication or his mind goes a little bit off the rails. He is commissioned to build a clock, and not just any clock, and is even sent an Igor to help him. Meanwhile, the monk Lu-Tze has taken on an apprentice from the thieves' guild. Unlike a lot of the Pratchett books, in this one the various plots remain coherent and the ending actually brings it all together (and gives new meaning to the phrase \\"death by chocolate\\").	2004-05-17
US	52660557	R2W3O3U1JAXSYV	0061056901	746993744	Interesting Times (Discworld)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Funniest Rincewind book, but not the best of Discworld	A spoof on China, the Great Wall, and what was really going on with all those terra-cotta soldiers. I like Rincewind's talent for languages; given that Chinese is a tonal language, it takes him three or four tries to correctly pronounce each new word he learns. Includes Cohen the Barbarian, and the various attempts to teach the Silver Horde to be civilized are very funny, if not exactly the stuff of serious fiction. I read this out of order, and was not familiar with Twoflower from previous books so some of the characters are not familiar; if you're going to read it, it would help to have read at least The Light Fantastic first (but I just can't recommend that book).	2004-05-17
US	52660557	R1F6C75PLZOZZS	006102063X	51458965	Moving Pictures	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Second-tier Discworld	This Discworld novel is a spoof of the early days of Hollywood, with lots and lots of movie references. Gaspode the talking dog, who was introduced here, is a big asset to the book. Peripherally tied to the Rincewind stories via the wizards, and the Night Watch stories via \\"cut me own throat\\" Dibbler, it is primarily a standalone, and not one of the better ones: when the most interesting character is a dog, you know something is not quite right.	2004-05-17
US	52660557	R1NDV0NEF020IQ	0061056928	450739532	Lords and Ladies	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Not the Best of the Witches Books	This Discworld novel, part of the Witches subset, plays off of A Midsummer Night's Dream. Lancre is invaded by elves, and the only good elf is a dead elf. (In other words, they are uninteresting, unconvincing characters). This book features Magrat and Nanny Ogg; Nanny is very funny in this one. The elves show up too late in the story, and the subplots tend to derail the action. The wizards show up in Lancre along with the Librarian (in orangutan form). The dwarf Casanunda has a candlelight dinner with Nanny Ogg and the Arch-chancellor has a heart-to-heart talk with Granny Weatherwax: these parts are very funny, but they can't make the whole book work well. Still, it is part of the Witches sequence, and these, along with the City Watch sequence, are some of the better Discworld books, and Pratchett should get credit for bringing in the wizards, who work better as minor characters than they do as the protagonists of the Rincewind books.	2004-05-17
US	52660557	R2VJ8XZYAAAK99	0380818191	476581890	The Truth (Discworld)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Best Discworld Standalone So Far	This book is somewhat tied to the City Watch sequence which starts with _Guards! Guards!_, but can easily stand alone; I recommend it highly, and it would be an excellent introduction to the Discworld books. This is the story of the founding of a tabloid newspaper in Ankh-Morpork, and its inevitable rivals. There are very engaging characters and funny sidekicks including a vampire named Otto, who joins the crew as a photographer but has an unfortunate tendency to crumble into dust when exposed to bright flashes of light, and some really inept bad guys. Gaspode the dog shows up, as do members of the City Watch. The satire of tabloid journalism is wonderful, as is the clash between William de Worde's idealism and his need to make money.	2004-05-17
US	52660557	R3VK9MLH4CNZFD	0061020400	847958713	The Fifth Elephant (Discworld)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	One of the Better Books about Vimes	Vimes is now at the pinnacle of his career, and is sent by the Patrician to the city of Bonk in Uberwald as ambassador Vimes, Duke of Ankh-Morpork. This book goes deeper into dwarf culture, and we learn more about the importance of baked goods and why the Dwarf Bread Museum is so fascinating to Carrot. There is also a fair dose of satirical politics to be found here: just like America needs oil, Ankh-Morpork needs fat, and the finest fat, mostly free of BCBs (burnt crunchy bits) comes from the deep fat mines in Bonk. We also get to learn more about the Igors and Angua's strange, strange family. The down side to this book: as in Night Watch, Vimes is pushed and pulled madly by plot elements all around him, but we never really see him stretched.	2004-05-17
US	52660557	R1ODPJ74ZXDG5Z	0061020699	863190678	Equal Rites	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Better than Sourceror, but not the best of Discworld	This an early, shorter Discworld novel (number 3), but it is notably better than Sourcery (number 5), which has a similar plot. As a baby, young Eskarina, the 8th \\"son\\" of an 8th son, is given a staff and power by a dying wizard who discovers, too late, that she is actually a daughter. Granny Weatherwax takes the girl under her wing as an apprentice witch, but it eventually becomes clear that young Eskarina must learn wizardry to control her powers. Granny's scenes are the best parts of this book: she seems to be Pratchett's earliest, best-developed, and favorite witch. Eskarina's dialogs with adults she meets along the journey are very funny, but we don't get to see her character develop very well. Pratchett's puns are in fine form in this book. The story's point, which seems to be about the separate-but-equal nature of witch and wizard magic, becomes confused and diluted; the sexist wizards, who are openly contemptuous of the idea of a female wizard, are never really shown up, and although Granny muses repeatedly about her distaste for wizard magic, she eventually winds up in a wizard's duel with Archchancellor Cutangle of Unseen University in which she matches him spell-for-spell. Is a witch really a wizard with extra psychic powers and practical skills in herbalism, \\"headology,\\" and the good sense to know when to use psychology instead of magic? In that case, it is the wizards that are the simplistic, sexist stereotype, and I fail to see the value in fighting sexist stereotypes with different sexist stereotypes. As happens with frustrating frequency in Pratchett's novels, the ending becomes somewhat muddled: Eskarina is largely ignored in favor of scenes between Granny and Cutangle, and as the book winds up, she has yet to learn to read her first wizard spell, and a potentially interesting character, the powerful young wizard, Simon, is somewhat wasted as the story ends, like Sourcery, in a random spectacle of excess magic.	2004-05-17
US	52660557	R38HT10JR0YLNY	0061020621	690753180	Reaper Man	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Read Mort Instead	A disappointment compared to the much more successful Mort: a less engaging Death, and an unrelentingly grim world view. Some cleverness (Death winds up working as a farmhand; he's an expert with a scythe, even though he insists on cutting the grain one stem at a time). Even the comic-relief wizards aren't all that funny in this one. The elderly Windle Poons finally dies, and he's a far more interesting character than death, but still undeveloped. Wizards thrown in for comic relief don't do a very good job of it. There's a subplot involving the secret life cycle of shopping malls, but it doesn't work very well.	2004-05-17
US	52660557	R20RCC25OC3S4Q	0061059064	694992048	Jingo (Discworld)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Deft and Humorous Critique of Invasion as Diplomacy	A mysterious island appearing in the sea is claimed by both Ankh-Morpork and Al-Khali, capital of Klatch. Features an assasination, investigation by Carrot and Angua, a really annoying Palm Pilot, and a parody of Leonardo da Vinci. Makes good use of the minor Watch characters like Nobby, and includes a a lot of silliness blended with deft touches of anti-war sentiment (this could easily have become heavy-handed and unpleasant to wade through). On the down side, there are too many simultaneous plot lines, and it will not work well if you haven't read at least one or two of the other books in this sequence.	2004-05-17
US	52660557	RZB2YHZV3HH46	0061059072	199937184	The Last Continent	Books	2	0	2	N	N	With Any Luck, the Last Rincewind Book	This was the first Pratchett book I read, and my original review is on Amazon; I still stand by it, but have revised my rating downward after reading the rest of the Discworld novels. It is funny in parts and full of pop-culture references, but does not hold together as a story. There isn't much plot, or, rather, there is far too much to pay attention to. Rincewind is not a character in this book so much as an excuse to roam around Australia; the wizards of Unseen University show up, but if you don't already know them, or even if you do, you'll find their characters quite poorly differentiated. _Interesting Times_ and _The Light Fantastic_ are better Rincewind novels, but I would recommend spending your valuable free time reading the the City Watch or Witches Discworld novels instead.	2004-05-17
US	52660557	R3AN8A5BQYEOQI	0060013125	591200758	Night Watch (Discworld)	Books	3	0	4	N	N	Stuck Somewhere Between Funny and Serious	While his wife is in labor, Vimes accidentally goes back in time while chasing an arch-criminal and meets his younger self, taking on the role of an unsung hero of one of the revolutions in Ankh-Morpork. We meet a young Patrician and Nobby. The Monks of Time make cameos, but are under-used. This book is more serious than the usual Discworld novel and contains a lot of meditation on the nature of duty, responsibility, and heroism. It would seem that a whole book going deep into Vimes' past and psychology would be interesting, but I agree with one of the reviewers on Amazon; if you already know Vimes, you'll find that he never really surprises you in this book. I'd give it four stars if it were either funnier _or_ a better serious novel. As in a lot of Pratchett, many scenes in this story cry out for a stronger sense of place and evocative detail; there's too much telling and not enough showing. It wouldn't make a good introduction to Discworld; for that, try _The Truth_.	2004-05-17
US	52660557	R2VS0LDPE4KRHF	0061020680	116769240	Mort	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Second-funniest Death book to date	This is the story of Death and his young sidekick, Mort. There are lots of nice details about life in Ankh-Morpork as well as various hinterlands. The coming-of-age aspect is nicely done, with Mort proceeding from an inept farmhand to become Death's apprentice and eventually his rival. Like Pratchett's best Discworld novels, there is a light touch of serious philosophical inquiry here about the nature of reality and just what would happen if you really could change history. When Death walks off the job, to wander Ankh-Morpork drinking top-shelf liquor and working as a short-order cook, the results are hilarious. The story is somewhat comparable to Piers Anthony's _On a Pale Horse_, but Anthony suffers by comparison for his lack of real world-building and his insufferable seriousness. The side characters here are great, and include Death's daughter, and his servant Albert, who turns out to be of more importance than he seems. As is unfortunately typical in Discworld books, the ending is a mad scramble to tie up loose ends, but this is still one of the better Discworld novels.	2004-05-17
US	52660557	R14911HRQJ1K09	0470846747	599532840	The C++ Standard: Incorporating Technical Corrigendum No. 1	Books	2	25	30	N	N	the content you want, nice paper, poor binding	I'm not going to review the content; if you know what this is (the formal standard for the C++ programming language) you know that standards are written in dense, formal language, but that at times, no other source of information about the language will do; this is the primary source. If you claim to be an expert on C++ and write a lot of code, eventually you will probably have to look something up in the standard.<br />But after looking at a copy close up, I no longer want to purchase it. Why? <br />While the paper is acid-free and reasonably thick, the binding is one of the poorest I've ever seen in a hardback book. <br />I'm not an expert on book-binding, but most of the hardcover books in my professional library (such as Refactoring, Design Patterns, The C++ Programming Language Special Edition, and various other books from Addison-Wesley and other vendors) have a sturdy strip of cloth embedded in the binding and are strongly glued in place.<br />This book, by comparison, had a thin cover, no cloth in the binding, and flimsy gluing; just flipping through some pages, I was afraid the pages were going to start falling out. A second copy had the same flimsy binding.<br />For $65.00 we deserve better. Even a solid paperback at this price would have been much more appealing. Steele's Common Lisp: the Language, 2nd edition is a thousand-page paperback, and much, much sturdier. Note to Wiley: just sell a fat paper binding for $50 and leave it at that, charge a few dollars more if you must and give us a book that will last a few years. Don't try to con us with an expensive hardcover which is in reality flimsier than any other programming book on my shelves!	2004-03-09
US	52660557	R2X53KHHOB4RZX	0061059072	199937184	The Last Continent	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Witty and very imaginative, but incoherent	I decided to give Terry Pratchett a shot after reading A.S. Byatt's comments in the New York Times on Harry Potter; she raves about Pratchett. I'm a long-time science fiction and fantasy reader. I had just finished the first 5 Harry Potter books along with my son, and understood what Byatt was talking about when she criticized the series: in my not-very-humble opinion, the Potter books are far too tame, and fail to give that impression of a true and untamed world beyond the boundaries of the book.<br />I read the Last Continent, and I was amused: Pratchett's writing is very witty, his sentences dynamic, and he has an eye for the improbable and ludicrous. His world is close enough to our world for just about everything to stand as good satire, and he basks in nearly, but not quite, bringing in obvious modern cultural references directly, such as nods to the film &quot;Priscilla, Queen of the Desert.&quot; His mockery of academia is dead-on. Australian culture (&quot;not really Australia,&quot; as the book jacket informs us) gets skewered and he mocks everything from the invention of Marmite to meat pies served with mushy peas and tomato sauce to how the platypus really came to be. (It was, as it appears, designed by committee). Discword seems to really be a very rich place in which just about anything can happen, and does... but this makes it also seems to lack rules, and a world in which anything can happen without any internal consistency or reason starts to feel a little uninteresting, as if it were more a playground for the author than designed for the reader.<br /> In particular, Pratchett introduces a half-dozen characters at once, and they are insufficiently differentiated. We're apparently supposed to know all about them from earlier books, but yet I was told you don't have to read the Discworld books in order. That's sloppy. There is really only a very vague sense of plot. Two parallel stories meet up at the end, but both stories individually just kind of bumble along from one bizarre happening to another without much of a sense of urgency. It seems unbelievable given the ridiculous things happening all around us, but the story becomes dull. There are a lot of references to Australian aboriginal culture and rock drawings and creation myths, but it never quite gels. I really like the games Pratchett plays with time: the &quot;last continent&quot; is many thousands of years old, but only showed up a few minutes ago. There's a god of evolution, who is busy cranking out new creations at a dizzying rate. The world spins around the characters and changes paragraph by paragraph and it is all very funny, and suggestive of a larger imaginative structure where the reader can feel at home, but ultimately it seems to collapse like an imploding cave and we're left back where we started without much to show for the trip.<br />Douglas Adams used this same form in his early books, and did it better. This book reads like the later Adams book &quot;So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish,&quot; in which the narrator admits that &quot;there was a point to this story, but it has temporarily escaped the chronicler's mind.&quot;<br />I'm giving Pratchett another chance, though; I'm now reading Good Omens, to see if working with a coauthor gives his storytelling a little bit of much-needed discipline. If that goes well, I'll give the Discworld books another shot... there are a lot more of them to choose from!	2003-08-12
