US	52664014	R264PNWZR3WTNT	0375503803	332508756	Sailing Alone Around the Room: New and Selected Poems	Books	5	136	142	N	N	Wonderful poetry for people ambivalent about poety.	I'm one of those readers who finds most poetry to be maddenly opaque, filled with mostly ambiguous and meaningless words.  Dante's Inferno is a masterpiece, but he gave us something to sink our teeth into.  Some of Robert Frost's poems are wonderful.  But most poetry leaves me frustrated and unfulfilled.  I don't blame the poets or the poems--they just don't do it for me. Give me some good, meaty prose, something with a real plot and strong sinewy words to chew on, and I'm a happy reader.<br />Then someone suggested I give Billy Collins a try, so I invested $20+ on his recent collection entitled &quot;Sailing Around the Room.&quot; (mostly poems from his prior collections, but with twenty or so new ones).  <br />What can I say?  In the two days since I bought this volume, I've read each of the poems several times.  Collins is humorous, insightful, and even his ambiguities are delicious. But beneath the humor lies some deep insights into humanity, a sense of sadness amid our passage through life (the last lines in &quot;November&quot; are heartbreaking).  Many of his poems are wry commentaries on the creative process. <br />If you've ever owned a dog, his &quot;Dharma&quot; is a revelation,  you'll gain a new appreciation for snow from reading &quot;Snow&quot; or &quot;Snow Day,&quot; you'll never look at someone listening to a disc player the same way after you've read &quot;Man Listening to Disc,&quot; and you'll never pick up a Victoria's Secret catalog again without examining it through the humorous eyes of &quot;Victoria's Secret.&quot; <br />I loved this volume and I'll read it over and over.  It's everything I have described above, but above all things, it's wise.  Collins has enough of life under his belt to understand its humor, its tragedy, its joy, and its rhythms.  And he has the voice to make it all real for the reader.<br />Even if you hate poetry, buy this book.	2001-10-01
US	52664014	R1EMXHRUZ57FX3	067091021X	43461769	Year of Wonders: A Novel of the Plague	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Superb book with flaws	If I had rated Year of Wonders with 20 pages to go, my five star rating would have been unequivocal.  To that point, this book delivered on every level.  Unfortunately, the denouement was a little to convenient and way too 20th century in its sensibility.  I don't want to give away any plot points, but it was almost like Brooks felt compelled to break the spell of the 17th Century with some 20th century &quot;having it all&quot; thinking. I just don't feel that anyone with Anna's background and experience (life-changing though they were) would be where she was (either physically or psychologically) when the book ended.<br />Having said all that, I highly recommend this book to anyone who likes beautiful writing (this may be Brooks' first novel, but she writes like a dream)and the feeling of being transported into another time and place--if you want to feel good about living in the age of antibiotics, read this book.  <br />Anna is a great character, and is rendered in a wonderfully intimate manner by Brooks. Other characters shine as well (most notably the luminous Elinor).  <br />So, despite my minor, but not completely insignificant, quibble, I hope this book is widely read.	2001-09-29
US	52664014	R3IBEPTCFCV2UH	0743410513	605962018	The Unburied	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Not easy, but ultimately satisfying	Several years ago I had the great pleasure of reading Charles Palliser's magum opus, the Quincunx.  As a long devotee of Dickens, I found this great book to be a wonderful re-creation of the world of Dickens.  When the Unburied was published, I immediately bought it.  Twice I was able to make my way to about page 100, but for various reasons never made it beyond that point.  It simply didn't pull me all the way in and I let myself be drawn to other books and other demands of life.  <br />Ten days ago I decided that I was going to finish the book, come hell or high water.  I'm glad I did because it's a very good novel.  Once I made it to page 150 I was hooked and finished the book in a large gulp.<br />This novel requires patience and an ability to keep a lot of facts and clues straight.  There is a multi-leveled story set in the Victorian times involving a murder, a literary mystery about King Alfred, a recounting of cathedral politics in the 17th century, a fairy tale, and several other sub-plots.  <br />In the end, the read is well worth the effort.  Palliser is particularly good at creating atmosphere ( in this case dark, foggy and wet) and in fleshing out memorable characters.  <br />But this isn't a book for those who want a quick, easy read.  However, if you're willing to invest some effort, I recommend the book.	2001-09-17
US	52664014	RGAVY2RIT0QCZ	0679777482	931852549	Checkmate: Book Six in the Legendary Lymond Chronicles	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Checkmate is  a triumph	Over the last six months, I've slowly made my way through this wonderful series.  But I read the last 250 pages of Checkmate in a large gulp.  My feelings are mixed, primarily because I know my imagination will have to fill in the rest of the lives of Lymond and Philippa. But at the same time, Checkmate is a perfect ending to one of the greatest achievements in historical fiction.  All of the loose ends are tied up--and, as in all great works, the triumph is tinged with sadness and some tragedy.<br />Dunnett's writing, at times, can be maddeningly difficult and opaque.  But reading and re-reading with patience almost always ends in illumination.  This is no series for the faint of heart.  Prepare yourself for some real investment as you read, but the reward is worth it.  The reader comes away with the feeling that he or she has climbed a tall mountain (and feels the triumph of a difficult task well accomplished).  Most fiction today is little more than a slight uphill walk.<br />Checkmate successfully resolves a myriad of plot twists that have built over the the last four novels of the series.  Dunnett has built a brilliant plot--the twists and turns of the last 100 pages were at least nail-biting and always surprising.  <br />But the plot, great as it was, ultimately became secondary to some of the most compelling characters in fiction.  In the end, the characters made it all for me.  Lymond is, of course, the centerpiece.  Other reviewers have written about his many facets and I concur.  But the character that made the series, and in particular Checkmate, is Philippa.  There's an old saw in the literary world that you can't make a &quot;good&quot; character interesting.  In the case of Philippa it's wrong.  She is good in every sense of the word--loyal, loving, willing to fight for those she loves and willing the sacrifice even more.  I'm not sure Dunnett intended it, but I felt that she dominated every scene she was in.<br />Dunnett also created a huge cast of other great characters: Sybilla, Marthe, Jerott, Archie, etc. etc.  Even the bad guys are terrifically drawn:  Margaret Lennox, Leonard Bailey.  All highly individual, all highly memorable.<br />What is amazing to me is that Checkmate was published in 1974.  The recent New York Times Book Review article on Dunnett brought these books to my attention.  One can only hope that the visibility of Dunnett's work will only grow in the years ahead.	2001-07-24
US	52664014	R26K26J6BL2OZ0	0679777466	25336446	Pawn in Frankincense: Book Four in the Legendary Lymond Chronicles	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The Best of Lymond	I've now read five of the six books in the Lymond series and Pawn is the best.  It is filled with action (Lymond's knife fights in the surf of North Africa with his arch-enemy), changes of scene (from Europe to Tripoli to Greece to Constantinople), double crosses, danger (Philippa in the harem), and one of the most compelling scenes in historical fiction (the live chess game).<br />These books are hard--there's nothing easy about them, but they are the best of historical fiction--true to the history, but plotted to make you anxious to keep going.  Beneath the surface are some interrelatiohships (e.g., Lymond and Marthe) that are enigmatic, to say the least.  All of these give reason to keep reading to the end.<br />While I'm no historian of the middle ages, I have the impression which others confirm that Dunnett is giving us as accurate a picture of a long past era as we're likely to get from modern writers.<br />This is a real triumph in the art of historical fiction.	2001-06-18
US	52664014	R2LNWDI8ZMRMDD	0679777474	745159291	The Ringed Castle: Book Five in the legendary Lymond Chronicles	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Philippa is a great character!	Most reviews of the Lymond series focus on Francis Crawford of Lymond, the enigmatic, often-tortured central character around whom all the other characters revolve.  This isn't surprising because he is the central player on the stage.  But my favorite character is Philippa, not just because she is genuinely good, but because whenever she enters a scene, it simply begins to sparkle.<br />Dorothy Dunnett obviously feels a great love for Philpipa because she gives her the best lines and gave her a marvelous sense of humor.  She is a wonderful character, both funny and wise.  But her greatest attribute is her strong moral character, her desire to do the right thing.  In the prior novel, her desire to save Lymond's son caused to her to risk everything--not everyone would become a member of a harem in an effort to save a life.  In Ringed Castle, her desire to reconcile Lymond with his family causes her to place herself at great risk.  <br />With regard to Ringed Castle, I didn't find it as consistently compelling as Pawn in Frankincense, but it is still a wonderful book, particularly the haunting and tragic voyage back to England and the last 100 pages at the English court.<br />I have a tinge of sadness in the realization that I have only one more installment to see how it all ends, to see if Philippa can ultimately tame Lymond.<br />Luckily, this series is so strong on many levels I can look forward to many productive and enjoyable re-readings.	2001-06-14
US	52664014	R2S0LJZF5U2B4F	0679777458	540747022	The Disorderly Knights: Book Three in the legendary Lymond Chronicles	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Another wonderful Lymond installment.	The Disorderly Knights is a wonderful addition to Dorothy Dunnett's Lymond Chronicles.  These books are truly wondrous creations on many levels.<br />The scenes are beautifully wrought.  I just spent some time in Spain (both the Canary Islands and the mainland).  While I wasn't wasn't in Malta or Tripoli (the setting for major portions of this novel), I can say that Dunnett captures impeccably the atmosphere of southern Europe and the islands near it.  My next trip to Europe will include a sidetrip to Malta.<br />The plot is labyrinthine in the good sense: complex, but ultimately satisfying.<br />The characters are people you want to get to know better.  Lymond is perhaps the most complicated and enigmatic character I've run into in fiction.  I hope by the end of the sixth novel, I can say that I understand him to some degree.  In the meantime, trying to determine what makes him tick is a major part of the satisfaction of these great novels.  <br />The action sequences are simply brilliant.  The last set piece in the cathedral in Edinburgh is as good as it gets.  <br />What I don't understand is why &quot;Masterpiece Theatre&quot; hasn't figured out a way to dramatize the Lymond chronicles.  <br />Finally, I have a quibble with the reader who says that Dunnett's work is overrated. He compares them to Patrick O'Brian's series and makes the point that Dunnett's don't measure up as great historical fiction.  I love both series, but in very different ways.  But even if one were to conclude that O'Brian is the superior (which I don't), Dunnett's work stands so far above everyone else, it's a crime to give her work anything less than five stars.<br />These books are worthy of being read and re-read.	2001-04-19
US	52664014	R3JOM8FZUB4Y19	0679777458	540747022	The Disorderly Knights: Book Three in the legendary Lymond Chronicles	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Another wonderful Lymond installment.	The Disorderly Knights is a wonderful addition to Dorothy Dunnett's Lymond Chronicles.  These books are truly wondrous creations on many levels.<br />The scenes are beautifully wrought.  I just spent some time in Spain (both the Canary Islands and the mainland).  While I wasn't wasn't in Malta or Tripoli (the setting for major portions of this novel), I can say that Dunnett captures impeccably the atmosphere of southern Europe and the islands near it.  My next trip to Europe will include a sidetrip to Malta.<br />The plot is labyrinthine in the good sense: complex, but ultimately satisfying.<br />The characters are people you want to get to know better.  Lymond is perhaps the most complicated and enigmatic character I've run into in fiction.  I hope by the end of the sixth novel, I can say that I understand him to some degree.  In the meantime, trying to determine what makes him tick is a major part of the satisfaction of these great novels.  <br />The action sequences are simply brilliant.  The last set piece in the cathedral in Edinburgh is as good as it gets.  <br />What I don't understand is why &quot;Masterpiece Theatre&quot; hasn't figured out a way to dramatize the Lymond chronicles.  <br />Finally, I have a quibble with the reader who says that Dunnett's work is overrated. He compares them to Patrick O'Brian's series and makes the point that Dunnett's don't measure up as great historical fiction.  I love both series, but in very different ways.  But even if one were to conclude that O'Brian is the superior (which I don't), Dunnett's work stands so far above everyone else, it's a crime to give her work anything less than five stars.<br />These books are worthy of being read and re-read.	2001-04-19
US	52664014	R2JXG533W7MX8I	067977744X	922090577	Queens' Play: Book Two in the Legendary Lymond Chronicles	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Lymond as Secret Agent	I've now been drawn completely into the Byzantine world inhabited by Francis Lymond.  While I found Queen's Play to be bit less compelling than The Game of Kings, it's like saying one priceless gem is a bit less sparkling than another.  <br />In this book, Lymond has rehabilitated his reputation in Scotland (at least to the point that his brother is no longer trying to kill him).  Now Mary of Guise, the mother of the child queen Mary Queen of Scots, has asked him to go undercover in France to protect Mary from those who will try to end her life and thus change the political landscape in Europe.  The problem is that there are far too many who might be advantaged by her death.<br />Lymond thus appears in the guise of Irishman accompanying an Irish prince.  Needless to say, a million different things happen.  Lymond's actions and motivations are, as usual, a bit unclear at times, but he's always focused on his task.  So, we have fox hunts in which a cheetah plays a prominent role, the ultimate nighttime scavenger hunt on the rooftops of a French city, duels, near poisonings, and lots of drinking and singing in the French court.  <br />Lymond is surrounded by marvelously drawn characters.  Dunnett has the ability, like Dickens, to get you so focused on the complexity of her characters that often the plot becomes secondary.  You just want to get to know some of the most interesting characters in historical fiction. <br />This is a great series.	2001-03-19
US	52664014	REG9BU1X3MD9D	0679777431	999153365	The Game of Kings (Lymond Chronicles, 1)	Books	5	40	45	N	N	WOW!  Unbelievably good	There really is a pot of gold at the end of the rainbow.  I bought The Game of Kings after reading the recent article on Dorothy Dunnett in the NY Times Book Review.  I couldn't believe that anything as good as they described could have escaped by attention--I've had life long love affair with historical fiction.  But it had escaped by view and I'm almost giddy with the knowledge that there are five more in the Lymond series, then I can begin the Niccolo series.<br />I recently read Timeline by Michael Crichton, a story premised on 20th century scientists going back into medieval France.  It was a bad book and I never felt that the characters had gone back or that Crichton had any idea what life was really like back then.  Dunnett, on the other hand, not only convinces you that she knows the past, she transports you there.  Crichton's book probably would have been quite good if Dunnett had written it.  <br />Dunnett's prose is not easy  to read--it requires your absolute attention and a good dictionary close at hand, but the rewards are enormous.  <br />My biggest dilemma right now is whether to re-read this book and thereby unpeel the onion some more or plunge into Queen's Play, the second Lymond book (I'll probably do both simultaneously).  <br />While there are innumerable things I liked about this book, I'll focus on three of them:<br />1. The characterizations.  Rather than simply paint a character as good or evil when we first meet them, Dunnett slowly unfolds them a layer of time through what they do and say (and often by what they don't do or say).  In the end, the characters feel like real life humans, with both flaws and strengths.  I found the young blind woman, Christian Stewart, to be both complex and wonderful.  And Lymond has more layers that a wedding cake.<br />2. The prose.  Yes, it's difficult.  Yes, it's often ambiguous.  Yes, it's filled with obscure allusions and foregn phrases.  You don't need to understand them all the first time through.  But in the end, Dunnett is quite simply a wonderful stylist of the language.  One of the characters said this about a coming war: &quot;I don't like this war.  I don't like the cold-blooded scheming at the beginning and the carnage at the end and the grumbling and the jealousies and the pettishness in the middle.  I hate the lack of gallantry and grace; the self-seeking; the destruction of valuable people and things. I believe in danger and endeavour as a form of tempering but I reject it if this is the only shape it can take.&quot; That is great writing and very wise.<br />3. The Plot.  In the end, it's simply a great story, with more twists and turns than can be fully comprehended in one reading.  I read the last 150 pages in a big gulp.  <br />This is a great book--I'm sure it's a great series, one that will be right up there with Aubrey/Maturin.  The thing that will now keep me up nights is the question whether there is another great series out there, wonderful but undiscovered.	2001-02-09
US	52664014	R3HYDTHBFHPG79	0060987111	369056856	Brain Lock: Free Yourself from Obsessive-Compulsive Behavior	Books	2	17	30	N	N	Not as good as I thought it would be	I have suffered for about a year with obsessive thoughts about homosexuality, I hate them more than anything in the world and cannot get rest from them.  This book does little to address the nature of sexual obsessions it's always about hand washing or hoarding.  It also repeats itself constantly and never really gives the reader an active program to fight their obsessions.  The amount of real information about OCD minus all the stupid stories and constant reference back to their program at UCLA presented in this book would only fit in a pamphlet let alone a 200 page book.  I wouldn't waste my time with this book if I were you.	2001-02-03
US	52664014	R1T14IY5VNEWKY	0064407675	704463408	The Reptile Room (A Series of Unfortunate Events #2)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Horrible events humorously told	I wish I could say that I'm only twelve years old and that I look forward another sixty years of reading more and more chapters of the &quot;unfortunate events&quot; perpetrated on Violet, Klaus and Sunny. But, alas, I'm nearly fifty and am pretty sure that I won't have much more than 30-35 good years ahead of me to read these great stories.<br />But that will have to do.  I just hope Lemony Sickett, whoever he may be, will keep writing them because they're funny, clever and filled with droll insights that will entertain the twelve year olds and any adult who likes a well written and entertaining story.  My greatest regret is that my children are all mostly grown and I won't be able to read these stories to them.  There are enough chills and delightfully horrible events to keep the dullest kids happily entertained.  My youngest, a 15 year old, is peeved at me right now because I've taken too long to read the Reptile Room--he loved the first volume.<br />Furthermore, my 24 year old daughter (who also teaches 2nd grade) keeps bugging me to read it, so that the 15 year old can read it, so that she can get her hands on it.<br />The bottom line is that these stories are perfect for young readers, but they're great for anyone else who is looking for some innocently wicked good fun. <br />The drawings by Brett Helquist, a fellow Utahn, are terrific.	2001-01-18
US	52664014	R26P3PM4CPH0EA	0385475721	850910906	The Blind Assassin	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Atwood is the master of tragedy.	Like some others, I bought this great book, then set it aside because of negative reviews.  That was a big mistake, because The Blind Assassin is a great book and well deserves the plaudits it is now receiving.<br />I won't review the plot, but have a couple of observations.  <br />First, Atwood continues to establish herself as one the great stylists of the English language.  Like writers such as John Le Carre and Charles Frazier, Atwood clearly loves the English language.  She writes sentence after sentence after sentence of thoughtful, beautifully crafted prose.  Every word is well considered and suited to the sentence, to the plot and to the mood.  If, like me, you stand in awe of those who can consistently create well crafted sentences, you will love everything Atwood writes.<br />Second, there are a lot of messages in this complex book, but one &quot;universal&quot; message struck me more than any other. Late in the book, Iris remembers a moment in the attic when she and Laura were doing some homework prescribed by their execrable tutor Mr. Erskine.  Laura then laments that their earlier tutor &quot;Miss Violence&quot; was gone.  Then this brief exchange.  First Iris:  &quot;So do I.  I wish we had Mother back.&quot;  Then Laura:  &quot;So do I.&quot;<br />Whether intended or not, Atwood has written a parable of the pain that befalls children when the parent who could have made the difference in their lives is gone.  To a large degree, the tragedy of the lives of the Chase daughters stems back to the loss of their mother.  Every child deserves at least one loving parent to guide them to adult life.<br />But there is far more to this book than that.  After 100 pages, I was enthralled with the unfolding tragedy.  Atwood is worthy successor to Shakespeare in in her ability to present the agony of a great tragedy in the guise of a well told tale.	2000-12-30
US	52664014	R1G66HPPHQ2F2E	0300087004	382088109	Humanity: A Moral History of the Twentieth Century	Books	5	17	21	N	N	A terrific book!	Put simply, this is a wonderful book.  Jonathan Glover has written a book that everyone with an interest in recent history should read.  While the ultimate focus is philosophical, it is a terrific book of history.  Glover takes some of the most horrific events of the past century (WWI, Stalinism, the Holocaust, Hiroshima, Rwanda, Bosnia), provides a clear analysis (he would hold his own with any historian), then further analyzes the events and how they might have been avoided in philosphical terms.  But he doesn't let the philosophical discussions become either arcane or pedantic.  For someone like me, who has more of a historical background, the philosophy was clear and enlightening.  While he doesn't completely avoid abstractions, he addresses the abstractions is such a way that they engender practical understanding of many of the great horrors of the 20th century.<br />One can only hope that our national leaders will read and understand his message.<br />I was struck by the incisiveness of his analysis of Stalinist Russia, in particular the reasons why it was such a dismal failure (both in economic and human terms).  I came away with a keener understanding of the principles by which to judge the viability of other &quot;utopian&quot; schemes.<br />A final point and a minor quibble.  Glover concludes that religion has largely failed in creating the kind of moral authority that will prevent future Rwandas and Bosnias.  That's true as far as it goes.  But it doesn't mean that the religions are false.  G. K. Chesterton said:  &quot;Christianity has not been tried and found wanting.  It has been found difficult and not tried.&quot;  I believe that the moral authority of rational people of faith is still our greatest hope for a 21st century that is better than the 20th.<br />Enough of the quibbling.  Glover has written an accessible, interesting and important book that demands a broad readership by people who would like to see a more humane world.	2000-12-14
US	52664014	R1A87FWR8LEFOS	0805059725	116140556	The Year of Jubilo: A Novel of the Civil War	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Brilliant historical novel.	The Year of Jubilo should be read by everyone with an interest in the Civil War and by those who love historical fiction.  Howard Bahr has written a book filled with distinctive characters (Stribling, Old One  Eleven, Gault, Gawain Harper and so on) and with some of the most beautiful  and lyrical prose imaginable.  <br />Indeed, a central theme of this excellent  book is transitions: from war to peace, from the violence of battle to the  day-to-day rhythmns of normal life.  For example, he underlines this theme  by contrasting, on the one hand, violence of every form with a beautful and  lyrical description of the transition from night to day: &quot;When a  summer morning came, it drew the night out of houses where people lived. .  . . [S]tand in the yeard of a house flung open, at the moment when day was  established at last, and you could feel the night leave through the windows  like an exhalation of breath.  You could smell the night as it passed you,  see if almost, as you might see a blackbird rise from the grass.&quot; Bahr  is a writer who obviously cherishes and mulls over every word.  The result  is a real triumph for him and a gift to those who love the light touch and  the beautifully rendered phrase.<br />Bahr brings new life to the civil war  novel.  This will sit right next to Cold Mountain.	2000-07-17
US	52664014	R2GZ3RLWBO6AHQ	0805059725	116140556	The Year of Jubilo: A Novel of the Civil War	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Brilliant historical novel.	The Year of Jubilo should be read by everyone with an interest in the Civil War and by those who love historical fiction.  Howard Bahr has written a book filled with distinctive characters (Stribling, Old One  Eleven, Gault, Gawain Harper and so on) and with some of the most beautiful  and lyrical prose imaginable.  <br />Indeed, a central theme of this excellent  book is transitions: from war to peace, from the violence of battle to the  day-to-day rhythmns of normal life.  For example, he underlines this theme  by contrasting, on the one hand, violence of every form with a beautful and  lyrical description of the transition from night to day: &quot;When a  summer morning came, it drew the night out of houses where people lived. .  . . [S]tand in the yeard of a house flung open, at the moment when day was  established at last, and you could feel the night leave through the windows  like an exhalation of breath.  You could smell the night as it passed you,  see if almost, as you might see a blackbird rise from the grass.&quot; Bahr  is a writer who obviously cherishes and mulls over every word.  The result  is a real triumph for him and a gift to those who love the light touch and  the beautifully rendered phrase.<br />Bahr brings new life to the civil war  novel.  This will sit right next to Cold Mountain.	2000-07-17
US	52664014	R14FNKIK4D1JFH	0316558400	722335551	The Year 1000: What Life Was Like at the Turn of the First Millennium : An Englishman's World	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Amateur History Buffs Will Enjoy This Book.	I've recently developed an interest in medieval history and happened upon this book in the library.  There's nothing earthshaking here, but it's nevertheless a good read for those, like me, who have a general interest in  history, particulary the history of the British Isles.  <br />Many history  books focus solely on the goings-on of the King, the Queen, the major  nobles and the court--they give us no picture of the lives of everyday  people.  The authors of this book give us nice picture of what everyday  people lived like 1000 years ago. There are even a few surprises that  overcame some of my misconceptions. <br />If you're a professional historian  (i.e., you like pedantry more than readability), you'll probably hate this  book.  On the other hand, if you are looking for a short, illuminating look  at life at the beginning of the last millenium, I think you'll enjoy this  one.	2000-05-05
US	52664014	RULPSK5NNCMD0	0316290394	421568422	Daniel Martin	Books	2	13	21	N	N	Big disappointment.	John Fowles is a great writer. I consider The French Lieutenant's Woman and The Magus to be two of the best novels of the 20th Century.  I've read both several times.  But I just can't say the same of Daniel Martin.  <br />It  started off so well, with it's scenes from the war.  But then Daniel grew  up and became a painfully self-absorbed creature.  Daniel may represent  Fowles' picture of late 20th Century man, but it's not mine.  Because his  portrayal rang so false, I found the book to be merely a well written slog  through the angst of the 20th century (sorry--I should be ashamed of that  last phrase).  <br />A noble effort, but false in the end.  Worst of all, a  lot of it is just plain boring.<br />I continue to hope that Fowles will write  another book that will capture my heart and mind like The French  Lieutenant's Woman.  (Sigh!)	2000-05-05
US	52664014	R1L0GHA1AYV4B3	0316291161	474944569	The French Lieutenant's Woman	Books	5	52	59	N	N	My every five years novel.	I first read this wonderful book in the late 60's, shortly after it published.  As a high school student, I was simply blown away by the story, the virtuosity of the endings, by its ambiguity, but most of all by the  richness of its language. <br />The scene when Charles and Sarah confront each  other in the shed in the undercliff has more tension and suspense than a  thousand horror movies, because it was so real.  <br />In the intervening 30  years, I've re-read this novel every five years or so. Like other great  works, each re-reading brings something new (because I continue to change).   <br />The great tragedy, at least in my view, is that what has followed from  John Fowles has never risen to the heights of this novel.  Daniel Martin  was a huge disappointment to me (so self-indulgent and empty).  The Maggot  has some moments, but was ultimately disappointing.  Only The Magus, and,  to a lesser degree, The Collector, rival The French Lieutentant's Woman.   <br />That said, Fowles has always been his own man and has stuck to his view  of the world.  I've read some of his philosophy of life in the Aristos and  found most of it to be inconsistent with my own world view. <br />But in this  great book, Fowles and I connected.  I hope when I'm ninety, I can sit down  and read it again (and find something fresh and new).	2000-04-19
US	52664014	RO2X0M25ZS0S	0393048187	452127514	Reflections on a Ravaged Century	Books	5	66	71	N	N	A brilliant skewering of Communist apologists.	Far anyone interested more than casually in 20th Century history, Robert Conquest's reflection on the century will teach and illuminate.  The most interesting part of this excellent book was Conquest's review of the  history of Soviet Communism and his skewering of those who spent long and  supposedly distinguished careers arguing that Marxism is a benign way to  build a new and better world.  As Conquest points out, the facts have  always led to the opposite conclusion and these  &quot;fellow-travellers&quot; knew it and ignored them.  In fact, what  Marxism has left behind in Russia is a devastated industrial base, the  absence of individual iniative, and a population psychically damaged.  In  the guise of building a worker's state, communism built a monument to  everything that is anti-human, anti-compassion, and anti-freedom.   <br />Conquest has never shied from his views, even when they were unpopular.   We owe him a lot for his unstinting criticism of one of mankind's worst  historical aberrations.  <br />His warnings about the future should be  carefully considered by all of us.	2000-03-06
US	52664014	R14NY4PAPFG07N	0451166892	193551147	The Pillars of the Earth: A Novel (Kingsbridge)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Excellent historical fiction	The two most recent novels I've read are Timeline by Michael Crichton and Pillars of the Earth by Ken Follett.  Both focus on the middle ages.  Timeline is weak and unconvincing, while Pillars makes you feel you're  there.  Follett has failings as a writer (his dialogue can be a bit  wooden), but he can create characters that you not only know, but care  about.  Aliena is such a character. Follett has a real feel for the broad  history of the middle ages and convincingly interweaves the fictional  characters with true historical characters.  <br />Pillars is the perfect  vacation book, but there's a difference.  Most vacation books can be thrown  away without a thought after being read.  Pillars demands to be put back on  the shelf to be re-read in a few years.  Read it.	2000-01-27
US	52664014	R2QE1DR1ZIARQT	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Stick figures galore.	I haven't actually finished Timeline yet, so my review is based on the first two thirds of the book.  I've read worse books, but this one is far from good.  By biggest problem is that there does not appear to be a single  character (with the possible exception of Kate) to care about.  All of them  are stick figures--no past, no future, just filling a hole in the plot.   Also, there's lots of techno-babble about parallel universes, blah, blah,  blah.  It becomes mind-numbing without being convincing.  But I'll finish  the book.  I'm just hopeful I'll remember this book when Crichton publishes  his next one.  Excellent Crichton books like the Andromeda Strain seem to  exist in another universe--the one where the writing is convincing and the  peril seems real. Sigh.	1999-12-28
US	52664014	R28TZMWJ2OF1VB	0465017363	801178064	Duel: Alexander Hamilton, Aaron Burr, And The Future Of America	Books	4	17	18	N	N	An illuminating vision of early 19th century politics.	Like an earlier reviewer, I found this book to be confusing at times.  If anything, it's too detailed as it unpeels the many layers of the political goings-on that ultimately led to the duel between Burr and Hamilton.  Like  many others, I've tended to view these two (and Jefferson as well) as stick  figures associated with one or two of the things they taught us in high  school.  This book demonstrates them to be far more complex.  Hamilton is  much more complicated than I ever took him to be.  Burr isn't as big a  villain, though no one would ever confuse him for a sunday school teacher.   But even more illuminating is the picture of Thomas Jefferson as a  conniving politician, with little more going for him than the current  occupant of the office--he certainly wasn't above a little old-fashioned  political assassination.  This book has sparked my interest to know more  about Jefferson and his era.  <br />All in all, even with it's flaws, this is  a very good book.  You certainly learn that politics hasn't changed a whole  lot.  I'm just not sure whether that's a comforting thought.	1999-12-21
US	52664014	R3G7I17B61PSD4	0393307611	952337324	H. M. S. Surprise (Aubrey / Maturin)	Books	5	19	21	N	N	No better historical fiction has been written.	I read the first two in the Aubrey/Maturin series (Master and Commander and Post Captain) a few years ago and liked them.  In an idle moment, I recently picked up HMS Surprise and glanced at the first page.  Thirty  minutes later I was still reading and within the week I had finished the  book. Unfortunately my vocabulary cannot do justice to describing just how  good this book is. The characterizations are sympathetic and acute, the  descriptions of seafaring are hypnotic and the battle scenes are wonderful.   These books are not pulp fiction, but finely wrought and accurate  depictions of the world nearly two centuries ago. Some of O'Brian's  observations are so good, I felt like applauding at times.  These books  require some patience and discipline, but the pay-off is immense.  I'm only  sorry that it looks like I'm on the slippery slope that will lead to  reading the 17 or 18 other novels in the series.  I'm just too busy to read  them right now, but there may not be anything I can do about it.  If you  want books to truly transport you somewhere else, this is the series.	1999-12-10
US	52664014	R3DKGDCNZYVLEL	0393307611	952337324	H. M. S. Surprise (Aubrey / Maturin)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	No better historical fiction has been written.	I read the first two in the Aubrey/Maturin series (Master and Commander and Post Captain) a few years ago and liked them.  In an idle moment, I recently picked up HMS Surprise and glanced at the first page.  Thirty  minutes later I was still reading and within the week I had finished the  book. Unfortunately my vocabulary cannot do justice to describing just how  good this book is. The characterizations are sympathetic and acute, the  descriptions of seafaring are hypnotic and the battle scenes are wonderful.   These books are not pulp fiction, but finely wrought and accurate  depictions of the world nearly two centuries ago. Some of O'Brian's  observations are so good, I felt like applauding at times.  These books  require some patience and discipline, but the pay-off is immense.  I'm only  sorry that it looks like I'm on the slippery slope that will lead to  reading the 17 or 18 other novels in the series.  I'm just too busy to read  them right now, but there may not be anything I can do about it.  If you  want books to truly transport you somewhere else, this is the series.	1999-12-10
US	52664014	R1UIMHBY97C9BI	0684859262	63597638	Single & Single	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Le Carre still has it!	In the battle between those who can't seem to comprehend the elliptical style perfected by Le Carre (who give it one star in their reviews) and those who claim that Single &amp; Single is a masterpiece (five stars), I  come out on the positive side, but with a few reservations.  Yes, the first  125 pages are slow.  Yes, the writing can be maddeningly obtuse at times.   And yes, none of the characters are complete models of moral integrity.   But, if you expected something else from Le Carre, you've clearly not read  his prior work.  His books always take a while to draw you in.  His lack of  clarity in individual scenes are like brushstokes--eventually leading to a  picture that (even though impressionistic) stands beautifully by itself.   And Le Carre remains the superstar portrayer of moral ambiguity.  In my  view, Single &amp; Single is completely consistent with Le Carre's other  work.  It's a very good addition to his body of work and delivers in the  end.  On the other hand, it's not among his very best (the Karla trilogy,  The Spy Who Came in From the Cold), but it's certainly better than The  Tailor of Panama (a book that had me believing that Le Carre may have lost  his way).  Welcome back, John, and please write a few more.  It's so nice  to see a thoughtful, literate, and entertaining book on the best seller  list (even if it's only for a few weeks).	1999-07-12
US	52664014	RF7DQNI2SY4HE	0060168366	796423640	A History of the American People	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Johnson proves that history need not be boring.	Paul Johnson's book is a wild ride through American history.  But after surviving the antiseptic and utterly boring manner in which history is taught today (e.g., the tendency to put everything in opaque economic terms), Johnson proves that history is also the result of highly flawed but fascinating people.  Many of his insights can be argued with, but I doubt that many readers were bored by this great book.  Yes, there were factual errors (Joe Johnstun and Albert Sidney Johnstun were not the same person--but perhaps his book will lead to a new conspiracy theory that Albert Sidney really survived his wound at Shiloh), but the brilliant insights easily overcome them.  His theories about the role of religion in our nation's history appear to be both insightful and true.  Yet, references to religion have unfortunately been surgically removed from our textbooks out of some fear that to do so will run afoul of the &quot;establishment&quot; clause.  Johnson has no fear of the!  PC police and speaks his mind courageously.  While I found myself questioning some of his views (was Coolidge really such a good president and was Watergate really just a minor event orchestrated into a scandal by the evil eastern media?), I found that I agreed with far more of his views than I questioned.  The best parts of the book were his efforts to breath life into the characters of history (I never realized that Warren Harding was so interesting).  I loved the book so much that I'm on my way to buy &quot;Intellecuals&quot;.  If he does to them what he has done for American history, it will be both irreverent and illuminating. Read this book--it will make you love history again.	1998-07-21
