US	52663421	R1GOSNP8PZNLBS	0375826688	342317933	Eragon (Inheritance)	Books	2	8	10	N	N	Superfluous fantasy	The problem here isn't really that Paolini has pilfered other authors' ideas.  That, in itself, wouldn't be a problem if the story, characters and dialogue were engaging.  I happen to find The Sword of Shannara a fun read, even though it lifted nearly every character archetype and concept from Lord of the Rings (a charge which Brooks denies, btw).  But Terry Brooks was able to make the world of Shannara unique or at least somewhat his own (Brooks also wrote some other good Shannara books, such as Elfstones of Shannara).  I'm not saying Brooks is a tremendous author, but his works have at least something to offer.<br /><br />But Eragon's characters and story aren't engaging, his world suggests nothing uniqe and the book is not particularly well written.  With so many disparate elements pulled from other works, he has created a sort of \\"Frankenstein's Monster\\" of fantasy novels.  The book is rather hodgepodge; there is no backbone, no weight, no glue.  At least it has none of its own but tries to assume that of other books, almost through osmosis.  Ideas are taken from other works (the names of which have already been mentioned ad nauseum) and just sort of inserted. It has a sort of \\"write-by-numbers\\" feel to it.<br /><br />The story lacks a strong sense or weight of history, though the author tries to effect such throughout the book.  Things just sort of happen because they're supposed to according to the usual fantasy story template not because the author had any particular vision.  The result is, unfortunately, artificial.<br /><br />For example, the boy Eragon becomes a so-called (and quite accomplished) Rider before the reader even gets a sense of or appreciate what a Rider is (assuming they're unfamiliar with McCaffrey's Pern series, that is).  Also, concepts and past events are exposited to no end and too quickly as the story moves along, giving the work a rushed feel.  Even the initial \\"quest\\" is rather weak, involving nothing more than a desire for revenge by Eragon (and an uninteresting episode or two that involves looking up shipping records).  This is the hook by which Eragon ultimately becomes the \\"chosen one\\" (or a chosen one) and it's pretty non-compelling stuff.  The stilted dialogue and lack of humor in the book doesn't help.<br /><br />All this is understandable for a young author.  I'm sure ever aspiring author has done something of the same for his/her first stab at writing fantasy.  The problem with Paolini's book is that someone went and published it.<br /><br />Another point I'd like make (and which has raised by others) is I'm wondering why this is being sold as a children's book.  Even in adult fantasy, call me crazy, but I'm not sure the sight of an impaled baby is something readers necessarily want to conjure in their minds.  Such a sight would almost be a shock even in George R. R. Martin's Song of Ice and Fire series.  Presumably, it's to make the as-yet unseen villain to be as evil as possible, but it's forced, excessive and reeks of shock value.  If you have to resort to such blatant tactics to make your villains despicable, you're on the wrong track, imo.  There are other graphic descriptions of violence in the book that seem out of place in what is allegedly a children's book.  Again, this is understandable in the sense that the writer hasn't even come close to perfecting his craft.  But someone told him his book was good (his parents, in fact) and they went and published it, so there's little chance that Paolini will improve his skills as a writer (especially as he is alleged to ignore criticism - good and bad), if his books keep making the bestseller list.<br /><br />I did see potential in the book and there were some passages I actually found somewhat interesting.  Unfortunately, the overall concept is just too derivative and the potential is never truly realised.  The idea needed further development, ingenuity and lots of rewrites.<br /><br />A few final thoughts:<br /><br />I'm curious as tothe frequent comparison in these reviews between the name Eragon and Aragorn of Lord of the Rings.  The resemblance is superficial, nothing more, and there is little resemblance between the two characters.  If anything, there would seem to be a greater resemblance between Eragon and Dave Edding's Garion (perhaps another name to add to the list of ideas that Paolini borrowed); the archetypes appear to be similar there (I say 'appear' because I've not read anything of Eddings), as do the names (if you substitute the 'e' in Eragon, with an 'i,' you can spell 'Garion').<br /><br />As far as his borrowing other ideas, he's not the only one.  Besides the previously mentioned authors, Star Wars itself is hardly an entirely unique story, having borrowed from such works as LotR and the movies of Akira Kurosawa.  It's not the fact that Paolini pilfering these concepts from others, it's that he's not doing anything interesting with them.  Again, the amateurish feel of the work is entirely understandable.  What's puzzling is that it's been published and that so many people have failed to see it for what it is.Eragon and Aragorn of Lord of the Rings.  The resemblance is superficial, nothing more, and there is little resemblance between the two characters.  If anything, there would seem to be a greater resemblance between Eragon and Dave Edding's Garion (perhaps another name to add to the list of ideas that Paolini borrowed); the archetypes appear to be similar there (I say 'appear' because I've not read anything of Eddings), as do the names (if you substitute the 'e' in Eragon, with an 'i,' you can spell 'Garion').    As far as his borrowing other ideas, he's not the only one.  Besides the previously mentioned authors, Star Wars itself is hardly an entirely unique story, having borrowed from such works as LotR and the movies of Akira Kurosawa.  It's not the fact that Paolini pilfering these concepts from others, it's that he's not doing anything interesting with them.  Again, the amateurish feel of the work is entirely understandable.  What's puzzling is that it's been published and that so many people have failed to see it for what it is.	2005-10-10
US	52663421	R1WEHZQ2AKD0AA	0064405370	607344832	The Chronicles of Narnia: The Magician's Nephew/The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe/The Horse and His Boy/Prince Caspian/Voyage of the Dawn Treader/The Silver Chair/The Last Battle	Books	3	9	19	N	N	The original order really is best *POSSIBLE SPOILERS*	I hate to take away one star because of the way the publishers currently number the books, so I won't. However, I would like to question the reason for the re-ordering of the books. I'd hate to think it's because the publishers thought it would be easier for kids to understand, because each book makes it pretty clear when each story occurs (and the original sequence worked for a good 30 or so years; if it ain't broke, etc). Also, the sense of mystery and discovery is taken away with the new sequence; the mystery of who the professor is, for example. For example, Narnia is discovered by Lucy. It is not mentioned, introduced or even described (initially)by the author. Thus, the reader's discovery and sense of wonder comes by way of Lucy's point of view. The word Narnia isn't even mentioned till the second chapter. In \\"Magician's Nephew,\\" Narnia is mentioned on the very first page.<br /><br />The original sequence just works better. I see it thusly: The Lion, the Witch & the Wardrobe is the first book; it serves as the introduction and ends with the kids coming back to their reality. The original second book is the classic sequel, essentially giving the fans what they want by having the original four heroes go back to Narnia and help Aslan kick butt. Book 3, The Voyage of the Dawn Treader, is a changing of the guard, somewhat, introducing a new human protagonist, Eustace, to replace Peter and Susan Pevensie, apparently now too old to visit Narnia. Book 4, The Silver Chair omits Edmun and Lucy (like Peter and Susan, now also too old to go back to Narnia) brings back Eustace and introduces his friend Jill. Book 5, The Horse & His Boy is a break from the author's previous trend of having kids visiting or revisiting Narnia kids visiting & revisiting Narnia and instead tells a story that happened under the original 4 children's reign. Book 6, The Magician's Nephew goes back to the aforementioned trend of kids visiting/revisiting Narnia but tells the story of the first time it ever happened. NEPHEW is arguably the best book, but I think it's much better if read in its original place, which is 6th. The sense of discovery is just much stronger, in my opinion. Book 7, the only book that keeps its original place, wraps it all up, bringing back all the human protagonists (sans Susan).<br /><br />So, in closing, I'll just say there's absolutely nothing wrong with the original sequence. It is, in fact, much superior. Heck, the movies are allegedly going to follow the original sequence (they at least started with the right book).happened. NEPHEW is arguably the best book, but I think it's much better if read in its original place, which is 6th. The sense of discovery is just much stronger, in my opinion. Book 7, the only book that keeps its original place, wraps it all up, bringing back all the human protagonists (sans Susan).     So, in closing, I'll just say there's absolutely nothing wrong with the original sequence. It is, in fact, much superior. Heck, the movies are allegedly going to follow the original sequence (they at least started with the right book).	2003-12-22
US	52663421	R3D0X03KZ8E982	0312864590	656525801	Crossroads of Twilight (The Wheel of Time, Book 10)	Books	1	8	13	N	N	More setup for what is sure to be more setup	Hey, take it easy people!  This is just setup for next volume's necessary setup of the subsequent volume's setting up.	2003-11-07
US	52663421	RDD1LRR9Z8P72	0312864590	656525801	Crossroads of Twilight (The Wheel of Time, Book 10)	Books	1	65	68	N	N	Oy, with the skirt-smoothing and the braid-tugging!	Egwhine smoothed her skirts and sat and pondered about the issue of what to do about the problem concerning matters involving the taking of the White Tower, first considered lo these many many pages ago.  Then she had some mulled wine.  But not just any mulled wine.  This was the finest mulled wine in all of Randland, made from grapes that were as plump and ripe as the finest, sparkling cleavage and sparkled like a thousand silvery moons and that were trampled by feet as pretty as a thousand golden sunsets in the most gorgeous of all wooden tubs...<br />Meanwhile, Mat sat there and thought about things and how nice it would be to have a plump serving girl on each knee and a great deal of ale.  And Perrin, finding many weevils, weevils of considerable size and ghastliness, in his breakfast cereal, considered that maybe he would think about considering the possible rescue of his annoying wife Faile, whom he loved, deeply, more deeply than anyone who ever imagined anything imagined.  Even though she was more annoying than someone hitting you with a carboard tube and saying &quot;Yeeee!  Yeeee!  Yeeee!&quot; over and over and over and still over again.  And much, much, more did Perrin ponder over another bowlful of weevils, much that would ultimately, indeed, lead to much, much, more pondering...<br />Nynaeve twitched and fidgeted and tugged her braid.  In truth, no one was safe from her formidable braid-tugging.  Not even the rough side of her tongue was as greatly feared.  Anyway, as did her friends, so, too, did Nynaeve ponder and ruminate.  And ruminate and ponder.  Truly did she miss Lan and how he liked the color blue...<br />And Rand ...sat there and ...brooded.  And mused.  And still brooded and mused till his brow darkened with the brooding and the musing and...oy!  Dark One save us all!	2003-05-13
US	52663421	RX4BOHOKGC3VK	055357342X	549456361	A Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3)	Books	5	1	5	N	N	I have to WAIT for the next book?  Arrrrghh!	...Simply incredible.  I finished it yesterday and rather bummed out that it's over.  It amazes me how well Martin is able to engage the reader and keep a 1000+ page book (if only it were 2000+) entertaining throughout.  There has been nary a dull moment throughout the entire series, including the beginning of Game of Thrones.  This book admittedly has perhaps a few more slow bits  than the other books and Martin continues to evince a bit of TMI (too much information) Syndrome (something a certain other author seems to suffer from mightily).  For instance, he goes into great detail in describing various carnal acts, such as describing what sound a (fill in the blanks) ___ makes when it comes out of a ___.  Amazingly, however, this doesn't detract from the story.  Martin is able to maintain the narrative flow despite his generously detailed prose.  If anything, the author's descriptions, no matter how gratuitous some of them may seem, only enhance his story, they don't bog it down.  Some are better than gratuitous, of course, and incredibly vivid; the details of the wilding hordes, for example.  In short, Martin never bores the reader.<br />As far as whether a Song of Ice and Fire is better than Lord of the Rings, however... well, I thought so myself for a while, but I'm not sure it's as simple as that.  Certainly, Martin's work has more depth and is overall more entertaining, I think.  But as far as strength of historical richness(via the Silmarillion), mystique and use of language, I'd say Tolkien is still king.  But Martin isn't far behind in these categories either.  And I wouldn't be surprised to see Martin further detail the history of the lands of Westeros and beyond in future (post Song of Ice and Fire) works.  <br />But right now, we have the unbelievable Song of Ice and Fire series.  Put down that Wheel of Time Book and pick up Game of Thrones.	2003-03-27
US	52663421	R1HWFM5XKTLT8S	0312864590	656525801	Crossroads of Twilight (The Wheel of Time, Book 10)	Books	1	5	5	N	N	Well, think about it...	Why is Robert Jordan taking so damned long to get anywhere? Think about it. The bare bones \\"plot\\" is fairly simple: The Dark One must escape his prison and the Dragon Reborn must, with the aid of the world, defeat him and give his life while doing it. Heck, the prophesies about the Dragon practically give the ending away.<br />Given this, it's no wonder that Robert Jordan is dragging this out; introducing scads of subplots and characters and padding his story with many, many chapters' worth of description about bosoms, fine lace, people staring at each other, etc, etc. Unfortunately, this will tend to make the ending, if and when it comes, a little anti-climactic. Again, think about it: The Dark One unleashes evil, yadda yadda yadda, Rand finally unites everybody (somehow) and beats him and... dies...or not.  (Yippee!  Then everyone is free to bicker amongst themselves about matters other than how best to control the Dragon, or who should be in charge of which wedding party). Either way, big hairy deal; that's what supposed to happen, more or less: the bad guys gets it. I can't imagine there being a lot of different ways it can end.<br />The end (if it happens the way the prophesies say it will) will hardly be something to cheer about, considering the fact that the Dark One is (correct me if I'm wrong) STILL getting free of his prison and (and simmering menacingly in the darkness, no doubt, or something); he hardly presents the reader with someone to HATE (as in \\"I can't wait for him to be dead). And the Forsaken seem to be dropping like flies, no matter how many times they're ressurected, the poor bastards. The Seanchan (who once seemed menacing), meanwhile, seem to be repelled every time they attack (which seems to be every other book).<br />It's hard to cheer the downfall of evil when evil seems to hardly have any sort of palpable effect; it just sort of sits there radiating waves of menace and little else. So far, from what I remember, there's been a cold wave,a heat wave (lasted at least 2 books and in the end was dispelled by a bowl), and... boll weevils; and various other mutterings and grumblings. But characters that have names don't seem to die or even get hurt. It's the unnamed ones that get hurt and killed, but noone knows who they are, so who cares? Characters that are injured seem to heal quickly and characters who die get brought back to life. Take the example of the taint on saidin. Any man that uses it goes insane. Rand 'Al Thor is a man and no exception. We think \\"oh dear, Rand is going to go insane and kill some loved ones.\\" Except he spend books 3-8 resisting insanity until Book 9 when he figures out how to cleanse the taint (just about as anti-climactic as you can get). In short, the characters don't seem to be adversely affected by the supposedly dire events going on around them (not if they have the luxury of worrying about what to wear). They seem none the worse for wear despite their \\"troubles.\\"<br />RJ, quite frankly, didn't pick the most compelling story to tell (for all it's window dressing and hundreds and hundreds of characters, it's really just another Little Guy vs. Dark Lord story). At some point, perhaps he realized this (maybe after the halfway decent books 1-5) and felt compelled to draw out his story even more, stringing his readers along with writing even more glib than before and prose even more bloated, the ultimate result of which, ultimately (in my opinion), is a very long-winded, very unsatisfying fantasy series.	2003-02-12
US	52663421	R29LK6NU3CP5XH	0553579908	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Nothing like Wheel of Time	For those who fear George R. R. Martin may tread the same path as Robert Jordan, oh, perish the thought!<br />Anyway, I strongly believe this won't happen. Here's why:<BR>1) As Song of Ice and Fire is brilliant from the get-go. Two chapters (or less) into A Game of Thrones and you know you're in for some real meat-and-potatoes storytelling. WoT's Eye of the World merely shows flashes of brilliance and glints of (mostly-unrealized) potential and takes forever to get where it's going (wherever and whenever that may be), and this is just the FIRST book.<br />2) Besides basic talent and knowing exactly what story he's telling, Martin has simply, yet ingeniously solved the problem of preventing things (i.e. plot threads and number of characters) from becoming unmanageable by relating each chapter from a single character's POV. I.E. there aren't that many plot threads. That is, chapters aren't split between a slew of plot developments and different character POVs; one can follow the story quite easily. As I said, there aren't that many plot threads to speak of. There are a lot of characters, to be sure, but certainly not a galaxy of them, as in WoT, and I don't have as hard a time keeping track. I think WoT works better as a name generator for fantasy role-playing games than an actual series of novels.<br />3) Martin keeps away from the cheesy superpowers that the characters of WoT seem to exude from their very pores. Not to say there's no supernatural aspect to SoI&F because there most certainly is. But Martin wisely accords it the mystery and fear that keeps it appropriately ominous and non-mundane. After all, you can't be amazed by it if it's in your face every damned day. All the characters are basically human; that is, they have the same frailties and capablities as anybody in our dreary reality. Oh, a few may have some slight precognitive powers and such but there's nothing like \\"wind-weaving\\" or \\"earth-shifting\\" or any fantastical nonsense like that. And I appreciate it because it's that much easier to like (or hate, as the situation warrants) these characters, knowing they're really no different from us. We almost literally feel their injuries and triumphs. In WoT, every other character either seems to be able to either \\"Channel\\" or have some other useful supernormal ability or other. I think I remember such powers being used even for everyday, menial tasks. Reducing such fantastic happening to everyday ho-hummery strikes reduces it to hardly more than a super-hero comic. Not to say that there's anything wrong with super-hero comics, but I don't know, I feel the genre of FANTASY genre works better relating the stories of, say, your Frodo Bagginses and your Arya Starks (to take an example more pertinent to this review) to pass through insurmountable odds and terrible tragedy to accomplish their goals or at the very least survive.<br />4) The way political intrigue is handled is many heads and many shoulders above than what you'll find in WoT. Furthermore, there isn't any of \\"these three characters are in love with this character\\" or \\"this other character wants to boink the queen\\" sort of nonsense thrown into the mix to make things even more complicated to the point where you're left to wonder what is important and what is not. You'll find plenty of this sort of crap in WoT and if the abundance of super-powers makes WoT more like a superhero comic, then this aspect (for example, the love-quadrangle) makes WoT a soap opera about superheroes and supervillains. Meanwhile, everything in the SoI&F books is expertly streamlined and extremely easy to follow. Any relevant or relationships or emotional attachments, romantic or otherwise, are dealt with in relation to whichever character's POV is telling the story. Yes, there is sex, a lot of it, in SoI&F, but any situation dealing with sex is deftly woven into the plot and works to further character development. It doesn't just sit there, taking up space and beating up brain cells.<br/>5) There's detail, but only enough to make the world real and give it a sense of depth. Martin's foremost goal is always to further the plot. No detailing every wooden table down to the last ornate whorl. In WoT, you will get this kind of overbaked and distracting description, as well as how much taller this second-string character is than this third-string character. Or how this nobody inn-keeper is fat and bald and has a flush in his cheeks and likes stories about butterflies.<br />6) George R.R. Martin is not afraid to treat his much beloved characters very, very, badly. There are things that happen in SoI&F that are very, very shocking and heartbreaking. But this only makes me appreciate the series more. You can't expect to live in such a wicked world, especially one set in a medieval-type setting, and expect to get off without a scratch. Yet that is exactly what WoT's main protagonists seem to do, despite living in the same general type of world. Through ten books, not one main character in WoT has seemed to suffer any major setback or life-altering injury. Not one (well, okay, Moiraine and even there, no one's seen the body). When WoT's characters are inconvenienced, their ordeals don't seem to last all that long and in the end, all seems to be made good. If anything, characters seem to acrue more power and good fortune. Maybe this has to do with all the nifty powers they have.<br />In short, everything about SoI&F is just flat out better than Wot. It's more skillfully written and expertly paced. I don't think the two series should even be compared any longer I can't imagine this series every \\"jumping the shark,\\" as it were, as WoT has seemed to do since Book 5; it's just too damned good. Of course, I don't think WoT was ever really that great in the first place.	2003-02-07
US	52663421	R3L2LJ6BV3IK0B	0312864590	656525801	Crossroads of Twilight (The Wheel of Time, Book 10)	Books	1	3	3	N	N	Burn me, even the plot summaries are BORING	Having given Books 8-10 a pass (due to the disappointment of reading Book 7) I went to Dragonmount.com to read the summaries of said Books to see if there was anything interesting I missed.  What greeted me was a bewildering flurry of names, places and various love affairs.  I had a hard time keeping track of what was going on withing these summaries (i.e., I was completely unsuccessful - maybe it's because the summaries weren't written very well, who knows...); I shudder to think what kind of time might be had actually reading these books...	2003-02-06
US	52663421	R3LVLK92QNBKBZ	0312864590	656525801	Crossroads of Twilight (The Wheel of Time, Book 10)	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Transitional book???	I stopped reading this series after Book 7, so I really have no criticism to offer on the series.  However, I'm reading much of the same criticisms that have existed since the aforementioned Book 7 and, not surprisingly, more and more of them seem to be of the negative variety.  There was one positive one, however, that deemed it &quot;transitional.&quot;  WHAT?!  That's what the Pro-Jordanites have been saying for the past three books!  How many transitional volumes do you need?!  Oy!<br />Just a suggestion: if you're fed up with WoT, do yourself a favor and start reading George R.R. Martin's Song of Ice and Fire series.  Yes, it's also a series that isn't set to a certain number of volumes, but the reader gets an idea that things are steadily, if not rapidly, coming to a head (heck, if all subsequent volumes are as good as the first two, I'm almost tempted to say the series can go on forever - something I can't even come close to saying about RJ's &quot;Make it Stop&quot; series).  And, true, they're just as enormous as Jordan's books; however, things actually happen, the plot actually advances and more pages are utilized developing character and story than are squandered describing what people wear.  In other words, it's almost unbearably good.	2003-02-04
US	52663421	R3IMIPJSJJXRHC	0553579908	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Robert who?	Even though it seems hardly necessary at this point, I feel the need to extoll George R. R. Martin's work thus far.<br />To be sure, these books are long, longer even than many of the Wheel of Time books.  The first book is about 850 pages and this second installment 100 pages longer still.  But unlike Robert Jordan's books, things actually move along.  There are no dangling plotlines and very little filler.  Yes, there is a lot of extraneous detail, such as what's for dinner and what kind of sex certain characters are having, but not nearly as much as in the Wheel of Time.  And the details in Martin's books are merely sprinkled on, the icing on the cake.  The Wheel of Time is mostly icing and very little cake.	2002-04-12
US	52663421	R1PGT07JLQ3BUJ	0786915528	342936691	Monster Manual: Core Rulebook III (Dungeons & Dragons)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Almost worth it just for the artwork	I've only ever played D&amp;D intermittently and would never actually make a good DM, so, apart from just buying this book to know what to expect as a player, I also wanted to see what the artwork had to offer.  I wasn't dissappointed.  The illustrations of creatures, though of various styles, are consistently good to great throughout, and very rarely bordering on mediocre, which I think noteworthy because I have very high standards when it comes to fantasy artwork.  The book also get points also for font styles and presentation.  I'm tempted to substract a star since the book isn't always specific when it comes to a creature's size but it's really a small point, not a star.	2002-02-15
US	52663421	R3UA4C3HOH5B8M	0345325818	619220705	The Silmarillion	Books	5	21	22	N	Y	Arguably Tolkien's best book	I tried twice before to read this book but, for some idiotic reason, never got through to the end.  What could I have been possibly been thinking?  Anyway, many years later, after the cobwebs have (apparently) been cleared out of my mind, I can finally appreciate it for the awesome epic it is.<br />This is the history of Middle Earth.  That, to my mind, is basically what separates Tolkien's fantasy from most of what came after.  Tolkien took great pains to build his world from the ground up and the Silmarillion is the most refined example of those labors.  It exists primarily for the purpose of making the Hobbit and the Lord of the Rings that much more rich and believable a world (Tolkien wasn't convinced it would make good reading for the book-buying public and wasn't all that eager about seeing it published; it was published posthumously).  However, the tumultous battles and conflicts contained in this book are such that they make those in the Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings seem rather like mere skirmishes.  It relates no less than the creation of the world and the god-like beings set to watch over it; and of the original Dark Lord, a scarier figure than Sauron, who was merely his servant.<br />Those who point out the scarcity of women characters in LotR, can raise no such point here.  Women are given meatier roles in The Silmarillion and practically every named woman is regarded almost as a goddess (even when they aren't).  Women are also allotted the best names.  While the male characters sometimes have these sort of weird, clunky names like Maglor, Turgon and Huor, the females have such great names as Galadriel, Luthien Tinuviel and Melian. It's obvious that Tolkien held women in great reverence.<br />The most remarkable thing about all this is that Tolkien succinctly packages this grand epic legend in less than 400 pages (and this includes a summary of LotR); yet one can still relate to the characters and appreciate the scope of it all.	2002-01-23
US	52663421	R1ISWUCXMBKGLP	0812550285	557548547	A Crown of Swords (The Wheel of Time, Book 7)	Books	1	300	363	N	N	Meanwhile, in Tar Valon	While Nynaeve tugged her braid, Elayne smoothed her skirts and Egwene folder her arms under her breasts, all of them wishing Rand, Mat, Perrin and/or Lan were there so they could give them the rough side of their tongues and then take off their clothes to admire their pretty buttocks and so on.<br />Meanwhile, Rand, ever mindful of the oily taint of saidin, wished he knew as much about women as Mat and Perrin did.  Perrin, ever mindful of Faile's constant nagging, wished he knew as much about women as Rand and Mat did.  And Mat, freshly bedded at knifepoint by Queen Tylin, wished lhe knew as much, etc.<br />Elsewhere, in Tear or somewhere, the cleavage was robust, the chamber pots were made of porcelain, the lace dresses with the little silver thingies in them were very pretty and the forked beards shone in the pale summer morning like flaxen straw or some crap.  Earrings were bright and sparkly and horses wore intricate, ornate saddles and, and uh...did I mention the cleavage and how firm and robust it was?  Darkfriends walked the streets and did...things.  Whitecloaks arrested anybody who said the word &quot;darkfriend&quot; and looked at them funny. Several Aes Sedai were stilled and then just as quickly unstilled...then stilled again if they stepped out of line.  Other Aes Sedai, meanwhile, searched high and low for various weather-altering kitchen utensils.  And the Sean'chean invaded every so often, just to keep things mildly interesting...<br />...and stuff	2002-01-22
US	52663421	RQWS7EVF3PDEI	081257558X	870089682	Winter's Heart (The Wheel of Time, Book 9)	Books	1	1	9	N	N	Nine with no end in sight	OK, so all Robert Jordan fans love the WOT series and want another nine books.  All fine and good, but how about new readers?  Would a new reader interested in reading Jordan's fantasy be so eager whe s/he finds it nine books and counting?  People are put off from reading The Lord of the Rings because of its length and that's a mere 1,000 pages or so.  WOT is what, 7,000???  And still no major developments judging from what I've been reading from these posts.  To judge any better I'd have to read the book itself.  No thanks.	2002-01-21
US	52663421	RL20JMB4INURA	069101633X	386567423	The Life of Birds	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent	Great book by a master.  Expertly written and there are facts in there that I can barely wrap my mind around (like the fact that the world's smallest bird, a hummingbird, can flap its wings at 200 times a second!).  One thing that struck me as curious, however, is that, in the section entitled &quot;The Demands of the Egg,&quot; Sir David explains why all birds lay eggs, saying that having live young gestate within the female would be an impediment to flight.  But he doesn't go into why flightless birds to lay eggs.  Probably because it's convenient and there hasn't been enough time for evolution for them to evolve away from the habit.  Also, flightless birds only have two legs for locomotion and might have a hard time with live young squirming around inside (just a guess).  I'm sure any interested reader would be able to come out with their own hypotheses; it's just curious that it's not expounded upon at all.  But it's a very minor flaw, if it can be called a flaw at all.  I think this book will make a bird lover out of anyone.  Also check out the VHS of the BBC series.	2002-01-14
US	52663421	R2G1C2PV4S06I9	0812504674	691093854	The Invisible Man (Tor Classics)	Books	4	0	4	N	N	So you'd like to be invisible...	Those looking for character development, etc. might be missing the point.  The book is 110 to 150 pgs long (depending on print size); there's not really a whole lot of room for such.  The premise of the book is really very simple: what would happen if one were to become invisible, which raises several other questions such as why would one want to become invisible and what sort of person would go to the trouble.  What are the perks of invisibilty and what are the drawbacks?  These are the ideas the the book is concerned with.	2001-12-28
US	52663421	R20QMQO9IHTN3F	0735101396	46715813	The Worm Ouroboros: A Romance	Books	5	5	8	N	N	What a book	I'm reading a lot of reviews about Eddison's prose and how hard it may be to understand but, curiously, I didn't find it hard to follow that much at all (and I don't credit myself with a lot of intelligence) and highly enjoyable.  It's part, if not most, of the book's charm.  I don't want to give away anything about this book because another part of this book's charm is not knowing anything about it before reading it.  I highly recommend it.	2001-12-28
US	52663421	R38AZFW7HUWYD3	067104155X	299352184	Legacy of Blood (Diablo, No. 1)	Books	1	2	12	N	N	Ugh	This book left a seriously bad taste behind, so much so that I actually feel a little annoyance towards the person who recommended it to me.  What a waste of time.<br />I'm not going into why I didn't like the book.  There are a couple of reviews here that sum it up quite well.  Basically, I think the literature that came with the game is a far more engaging read.	2001-12-19
US	52663421	R3RN9352T1U5IW	1563897504	841852739	Crisis On Infinite Earths	Books	2	2	9	N	N	Crisis of Infinite Yawns	I got this as part of enrollment for the SciFi Book Club.  I'd always been curious about this series, having heard such rave reviews about it but never curious enough to pay ($) for it.  Anyway, halfway through this book and I'm wishing I'd picked something else and wishing the universe would just get destroyed already!<br />George Perez is, of course, the big draw but I have to say I've never been a big fan and CoIE doesn't raise my appreciation level.  I realize that George Perez is THE ONLY artist for this - probably few, if any, other comics artist would have the enthusiasm or patience to draw all those characters and detail - but, despite GP's eye for detail and great backgrounds, his art has never done anything for me.  To me, it lacks any sort of flair or verve; it's all very straightforward and, well, boring.  So it doesn't really serve the story.<br />Then again, it's hard to do much with a story about a bunch of different earths from different timelines threatening to collide and then burst apart or something.  It's all very...big and...dull.  Don't read this thing unless you're an avid DC fan or at least have some knowledge of the DCverse or you won't know what the hell is going on.  I know dork about DC's past continuity and that's a very big reason why I'm having such a hard time enjoying it.  In other words, not for mass market consumption, even though it's apparently packaged and sold that way.  <br />Marvel's Secret Wars, as a contrast, is fairly simple and straightforward and is almost completely unconcerned with past continuity and much easier to follow. I don't care who got the idea for a big company-wide crossover first, Marvel's Secret Wars is the better series.  Try that collection instead; it's a bunch of (stuff), but it's at least a halfway entertaining bunch of (stuff).<br />I'm going to suffer myself to finish CoIE simply because I hate not finishing books I start.  I'm still hoping I'll get some entertainment value out of it but, after what I've seen thus far, I don't like my chances.	2001-11-13
US	52663421	RKKG4D8KD4EIG	0886773741	361362638	Tailchaser's Song	Books	2	8	20	N	N	Watership Down + Lord of the Rings = Blah	At least as far as this book is concerned.<br />***spoilers follow***<br />I loved Tad Williams' Memory, Sorrow and Thorn - it's the reason I tried this book - but Tailchaser's Song is a disappointment to me.  I guess I shouldn't be too harsh as it is the author's first published work, but I'm frankly puzzled by the huge praise this book has gotten.  I didn't get much of the alleged cat personalities in this book, besides the obvious.  What I did get was a lot of silly names like Stretchslow, Pawgrip and Hangbelly.  I'm surprised Coughhair, Sofascratch and Lickbutt didn't make an appearance.<br />It takes some time for things to happen in this book but even when they do, it's still not very compelling.  I find the whole idea of a race of underground demon cats and a swollen, corrupted cat god not a very strong one.  It's also derivative ; Tolkien comes to mind, but Tolkien's work is itself derived from other sources so what you have in Tailchaser's Song is a very diluted fantasy.  To me, it doesn't make a whit of difference that cats are substituted for hobbits, elves or orcs; it's not nearly enough of a twist.  All the archetypes, already well plundered by other fantasy authors, are pretty much the same and, in this book, they aren't very interesting.  And it's way too grim.  I was expecting more light-hearted fare but much of this book depicts cats in slavery to their demonic counterparts in a huge, underground enclave.  Not very enjoyable reading, in my opinion.  Not very interesting either.  You either have cats sitting around, sniffing or grooming each other, cats telling stories and &quot;singing&quot; or cats being enslaved to dig holes.<br />I noticed some complaints about the ending and this is where I disagree with any negative reviews of the book.  Besides the ridiculous, pretentious bit when Tailchaser meets the mother of frogs (named ChumbaWumba or something), I actually sort of preferred the ending to the rest and I think the entire book should have taken this whimsical route, instead of all that grim, boring junk about fat, blinded, cat gods with telepathic powers.	2001-10-26
US	52663421	R163K4BJ9QYMJT	0140276424	992908259	Five Against One: The Pearl Jam Story	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Well-balanced, overall	The author attempts, as much as possible, to relate the history of Pearl Jam objectively.  Wherever possible, she sympathizes with the band and especially the lead singer but, perhaps curiously, doesn't defend him or the band when they apparently were in the wrong, such as in their treatment of their second drummer, Dave Abbruzzeze.  Apparently, Vedder desired Jack Irons for his band and apparently treated Abbruzzeze with a cold shoulder and berated him for appreciating the success the band experienced; perhaps he hoped he would take the hint and quit.  The others toed the line, one might assume, and subjected him to similar treatment, so the overall impression was that Dave had a miserable three years in the band and one wonders just why he didn't quit early and instead got fired under BS circumstances.  I can't imagine that every waking second was crap for the drummer, but, overall, the evidence seems pretty damning and there is no effort by either the author or the band to redeem themselves on this count.  <br />...Anyway, don't mean to give the impression that this book is just about that.  There's much more, including the origin of the band, EV's childhood and the band's ordeal with Ticketmaster.  It covers pretty much all up until the release of YIELD.	2001-05-08
US	52663421	RX4MJ92177AH4	0312864256	870089682	Winter's Heart (The Wheel of Time, Book 9)	Books	2	6	8	N	N	A previous review makes a good point	The point was that Jordan has gone on for so long and likely to continue doing so for some time (I strongly doubt Book 10 will be the conclusion) that he can't POSSIBLY devise an ending worthy of all that verbiage.  It's been built up and built up, etc. (for better or worse) and it's come to a point where you wonder how it possibly can end.  Seriously, how does he end it?  If it takes 600+ pages to simply get a bunch of characters from point A to point B I wonder how long it will take just to end the damn thing.  The battle between Rand Al'Thor and the Dark One, assuming it'll ever happen, is sure to eat up at least 1200 pages.<br />I think, at this point, Jordan may as well continue writing this and just completely forget about the intent to finish the series (if he ever had such an intent).  I know lots of WOT fans would be happy and I'm SURE Jordan's pockets would be happy.<br />I myself gave up WOT after book 7 and will not take it up again unless it finishes, and then only if I somehow get a lenthy prison sentence, a stay in a sanitarium or retirement home, or get stuck on a deserted island with nothing else to read or do.  Since none of these events are likely to occur, at least not anytime soon, I'll look elsewhere for reading enjoyment.	2001-05-01
US	52663421	R3BDEH31J9ASHC	1563894769	602058747	Justice League of America: The Nail	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Pretty much in agreement...	Many of the reviews seem to be of the mind that the art in this story far exceeded the story itself. I am of the same mind. The basic idea of the story wasn't bad. Even the execution was pretty good, artistically speaking. I guess my biggest gripe is with the dialogue, which came out as strangely wooden, which was disappointing given Davis' more vibrant dialogue in Excalibur and Clandestine. I suppose characterization was difficult, given the sort of comic book icons he had to write about. Anyway, I feel, like many others, that the superb artwork more than compensates for a somewhat deficient story. Alan Davis' and Mark Farmer's (the inker's) artwork tends to do that to a project. So I give this book 5 stars, despite its minor faults.	2001-04-13
US	52663421	RGR3QI7GRCV3W	0785107576	705344768	Daredevil Visionaries - Frank Miller, Vol. 1	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Great book and great idea	This is the first of a series of trade paperbacks called Visionaries.  An idea that has finally got its due, Visionaries will reprint comic runs from various artist/writers who have set trends in the industry.  Frank Miller's Daredevil (though he didn't start out writing, just drawing) was selected first, for good reason.  Future comic book Visionaries will reprint Walt Simonson's THOR, John Byrne's FANTASTIC FOUR, etc.  Can't wait for the next DAREDEVIL Visionaries volume.	2001-04-13
US	52663421	R1CYU8AMZPPQHV	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Ruddy good!	Okay, color me impressed.  Rowling has really outdone herself with this one and I expect she will have to really work hard to one up herself on the next book (though she left herself a nice plot thread to explore in the  future).  I mean the first two books were good but this book approached  great.  Other than my parenthetical mention of plot thread above, I don't  want to say anything else about the plot in this book, because it'd be a  shame to spoil it for anyone.<br />I will say a bit about the general content  of the book, though.  Rowling has clearly improved as a writer.  Besides  the increasing complexity of her plot, there is also a seriousness to the  subject matter that I find almost shocking, yet sensitively handled.  There  are also shades, I thought, of Lord of the Rings and even Chronicles of  Narnia that work nicely as tributes.<br />The book (and the series) is not  without its weaknesses, however.  There is still the annoying implication  that bad, malicious people are ugly, while everyone else is not.  Take the  House of Slytherin.  So far,everyone named from this establishment has some  nasty quirk to their personality and have some sort of unpleasantness to  their outward appearance as well; I was dissappointed in Book 2, that one  of the Slytherin girls was described as an absolute troll and the girl with  the crush on Draco Malfoy had \\"a face like a pug\\".  This is getting rather  tiresome and I hope the author will realize how juvenile a concept it is,  especially given the seriousness of some of the other subject matter.  We  get it; people in the Slytherin house are bad.  Do they have to be ugly too  to drive the point across?  Or, more to the point, do they all have to be  bad apples in the first place?  Enough already! <br />Also, other little  things (if I may be allowed to indulge myself) like the hippogriff,  probably the most ridiculous creature ever to grace a children's book;  nothing at all like the beast of the same name from E.R.Eddison's Worm of  Ouroboros.  Also, owls do not eat cornflakes.  <br />Aside from bad, ugly  people and small stuff like the above, this book gets top marks (or close  to) and I look forward to the next.	2000-05-04
US	52663421	RZMXGOMX0WHWD	0917201752	617072394	Asterix and Cleopatra (Adventures of Asterix)	Books	5	18	21	N	Y	My first and so far favorite Asterix	I stumbled upon Asterix and Cleopatra in India in '91.  Prior to this I had never heard of it.  Asterix was never all that popular in the U.S. but it's odd that I had never heard a single thing about it.  Anyway, it means many Americans are missing out on some great fun.  Asterix is an stunningly well-drawn Belgian comic (check out the meticulous brush lines and level of  detail in the backgrounds) that is clever, amusing and sometimes laugh out  loud funny.  Whatever it is, it's always fun, even if the jokes fall flat.   Asterix and Cleopatra is arguable the best of the lot, at least of the ones  I've read so far, which is quite a few.  One thing I don't like is the way  the American covers are printed.  I mean it would be nice if they allotted  more space for the artwork.	2000-04-27
US	52663421	R337EZG1NH0K87	0684874350	698161422	Angela's Ashes (The Frank McCourt Memoirs)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Depressing, amusing, inspiring	Okay, you know from the numerous reviews and comments that this is an autobiographical tale about a boy, born of Irish parents in America, yet reared (if it can be called that) in Ireland.  There is much in this book  that will sadden and anger you.  In fact, you mightn't think that a story  about a boy and his family living in a state of squalor in the generally  cheerless environment of wet and gloomy Limerick would be much fun to read  about, or to laugh about for that matter.  But the author makes it not only  readable but engaging and entertaining, with healthy portions of humor,  sardonic, irreverent or otherwise, laced throughout.  That Frank McCourt  can actually make the reader chuckle, considering the bleak subject matter  is remarkable, but also remarkable is the story itself, one that almost  screams to be made into a movie.  Of course it has but I haven't seen it  and, to be truthful, I'm kind of scared to;  judging from some of the  reviews I've read, I'm afraid it may spoil the book.	2000-02-11
US	52663421	R5EJHCECHJC7U	0671723227	892474008	Wiseguy	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The extraordinary story of Henry Hill	It's been a while since I've seen the movie Goodfellas, but it seems to be rather faithful to the book, which tells the story of atypical mobster Henry Hill and his rise in the world of organized crime and charts the  events which bring about his \\"fall\\"(you'll have to read the book to see  what I mean by putting that word in quotation marks).  Read the book, then  see the movie.	2000-01-19
US	52663421	R3FDA09YXYBJZU	0886776066	45546370	To Green Angel Tower, Part 2 (Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn, Book 3)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Strange feeling that it wasn't quite long enough (SPOILERS)	Tad Williams did a great job with this book and with the series as a whole.  The series is admirably written with great characterization & vividly described battle scenes.  Also, age-old clichs are either given  new and subtle twists or discarder altogether in place of fresh ideas.   However there were long stretches that I felt could have been condensed.   Did we really need to read about Simon stumbling through underground  tunnels yet again with next to nothing happening to him except hunger and  thirst (until he encounters Inch, of course)?  I found this almost  excruciating to read, not just of concern for the character but out of  sheer impatience with the story.  I don't know how else Williams could have  charted Simon's journey to the Hayholt but I wish he could have found  another way.  The climax was tautly paced and this also was excruciating  (in a good way), but the ending, i.e. the defeat of the Storm King wasn't  explored enough.  The reader is left to provide the details on how the  Storm King gets vanquished.  However, it's not too much of a stretch and it  ultimately comes off as believable.   There's a lot to be said for leaving  things to the reader's imagination and Williams does that.  Lastly - Aedon  be praised! - there's an ending.  After being hopelessly frustrated with  Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time and despairing of ever seeing a resolution  (which is why I'm hesitant to start Terry Goodkind's Sword of Truth  series), it's heartening to see a series that has an ending.	1999-10-07
US	52663421	RZXQA94N7RNW8	0886773849	483496444	The Dragonbone Chair: Book One of Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn (Osten Ard)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The true successor to Tolkien	I know Tolkien wasn't the originator of fairy tales or even the fantasy genre, but for this specific sub-genre of sweeping, epic fantasy of good vs. evil, let's just for argument's sake call him the grandfather of  fantasy.  Anyway, Tad Williams is his true descendant, taking familiar  themes efficiently used by Tolkien and making them totally his own.  You  can clearly see the tribute to Tolkien, but you can also clearly see this  is no rip-off, by any definition.  Williams recognizes the sources that  inspired Tolkien and also borrows from other mythological traditions,  deftly blending them into his own unique concoction.  His characters are  extremely well-developed and believable.<br />Other reviewers have stated that  The Dragonbone Chair takes a while to get going and that is true, but it's  totally necessary.  Williams gives his world a strong sense of reality the  mundane and everyday, making the fantastic and the remarkable that much  more exciting and terrifying to behold. This is a theme also demonstrated  in The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings, though not, I almost hate to  admit, as convincingly.  I'm not saying Tolkien couldn't depict the  fantastic and terrible, just that Tolkien's universe had a stronger sense  of otherworldliness even from the get-go.  You already know Middle Earth  and beyond is a mystical and magical world, from the moment Gandalf enters  the stage, if not before.  Williams' Osten Ard has such a strong sense of  the mundane and the cruel (contrasting sharply with the idyll of the Shire)  that we almost get the feeling that those fantastic tales of dragons and  elves are just that, tales, until those fantastic aspects start rearing  their heads.   Even then, some of the more amazing and terrifying  happenings in Williams' fantasy seem to have at least a toe-hold in  believability - I don't know how best to explain any of this; it's just my  overwhelming impression.  In this way, it's as if Williams' books are less  of an escape (which is where Tolkien's main strength lies) than an  extension of our own troubled experience.  Strangely, that doesn't make  them less enjoyable to read, but instead gives us a strong anchor which  which to sympathize with Simon and his companions.  Understand that I am  not putting Williams above Tolkien - they each have their own strengths  (and weaknesses, though they are scant).  But I would certainly put him in  the same echelon.<br />I probably should wait until I finish the entire  Memory, Sorrow and Thorn series before making any comparisons, but I'm too  inspired so I figured I'd mention Terry Brooks and Robert Jordan.  Both  have very well-realized visions.  But Brooks is perhaps too simplistic in  his depictions and his characterizations too stilted.  Don't get me wrong,  I like the Shanarrah books; they just don't ring with the same power as  Tolkien or Williams.  Jordan's world is, if anything, too complex, yet not  entirely believable or easy to follow.  There are too many concepts and  characters.  Plots seem to come, then go and never return.  The  characterizations border on, if not exceed, the obnoxious.  Also, there is  too much padding and no end in sight.  I like the characters in Memory,  Sorrow and Thorn and, long as it is (and that's still not approaching the  formidable length of Jordan's Wheel of Time), I know I can expect a  resolution.<br />This went on much longer than I'd intended but let me just  say this last: if The Dragonbone Chair seems like it's slow at the  beginning, I urge you to stick with it, because it gets much, much better.	1999-09-14
US	52663421	R7U750UKMNCQQ	0312857675	557548547	A Crown of Swords (The Wheel of Time, Book 7)	Books	2	5	8	N	N	In this installment, Mat gets laid.	Thrill as Mat is pursued by a woman old enough to have birthed him!  Marvel as Elayne, Egwene & Aviendha (or whoever the hell) look for a bowl! Gape in wonder as Elayne finds some old broads who can weild the  Power!  Gasp in astonishment as Nynaeve and Mat argue with each other!   Could it possibly get any more exciting (I shudder to think)?...     To be  fair, there is a climactic moment (maybe 2) in this book (which is why I  grudgingly give it 2 stars) but it happens so fast with no significant  development to any  major character, it may as well have been a hiccough.	1999-09-14
US	52663421	RQS2ENY6GUPN1	0312850093	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	An auspicious debut to an overlong series	To address the ongoing issue of Tolkien comparisons, I have to say, in all objectivity, that there are a few glaring similarities.  Of course, the Dark One speaks for himself.  The Myrrdral resemble the Nazgul, at least  outwardly, Moirainne's function is similar to Gandalf's and even disappears  while fighting an enemy, like Gandalf.  Padan Fain brings to mind LotR's  Gollum.  The one I find most striking is the similarity of Lan to Aragorn.   Both of these characters have grey in their hair, suggesting they are older  than they appear; both are kings without a country and, finally, within the  name Mandragor'an is contained the letters that spell Aragorn.   Coincidence?  If so, it's a really remarkable one.    One major problem I  have with the series is the characterization; that is, with a few  exceptions, I don't like the characters.  They are either grating or  outright despicable.  Throughout the series I get an overwhelming feeling  of cynicism, as if they characters don't really like each other and that  Rand's world isn't one worth saving.  I suppose the intended effect is  realism by having the various characters snapping at each other frequently,  but there's realism and there's over-the-top.  WoT is over-the-top.  Again,  if I liked them I wouldn't mind 5,600 or so pages, but these don't strike  me as characters I'd want to spend an adventure with.    Another thing:  about this world being so believable, I have to question that.  For one  thing, why do all the people of these nations speak the same language?   Perhaps the only two races that speak different languages are the Seafolk  and the Seanchan, and I'm not even sure of that.  For such a supposedly  complex and believable world, this seems glaringly simplistic and  unbelievable to me.    Anyway, the main problem I have for the series is its  length, which, in itself, is not the problem; just that that length is primarily comprised of padding, containing massive descriptions of clothing and  appearance and who remembers what else.  If WoT's formidable word count had  contained more story, I would not be complaining.  Jordan certainly seems  to have enough story to tell without having to resort to mind-numbingly  long descriptions.    Well, I guess it did say in the book that there are no  beginnings or endings in the Wheel of Time.  Definitely have to agree on  the latter.  This series is 8 books and 10(!) years long and still no end  in sight.  I liked this book and perhaps the next two books of this series  but my appreciation waned with each successive book until the final slap in  the face that was Book 7, after which I lost all hope and interest.  If you don't mind this type of long-running series (and also if you happen to like  Jordan's style of writing), go ahead and read it.  If instead you like the  concept of resolution, you might want to give this series a miss.	1999-09-14
US	52663421	R2UG3YEC8WF9GV	1569712581	292737605	Art of Comic Book Inking	Books	4	38	41	N	Y	The Art of Comic-Book Inking (with a brush)...	That's what it should have been called, considering Gary Martin hardly touches on the techniques of inking with a crowquill pen.  And of his \\"guest\\" inkers, only a few mention it or begin to describe it.  I think the  book could have used a little more instruction on inking with a  pen.    That, however, is the only black mark (no pun intended) against it (& why I gave  it 4 stars).  The rest of the book is extremely informative and those guest  inkers (tops in their field) mentioned earlier, inking three different  pencilled pages, are a great touch; Gary is himself, an amazing inking  talent.  Also, Steve Rude is a great penciller, one of the best (though I  agree with the reviewer who would have liked other pencilling style  represented in the book; e.g.: what approach to take when inking looser  pencils).  All in all, though a great book and one of the few written on  the topic.    P.S. Regarding inking with a crowquill: besides the art books  already written on it, there is one author that I know of who describes it  in some detail.  Dave Sim, in his \\"Guide to Self-Publishing\\", describes the  mechanics of the process almost as if it were a science.  I don't know if  the book is in print anymore, though.	1999-08-23
US	52663421	R1NDGTVJUH8T06	0345350111	333172871	Midworld	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A classic	Midworld is a great book.  Foster doesn't waste words here and all the &quot;fat&quot; that's prevalent in later works is completely absent (of course its short length partly accounts for that, but no complaints here).  The result is an well paced, well written and highly entertaining piece of  sci-fi.	1999-05-09
US	52663421	RV8XHKVK87GNW	1563893304	523289763	Kingdom Come	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A common misconception...	...seems to be that Kingdom Come was the brainchild of Mark Waid when, in fact, it's Alex Ross's baby.  In fact, Mark Waid was hired as scripter only after James Robinson declined.   The basic plot was his and all the new  characters seen were conceived and designed by him.  Of course, this is  completely understandable since the credits do not even list Alex Ross as  co-plotter and list Mark Waid first, for reasons I can't fathom.  Anyway,  just thought I'd try and clear up this misconception.  <br />Oh, about the  book, I agree that it's a visually stunning piece of work that's perhaps a  notch above Ross's previous major work, Marvels, but I can't say I'm the  biggest fan of the story.	1999-04-29
US	52663421	R2K1T2XGKKVT7H	0811816753	365274538	Grimm's Grimmest	Books	3	6	16	N	N	I prefer the sanitized versions	At least they were readable and the style of writing is more appropriate for young readers.  And by that I don't mean these weren't readable because of their content, but rather the way they were written, that is not very  enticingly or intriguingly at all.  Basically this read as an allegory for  something I already knew: that people can be cruel, violent and otherwise  awful.  And where's all the grim stuff the book was crowing about.  Sure,  there was lots of blood shed, but most of it was either relatively mild or  came out rather alright in the end.  I was expecting horror stories galore  but what I got was the sense of heavily toned-down reading.  A kid could  read this stuff hardly batting an eye (as the intro itself seems to  suggest).  Even the sexual references are oblique enough that children  would pretty much gloss them over (such as Rapunzel asking why her clothes  don't fit anymore).  Lastly, that Hans and Grethel story was absurd beyond  words.	1999-04-19
US	52663421	RCYJFL8M5QE7V	0395346460	619220705	The Silmarillion	Books	3	0	1	N	Y	Resounding, brilliant imagery but can't stomach the prose	I recall reading at least 3/4 of the way through this book and giving up at some point. I can't really recall why I gave up reading the book with less than half to go. I tried again and I think I got a bit farther and then, just as mysteriously stopped, probably interrupted by some event or something and then just not picking it up again. I guess what made me not want to resume reading was the Bible-esque prose. While reading it, I found I sorely missed the more down to earth prose of his more popular works, i.e. The Hobbit and Lord of the Rings. I realize that Tolkein's intent was to pattern the history of Middle Earth somewhat on the Bible and that the structure actually seems to make sense that way, but that doesn't make reading it all that much easier. Still, there's a lot of stuff in this book and despite being smaller than The Hobbit and LotR (all told), paints a much broader picture and tells the story of the struggle of the Gods, Elves and Man against the true Dark Lord, Morgoth, who makes Sauron, (Morgoth's &quot;lieutenant&quot; in the Silmarillion), look like a piker. It also explains how Sauron came to take Morgoth's place as the Dark Lord and what the story is with all those rings, particularly the One Ring. So, all in all, a good read. If you can slog past the slow bits, you'll find some real meat in this book and that it will deepen your appreciation of The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings.	1999-02-23
US	52663421	R1KJOAPYIT8G4L	0440211719	322612568	Whipping Boy	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Shame its out of print	I have to say this book succeeded in scaring me as no Stephen King book did.  It's a shame that this book is out of print.  I think horror fans have missed out on a unique take on the horror genre.	1999-02-12
US	52663421	R3NRA7F9K4KK40	0812513754	861837137	Lord of Chaos (The Wheel of Time, Book 6)	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Huge	This book is huge; (which is not saying much in regards to the WOT, but this book seemed the biggest so far) so huge I can barely remember anything that happens, except the ending which was  decent.  Besides that, I do  remember the beginning of the book where various peoples were gathered in  the court of Tear to witness Rand announce something or punish someone or  some such thing (again, my memory fails me).  Anyway, a good chunk in the  beginning of the book detailed how everybody in that court was staring at  or studying someone else.  Really; it went something like this (and I'm not  quoting verbatim): \\"the Tairen lords were studying Rand, blah, blah, blah.   The Cairhens were watching the Tairen lords, yadda, yadda, yadda.  In  truth, everyone was watching somebody else.\\"  Wow.  Exciting. Everyone was  watching someone else.  Please excuse the sarcasm but it does this for at  least 15 pages or so (and that could very well be a conservative estimate).   Maybe I'm entirely missing the point but was this really necessary?  Was  it really important to have all these people stand around watching someone  else?  And even if it was, was it necessary to go on and on about it?  This  to me as a good example as any of Jordan's problem of \\"diahrrea of the pen\\"  (or word processor).  Lots and lots of words to announce that Rand was  leaving Tear or something or that Elayne and Egwene decide to go and find a  bowl.  You have to do a lot of reading (or perusing) to find the choice  bits, of which there are few, in ANY WOT book.  Of course, this is still  better than book 7 (and perhaps 8, as suggested from some of the customer  reviews for that book), where the entire books looks to be filler, but  that's really no excuse.  I'm afraid I'll give this book 2 stars, despite  the exciting ending because I just can't recall the other 500+ pages of the  book, except the ending; and that scene where the people stand  around looking at each other.	1999-02-11
US	52663421	RL73043GFJM1F	1559351195	63811370	The Hobbit: A Dramatization of J.R.R. Tolkien's Classic	Books	5	0	2	N	Y	Classic	I can barely believe there are those that think this book too boring &amp; pointless.  First off, the book is barely 300 pages long, if that.  Secondly, it has a point, and that's to tell a engaging story.  I guess  some people just don't get it or go in for this kind of thing.  Pointless  and boring? You haven't seen such till you read certain volumes of Robert  Jordan's Wheel Of Time series.  For me, this book is like a doorway into  another world.  A wizard, a hobbit and a group of dwarves go on a quest to  oust a dragon from their mountain and run into orcs, wolves and spiders on  the way?  Jeez, what could be cooler?  I found it engrossing every step of  the way.  The only criticism I would have for the book might be that the  latter part of the book takes an abruptly more serious tone than the first  half of the book, but that's only fitting since it prepares for the more  serious tone of Lord of the Rings.  This book is Classic Fantasy.  For the  number of reviews that wanted to give this book 0 stars, even if they are  only a handful, I give this book 10 stars.	1999-02-11
US	52663421	R2GI2USO7S8AZU	1569713162	673687494	Hellboy Volume 1: Seed of Destruction (Hellboy (Pocket eBook))	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Hellboy; just plain great fun	HELLBOY is probably everything Robert Bloch (from the intro to Seed of Destruction) and Alan Moore (from the intro to Wake the Devil) say it is but the bottom line is that it's just great fun; a great visual and  mythical experience.  It clears itself of any pretentiousness right of the  bat: it's about a monster (more specifically, a demon) who goes around and  beats up or gets beaten up by other monsters.  Mike Mignola himself said he  \\"wanted to draw monsters\\" and HELLBOY assures that he'll be able to do so,  whether drawing the good guy or the bad guys.  But while Hellboy may not be  the most cerebral comic book on the rack (not to imply that there are that  many to begin with), it draws it's inspiration from mythology and folklore,  so it's definitely food for the brain.  And it may just inspire you to go  and read the source material. <br /> Something must also said for the artistic  effort in the SoD series.  Not to say that subsequent HELLBOY stories drawn  by Mignola look bad (far from it), but in Seed Of Destruction, one can  clearly see the labor of love involved.  The combination of line work and  heavy blacks seem to convey a stronger sense of depth than usual.  Speaking  of heavy blacks, Mignola has admitted that such a technique began as a way  to cover up what he \\"didn't know how to draw\\", but he certainly knows how  to turn this admitted weakness into strength.  Mignola also skimps on  backgrounds, often just leaving them out for panels at a time, but when he  does render backgrounds, he knows just how to set the mood, whether the  background in question is a derelict church, a moonlit forest or a  graveyard.  So effective are Mignola's backgrounds when they are seen, that  the reader barely misses them when they're absent. <br /> Anyway, enough  gushing praise.  I end with a recommendation: anyone who's a fan of comics,  folklore or mythology should give HELLBOY: SEED OF DESTRUCTION (or anything  HELLBOY, for that matter) a look.	1999-01-18
US	52663421	R3BB1JHNS1TDTS	0312857675	557548547	A Crown of Swords (The Wheel of Time, Book 7)	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Waste of Time	No, that summary probably isn't very original, but I don't care.  \\"The longer the better\\"?  Whatever. <br /> Actually, if book 7 conveyed the feeling of something actually happening, of plot devices advancing (as opposed to  just one device: i.e. that darn Bowl), as the first 6 books did somewhat, I  wouldn't mind nearly as much.   LoC had an ending that salvaged something  decent from the sludge that dominated that book and I was hoping CoS would  pick up that pace.  But no, all we get is the bowl, some new women (who,  like most of the women are, surprise, annoying) who can channel and a new  foe, the Golem (which to be honest, is one of the few halfway decent  developments in the book).   <br /> We also get the rape of Mat Cauthon at the  hands of Queen Tylin and despite what anyone else thinks, even if it isn't  necessarily a brutal rape, it IS a rape.  How else would you describe  sex  at knife-point?  Maybe I'm getting too hung up over it, but even if I'm not  offended by it, I'm still bored to death over it.  I really could care less  about Mat's cavorting or how pinchable his bottom is.  It's naught but  filler material that's not funny, offensive or not.   <br /> I'll be the first  to admit that Jordan has fashioned an IMPRESSIVE fantasy universe here that  has a LOT of potential.  But I just don't see that potential getting  realized.  What I do see is a lot of plot threads swaying in the wind and a  lot of filler in place of what should be there: resolution and character  development.  There are about a ton of cool things that could be happening  that aren't. <br /> But what can I say?  If all of you die-hard fans of  Jordans' love his style of prose, more power to you.  If you love it great,  I'm not going to try and convince you otherwise.  But please don't tell the  rest of us to \\"put up or shut up\\" or \\"have patience\\" or what have you.  It  simply doesn't work for everyone.  Some of us have no use for pages upon  pages of descriptions of people's necklaces and overcoats or the number of  women about who are falling out of their brassieres. <br /> One more point I'd  like to address is that of this  issue of comparing Jordan and Tolkien.   First off, there's nothing wrong with comparing two authors however long  between their respective time periods.  Fact is, both are in the same  genre. Comparisons are bound to happen.  Secondly, I'm not going to assume  Jordan is ripping off Tolkien, but I do see a lot of parallels that suggest  to me that Jordan drew a lot more inspiration from Tolkien than he's been  known to admit.  1) Rand's village/ Frodo's shire; not a big parallel, but  it's there.  Also, both Rand and Frodo are pivotal in defeating the enemy;  2)Moraine/Gandalf - both attempt to recruit Rand and Frodo, respectively,  into doing their respective duties.  Also, both disappear into some kind of  abyss, while battling an enemy.  3)Lan/Aragorn - both of their physical  description suggest that they are very similar in appearance and both are  revealed to be kings without a kingdom.  Furthermore, the last seven  letters of Lan's last name, Mandragoran, are an anagram for Aragorn.   4)Padan Fain/Gollum - both have been used and abused by their masters and  both have vendettas against the main characters; 5)Myrrdraal/Ringwraiths  &amp; 6)Dark Lord/Dark One; no more need be said really for the last two.   And that's where the similarities pretty much end (unless anyone else has  some others?):  Jordan's story goes off in a much different direction than  Tolkien's (what that direction might be is anyone's guess, Jordan's  included, perhaps), but the similarities are pretty apparent and it seems a  bit hasty to dismiss them out of hand. <br /> Anyway, enough ranting.  Buy  Crown of Swords if you are, unlike me,  absolutely dumbfounded and tickled  ecstatic by Jordan's literary style, but then I didn't really need to say  that did I.	1999-01-12
US	52663421	R23XIJVTD4DHSO	0395898714	548440687	Roverandom	Books	3	3	3	N	N	I tried to like this book but couldn't	Not that I disliked it; I just couldn't get into it.  The characters seem  to be introduced too fast and I didn't feel as if I knew enough about them  to care.  This book didn't have the pacing or, more importantly, the  ambiance of The Hobbit; never mind anything else.  If it had those two  elements, I would have enjoyed it more.  Still, the book had some nice  imagery and dialogue and would be a good way to wean younger readers on  Tolkien's later books.	1998-09-15
US	52663421	RYPLHFITCM3DS	0312857675	557548547	A Crown of Swords (The Wheel of Time, Book 7)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	This series seems to have good concepts	But there're too many of them and they don't seem to get tied together very well. There are too many new characters to begin with and too many new ones being introduced. And with Rand's gargantuan task of uniting all the countries, I have little patience for the unnecessary dialogue and constant bickering. <br />I couldn't possibly care less about how pretty Rand's buttocks are, or how the set of some unnecessary character's nose keeps him/her from being good looking; and I'm tired of reading about how men and women won't ever understand each other and the inevitability of Nynaeve, Elayne and Egwene bickering with one another. That bit with Mat and Queen Tylin (another useless character) was disgusting and something I didn't need to read.	1998-04-17
US	52663421	R1DSY4T6DG6ZJK	0345019679	557985230	Druid of Shannara	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The best of Heritage	I found this book to be the best of the Heritage series, followed by Elfstones.  The imagery invoked was imaginative and the characters were likable, except for Pe Ell, who is one of those love-to-hate type characters.	1998-04-14
