US	52670980	RU7EKO7QPZ2OQ	0679723161	636015448	Lolita	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Kind of torn	On the cover of the book is a review by Vanity Fair: \\"The only convincing love story of our century.\\"     Lolita is NOT a love story, and it boggles my mind that a reviewer would say it is the \\"only convincing\\" one of the 20th century. It is a story of twisted, jealous obsession, rape and deception, artfully rationalized by the very memorable Humbert Humbert, the predator with the self-described \\"movie star\\" good looks.    What WAS convincing is the nightmare the narrator calmly describes in very rational terms, as if you're in complete agreement with him about his obsession with Lolita and the logical necessity of his raping the child and holding her an unwilling but resigned prisoner for two years. He offers it to us as a chillingly sensible sequence of events. On one level, he really knows he's a sick criminal. On the other hand, he romanticizes his feelings toward Lolita (leaving me with a rising scream in my chest!) as if it's \\"love\\" to hold a 12-year old captive and subject her to your constant sexual demands.    You can't really love this book, I don't think. You can appreciate it and admire the skill of the author -- but the story makes my skin crawl. Which is no doubt exactly the reaction the author intended, and I'm sure he would be pleased.    The book is important because I'm certain it must have opened peoples' eyes to the rationalizations and the single-mindedness of the child molester in the 1950s, when people weren't really aware of such things as they are now. The author was exceptionally brave to have tackled this topic at that time, probably realizing it (not surprisingly, really) would be treated as pornography.    I had the version that was NOT annotated, so the constant French references were irritating to me. Go for the annotated version because French is everywhere. The 4-star rating is for the UNANNOTATED version - I'm certain I would have enjoyed the book more if I'd known what the heck it said. It was like reading a book with a large portion of it censored.	2005-06-05
US	52670980	RC7UOANL24BQ2	078671221X	900144151	Faith Fox	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Probably 3 1/2 stars	The book was very cute, funny, and amusing. It gets 3 1/2 stars for amusement value, losing points for construction of plot.     This was a light read about the family of an infant whose mother dies in childbirth. The maternal grandmother, Thomasina, deals with her grief by running off to Egypt with a handsome general, while the father, who doesn't want to raise the child, dumps her on his spacey-but-charismatic brother who runs a monastery with his mysterious and unlikeable wife. Both barely look at the baby, which makes sense because they barely notice the child they already have. Meanwhile, the baby is being cared for by an older Tibetan woman who is staying at the monastery because everyone else is so engrossed in his or her own personal issues that nobody but the step-brother really notices the baby. ...Except for the paternal grandparents, who would notice baby Faith if they could. However, through a comedy of errors and poor planning, they are prevented from seeing her because it somehow is inconvenient for anyone involved to either bring them to the monastery, or bring the baby down to meet them.    It's difficult to know where the plot is going because of all the side-journeys into the various characters. This is not to say that the characters aren't amusing, or that the story isn't entertaining. I just felt as though I was being led on a journey that didn't lead anywhere. The final resolution of the plot came at the very end of the book, and was very abrupt. It wasn't until that moment that I realized what the main two threads of the story were (there were so many, how was I to pick the main ones?), but this brought attention to the fact that the bulk of the novel was comprised of loose ends, most of which the author never attempts to resolve except through a few vague references to where some characters end up, or who they end up with. Little attention is paid to \\"why\\" except in indirect observations by other minor characters. Mostly the characters are just left where they landed without any further comment.    One character after another is introduced, and the focus of the story keeps shifting. Most of the characters are minor ones but are all given the same attention and weight as the major ones to the extent that you aren't really sure whose viewpoint you should be following in order to get a grasp on the plot (Hint: Thomasina and the paternal grandparents, even though Thomasina's viewpoint is only rarely offered by comparison to other characters. To a lesser degree, Jocasta.)    All in all, it was a good book - NOT a \\"great\\" book. I enjoyed it, but probably won't ever read it again.	2005-04-10
US	52670980	RA5S7B0N0RVAS	0375702032	500118251	Plays Well with Others	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Poignant	What this book reminded me of was the song \\"Lady in Red\\" by Chris Deburgh. I understand the song was written in about 30 minutes - like a quick sketch - so it retained all the immediacy of someone who was writing down impressions and feelings while they were still fresh. Then he presented them unedited with all the immediacy intact. It may not have been the best song ever written, but it touched a chord because the emotions were so raw, and the feelings were so sincere. <br /> <br />\\"Plays Well with Others\\" is very obviously a not very well-camouflaged autobiographical tribute to the author's friends, who lived in pre-AIDS New York during a time period the author refers to as \\"Before\\", then died there of the \\"plague\\". The writing is rough, and these friends are idealized to the point where you seriously doubt they were as clever, talented and unique as the author depicted them, but the emotions are very real, and the author is trying to describe people striving for a creative life and are at the very verge of great things, when they are all cut down by the sudden, unexpected and very deadly onset of AIDS.  <br /> <br />The important things are the emotions and the pain. Part of the beauty of his writing style in this book is the spontaneous feel you get from it. You feel as though you're really reading a story written by someone who experienced all the pain of watching his friends die one by one until his only relief came from knowing they were finally all gone and he had no more friends to lose. That same sense of immediacy is there to remind you that someone real is mourning people who were real. And their deaths were a loss and a tragedy, not only to the author. They represent all the people who died, and are dying now. They were loved and cherished and had great plans to do great things. Instead of doing those great things, they left behind one good friend to clean up the mess, usher in their grieving parents, and write a book so they wouldn't be forgotten. <br/> <br />It's almost diary-like in the way he wrote it. Approach it like you're reading someone's diary, and you'll be more forgiving than some of the reviewers who focused on the book as \\"fiction\\" and expected it to read like Gurganus' other great novel, \\"Confederate Widow\\". It's nothing like the first book. Please don't compare them. And when you read it, presume there is real grief behind the words - I see it there, anyway.  <br /> <br />Just read it as the tribute it is, and use it as a means through which you might understand what all it was like, for one person at least.	2005-02-12
US	52670980	R1L1I8LS4FQXP6	0743246349	674767143	Heaven Lake: A Novel	Books	5	27	30	N	N	Great Book!	I had just finished reading \\"The Kite Runner\\" when I turned around and picked up Heaven Lake. As usually happens when I finish a particularly good book, I was expecting a let down. Consequently I was very pleased to find myself shifting from one really excellent book to another.     Heaven Lake is a story about an American \\"Jesus teacher,\\" a missionary in Taiwan whose conviction about his religion, while sincere, is just a tad sanctimonious and disrespectful toward the \\"unsaved\\". His concern for their souls, while also sincere, is just a tad patronizing. His version of the truth must be spread.     His certainty is a little shaken by the arrival of another missionary, whose conviction is belligerent and self-righteous and even borders on the psychotic. In watching this woman and feeling ashamed and embarrassed by their association, he begins to question the wisdom of forcing his beliefs on strangers.    He's a genuinely good man with good intentions. Consequently, he is appalled by a local businessman's suggestion that he accept $10,000 to travel across mainland China in order to bring back a woman to be the businessman's bride. Because of the difficulty in obtaining a marriage license between the Taiwanese and the Chinese, the deal requires him to 1) marry the woman (the government is more lenient with marriages to foreigners), 2) establish her in Taiwan so she can more easily marry her intended husband, 3) divorce her and 4) turn her over to him.    Like I said, he's initially appalled. Then an affair he has with a student and the subsequent beating her brother gives him make him question his faith, his safety in Taiwan, and his future. The businessman's proposition gives him an excuse to leave Taiwan and the angry brother. It also gives him an opportunity to break ties with the missionary, which he's grown to feel increasingly hypocritical being involved with.    So he makes the arrangements and off he goes, traveling across China in what can only be described asa nightmare travelogue, to marry a woman he's never met.    The book is filled with realism, very well-drawn characters, and a story that isn't predictable at all. It was a great story and very well-written. I thoroughly enjoyed every word of it, and highly recommend it.	2005-02-04
US	52670980	R1FJGCPKWQ1FZL	0595193226	933118886	Spite Hall	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Funny, sly, wry and wonderful	Spite Hall is a book about a bitter man who gets even with...the world? No telling... by standing in front of a car in an intersection, and allowing it to hit him. By doing this he proves...something. Or not. But no matter.    The elderly woman driver who hits him is fraught with guilt, and apologizes by sending pies. So begins this little fable about bitterness, friendship and ultimate redemption.     The book is a gem, and gut-bustingly funny, particularly if you are a fan of high-end, John Gielgud (the butler in \\"Arthur\\") type wit. Every character - and \\"character\\" is the word - is well-drawn, recognizable and hilarious. The writing is superb. It's a two-read book (though I'm preparing for read Number 3).     If you're looking for a book you can't put down, and will really love, this is the book! I give it my very highest rating!	2005-01-23
US	52670980	R3X3OJBQACYNU	0670032972	245906542	Emma Brown: A Novel From the Unfinished Manuscript by Charlotte Bronte	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Total fun!	It's nearly impossible to recreate another author's writing style. In fact, Clare Boylan undoubtedly took this project on knowing that it could possibly subject her to all manner of abuse. Nevertheless, I think she did an excellent job.    The things that indicate she is NOT Charlotte Bronte are subtle ones. The author indicates at the end of the book that Bronte was leaning toward social reformation at the time of her death, and she developed her story along those lines. One of the tip-offs that the writer is not 19th century is the very modern shock and dismay at 19th century social conditions. Most of the main characters are, or become fired up with 1960s idealism, and try to save the world from poverty and injustice. A true 19th century writer wouldn't feel - or more likely wouldn't dare to challenge to this degree - a social structure England took for granted at that time. More likely she would comment on it and tug at your heartstrings like Dickens, and set the story up to enable the wealthy to save the poor heroine, but wouldn't have them indignantly devoting their wealthy lives to the betterment of the poor. It would have made a 19th century author appear \\"odd\\".    But that's one of the delightful things about the novel. When I read 19th century books (and I've read many) I often get irritated by shallow concerns the characters have, like the obsession with Tess of the D'urberville's loss of her virginity (yeah, so?) and building an entire book around how it ruined her life. A 19th century audience could relate. A modern audience would not see or fully appreciate what the problem was.     So we have a book with all the elements of a 19th century novel, but a story with an appeal to a 21st century audience and characters slightly more evolved and socially conscious than your typical 19th century English lords and ladies. That's nice.     Emma Brown is a not very pretty young girl who has no memory of her past, and from the little she can recall thinks she hasbeen \\"ruined\\" and is not fit to live. She is plopped by a Mysterious Man into a school for girls dressed as a wealthy heiress and then is revealed to be a pauper (much like Shirley Temple in \\"The Little Princess\\"). The school is run by three women who love her when she's rich, and hate her when they learn she's poor. In steps a local widow, who takes the child to live with her until she runs away with a sum of money intended for the repayment of her room and board at the school. In steps a local bachelor who devotes time and money to alternately attempt to locate the Mysterious Man among the wealthy and Emma somewhere in the teeming filth of the London slums. Enter an angelic, crippled, ragged slum child whose \\"baby doll\\" is the corpse of a little infant she found in the gutter (she would replace him with another corpse as soon as he began to look \\"unnatural\\" - infant corpses were everywhere, she explains, and she likes them because they keep her company), whom Emma befriends while she is living on the streets.    I loved the story. It was just contrived enough to be convincingly 19th century -- literature from that era is always filled with contrived coincidences and everything falling into place at the end. This novel does that, but not in a predictable way.    I also found the dialog hilariously true to Victorian literature, and wondered if the author was smiling as she wrote it. It was every bit as over-written as the dialog in any 19th century novel (in a good way). She gets five-stars for hitting the dialog nail right on the head! It's obviously not going to appeal to someone who prefers modern literature, but for those of us who swallowed the classics whole -- and for anyone who gets the joke with the speeches and letters they banter back and forth -- it was like opening a time capsule and finding a lost 19th century novel.    Well worth the read. Very good book - and very brave effort! I don't know that I would personally have dared to attempt it!	2005-01-17
US	52670980	RSHI23POZBIFO	0345363132	74059498	The Sunne in Splendour	Books	3	32	50	N	N	Sunne in Splendour	I know a lot of people are going to be mad at me. Perhaps this book just isn't for me. Other reviewers commented on the storyline, so I'll just add the things that struck me while I was reading it.    Not only is the subject matter complex, but history requires that the story contain an excessive number of characters. Furthermore, they're referred to not only by their given names, but by their titles or the geographic locations they're \\"Earl of\\", or \\"Duke of\\". So \\"Edmond\\" is also \\"Rutland\\", and \\"Richard Neville\\" is also \\"Warwick\\" and so forth. Too many people have two or more names, including nicknames, or names that are very similar. This may be historically accurate, but it makes for confusion anyway. If you can't sit down and focus for extended periods of time, you're going to get lost each time you're interrupted. Perhaps it was the fact that my life is busy that made this a difficult book to get into. This is not to say that I prefer a beach read or a shorter book. I just think complex subject matter and a large number of characters can sometimes be managed to make the reading flow more easily, and to make picking up where you left off less of a chore. I would have begun by taking literary license and referring to characters consistently, and by their given names only. I might also have elimimated some of the minor characters to simplify the structure.    So this is merely a warning to someone who doesn't have hours at a stretch to sit down with this book. It's a lot of work, if your attention is frequently pulled elsewhere.    The author makes repeated grammatical errors as well; incomplete sentences and comma splices are everywhere. These can be used VERY sparingly to set the tone. However, in this book I found myself not only trying to settle back in after an interruption and gather up all my thoughts, but getting stopped short by incorrect sentence structure in nearly every paragraph. As a result, I kept rereading sentences because I thought that surely I must have misread them the first time. It bogged me down and distracted me from the story. An editor should have addressed that, in my opinion.     Though admittedly most of the reviewers neither recognized or noticed the writing technicalities, nor did they care, so for most people this shouldn't a problem. Ignore this observation if you know you're one of those and focus on the story, which is great!     The author is a fantastic storyteller - and it's certainly a fascinating story - but the technical issues were distracting to me. I feel that, out of a five-star rating, writing technicalities comprise two of the stars. That is why I opted for a three-star rating. I give her full credit for storytelling!	2004-12-26
US	52670980	R2CV3JMVSORPI5	0312315716	860060808	Little Children: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Very enjoyable book!	What I liked most about the book, besides the fact that it's VERY well written, is the way in which the author managed to depict female characters in more realistic depth than most male authors typically manage.    It was also interesting how he developed the character of a child molester - ALMOST to the point where you feel sorry for him when the town has a knee-jerk reaction to his return from prison. He and his mother are repeatedly hounded by an obsessed retired cop who stalks him and torments him throughout the entire book. Then the author reminds you that the guy is truly sick. He gives no answer to the problem - there is none, really, under current laws - but despite your revulsion toward the character, you have to admit the author handled him deftly.    The book follows a group of suburban housewives (and one househusband) through the course of Summer 2001. The main character - although the book switches from one point of view to another - is Sarah, the bisexual wife of a man who orders used panties over the Internet, and is obsessed with the woman, \\"[...] Kay\\", who provides them. Meanwhile, Sarah is obsessed with the \\"Prom King\\", a househusband she meets in the park. It isn't inspirational drama so much as a snapshot of lives, personal dreams and personal problems.     It was an easy read, completely engrossing, intelligent and slyly humorous. I highly recommend it!	2004-12-22
US	52670980	R8OMRJ66X5M1A	044920622X	888007017	Penmarric	Books	5	41	41	N	N	I must have read this five or six times!	This is a book that I bought years ago when I was looking for something trashy and escapist. I think it was the cover art on the edition I bought that led me to believe it would be a typical historical bodice ripper, or something of that sort.<br /><br />Instead, it was a book I kept going back to again and again because of the character development, the writing and the plot. I really connected with the characters and the story.<br /><br />The author separates the book into sections, changes viewpoints from one character to the next, and explores things like \\"Virtue\\" and \\"Justice\\" through the eyes of whichever character is focused on that issue. Throughout the book, though, the main character is clearly Janna, the family matriarch, and each of the characters rotates around her and her life over the course of decades.<br /><br />The switch in character viewpoint is not distracting at all, in fact, it increased my sympathy for everyone in the book. I had my favorite (the neglected and unloved child Jan-Yves - the one focused on \\"justice\\" - who grew up to be funny and delightful), while other people I know who read the book had theirs.<br /><br />It's an easy enough read to work well on the beach, but it isn't a throw-away book at all. And it certainly isn't trashy. It's absorbing throughout, and I highly recommend it.	2004-12-06
US	52670980	R1OZ1DNFG3L1BZ	0060929987	503656070	Family Pictures: A Novel	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Entertaining book	I have to agree with some reviewers that the author can write exquisitely. I also have to agree that I came away not totally understanding some of the characters. <br /> <br />Things jump around, but I'm flexible enough to follow along most times. The thing that bewildered me, however, was that the book shifts from first person to third person and back. You read the point of view of Nina, the family photographer, and settle into getting to know what you presume is the \\"main character\\". Suddenly, you flip totally out of her sphere and find she's referred to in the third person. Not only that, but she isn't the main character at all. The story is mostly about her parents. So you don't know where Nina's point of view went - or, more importantly, why it went away. It becomes \\"Nina's\\" story four short times without following any discernible structure, except (and I presume this - it isn't stated) that it's because she's a photographer and took pictures, and gave the book the title. You just have to accept that sometimes it's all about Nina. No telling why. <br /> <br />When it flips back to third person, the story switches back and forth between the points of view of several characters, mostly the parents and the non-autistic brother (and sometimes a third-person rather than a first-person Nina), moving the story along more or less chronologically through the 50s and 60s, then ending in the 80s where it began. <br /> <br />Within this shifting of time, place and viewpoint, the story describes a family whose autistic son/brother is both \\"not there\\" and omnipresent in their lives. He is the dominating influence on everyone without ever being mentally \\"with\\" them. The author describes the impact his life had on his parents' marriage and his siblings as they attempt to cope with their lives and his. <br /> <br />All told, even with the massive shifts in everything, I enjoyed the book, the writing, the story and the timeframe. I would certainly recommend it.	2004-11-29
US	52670980	R32MH43USUPW4D	0765306395	381579312	A Shortcut in Time	Books	2	7	8	N	N	What the...!	I just finished this book, and like other reviewers, am bewildered by the ending. I guess the author had a deadline, and just sent them what he had...RIGHT NOW? I dunno. <br /> <br />You have the protagonist, Josh, married with a daughter. He travels through time, just a 15 minute blip into the past, and then when his daughter Penny goes missing, he finds through microfilm in the library that she disappeared further into the past, 1918, and died of Spanish Influenza. He goes back to 1918 to find her and learns that Penny doesn't want to return to the present. When he returns to the present himself, he finds he changed history somehow, and that his life is totally different. So here is where the story might have gotten good - really interesting. <br /> <br />But this is where all plot development goes away. The author sets the scene, then doesn't take it anywhere except to an abrupt ending that -- (see how it feels?)	2004-09-17
US	52670980	R15BBUBZKJJL1Z	0060958022	582577419	Five Quarters of the Orange	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Dark but very compelling	Mirabelle Dartigen is a brilliant cook whose legacy to her daughter Framboise is her talent and a notebook containing her recipes. She is also a widow who is plagued by blinding migraine headaches, and addicted to the morphine she needs to survive them. These debilitating, crippling headaches are always preceded by the smell of oranges, so she will not permit an orange in her house.<br />Tormented by pain, drug addiction and mental illness, Mirabelle attempts to raise three children alone in German-occupied France after her husband is killed by the Germans. She is not up to the task, physically or mentally, and the children are left to raise themselves. <br />Framboise, wild to begin with, has hardened toward her mother, whose afflictions have made her distant, mean and unapproachable. In order to ensure that her mother doesn't interfere with her plans, which alternately involve telling the town's secrets to a charismatic German who brings her and her siblings presents, and trying to catch a giant pike thought to grant any wish to whomever catches it (and to bring tragedy upon anyone who sees it without catching it), Framboise steals an orange and places it in her mother's pillow in order to trigger one of her migraines.<br />Throughout the book, she uses oranges to control her mother, who reacts to the odor by shutting herself into her room for days in screaming, sleepless pain, while the children fend for themselves, and do as they wish.<br />Years later, the elderly Framboise, looking back and reading through her mother's diary-like notebook, gains some insight into the woman's agony and her own part in it. She has returned to her home after decades, hiding her identity from her town, which remembers her family as conspirators with the Nazis, and responsible for the murder of a German and the execution of several townsfolk. She lives among them because it is her home, but is terrified that she will be found out and recognized as	2004-07-20
US	52670980	RC7GQWCP8M5UN	0345452771	723191315	The Yokota Officers Club: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Why did it have to end?	I think this book replaced The Mommy Club as my favorite by Sarah Bird. It's a definite two-time read, but I'm saving it for later so I can savor it.<br />Bernie, like most of the author's heroines, isn't quite mainstream. The only place in the world where she fits in is within her nuclear family, which travels around the world because their father is in the military. <br />Her sister, Kit, is beautiful, popular, and walks into any group of people expecting to be adored - and is. Bernie watches this her whole life, not knowing what Kit is talking about when she says \\"Making friends is the easiest thing in the world.\\" <br />Bernie, on the other hand, has never had a friend except for their family's servant, Fumiko, years ago in Japan. There's a mystery surrounding her, and it affects her family because it was at the time Fumiko was sent away that Bernie's parents began speaking to each other through the children: \\"Tell your mother-\\", \\"Tell your father-\\" Nobody mentions Fumiko's name again.<br />Given a second chance to find Fumiko, Bernie travels back to Japan as the partner of a bad comedian, who makes her bleach her hair blond, wear tons of makeup, go by the name Zelda, and dance to Peter, Paul and Mary in go-go boots that are two sizes too small. Bernie hates Peter, Paul and Mary.<br />The story, like most of Sarah Bird's stories, is hilarious and poignant all at once. And in this case, it has to be her best yet.	2004-07-01
US	52670980	R1L0EY64U9P0Q5	0844664286	1095828	Loretta Mason Potts	Books	5	23	23	N	Y	Most memorable book of my childhood	When you have kids, you start racking your brain, trying to remember what you loved so you can present them with a book you KNOW they'll love too.<br />Loretta Mason Potts was one of the first that came to mind. It's the story of a girl Loretta Mason, who finds a magic portal into another world where she's treated like a princess. She refuses to go home to her family and insists on living in the Potts house with another family because their house contains the portal. Her mother goes to see her every day, but doesn't mention her again to the other children, and can't think of anything to do about the situation except pay the Potts family to keep her.<br />The story really revolves around her younger brother, who is the main character, and who finds out that he has an older sister (Loretta) by accident. What's great about this is that you can hand the book to an 11 or 12 year old boy, and watch him get sucked into the story without any concern that it might be a \\"girl\\" book because of the title. As the mother of boys, I truly appreciated the fact that it appealed to both genders.<br />The book is hardcover with no dust jacket. The price may seem high to someone who has never read it, but anyone familiar with Loretta Mason Potts will (like I did) simply purchase it without question, grateful that you FINALLY found it after decades of wishing you still had a copy.<br />Then hand it to any of your children, boys or girls. It's still weaving magic 50 years after it was written.	2004-06-10
US	52670980	RIMU1KNM8LV2L	0741412780	156556241	The Great Pretender	Books	5	61	63	N	N	Duplicity and a Scoundrel	I remember watching an evening news magazine once about two women married to the same man who was leading a double life, with two families. Then I saw this book, remembered the story and was fascinated by the premise. What kind of people DO that??<br />This is a wonderful story about a guy who tries to have it all, two families, two lives, and the people he deceives. The story will keep you on the edge of your seat through to the end. There are lessons to be learned, but enjoy yourself on the ride! You'll love this book!	2004-06-03
US	52670980	R1DR9T5JPX7PDW	0345460111	116888158	The Mommy Club (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Poignant and hilarious in equal parts	Trudy is a misfit and a perennial &quot;outsider&quot;. She is an artist who has never, ever in her life fit in with regular folks. <br />Her past is painful: in addition to being habitually lonely and alone, she had a failed relationship that resulted in a pregnancy she ended with an abortion she regrets. Ever since, she has wanted to have a baby to replace the one she aborted - but not to keep, because she doesn't view herself as mother material. So her solution to the problem is to become a surrogate mother. She gets pregnant for a yuppie couple who force her to eat horrible, expensively unpalatably healthy food, and who monitor her every unconventional move.<br />What she learns from pregnancy is that, for a few months, she &quot;belongs&quot;. Strangers initiate conversations with her, talk to her about her advancing pregnancy, and accept her without question into the &quot;Mommy Club&quot;, that special state of being shared only by women with children. While she's basking in all the unfamiliar kinship, she's developing opinions about the couple whose baby she is carrying, and is developing a bond with the infant inside her.<br />I loved Trudy, who is like a lovable, dysfunctional puppy. Sarah Bird, hits - as always - a flawless comic pitch, making you unsure whether you should laugh or cry. Either way, there isn't a moment in the book where you don't want to engulf poor Trudy in a hug while you laugh until tears stream down your face.<br />This was the first book by Sarah Bird that I read, and immediately read all the others. When it appeared to me that there had not been any new ones for a while, I wrote to the author and begged her to write another. I am definitely a Sarah Bird fan, and would recommend ANYTHING she's written - but this one first.	2004-06-01
US	52670980	R111KWSYH8AZT6	0812551532	410991562	The Morning River: A Novel of the Great Missouri Wilderness in 1825 (Man From Boston)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A wonderful read	In 1825 Richard Hamilton is a wealthy, vain, arrogant foppish young Bostonian, intent upon spending his life as a philosopher, eating well-prepared foods off fine china. He knows everything about humanity and the meaning of life because he's read all the books - and he never hesitates to share his wisdom.<br />Richard's self-made father can't even be near him without losing patience, and decides Richard needs a good lesson in life. He sends him (kicking and screaming) off to St. Louis with $30,000 Richard is to deliver for a business deal.<br />On the way, Richard dismissively calls one of the steam ship's crew members an &quot;animal&quot;. The crew member retaliates by attacking Richard after they land in St. Louis, stealing his money, then forcing him to sign a contract making him an indentured servant on a trading expedition for two years, a fate far more satisfying to the crew member (who thinks it's funny)than it would be to kill him. Everyone is threatened all around in order to ensure that Richard does his time on that expedition. And so Richard embarks on a journey experiencing life as he had never imagined it in Boston.<br />This is a wonderful, gripping story. The writing is excellent, the characters are colorful and well-drawn and the meticulous detail brings the American wilderness to life.<br />I highly recommend this book!	2004-03-27
US	52670980	RARFZE1TW934E	059526882X	822467225	A. D. 62: Pompeii	Books	5	29	34	N	N	Wonderful story!	Miranda takes part in a time travel experiment because she is the logical choice, an academic who knows Latin, Greek, and ancient history. Her objective is to go back to Pompeii, observe, and bring back information.<br />The first part of the experiment works: she goes back in time. However, after her escape mechanism fails to return her to the 21st century, she needs to adapt to life in ancient Pompeii, where she has been sold as a slave to a man with whom she finds herself falling in love.<br />The story is compelling and engrossing - a very fun read! I highly recommend it!	2003-08-09
US	52670980	R21H0T9TH19Y3K	0227676785	984727208	Tudor Story	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	Fun and fascinating in a way	The author of \\"A Tudor Story\\" was an elderly clergyman who developed a fascination for Anne Boleyn early in the 20th century. He experienced a series of coincidences that led him to a succession of psychic mediums who all, in turn, and according to him with no knowledge of his fascination, channeled the spirit of Anne Boleyn during a number of sessions held in the 1920s and 1930s. <br />The writing style is quaint, but all in all, the reading went smoothly. It was interesting material.<br />With the rising interest in psychic mediums thanks to John Edward, this book should have some appeal. The author describes the various readings, and the things that Anne said to him. <br />I actually enjoyed the book. It was rather fanciful, but like I said, who's to say? It's fun to imagine it as the final chapter in the sad story of Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn.	2003-03-22
US	52670980	RRXZZ5W2TBAAR	0915230151	227982398	The Mirror	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Really good premise, really good book	I read this book twice because I loved it so much. Shay Garrett, living in the 1970s, somehow switches places with her grandmother after looking into a mysterious mirror. She then finds herself living a half century before her own birth. She inherits her grandmother's life situation, her marriage partner and her destiny, and has to live that life instead of her own. Regretting how little she paid attention during history class, she miscalculates the start of the Great Depression, but otherwise has (from the perspective of her new contemporaries) an eerie ability to &quot;see the future&quot;, including the future of her own mother, to whom she gives birth, but with whom she never had a good relationship. She's also brought with her the &quot;loose woman&quot; attitudes of the 1970s, and finds she has philosophically more in common with the town prostitutes than the &quot;virtuous&quot; townspeople and has to struggle to tone it down.<br />In the meantime, her grandmother finds herself in the future, living as Shay. She's brought with her turn-of-the-century innocence and bewilderment over things like indoor plumbing, and has to cope with a world completely different from the one she was raised in.<br />While I truly loved the story, my only complaint was that the storyline for Shay sent back in the past was far better-developed than the storyline for Grandma Bran brought into the future. Even though Shay was the primary character, I was left feeling let down that the story had so little to say about Grandma Bran's experiences. I was almost bewildered when the book was over, thinking: &quot;Yes but...&quot;<br />I also never got a clear picture of the relationship between Shay and her mother. I knew they never got along and never had a good relationship, but never really understood why that was - I was just supposed to take the author's word for it.<br />Aside from that, I definitely recommend this book.	2003-03-01
US	52670980	R2CXD3746433SN	0689817851	160336401	Go Ask Alice	Books	5	5	6	N	N	As Powerful as the Diary of Anne Frank	I read this book 30 years ago when I was 19. They had made a movie of it, which struck me because it depicted teenagers in the late 60s and early 70s just EXACTLY the way we were. I absolutely knew everyone in the movie, and they were completely true-to-life. <br />Afterwards, I went out and bought the book, which was even better than the movie, if that could be possible. And it was far more chilling.<br />In the early 70s, it seemed as though everyone was doing drugs, even the clean cut cheerleaders and jocks. I had personally known four kids who all died during my junior year of high school from drugs, including my first boyfriend, and a 16 year old kid I didn't know, but watched go into convulsions and die from a heroin overdose. Others routinely checked into and out of mental hospitals. It was a helluva way to be young. You had to learn how to handle people who were on bad hallucenogenic \\"trips\\". You had to know what to do with someone when you suspected an overdose of barbituates, and you ran from parties when someone on PCP got violent and started smashing furniture. <br />These are not the sorts of things I would like my children to have to know and experience. It was scary, and it was bad. The conclusions I reached about drugs were that you either stopped taking them, or you died. You didn't really have any other options. <br />So I read Go Ask Alice, and it solidified my conviction that saying \\"no\\" was the simplest thing. \\"Some people don't like onions,\\" I used to say. \\"I don't like the way drugs make me feel.\\" And people left me alone, and didn't pressure me. So I got through it.<br />This book never left me. I thought about it all during the 70's when people passed cocaine around like breath mints, and I never forgot Alice. She was like a guardian angel. I kept saying \\"no\\" with her standing behind me, supporting me and backing me up, while the people around me wound themselves tighter and tighter into their addictions.<br />To say this book is a \\"must read\\" would be an understatement. I am absolutely convinced that Alice has saved lives - perhaps tens of thousands of them. That may have been the whole reason for her short life, in much the same way that Anne Frank's life had a purpose. Some people were put here to teach and guide, and Alice was one of these.	2003-01-18
US	52670980	ROWOSY2V62US2	0876855575	954748344	Ham On Rye	Books	3	13	22	N	Y	Didn't move me.	I had read Charles Bukowski's poetry first, and was extremely impressed by his abilities as a writer. This was the first of his novels that I read.<br />While the writing style is good and the plot moves you along, one of the things that struck me most was how meaningless the story was. It does nothing to inspire or to teach. It is simply a portrait of a man who moves from one fist fight to the next - and is usually the one who starts the fight because he doesn't have enough depth of character to understand himself or other people. It's a portrait of a man who does NOT rise above his surroundings. He hates those surroundings, and doesn't embrace them so much as hold them up as a testament to his pain, like a child dramatically nursing a wound that some other child inflicted, long past the time it really hurts.<br />The mood is stark and hopeless. The writing style is sharp and brief. There are no beautiful poetic interludes, or any evidence that he's a poet. It's merely the diary of a misanthrope, a misogynist and a hopeless drunk. Reading about his life is like watching someone say, &quot;So there,&quot; after driving his car into a utility pole.<br />His female characters are two-dimensional - a problem many male writers have because they don't entirely realize that anyone is &quot;in there&quot;. He refers to them all as &quot;snatches&quot; and &quot;c**ts&quot;. He can't have them because he isn't attractive enough, and he longs after them, NOT because he likes them, but because he merely wants them.<br />When I was done reading, I wondered what I was supposed to have taken away from it. Was it just a snapshot of a life and an attitude that makes the reader recoil? The point was NOT that he rose above anything despite desperate circumstances, because he let his circumstances win. Was his point that we can't ever understand his genius because of his unique and noble suffering? That we should understand that he could do nothing to prevent his wasted life?<br />Sure he could. His abusive father and his weak (and poorly developed as a character) mother give him an unhappy home, but he doesn't describe anything that would have been insurmountable. <br />I did not find a large soul behind the words in this book. I found a small one. I found a man who is petty, and spiteful and weak.<br />Maybe THAT was his point: that someone who isn't much can still find a publisher and convince people to read books about his less-than-noble life and bad attitude.	2002-06-27
US	52670980	R1F7ERXBBA8I0T	1561707635	658927307	Understanding Your Angels and Meeting Your Guides	Books	3	72	77	N	Y	I don't mean to be critical, John	I love John. Truly I do. And Tape 1 was good. But there is NO WAY you will meet your guides using Tape 2. <br />John lulls you into a meditative trance - very similar to hypnosis, if not the same - then &quot;betrays&quot; you when you get there. It's as though he was under the wire, racing to get the tape completed before his time in the studio was up. So you're laying there in your trance, more than happy to cooperate, and there's no possible way you can formulate the images he asks you to because he doesn't give you a chance before he races on to something else. And the thing about being in a hypnotic trance is that you are overly sensitive to things like that. So you can't simply ignore them and move on. You get &quot;stuck&quot; on the fact that you've left an image behind that he asked you to &quot;see&quot;.<br />Another thing that bothered me was that he asks you to breathe deeply counting to six, then doesn't keep track of rhythm of the count himself. So if you count to six in the rhythm he first demonstrates, you totally lose him after the third breath. That's another example of something that gets you &quot;stuck&quot;. You're breathing in when he's telling you to breath out.<br />So I would recommend these tapes with reservations. They're very good for relaxation, but you may find that's all you get out of them.	2002-02-01
US	52670980	R159QQBPP0ZUZ9	0802136834	405327590	The Six Wives of Henry VIII	Books	5	0	1	N	N	This is the book you want to buy.	I've read most of the biographies of Anne Boleyn and this is the best one. Go ahead and read the other reviews - I don't need to elaborate, myself, because everyone else already has.	2000-05-18
US	52670980	R3D4OH21HBK51S	1857970098	693757868	Mothertime	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Wonderful reading	This book is funny, different and moving. Mothertime is a story about an alcoholic ex-beauty who neglects her children. After one disasterous  Christmas, the children decide they want an actual, maternal mother - a  real mother - so they trap their mother in a sauna where they hold her  hostage for months, take away her booze and cigarettes, and make her wear  flowery feminine clothes. Throughout the book, the author tricks you into  feeling indignant, and satisfied that this horrible mother finally got  hers. Then the book's ending takes you completely by surprise (I pride  myself on seeing things coming - I didn't see this at all). It stops you  short and opens your eyes to some reasons people are they way they are, and  reminds you that we don't always have the right to judge.	2000-03-05
US	52670980	R183YV1J9SFFUJ	0440498058	598774312	A Wrinkle in Time (The Time Quartet)	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	A classic.	I must have purchased this book five or six times over the last 30 years (after reading the library's copy three or four times), and I've misplaced it again! Thank goodness it never goes out of print because it's now time  for me to read it to my youngest child, right after we finish up with the  Harry Potter series.  Even now, years and years after my first reading, I  still use the examples of Charles Wallace (his arrogance in thinking he  could meld with the Brain and come out on his own), and Meg (her discovery  that sometimes our faults are our greatest assets), to illustrate a point.  It's right up there with all those other books that stick with you for the  rest of your life.	1999-12-08
US	52670980	R171IVGOIDKGGA	0844664286	1095828	Loretta Mason Potts	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Wonderful	I looked for this book in the &quot;Best of the 20th Century&quot; list, and was disappointed not to find it there. Loretta Mason Potts and A Wrinkle in Time were my two favorite books, when I was 11, and here I am  buying them both again 35 years later!	1999-12-08
US	52670980	R2TF9T5TJ6WYK3	0312187475	666745102	Mistress Anne	Books	3	21	26	N	N	Too vague	While Mistress Anne is interesting in the way a novel is interesting, I would not recommend it if you are seriously researching either Anne Boleyn or Henry VIII. Rather, I would point you *TO* Alison Weir's &quot;Six  Wives&quot; which is both well-written and meticulously detailed, and  *AWAY* from Retha Warnicke's &quot;Rise and Fall of Anne Boleyn&quot;  (pretentiously, ponderously written, hard to follow, containing some  conclusions that are neither fully supported by the facts, nor arrived at  by other historians). While Mistress Anne is &quot;fun&quot; -- I fully  recommend it for a &quot;good read&quot; -- it does not detail events  satisfactorily. Dates are missing in an excessive number of instances, and  some events are presented out of chronological order, causing some  confusion. However, like I said, it's great fun to read and gives you a  good overview of the subject.	1999-04-24
US	52670980	R2GFWYHZ1J9WE5	0521406773	487684799	The Rise and Fall of Anne Boleyn: Family Politics at the Court of Henry VIII (Canto)	Books	2	6	18	N	Y	Academics should not be permitted to write.	Or rather, academics should only be permitted to write after a thorough course in technical writing. Then, they should have a 2 year stint writing for clients with very tight editing requirements. Only after they have been baptised in the fire of brevity, clarity and organization, might they then attempt to write about Anne Boleyn. Furthermore, these academics should be fined for each use of the word &quot;extant,&quot; which in this instance appears at least once (often more) times per page, and within the photo captions. (The word does not enhance or change the meaning of any sentence within which it appears, and may be scratched out without harmful effect.)<br />I say all this in frustration. I'm having to chart and virtually rewrite each paragraph in order to understand it or get any information out of it. I view this as a waste of my time.  END	1998-06-04
