US	52675193	R6PAMKBMDE3V8	B00070I36Q	150038144	Diminutiques: Handcrafting furniture in miniature	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Series, Not a Single Book	The Diminutiques series provided staple-bound booklets with high-quality 1:12 furniture plans.  <br /> <br />In the first part, the author gives basic instruction on how to shape the wood--the best I've ever seen, dealing with the problems of cutting curves in thin stock that will want to split if handled wrong, also for cutting patterns without a jigsaw and turning barley-twist pillars. Basic construction, finishing, and even decorating ideas are included. <br /> <br />The center section is \\"tear-out\\" full-sized plans, printed on only one side of the paper. Fortunately, I always photocopied (and now scan and print). Finally came the project-by-project instructions with copious drawings of what went where. <br /> <br />Where the outside covers were not sufficient to show color pictures of all the projects (as in v.III), inner color pages were added. <br /> <br />I have the first three volumes. Perhaps some later reviewer can let us know of more. The pattern pages, on matte stock, are ivory with age, but not yellowed or browned. The rest is still glossy and white--good paper! <br /> <br />If I have any quibbles, they mostly come from the age of the books: I use Tyvek bits off envelopes instead of paper for the hinges, and have had to find my own brands of acrylic finishes. The author does assume you will use balsa wood, like a number of others. I have never had a good result in my crafting life using balsa: I always use basswood, which doesn't split as easily and doesn't crumble on the endgrain like balsa does. It works even better. Getting into the craft hardwoods now available has never seemed necessary to me, though I'm now contemplating it if only to refresh the hobby. <br /> <br />Now, would Craft Publications, Inc. kindly re-issue these and make themselves some money? I would cheerfully pay the cost of a six-pack or two of ordinary beer (the international standard of cost) for any missing volumes. The furniture is so well designed, the patterns so carefully drafted, and the instructions so clear that they are quite worth that price.	2005-10-09
US	52675193	R2PRXEFTOI6ZXY	082301374X	339211910	Draw from Your Head: A Step-by-Step System for Drawing the Human Figure Without a Model	Books	4	6	8	N	N	One Possible Starting Point	Uses a system of a properly constructed stick figure to rough in your ideas, from which a finished figure can be built up.  I find this speeds the process of sorting ideas, working up thumbnails, and roughing in crowd scenes, though I still rely on Hogarth for anything beyond that point.  If Hogarth's dynamism (his trees writhe with energy) doesn't sit well with you, this big book is a passable alternative, though it does not cover as much as _Dynamic Figure Drawing_ does:  things like foreshortening, the extremely tucked figure, or female [...] are not covered.  A little too much time is spent on detailing small bones and deep muscles that make no difference in the drawing of what is visible.	2005-09-25
US	52675193	RFK2N1PR9UBWI	082300760X	405857131	Colored Pencil Fast Techniques	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Get it for the color charts, if you're seriously penciling!	Borgeson is here to some extent getting over slow techniques which some of us never acquired, like feeling that any area has to be built out of three colors, rather than using a dead straight one out of the box if it fits.  But there is lots here on choosing papers, working imprimatura, and other methods that let you complete projects larger than a notepad in much less than four months.  Good appendices on how Derwent and Prismacolor pencils match or don't, and where Prismacolor hues fall on a detailed color chart.	2005-09-25
US	52675193	R2G3B438PWXVZI	0823013685	309234508	Drawing Dynamic Hands	Books	5	6	7	N	N	When You Need Them to Do More than Hang There	Fists, guitar players, the effects of age on hands from pudgy little baby paws to veiny old ones.  Covers the anatomy, including the veins which are sometimes visible, foreshortening the hand, and the effects of movement on the structure. <br /> <br />Not for the freshman artist who is still learning how to draw--anatomy books never are.	2005-09-25
US	52675193	R2T04838N7Q3KM	0823016285	791008544	The Artist's Complete Guide to Facial Expression	Books	5	12	12	N	N	For the Intermediate Artist in Imagined Figures	I used to rely on a small book crammed with photos called _Unmasking the Human Face_.  Faigin has covered all of that and more.  In the back, there is a sketch guide to the quintessentials of each expression for fast reference.  The main body covers how these look in detail and somewhat varied lighting, discussing which muscles bulge, and how the shape of the eye is effected, and everything else necessary to let you get just the right subtle or dramatic look, that can determine the whole mood of the work.	2005-09-25
US	52675193	R18QHB5MNFAQ2M	0823045293	824447777	Rendering in Pen and Ink: The Classic Book On Pen and Ink Techniques for Artists, Illustrators, Architects, and Designers	Books	5	11	11	N	N	My #1 Pen & Ink Book	Edited to eliminate substances we just don't use any more, this classic is still a complete course in how to use pen and ink.  Covers basic strokes, draftsmanship, layers of value, uses of light and shade in composition, rendering texture, and a host of more advanced topics. Pen and ink was always one of my favorite media, and this has become my favorite book on the subject.	2005-09-25
US	52675193	R2O9OY0L79FO7U	0823016994	569904486	Painting Landscapes & Figures in Pastel (Watson-Guptill Painting Library)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not for the Freshman Artist	A superb slim book, that will get you started nicely at low cost (the pastels are expensive enough, without dumping huge amounts on the book when you don't know if you'll really like them yet).  Parramon comments on three different artists, showing a painting from each build up in stages, as well as giving a gallery from past and present.  However, unlike airbrush books, all pastel books seem to assume you already know how to draw, you just need to expand into pastels.	2005-09-25
US	52675193	R3GHKO5XXQOWPS	0823007499	404454880	The Colored Pencil: Key Concepts for Handling the Medium, Revised Edition	Books	5	27	27	N	N	A New Way to Paint	The original was good, the revised edition better.  But don't turn down the first if you see it in the second-hand store!  This book transformed my painting.  Though I used pastels or acrylics for twenty-five years, I have not touched them since.  It is the perfect media for a small apartment (zero mess) and an irregular schedule (the media doesn't dry out before you can get back to work, and the colors stay the same).  Especially valuable because the artist shows how the paintings develop in layers, and how she judges and corrects them to fit her evolving ideas.	2005-09-25
US	52675193	R3UGGG3WI0M42F	0823016919	889412353	The Figure in Motion: A Visual Reference For The Artist	Books	2	4	5	N	N	If You've Got the Money and Space to Spare ...	A picture book of live nude models caught in mid leap or whirl, with various lighting.  Divided into the single female figure (Playboy this ain't), the single male figure (no g-string), and groups (4 whole shots).  Good if you need a reality check to make Hogarth clear, or just want a starting point to get your mind loose sketching.  You know perfectly well that the exact pose you need is not likely to show up in a collection of less than 10,000 shots.	2005-09-25
US	52675193	R3FQL0C0UCUZUH	0823024636	942859615	How to Paint With Colored Pencils (Watson-Guptill Artist's Library)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Not a First Art Book, But a Great First Colored Pencils Book	An excellent small book, especially valuable because it teaches so much without costing a bundle.  Fascinating section on learning to paint anything with just three colors and black:  this is invaluable for outdoor sketching, when you don't want to take the time to find just that shade of green, and hauling all hundred colors would be a drag anyway. <br /> <br />This is meant for the person who can already draw or paint, but wishes to learn this particular medium.	2005-09-25
US	52675193	R13AP6I65X0Z1K	0823007219	457969535	Color Drawing Workshop	Books	5	12	12	N	N	You'll Never Outgrow This	Though usually demonstrated in colored pencil, these are excellent for any colored media:  dry or oil pastels, acrylics, aquarelle, oils, gouache, and so on.  Following them will get you to stretch your skills:  even if you are in an \\"orange period\\" you need to play with the other stuff occasionally just to remember why orange is fascinating by comparison.  Especially valuable when you are feeling stale:  start where you last left off, or start all over at lesson one.  Each time you do them, you do them differently, and you learn new things.	2005-09-25
US	52675193	R1SIPM2KG16OPW	0486224872	662550010	Perspective for Artists (Dover Art Instruction)	Books	5	7	11	N	N	For Beginning Artist or Those Moving into Imagined Settings	Imaginary settings, like fantasy novels, sometimes need to be anchored by a lot of realism.  While emphasising getting the perspective of what you're looking at right, there is a tremendous amount here for the artist drawing what only exists in his or her imagination.  The last section, frighteningly called \\"Mechanical Perspective\\" (anything mechanical is evil, right?), merely deals with how to start with an overhead plan and wind up with a sketch of the building or ship, inside or out.	2005-09-25
US	52675193	R2GWOPHDQMJGT8	0823015874	507934491	Dynamic Wrinkles and Drapery: Solutions for Drawing the Clothed Figure	Books	5	3	3	N	N	For the Intermediate Artist	Sometimes I wonder if so many artists draw people nearly naked because they mastered anatomy, but flat can't draw clothes to look realistic, especially without a model in the right clothes.  I long ago decided clothes show movement far better than the unclad figure does.  If you'd like to move beyond spandex and painted-on metal for imagined figures, this is the only, only book on the subject.  The only alternative are fashion illustration books, whose models just stand there sedately.  Hogarth has worked out the several catagories of wrinkles, which help you imagine them on your mental or sketched-out figures.	2005-09-25
US	52675193	R3UO99GA27A3NY	048622709X	116956313	The Book of a Hundred Hands (Dover Anatomy for Artists)	Books	3	2	6	N	N	If You Need a Second Look at Hands	Can be an alternative (different views are always valuable) or an augmentation to Hogarth.  The drawings are sketchy rather than firm. He takes anatomy a too deep (bones, tendons, deep muscles, then finally what shows under the skin), but the pose you're looking for may be in here. My library could live without it, but it's nice to have.	2005-09-25
US	52675193	R39RQESECX4SKZ	158428028X	663881186	Photographing Your Artwork: A Step-By-Step Guide to Taking High Quality Slides at an Affordable Price	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Especially for the Artist Who Knows Nothing About Serious Photography	No matter what your media, you need to consider having a good photographic record of it.  This lets you keep a \\"portfolio\\" of prints handy, rather than trotting out the bulky originals; send slides to shows and galleries; keep a record of works you sell or give away; and provides the basis of making prints.  The how-to is excellently done:  I got good results from my first roll.  It cost a couple of hundred dollars to get started, in SLR camera body, lenses, tripod, and film, but you can't buy a good easel for that -- about what a big assortment of pastels runs.	2005-09-25
US	52675193	R3T6BWX1XWTZAK	0823011445	401800912	Cut-Art: An Introduction to Chung-Hua and Kiri-E	Books	5	6	6	N	N	How-To Gives Beginners Wings	You may have seen scherrenschnit or cut-paper silhouettes.  The Asian versions of this art move into using the paper like heavy line strokes, or the lead in stained glass.  This allows techniques like filling the frames with different papers (those fabulous Asian papers!) or even backing it with a sheet painted to suit.  Different colors, even metallics, for the cut paper, cutting two colors to be arranged on a fairly simply background -- the variety of techniques possible in just \\"cutting paper\\" make this a fascinating media.  If you drool over decorative papers, this may be the art you've been waiting to find.	2005-09-25
US	52675193	R1HE36RUNKXBGM	0823001644	684977110	The Big Book of Airbrush Techniques and Materials	Books	4	20	20	N	N	There are better overall airbrush books.	All airbrush books have to explain the technical stuff of the little machines you paint with, but this one moves quickly on to paints, the several masking techniques, and such art basics as perspective, shading and color mixing -- obviously, for people who have no prior art background.  Halfway through the book, we finally get to using the dratted thing.  They also show that truly fine \\"airbrush paintings\\" still require the brush or colored pencil for the finer points.	2005-09-25
US	52675193	R2QD50NDMHMP3V	0823001660	728434414	Airbrush:  The Complete Studio Handbook	Books	5	4	4	N	N	If you can only get one book on airbrush...	... this is the one. <br /> <br />Covers the mechanical stuff more briefly than many, and has a nice section on fixing problems, including straightening a bent needle.  Gets briskly on to the =use= of the thing, and runs a series of exercises to help you get the hang of techniques, including learning how to draw freehand.  This guy is not hung up on anal-compulsive frisket cutting, but recommends a \\"universal mask\\" you can make out of a styrene or metal sheet that will do for a lot of work.	2005-09-25
US	52675193	R9IEUF5K96UPD	0823024997	847110775	Human Anatomy (Watson-Guptill Artist's Library)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Better than Hogarth's 'Dynamic Anatomy'	An excellent small, less expensive book that even so provides tremendous information.  At the very back is a small section on animal anatomy, too, so the falcon flaps correctly.  Sets photos or artwork against the skeletal or flayed figures to show how the diagrams relate to the real thing.  Good attention to some small details not always covered, like how to make the teeth in a smile look good, or the different proportions of the child to the adult figure.  Also shows the *properly* articulated wooden model, not the horror usually sold, which will screw up your figure drawing because the shoulders are articulated inaccurately.	2005-09-25
US	52675193	R25FH5AGNQ3RKB	0823013669	715119717	Drawing Animals: 30th Anniversary Edition	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A Good General Reference If This Is Not Your Primary Interest	While giving charts of the skeleton and musculature, the emphasis is on the far more helpful method of breaking the animal and its extensions into simple shapes that can be used to quickly lay in a pose before getting on to texture and such.  Plenty of action poses and the changes of the head when the jaw or trunk is moved.  Covers elephants, bears, horses, cattle, deer, sheep, primates, cats, dogs, and \\"other small animals\\" -- mostly the squirrel and the rabbit, but one finished drawing each for the cavy, the prairie dog, the raccoon, and a hoary marmot. <br /> <br />Obviously, if you are focusing on drawing animals in particular or particular animals, you will want more specific reference. Everything here is good, there just isn't enourmous depth.	2005-09-25
US	52675193	R117HFGK67ZUX0	0823015777	305365306	Dynamic Figure Drawing	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Want to do Graphic Novels? Buy it!	I was turned on to this by a friend whose figures from imagination I admired.  This did more for me than a whole year of life-drawing classes!  Especially for our neo-romantic fantasy artists, this teaches you to do convincing figures without models, especially when you want to catch the figure in motion.  If I could have no other art book in my house, this is the one and only that I would keep.	2005-09-25
US	52675193	R2GQ70GWHAPSDJ	0823002748	524303249	The Art of Pastel Painting (Practical Art Books)	Books	3	45	49	N	N	For the Intermediate Artist Who Likes to Get Dirty	Besides drawing with the things, Flattman shows how to prepare your own papers, and even roll your own pastels!  Wonderful for the incurable do it-yourselfer who wants custom ranges of colors, but you'll need a garage or basement space you can devote to the messy business (and you'll need a respirator, too, not just a dust mask).  There are lots of finished works, but the how-to step-by-step stuff uses too few steps usually.  You need to have a good background in drawing already, and experience with composition.  Flattmann comes to pastel from watercolor, and never thinks you might not already be accomplished in another form of painting.  Pastels were my *first* media, when I began lessons when I was six, so they are not \\"inherently advanced.\\"  I would recommend you use this in conjunction with Bet Borgeson's _Color Drawing Workshop_.	2005-09-25
US	52675193	R1KMBIV5DREALW	0823015521	616176207	Dynamic Anatomy: Revised and Expanded Edition	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Buy this second or third	If you need to know what's connected where and how it bulges, this is an excellent reference for artistic anatomy, concentrating on what ultimately will be =visible.=  Covers the effects of movement and foreshortening, which most don't. Gives the artist a better idea of what is and isn't possible for imagined figures.	2005-09-25
US	52675193	RTMTUCJMHKQQ7	0823002764	497217616	The Art of Pencil Drawing	Books	5	17	17	N	N	My Favorite Book on Pencil...	...but then I've been drawing with one since I could pick one up. If you need a step-by-step \\"how-to\\" just this side of paint-by-numbers, this is not your book. If you want to be given the techniques to then apply to what =you= want to draw, buy it! <br /> <br />This one book takes you from choosing materials and learning to see, through composition and using light and shade (valuable in any media, and cheap and easy to master in this one) to outdoor sketching both rural and urban.  The final section on working from memory and imagination is particularly invigorating.	2005-09-25
US	52675193	R2F2V3A6NUYXQ8	B00089FN9G	7000163	The rural and domestic life of Germany;: With characteristic sketches of its cities and scenery	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Charming Travelogue	My edition of 1843 (rebound) has 197 pages of small type in two columns. Coming to this after Howitt's 'Life in Germany,' I distinctly felt the lack of illustrations to compare with that volume. However, the lack of maps is easily supplied online. <br /> <br />Howitt entered into the life of the places he traveled with interest and sympathy. Except for an anti-Catholic streak that shows when he reaches Austria, he generally gives a fair and upbeat view of the country and the people, being obviously fascinated with, rather than repelled by, the differences from his native England. His prose lacks the opaque ornamentation of some 19th century writers, making it quite accessible to us nearly two centuries later. <br /> <br />Highlights of the book: a day-by-day tour from Prussia to Austria and back; the arrangements of German farms and apartment houses; an exerpt from a play, showing the different kinds of Germans that might be in just one family; a dazzled description of the period German Christmas, a holiday focused on children rather than, as in England, on adults; the enforced wanderings of journeyman craftsmen, to get them varied experience; the German love of the outdoors; the domesticity of German women; tragedies on the dangerous Brocken; details of travel. <br /> <br />There's simply too much information to cover in detail. For the armchair traveler, especially those with a fondness for time machines, this is a pleasant trip of absorbing detail to the world of the middle class and country, rather than court life, of a time and a place often slighted in English.	2005-07-24
US	52675193	R2LTNK3CKDYCFP	B0007IX79G	552956469	Beau Brummell,: A biographical study	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Biography rather than myth.	There are a tremendous number of stories about George \\"Beau\\" Brummell in many sources, many of which I read on my way to this book. Many authors have a highly negative attitude toward Brummell, having already decided he must be a bad person because he did not have any serious calling in life, and encouraged others to not be serious--his most heinous crime to the Victorians, who got to filter his image through a glass of prim righteousness. They kept his myth alive, though, through loving to use him as an example of how the frivolous will and must come to a bad end. (This, of course, ignores the many equally frivolous dandies who had happy later lives, like \\"Apollo\\" Raikes or Lord Alvanley.) <br /> <br />Campbell takes an even-handed approach to her subject, digs back to primary material, and admits to the many areas that will simply never be accurately filled in at this late date (Brummell's own memoirs were lost). For example, she found and reports the actual source of \\"Wales, ring the bell\\": a story involving a very drunken young Navy man, not Brummell at all. She discards all the later myth, where every amusing story of caddish coxcombery was unfairly attributed to Brummell, as a way to add importance to the joke. <br /> <br />Her most valuable service may be to not take Brummell's wit any more seriously than he and his audience did. Too many judgemental authors grimly report stories like \\"champagne blacking\\" or \\"put in with a damp stranger\\" to show how pea-brained, arrogant, or utterly air-headed Brummell was, rather than noting that his hearers were amused, even to laughter, by his purposeful exaggerations. He was, in his own way, an entertainer, whose power and position rested on his ability to amuse and excite admiration in a terminally bored social set. <br /> <br />She repeats many original impressions by people who actually met him, again countering myth with original sources. She also gives excellent short sketches of his particular friends and patrons, who are often ignored or dismissed as mere fashionable fribbles by writers whose only interest is, at heart, political history, rather than the life of the times. <br /> <br />The book contains a number of illustrations: all those known of Brummell, those of his particular friends, and scenes such as interiors of the Royal Opera and Brighton Pavilion. How that facing page 113 ever crept in to a work by so careful researcher amazes me (I'm inclined to think the Art Department dug up every visual reference to the Beau and did not check with the author). This engraving shows a ball at Almack's, in which one figure is supposedly Brummell. But several gentlemen wear black satin stocks (unheard of during Brummell's reign), and the ladies' Psyche knots and tight bodices down to a nearly natural waist scream 1830s, when Brummell had last been to Almack's in 1816! <br /> <br />If you have any reason to wish to see the ultimate icon of dandies as he was in his time, not as French \\"dandyism\\" or Victorian anti-Regency propaganda created false images with his name on them, find a decently priced copy of this book or get your library to bring it in through Inter-Library Loan. Seeing Brummell clearly shows the society he moved in clearly, making this a most amazing and illuminating book if you have done much reading in the period.	2005-07-23
US	52675193	R3BJARS6GH44OK	0002160161	592409452	Age of Elegance, 1812-22	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Better Researched on Military than Society	This is the last volume in the author's series on the British during the wars with France. As such, his emphasis really is on the military and naval expeditions and the peace conferences. Those chapters I found easier reading than most military science books, so I certainly recommend it if you are wanting to get acquainted with the Peninsular campaign. He does fairly slight the war in the east against Napoleon, because the British weren't in it. I was particularly impressed with his attention to the details of what life was like for officers and men between battles, something usually skipped in the concentration on strategy and tactics. If this were all it attempted to cover, I would give it four stars.    His chapters on life in England at the time, especially the festivities around the allied sovreigns after victory, seem essentially good in their description of the countryside, the towns, and the people. However, I noted that his descriptions of some notables of London society were built on common myths of them, rather than better researched fact. Most especially, his handling of Brummell (my present object of research) struck me as so thoroughly apocryphal, built on later Brummelliana rather than actual memoirs of the man, that it made me wary of accepting the author's information on anyone around him. A book you can only use once you have researched in other books for confirmation everything it says, is an unnecessary detour. For the reader interested in the view of England, I could only give it two stars for insecurity, and recommend that you hunt down Priestly's 'Prince of Pleasure,' 1969 instead.    There are NO illustrations in 'The Age of Elegance', except a few battle maps, indicative of the real emphasis of the 400+ pages. At the end, I felt I had picked up an excellent milsci book half the size that had been padded out with the peacetime/home front chapters that are less focused and less deeply researched in original materials.    The author's style iseasy and fluid in the military chapters, without technical gobbledegook: again, excellent for a deep introduction. The other half of the book reads like a compilation of newspaper clippings rewritten by him, as it zooms over the surface of so many subjects, from rural housholds to the supposed mind of this great man or that in reaction to conditions (I distrust his opinions here, as superficial).	2005-07-23
US	52675193	R1W0SE6KE2MNZH	0434603570	545294929	The Prince of Pleasure and His Regency, 1811-20	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	A Fascinating Omnium Gatherum	If this book has flaws (for what it attempts to be), one lies with the author and one with the publisher.  <br /> <br />The writer is too much of his time, a bit obsessed with judging all the people as to whether they were \\"truly female\\" or \\"real men,\\" whether they were properly mature or \\"giant children.\\" That, and to cover his vast subject (the entirety of England of note and commonality both, not just the Regent and the ton), for people he often relies too heavily on 'The Dictionary of National Biography', taking its fourth-hand judgements rather too seriously beyond the mere facts of birth, death, marriage and offspring. His bibliography lists better books, which he might have paid more attention to. <br /> <br />Yes, I read the text as well as looked at the pictures, which are sometimes three per page. This is the other problem. To cram this many on in the wide borders results in them often being tiny and dark, so that any detail, sometimes any sense or image, is lost. In many cases, items with captions or speech balloons are unreadable. This is the publisher's fault: they could have either reduced the number of illustrations, making more of them valuable rather than blobby, or they could have allowed more pages and put less text per page around larger images. <br /> <br />That done with, if the subject interests you, I can't recommend this too highly. The pictures that are visible are a valuable cross selection, like a box full of snapshots of everywhere: machinery, grand houses, frost fairs on the Thames, bridges, furniture, mail coaches in thunderstorms, and a constant stream of portraits. If you have been studying this period a while, finally seeing the faces of the names often mentioned adds a whole level of illumination.  <br /> <br />As well, the text is marvelously informative on a vast number of subjects. Organization year by year helps the reader see when different influences struck, rather than making it difficult to co-ordinate the war, home politics, and shifts in the arts because they're in separate chapters. Yes, sometimes he does stop to give background on an item only in this year first really important, or move forward to sum up the future of someone he means to not bring up again (and not leave the reader hanging and wondering). It's done very smoothly. <br /> <br />It's a good book to read cover to cover, yet one can then keep it at chairside and dip into it anywhere for a few minutes of entertainment and education. All in all, both a fun book and a good book, a combination rarely found.	2005-07-23
US	52675193	R140C42QFJ4EEK	051730032X	704559180	The Belle Epoque of the Orient - Express	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Only good for the pictures	Most of the text is self-indulgent \\"creative journaling.\\" I really didn't care how cramped it was riding 3rd class on the \\"last\\" run of the Simplon-Orient or the writer's imaginary rambling conversations with characters out of Tolstoy.<br /><br />On the other hand, the initial chapter on the history of the train was okay. Pictures are interesting until the last chapter, when they suddenly look like snapshots from the journalist's Instamatic. Those of menues, schedules, and interiors are best. The poster art is evocative, but not informative. Those merely of the modern cities it stops at are better gotten from a picture book about the city. Photos of the stations would have been more relevant. The few maps are Europe as a blob of color with major cities, no idea of terrain. However, they do give the original Varna route and the pre-Simplon route.<br /><br />On the whole, garbage with some good pictures. If you have space on your shelves, money to spare, and a particular interest in the OE, you might get it without pain. The world really needs a good Orient Express book, but this is the farthest thing from it.	2004-12-09
US	52675193	RG43IPD5CLDI6	0517183404	930098821	The Complete Encyclopedia of Illustration: A Collection of beautiful engravings, copyright-free and clearly reproducible on every subject from architecture & military science to history and mythology	Books	4	11	12	N	Y	Great illos, misleading title	This is not a complete clip-art book. It is not a composite out of many sources, even in the 19th C, with different styles.<br /><br />This is the complete collection of b&w engraved plates from a single German encyclopedia, 1851, but only the plates and their captions. Subject areas include mathematics & astronomy (sky charts); physics & meteorology; chemistry, minerology & geology; botany; zoology; anthropology & surgery (anatomical); geography & planology (maps of continents, countries, and select cities); history & ethnology; military science; naval science; architecture (w/plans of famous buildings); mythology & religious rites (as understood in 1851); the fine arts; & technology.<br /><br />So illustrations range from complex pulleys and horse skulls to knights in battle and how they built the Thames Tunnel. \\"Alphabets of Various Languages for the Use of Engravers\\" includes even samples of cuneiform. Two plates are on theatre architecture. Among the least satisfying may be the engravings of famous works of art for the Fine Arts section.<br /><br />At nearly 600 pages, landscape, the book is difficult to manage on a scanner. I just use a sharp craft blade and cut out close to the binding the pages I need to scan. Then I stick them back in the space. Bit by bit, they are becoming what the originals were, a portfolio of loose pieces. The maps went first: scanned at 400 dpi, they became readable on screen, where the print on the page was too small. I suspect the original plates were larger and were shrunk when photographed for reproduction.	2004-12-09
US	52675193	R10FEBPS84I6I6	0883653931	714090332	Encyclopedia of Railroads	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Vast scope with lots of detail	This is a true lap-breaker, but one worth the risk of back injury to pick up.  (9\\" x 12\\" nearly 500 pages)    When other books don't have the historical RR information I need, this will often have at least enough to get me started. It truly covers the entire world of RR, not just Britain and North America: India, Africa, South America, Asia, Australia. On top of this, every page is graced with period artwork or photos, in color as often as possible.    It's a compendium of articles by specialist authors. \\"History\\" subdivides by area. Then there's separate ones on Passenger Travel, Locomotive Development, & Civil Engineering. We especially enjoyed the section on the great name trains, from the 20th C Ltd to the Shinkansen Hikari. Other sections are Railway Operation, Freight Transport, Industrial RR, Rapid Transit, Mountain RR, Architecture, Preservation, RR in the Cinema, RR At War, biographies of notable figures, \\"The Artist's View,\\" Records, Disasters, Chronology, Facts & Figures, and a glossary for the newcomer. All this, and huge beast is indexed, too.    As specific reference on this or that line, no, of course not. You couldn't do all of them in less than a room of books. As a general reference to lots of them, great.	2004-12-09
US	52675193	R1KMMFIWPQR6AH	0517069571	564538271	Simple Colonial Furniture	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Good projects, but require a lot of the user	The 39 projects consist of a single page of plans, not exploded diagrams with step-by-step as in modern how-to, with a list of parts to cut, and a short commentary on particular problems. The most complicated have two pages of plans with two pages of remarks and &quot;Bill of Material&quot; (parts list).<br />Originally copyrighted in 1931, this has been reprinted by the likes of Bonanza Books in recent years. This book was designed for the trained home woodworker and for the teacher of advanced wood shop classes at vocational high schools. The projects are called &quot;problems&quot; for classrooms, and are designed to challenge students as they increase in skill, though the book itself does not teach the skills: turning on the lathe, cutting mortise &amp; tenon joints, etc. Even where he gives rudimentary instructions on making rush seats, he suggests getting a book on chair seating.<br />If you can deal with this, you may enjoy the project range. The 8 miscellaneous projects range from book ends and frames to lectern and library magazine rack. There are nine tables, 6 stools or chairs, 6 desks or chests, 6 cabinets or shelving units (they overlap), 2 clocks and 2 beds. I should note that none of these are &quot;authentic&quot; reproductions of any particular antique, but are all the author's (excellent, skilled) designs in the Early American style, often a bit simplified from the original methods. He also includes furniture for modern living: smoking stands (ashtray pedestals), radio cabinets, bulletin boards, etc.<br />The chapter on furniture finishing weighs the pros and cons of shellac vs. varnish, and tells how to apply both and trad wood sealers, but of course has nothing to say about modern finishes like acrylic or urethane.<br />Consider this an addition of projects to your library of how-to books on woodworking and finishing, rather than any kind of training text, either beginning or advanced.	2004-07-05
US	52675193	R242SA2IDVHBHP	0486259536	218120692	Masterpieces of Art Nouveau Stained Glass Design: 91 Motifs in Full Color (Dover Pictorial Archive)	Books	4	26	26	N	Y	Super source book	Originally, this was a pair of portfolios of designs in the Art Nouveau period. Art Nouveau was not just twisty flowers, though some people like to stereotype it into those narrow parameters. This is not a how-to book with cutting patterns. It has only the paintings with suggested scale. On a few pages, motifs overlap each other, so you can't just scan and go: you have to build up your idea of the covered areas. One pictorial arched piece is missing the right third, again a challenge to finish it yourself.<br />The designs range from splendidly romantic conceptions of floral forms to windows a-scamper with squirrels or lizards to some that are distinctly eerie. Bats fly across the moon amidst dead trees. A woman combs her hair before a volcano flowing lava. An octopus and a sea-weed maiden struggle underwater--in combat? in love? Several have fishes and there are even cat designs.<br />You don't have to see these only as windows. I've converted two to rug designs by taking out the excess black lines of supports or piecing necessary to glass work. You may want to take only one area out of an entire design to render in wood, or do a mosaic version of the whole thing. This is a starting point for the competent craftsman who loves the Art Nouveau energy, not an end product.	2004-06-05
US	52675193	RLHBDP6JBH5K3	087011865X	505152404	Make Your Own Japanese Clothes: Patterns and Ideas for Modern Wear	Books	3	145	157	N	Y	Underwhelming and Poorly Organized	Beginning sewers intimidated by fancy tissue patterns are warned away from this. It requires you draft your own square-cut patterns from measurements and the instructions sometimes take rereading for me to figure out (a 20-year career as a pro costumer and a dresser for Kabuki Hawaii trained by experts from the National Theatre of Japan, so I am am very familiar with both seamstry and Japanese costumes of many sorts). The tissue patterns have much clearer instructions and diagrams. You need self-confidence and some moderate skill with the usual sewing to jump over to this.<br />First, Marshall assumes you also own The Book of Kimono by Norio Yamanaka. While Marshall will tell you how to draft patterns for the kimono, he tells you to go to the other book to find out how to =wear= the garments. Yamanaka's is a wonderful book, but I consider this sales-racketeering by the editors, allowing author sloth to force another book in the line. If you don't already know how to wear kimono, get Yamanaka first so you can even decide if you want to wear it, let alone sew it.<br />The section on Japanese sewing tools was interesting, but time might have been spent addressing how to do these jobs with tools you could find in ordinary Western sewing stores, and how to select Western fabrics (like don't use slinky for an uchikage), since so much time is spent on making Westernized/modernized variants on the trad kimono. 4ex, you can make a 3rd hand out of a strong little coffee bag clip, a length of cord, and a necklace hook rather than paying $8 + S&amp;H on-line.<br />The largest flaw is the structuring of ideas. Marshall first tells you how to do each Japanese sewing technique (how to turn a hem corner, how to sew on a sleeve, how to put in a lining, how to pad a garment) in a separate section before ever getting to describing the garments or giving their layouts. All this means is anyone not already completely familiar with the garments skips this and maybe comes back later to it. The book would be improved by giving the garments with sewing techniques particular to it included at the garment. 4ex., explaining how to sewn on a collar guard particularly for a vest belongs with making the vests, not broken out 57 pages earlier with other collar guard techniques. Explaining how to put in a lining should be with  the first garment that can be lined. As it is, you go to the garment, draft it, cut it, then skip back and forth between the garment and the different technique sections as you sew on a collar or sew on a sleeve. Keep plenty of bookmarks handy.<br />It is good that Marshall gives the standard kimono, and especially the uchikage (female formal overkimono) with padded hem, as well as various jackets (haori, hanten, hippari), modern and trad vests, and the monpei trousers. It is a distinct lack that he did not give directions for hakama, the Japanese trousers everyone wants for male dress, but only the sloppy field pants. The drafting instructions are very good, but as an Old Guard of the fibre arts the selection of garments gave me severe deja vu. In fact, except for the uchikage, this could be described as &quot;do all your own drafting work to wind up with the Folkwear Japanese patterns.&quot; Which do you have more of, time or money? Do you really want to learn the particularly Japanese method of wearing a thimble or finishing a seam?<br />The section on making your own tabi (split-toed cloth socks) is excellent and detailed. Drafting this pattern is not at all simple, as it is fitted footwear. If you can't find tabi cheap on line, I recommend getting the Folkwear pattern for them to save a day or more of your life with fussing these to fit, unless you have very unusual feet.<br />In short, while the book will remain in my library and will be useful for drafting scale patterns for dolls, when I sew for full-size people I will use the available patterns using authentic techniques. What were you planning to use this for?	2003-09-23
US	52675193	R1H71KRE5C9KJ0	0966447506	332920149	The Tunnel	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Beginning Writer Lacks Skills to Carry Off Idea	This truly reads like it was written by a veteran officer. The writing sounds remarkably like a report. Unfortunately, what it is supposed to be is a novel. As a novel, it is the flattest and least interesting I have found in print, and I collect vanity press novels for fun. I kept waiting for something exciting to happen, or rather, for something to be presented in an exciting manner. No such luck. The writing is determinedly passive, padded (heavy on the bureaucratese gobbledgook phrases), sprinkled with malapropisms or improper usage in the narrative, Tells too often where it ought to Show, and astonishingly bald of any descriptive or atmospheric passages. Areas where scenes take place are merely given as street names, as if every reader knew Boston so well that that there could never be any silly questions like &quot;is this a bad neighborhood or a ritzy one?&quot; As long as the book is only bought and reviewed by personal aquaintances of the author, this will go unnoticed. Apparently I am the first outsider to make the mistake of buying this. <br />The POV, if stringent, is crude. The switch from 1st person to 3rd makes me think of this as a Mary Sue, a wish-fulfilling self-insertion story. The writer wrote it as &quot;I do this and I do that&quot; and then decided he needed to show the bad guy being bad and inserted the 3rd person sections. In fact, because of the way the plot turns, this is not only unnecessary, but helps cut tension. Not that there is much tension anyway. &quot;Bead-plotting&quot; and the fact that the good guys are never really out of control of the situation, never seriously challenged or menaced, and no one gets worse than bruises from stopping rounds with their vests means that everything fizzles. Again, it's a Mary Sue trait. The cop stories are not interesting when they don't have any point for the plot or characterization. If the author wants to write a book of anecdotes, fine, but that's not what this is advertised as.<br />Is therestill time for me to get my money back?	2002-06-25
US	52675193	R3W0WP805HS17N	0553289993	982376629	The Wizard of Seattle	Books	4	9	11	N	Y	Unexpected Twists in Character &amp; Story At Every Turn	I've been a fan of Kay Hooper's storytelling since discovering her via my Loveswept subscription. I don't care for thrillers, so I was pleased to find some recent work of hers outside that genre.<br />The cover blurb, etc., does not really prepare you for the story. It is not so much about two people drawn over the bounds in modern Seattle as an exploration of the past. The major and most important part of the book is a trip by the lead characters into ancient days in order to try to change the world into which they were born to make the heroine's survival possible. The greater journey, though, is into the heart and mind of the hero as he discovers that it is not an ancient law but a long-cultivated flaw in wizards that is the true barrier in their romance.<br />Character is all in romances, and in this one you get a dandy assortment, complete with a secondary romance couple and even major antagonists you can come to understand (if still dislike). On top of this, add a charming visualization of magic and perfect atmosphere in the exotic sections where the implications of the culture are well followed-out. Combined with Kay Hooper's storytelling and pace and a hero and heroine whose obstacles are not in the least contrived (none of this &quot;one sensible question would solve everything&quot; stuff), you are in for a fine read. I meant to stretch this out, but wound up gobbling it up the first evening.<br />Why only four stars, then? Say I'm being mean because I expect a great deal from an author with this much talent. The characters are somewhat stereotyped, a common failing of the genre. I don't know if the heroine is rash because she's redheaded or redheaded because she's rash, but I'm tired of hair color and personality being so tied together. I'm also way tired of blue-eyed blondes and green-eyed redheads. Every natural redhead I've known had usually brown or occasionally blue eyes. The only green eyes I've seen were on brunettes. But when was the last time youread a redheaded heroine in a romance who didn't have green eyes?<br />The ending, I'm sure, will not be quite what you expect, either in Seattle or out of it. It's worth the money: indulge yourself in a good read.	2002-06-25
US	52675193	R3ADFMA8NV22D7	0441000916	632637589	The Laughing Corpse (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	3	33	43	N	N	Quality Down from GP, Still an Okay Junk Food Read	The Anita Blake series is not deep and subtly crafted. I have no urge to immediately give a second reading to pick up all the nuances and depths I missed the first time through because one can catch everything on one reading. They're good fun, but not *great* reading.<br />The book can stand alone, but since you're here at a book store, pick up 'Guilty Pleasures' to make everything crystal clear. Also because it's a better book and you might as well see Hamilton at her best to carry you through lesser volumes. The Laughing Corpse is a different book, yes, but the writing quality has dropped as well on objective levels.<br />This is not a vampire book. Those from GP appear almost as cameos, more to set up future books and to keep them in mind than to further this story. Other characters could have been used for their functions, but it was nice to see the fang gang again. This story concentrates on Anita's abilities as an animator, raising the dead, dealing with zombies, and some of the implications of that power she has been staving off.<br />Technical writing flaws have been allowed to creep in: comma splices, using the same word \\"gleaming\\" three times in ten lines, little distracting teeth-grinders that I still remember the next morning. <br />More importantly, this volume uses gratuitous gore as sheer padding. The gross-out contest shows the characters involved as immature, unprofessional, and disrespectful of murdered women and children. Is this really what Hamilton wants us to think of Anita and the RPIT crew? The tremendously detailed crime scenes this time around, as opposed to those in GP, make me think someone gave the author a copy of 'All the Gooey Gunk Inside' and, when she found herself 15,000 words short of a novel she used it to pad things out. It's okay in the first murder scene to set up the horror, but elsewhere it's a weary drag on the story's pace. I wound up skimming it in boredom. She should have used another Jean-Claude scene and moved things along on that line, at least, rather than just marking time.<br />Also, I was persistently thrown off by the long-term voodoo queen of the Midwest being Mexican, and the whole business being treated as if primarily a Mexican religion. Voudoun comes out of francophone Haiti. I would expect Santeria or Spiritism out of an Hispanic community. Read 'The Magic Island' and 'The Serpent and the Rainbow' for some NF on voudoun.<br />At least a bit more of the story world background is explained, like why vampire criminals are executed in the field rather than any attempts being made at trial and incarceration. Her timeline is off here, though. Vampires have only been legalized two years, Anita has been the Executioner for two years, yet the executioners are said to exist in response to something that happened within that two years. Sloppy, but that's sort of the motif for this volume.<br />If GP was a bag of Oreos, this was generic chocolate sandwich cookies. Okay for a snack attack, but it could have been better.	2002-04-04
US	52675193	R27KAW4BQZ2HNR	0441304834	453010069	Guilty Pleasures (Anita Blake Vampire Hunter)	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Good Junk Food Read!	I'm just starting the series, and I'll be reviewing them as you would read them: one at a time without knowing what comes later. I don't usually read either horror or mysteries, but this was great fun, like a ride through a really good haunted house.<br />In this first installment, we meet Anita, who is not just starting out in this business. She already has a lot of backstory and history that adds a feeling of depth to the world and character. People come out of the past, rather than all being invented new. I loved the character (nah, looking like her and sharing her violent attitude in life couldn't influence that) and enjoyed being her for the length of the book. Twenty-four seems a little young sometimes for who she has been and how she comes across, but one can say it's the mileage from her chosen activities. While most reviewers concentrate on the continuing characters, I can't understand how they can review without noticing the chance Philip gives for Anita to be thoroughly human, and Edward for her to be properly scared of the thoroughly human. Philip won me over as grudgingly as he does Anita, and I'm looking forward to seeing Edward again.<br />Note these things about Anita's moral stance as you go. When the Pope made animating a mortal sin, she left Catholicism and became Episcopalian rather than give up raising the dead. She herself says that if she examined her stance on killing vampires, she could not do her work, indicating she is already aware her current principles are not well-founded.<br />If there were writing flaws, the narrative drive, action, and character carried me right past them. I'm easily turned off by poor writing, so I have to call this good. It's scary where it needs to be, gruesome where it ought to be, and sometimes tender when you don't expect it. My only tech complaint is that the fight with the were-rat seemed a bit contrived. That, and Nikolaos is a male Greek name. A girl would be Nikolao.<br />Now, for the minor down side. When I read a book, if I really like it I normally reread it immediately to catch all the nuances I didn't the first time and watch the structure of the plot and the characters build up. I read this and put it aside. It's not deep. You can get everything on the first run-through, and frankly there are some things I'm trying mightily *not* to think about because it will break down the believability of the story-world for me. I want to enjoy it while it lasts.<br />So this book is like a bag of potato chips, not a full meal. I'll read the series now, and probably again in a few years,  for light entertainment. I don't know if it will hold up for a third re-read. The basis of how vampires would intersect with the legal system if they were \\"legalized\\" (they aren't illegal now, I'll have you know), while supposedly the core of the books, is actually very shaky. In most ways, this is a gread lead character moving in a world where supernatural creatures are viewed as newly natural but doing the usual lone wolf adventures while avoiding official help. It's a good adventure, but the speculation does not quite mesh.<br />I leave you with one final question: why is the drool-object male vampire always French? It's getting to be so cliche.	2002-04-04
US	52675193	R30HEK784FELSR	0918825695	861801856	Negotiating a Book Contract: A Guide for Authors, Agents, and Lawyers	Books	5	29	29	N	Y	If you're a writer who publishes, BUY IT!	From the author of 'People's Names': <br />I didn't know how much my library needed this. It may at first seem a relatively brief book, but you more than get your money's worth. <br />The prose is clear and simple, but the information is densely packed. No marshmallow padding to let your brain relax. Plan on reading no more than a chapter a night to absorb this, or you'll start getting foggy from information overload.<br /> If you have not faced a contract, this will prepare you for most of what you are likely to be offered, and what you might ask for or change. If you have signed contracts, you may want to kick yourself for not reading this sooner. (I did. One or two light kicks, not bad.) The next contract I go over, with a new agent or not, is going to give me a lot more than the last one. It will also help me double-check my new agent. <br />O wishful beginners, agents are not only not omniscient, they are often looking out more for their interests than for yours. This means that some will try to keep the publishers real happy with them and not push anything you don't demand. If you don't know what to push for or adjust, the agent won't necessarily rock the boat by making suggestions. Some day I'll get one of those agents who is a writer's best friend, but until then this book helps me be my own best friend in the business.	2002-03-01
US	52675193	R3I15137TG41T5	0435086804	654174119	Fight Direction for Stage and Screen	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	A very enjoyable book.	I bought this for all the wrong reasons. I have zero interest in fight choreography, preferring combat sports. I bought it because I am a long-term fan of Hobbs' work. Reading this not only opens to the outsider part of the film crew not covered, but shows the tremendous amount of work, detail, planning, thought, and creativity that goes into a stage or screen fight that excites both the least and most knowledgeable members of the audience. There's also some fairly funny anecdotes.<br />For those looking for fight help, Hobbs emphasizes safety, acting, concentration, and rehearsing, rehearsing, rehearsing. He gives no set patterns, except by examples. He covers all the basic techniques for slapping, punch-outs, and the sort of sword-work required for period plays. There's even &quot;how to strangle&quot; for those doing &quot;Othello.&quot; He does expect the user of this book to then go forth and plan his or her own fights, and to continue to research far beyond this book. He does not attempt to be the only book you need. As a result, it's very accessible for the newbie.<br />As a history buff, I found the old engravings and photos from stage plays fascinating, too.	2002-03-01
US	52675193	R1HTW47QJFF9ZN	0801848083	876263924	Travel in the Ancient World	Books	4	85	91	N	N	80% Great, 10% Garbage; about the other 10%, I'm not sure	This *is* your one-stop volume on travellers in the ancient world. The author, a professor in classics, wrote it in 1974 then updated it in 1994. Complacently, in the forward he announces that it needed almost no changes.<BR> This statement made me leery. In these 20 years, archaeology has had revolutions of information and theory. Casson knew that he knew everything, so he did not bother to research all the areas where he was under-informed and way out of date, even in 1974.<BR> What is out of Greek and Roman writing is cooked down for you with greater depth and breadth than you will find anywhere else. He is especially strong in the late Roman period. However, classicists are oriented to writing and civilizations. Like most of them, Casson is very weak in his first, pre classical chapters, having no knowledge of human travel outside of the major civilizations. He still has astonishing holes in his classical chapters.<BR> For example, time does not excuse his saying about Roman war galleys: &quot;little more than oversize racing shells, they necessarily followed the coasts and put into harbour every night.&quot; Exert a little logic. These were designed for ramming warfare: not fragile, not low-sided. Get particulars out of Rodger's 'Greek and Roman Naval Warfare' (1937) Also, you cannot surprise an enemy place if you coast-crawl up to it; nor can you chase an enemy fleet at sea if you can't sail out of sight of land. If the galley puts into shore each night, it is because the official on board requires it, not because they can't sail open waters at night.<BR> Casson does pass on the evidence against the wide-spread myth of cemented Roman roads, pg168. Thank him for that. Then he treats as fact the 1930s theory of Lefebre des Noettes, whose shoddy observation and distinctly biased study declared that horses were harnessed by *all* the ancients with the same choking &quot;ancient traction system&quot; that never existed, and that saddles, stirrups, and horseshoes were not used until the Middle Ages. <BR> LdN's theories, long thought suspect by people with a better eye for ancient artwork, were thoroughly exploded by Spruytte (see 'Early Harness Systems' 1974) which reconstructed three major systems, none of which discomforted the horses he used. All three were used through the 1800s in slightly different forms. Evidence exists for nailed horseshoes in Rome, not hipposandals, from the 1st C CE (impressed in brick), for saddles from 5th C BC (Pazyryk), and for stirrups from a similar period. Archaeologists who keep excusing early horseshoe finds as &quot;special cases&quot; have not freed themselves from LdN's dishonesty.<BR> In any case, Casson's contention that these last three items are necessary for comfortable riding over long distances is not borne out by long distance riders. Modern 100-mile eventers from desert, semi-desert, or Mediterranean climates may never shoe their horses (Hyland) despite high mileage training. Choose a horse by ancient rules of conformation (Xenophon), with a well-padded rather than high-spined back, and it should be comfortable, especially to people who do not know saddles &quot;ought&quot; to exist. Bareback is *more* comfortable for long overland rides, esp. as stirrups strain and cramp the ankles and knees. One avoids all the problems of getting a saddle that fits the horse that fits the rider, and doesn't injure either. At the Spanish Riding School of Vienna, for the first few years new riders train with no stirrups to develop a good seat. Stirrups are only necessary for warfare and stock work. Over-dependence on them makes a poorer rider.<BR> Casson also subscribes to Victorian social Darwinism: first humans were wandering hunters, then nomadic herdsmen, then finally farmers.<BR> The modern knowledge is that humans were wandering hunters, then settled farmers. Only around 3500 BC, as the last of the Ice-Age glaciers shrank and the world got drier, did they invent nomadic herding. Horses weredomesticated about 4500 BC (Sredni Stog excavations) by farmers with no vehicles. Since the teeth of excavated skulls show bit wear, the horses were ridden. The idea (passed on by Casson) that horses were only driven until the classical period is an out-of-date theory due to urbano-centrism and wide spread ignorance of horse-handling.<BR> As well, Casson seems unaware of the use of sledges before wagons in Mesopotamia (Piggot, 'Wagon, Chariot, and Carriage') or of the traveling done by Neolithic traders. All part of his early period weakness, but he apparently doesn't *care* about that period. It's just a lead-in to what he considers the good stuff, the classical period.<BR> If you keep these holes in mind, it can be a fascinating book, opening a door on ancient tourism and traveller's lodging that I was very glad to have read. His writing style is light and easy, despite his heavy scholastic background, his translations are modern, and his enthusiasm unflagging. I'm finding room for it on my very crowded shelves, so despite its flaws it is still worth acquiring for the many good parts.	2002-01-08
US	52675193	R38KGQL7NEGAHK	0786401877	618944417	People's Names: A Cross-Cultural Reference Guide to the Proper Use of over 40,000 Personal and Familial Names in over 100 Cultures	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A Career's Worth of Accurate Naming for Writers ...	... and reference for readers.<BR>Actually has more like 70,000 names. <BR>The book  has many special aids for fiction writers who want to name their characters authentically, but is a handy guide to pronunciation and name etiquette for business people going international, teachers with immigrant children in their classes, HR directors, and many others (how about an authentic name for the Current Middle Ages?). <BR>It is not exhaustive in any culture. That would require a volume each, obviously (use the annotated bibliography to find those). This is a sampler and how-to, not a geneaological record. Each chapter has a guide to use in that culture, often with special helpers like titles of nobility, pronunciation, name etiquette, or how to change the root names for all the required versions (some cultures gender family names). All include female, male, and, where applicable, family names or other added names. Names which are variants of one will be grouped together, like English variations on Smith or Charles. There are an assortment of interesting historical and cultural notes. <BR>Writing style is breezy and informal, nicely packaging, for popular consumption, information otherwise found only in horrendously scholarly specialist studies.<BR>Chapters, grouped by historical era, modern to most ancient, then by geographical area, include English, Scottish, Irish, Welsh, Cornish, French, Dutch &amp; Flemish, Frisian, German, Danish, Swedish, Norwegian, Icelandic, Hispanic, Portuguese, Italian, Finnish, Estonian, Russian, Georgian, Ukrainian, Belarusan, Lithuanian, Latvian, Polish, Hungarian, Romanian, Czech &amp; Slovak, Slovinski, Bulgarian &amp; Macedonian, Albanian, Greek, Turkish, Armenian, Israeli, Lebanese, Arabic, Himalayan, Nepalese, Indian (many subgroups), Sri Lankan, Thai, Cambodian, Vietnamese, Laotian, Burmese/Myanmarese, Malaysian &amp; Indonesian, Other Southeast Asian, Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Mongolian, Filipino, Micronesian, Aboriginal Australian, Hawai'ian, Tahitian, Samoan, Maori, Malagasy, Assorted African, Swahili, Sesotho, Yoruba, Nigerian, Ethiopian, Tuareg, Assorted North American, Delaware/Lenni Lenape, Cherokee, Sioux/Lakota, Cheyenne, Breton, Yiddish, Victorian American, Renaissance forms of English, German, French, and Italian, Nahuatl/Aztec, Mayan, Quechua/Inca.Medieval forms of French, English, German and Italian, Provencal, Catalan &amp; Aragonese, Basque, Byzantine, Norse, Saxon, British, Gothic &amp; Frankish, Neo-Punic, Gaellic, Latin, Etruscan, Celtic/Gaulish &amp; Britannic, Iranian/Persian/Median/Mitanni, Hellenic, Hebrew, Early Sanskrit, Punic &amp; Phoenician, Ancient Egyptian, Assyrian &amp; Babylonian, Akkadian, Other Semitic, Sumerian AND Names Without Languages, which is a guide to creating consistent-sounding &quot;shadow languages&quot; for original cultures in very free-ranging historicals or F&amp;SF.<BR>Subject index is good, but the book is so dense with names that an index of those would have doubled the size of it. Go exploring and have fun looking for any particular item.	2002-01-08
US	52675193	R2KXEMX4YOU85T	0870212265	183614681	Greek and Roman Naval Warfare; A Study of Strategy, Tactics, and Ship Design from Salamis (480 B.C. TO ACTIUM)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A must for any serious historical library!	If you can buy no other book on the subject, buy this. I have a shelf-load of others, but this is the key. Control of the seas was often a core policy to the Mediterranean nations. How they fought or could fight at sea determined the course of history.<BR>Adm. Rodgers writes in the non-fiction style of the early 20th century: no gobbledegook, no unnecessary jargon, no convolutions just to look impressive. Neither does he feel he has to be boring to be scholarly.<BR>The book is completely accessible to a beginner who is willing to look up the basics of ship terminology, and not much of that. Yet the subjects glide into such depth, in areas glossed over by most other writers, that even the long-term aficionado will find new information. You will keep it handy for its many technical references. As well, the old-timer may find that Rodger's cogent arguments explode many common myths about the ancient ships found in scores of other &quot;authoritative&quot; books.<BR>Coming from the time he did, Rodgers had access to information that seems to have been lost from being ignored by motor-sailors. This includes the energy output of a rower and a familiarity with the standard speeds of rowed and wind-powered traditional vessels. As a result, his analyses of the ancient texts has both depth and practicality. He is not guessing at figures or building triremes in the clouds.<BR>On top of this, Rodgers was simply brilliant in his visualizations of ancient sea fights. His unpacking of the Roman propaganda about the Egyptian fleet at Actium is alone worth the price of the book.<BR>Be sure to get his follow-up, Medieval Warfare Under Oars. If you would like a similar suddenly-real analysis of many land battles and armies, try Hans Delbruck's History of the Art of War (4 volumes). That one is not beginner-accessible, but once you have the basics you will enjoy it.	2001-10-11
US	52675193	R22LGEJMMAFIL6	0870212265	183614681	Greek and Roman Naval Warfare; A Study of Strategy, Tactics, and Ship Design from Salamis (480 B.C. TO ACTIUM)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A must for any serious historical library!	If you can buy no other book on the subject, buy this. I have a shelf-load of others, but this is the key. Control of the seas was often a core policy to the Mediterranean nations. How they fought or could fight at sea determined the course of history.<BR>Adm. Rodgers writes in the non-fiction style of the early 20th century: no gobbledegook, no unnecessary jargon, no convolutions just to look impressive. Neither does he feel he has to be boring to be scholarly.<BR>The book is completely accessible to a beginner who is willing to look up the basics of ship terminology, and not much of that. Yet the subjects glide into such depth, in areas glossed over by most other writers, that even the long-term aficionado will find new information. You will keep it handy for its many technical references. As well, the old-timer may find that Rodger's cogent arguments explode many common myths about the ancient ships found in scores of other &quot;authoritative&quot; books.<BR>Coming from the time he did, Rodgers had access to information that seems to have been lost from being ignored by motor-sailors. This includes the energy output of a rower and a familiarity with the standard speeds of rowed and wind-powered traditional vessels. As a result, his analyses of the ancient texts has both depth and practicality. He is not guessing at figures or building triremes in the clouds.<BR>On top of this, Rodgers was simply brilliant in his visualizations of ancient sea fights. His unpacking of the Roman propaganda about the Egyptian fleet at Actium is alone worth the price of the book.<BR>Be sure to get his follow-up, Medieval Warfare Under Oars. If you would like a similar suddenly-real analysis of many land battles and armies, try Hans Delbruck's History of the Art of War (4 volumes). That one is not beginner-accessible, but once you have the basics you will enjoy it.	2001-10-11
US	52675193	R100HYDQ3JTYNT	0442295553	617433327	The Doll Book	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Nothing like it, but . . . .	While this has great soft doll patterns, the clothing patterns leave something to be desired, especially if you are looking at this for Barbie clothes.<br />For example, in the Victorian section the corset is for a much fatter doll than the bodices are. Yes, the bodice goes over the chemise and corset, but this should be allowed for in the patterns. The corset was an inch too large! The chemise style matched nothing in my reproduction catalog sources, so I had to draft my own to get something authentic.<br />The hats are made for round heads, with round holes. Dolls, like people, have oval heads, so unless the hair is built out on the sides, they don't fit well. The shoes will fit her female cloth dolls, but not vinyl ones. Just to warn off those of you expecting stress-free Victorian boots for Christie.<br />There are fat gaps in the fashions represented. She seems far more interested in children's styles than adult female styles, and in some eras the male dolls are almost forgotten.<br />Use this book carefully. It can be a great shortcut compared to drafting from scratch, but everything has to be made on the cheap in fitters first, because nothing is trustworthy until you've checked it. She herself says these patterns will have to be modified for different dolls, especially now thirty years later when Mattel alone produces four Barbie bodies, 11 1/2 inches tall but differing enough in measurements that clothes bag or won't go on between them. Xena? Charice? Prepare to modify.<br />If you are making clothes for your kid's dolls, it does cover all the sizes from Mattel IF you make adjustments. For example, the one woman's pattern will have to do for regular Barbies, Gen Girls, and Teen Skipper. There are sizes to suit Staci and Todd (&quot;children&quot; not the larger &quot;boy&quot; and &quot;girl&quot; which suit the 1960s Skipper) (specifically #6, #23, #27, #43, #54, #57, #82, #84, #86, #87, #88, #89 for Staci, and the only male ones, #49, #66 &amp; #90) and Kelly and Tommy (&quot;baby&quot; #11, #12, #26, #39, #58, #59, #81 which are for a pre-crawler in diapers, not a toddler).	2001-06-01
US	52675193	R20KOB2HHJS19S	0860205797	227565732	Make This Model Village (Usborne Cut-Out Models)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Simple and authentic boxes, good for novice	The village, unlike castle or cathedral, does not have a lot of shapes strung together, where an error one place will throw everything off.  Instead, there are many separate small buildings (including one being  thatched), tents for a trading fair in progress, and a church as the one  really big building.  An excellent model, just not spectacular.  Lots of  little flat people to pose around.  Buildings can be put on individual bits  of cardboard (use cereal boxes) if you want them easily rearranged for play  or as wargaming obstacles.	1999-07-28
US	52675193	R28S3QC0S7BY69	0746018444	307110948	Make This Medieval Port (Usborne Cut-Out Models)	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Mostly authentic, but humbug to build	This model attempts a lot, but doesn't always succeed.  The ships were so-so.  There were small difficulties with getting things to match the groundplate or each other.  When many buildings are strung together, or a  city wall has many segments and towers, a trifle here and there adds up to  a potentially large gap somewhere.  Triple-check everything!	1999-07-28
US	52675193	R1R5T28L6Y1COU	074601211X	417422985	Make This Model Lost Temple (Usborne Cut-Out Models)	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Fun for adults or dexterous children	This was the first paper model I made, a few years back, and while challenging, it wasn't frustrating.  The working features add to the fun of a Khmer-like temple just waiting for Indiana Jones to show up.  The outer  band of trees is laid out as a maze.	1999-07-28
US	52675193	R1UK05A10O7UU0	0300047703	379786564	Equus: The Horse in the Roman World	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Best reference on Roman horses yet.	Wonderfully well-researched, in everything from the organization of cavalry to the methods of training colts, from veterinary treatments to protein content of ancient grains, from the conduct of a chariot race to  mule-breeding.  Hyland is generally level-headed and takes research  questions out to the training ring:  she can show you the effect of the  Roman bit excavated at Newstead on her &quot;equine research  associate&quot; in photos. The downside:  Chapter One, on breeds.  Hyland  is blatantly Arabophilic, so that she makes unwarranted links between the  Erembian (Arabic) horse and the small Libyan, which is quite likely next of  kin to the small horses (&quot;native ponies&quot; to some) of West Africa.   Also, her assessment of the Hunnish horse based on ancient description is  entirely illogical and sounds like a pre-settled prejudice, that those  nasty Huns MUST ride nasty, low-bred, ugly horses.  She calls a horse said  to train well stupid, and reads the adjective gaunt in the belly as being  undernourished, while I know the exact same phrase is used of her perfect  Libyan horses.  I ran this same description blind (no mention of source or  name, just &quot;this is an ancient breed&quot;) past a life-long horse  person from a horse-breeding family and got a result of something like a  ram-nosed Lippizanner, a very good horse indeed.  If you ignore this one  fall from grace, it's an excellent book for those interested in the  culture, which was so focused on equines as machinery as well as status  symbols.  It's probably worth the second-hand price.	1999-02-03
US	52675193	R1A3HG7YI4ZMMP	0571082939	271582245	Papal Envoys to the Great Khans (Great Travellers)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Covers the Envoys, Not the Great Khan	In effect, this book is a highly annotated list of those Europeans sent by the Popes to deal with the Great Khans over a century, and who wrote about it when they got back.  While giving some description of each one's  experience, it does not go into depth on any one, and is best to get you  grounded before deciding which of these original reports you need to read  for further research.  For the casual history reader, it will be  interesting for you to learn of the hopes the Church pinned on the Mongol  empire coming to the aid of Crusaders, and the development of the legend of  Prester John, always receding to the East until the end of land was  reached, whereupon he was transferred to Africa as the terra incognita.   The writing is easy to follow without being simplistic, and covers an  unusual subject.	1999-02-03
US	52675193	R2QQS8QY23GOT4	0192851608	807062346	The Norse Atlantic Saga: Being the Norse Voyages of Discovery and Settlement to Iceland, Greenland, and North America	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Summation AND the Original Texts	An excellent book for anyone interested in the Norse explorations of the North Atlantic:  Iceland, Greenland, and Vinland.  Jones not only gives a good history, still relevant despite the 1964 copyright, but gives the  latter half of the book over to English translations of the original  sources:  The Book of the Icelanders, The Book of the Settlements, The  Greenlanders' Saga, Eirik the Red's Saga, Karlsefni's Voyage to Vinland,  and The Story of Einar Sokkason.	1999-02-03
US	52675193	R3TLPNFD1NSP0F	0197242065	158143951	Horse in West African History	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Dense, scholarly -- but not that much depth.	The author collects a great deal of information from scattered sources on the earliest mentions of horses in West Africa, their types, and their use.  The coverage of West African cavalry is very good.  Unfortunately the  author knows little about horses, as he confesses, and so did not dig for  the information a reader might wish:  nutrition of traditional diet,  training, etc.  This is a pioneering effort, and leaves a great many  questions still to answer.  At some places in Ch. One his dismissal of  evidence as being of course too late smacks of assumption as he has given  no better evidence to the contrary.  The use of one rein on a bitless  bridle to control horses in the most ancient tradition would seem less odd  to him if he had investigated the known history of the Libyan horse, a very  amenable beast ridden with no bridle at all, responding to taps with a  stick as well as the rider's leg aids.  In short, he has spent his time  assembling ancient texts and more modern information from his own field  studies, but lacks the background to really pull this together.	1999-02-03
US	52675193	RGG6VRDLIM1PO	0345324536	73961624	The Warlord of Mars	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Desert Island Classic	If I had to be stuck on a desert island with only ten books, the Barsoomian trilogy (Princess of Mars, Gods of Mars, and Warlord of Mars) would be three of them.  Warlord wraps up the tale as Carter takes up the  trail of the incomparable Dejah Thoris, following her captors to the hidden  cities of the polar regions, culminating in a battle that settles the  future of Barsoom.  All the breathless adventure, daring swordplay,  hairsbreadth escapes, and dry humor you could ask for.  Even more in  control of his material than in the other two excellent volumes, Burroughs  challenges himself both to keep in the established material about Barsoom  and still invent new elements.  If you have not read the Barsoomian  trilogy, and you love SF adventure, buy it NOW!  You will re-read it with  delight the rest of your life.	1998-11-18
US	52675193	R28ALJB49B6VJG	0871963345	513626331	Atlas of Ancient Egypt (Cultural Atlas of)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great at Any Level!	You can't study history without maps, so you always need an atlas of an  area.  This one's text, though, is an excellent beginner to intermediate  level history, so with the superb maps you may not need another reference  book on the subject.  Yet, even if you've been reading about ancient Egypt  for years you may find some new nuggets here, like the Egyptian rather than  Greco-Roman names of the cities, the latest list of pharaohs (Hatshepshut  was not the only ruling queen!), articles on the pantheons of different  areas, plans of cities and temples -- all kinds of juicy stuff.  If you  haven't got it, and you're interested, take it home!	1998-10-09
US	52675193	R3712VX8KG2DYT	0816038147	962898877	Cultural Atlas of China	Books	4	30	32	N	N	First, only, or latest book -- this has something for you.	Despite superb maps on some subjects you never imagined, like the various  shifts in the mouth of the Yellow River, and gorgeous illustrations of the  art of the period, this book has a few flaws.  The line drawing  reconstruction illos are so dramatic and modern as to convey relatively  little information and some inaccuracies (would someone tell me how those  horses are drawing that chariot, other than with the reins?), and the  cultural coverage of the text is irregular in what it covers if you are  looking for depth.  It takes a couple of readings before the text falls  together, and then suddenly you know a lot about China.  Perservere.  It's  not bad as an only home reference on China, or as an introduction for the  educated adult.	1998-10-09
US	52675193	R2KBSGFGPAAP5U	0486230287	383133945	Boomerangs: How to Make and Throw Them	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A fun, do-it-yourself sport/hobby for all ages	Mason tells how to build and throw an assortment of throwing objects  besides the boomerangs, built out of wood or cardboard.  As well, he  suggests forms of competitions and judging.  He puts a big emphasis on  safety -- boomerangs and throwing sticks were designed to bring down small  game, or even enemy warriors, so they require care in use. This would be a  great addition to the after-school or summer fun program of your park,  club, or school.  It's also fine to do by yourself during the hours the  playground is empty.	1998-09-02
US	52675193	R28BNGYR7ZRMCM	0862999847	280968963	Training the Roman Cavalry: From Arrian's Ars Tactica (Military series)	Books	3	9	12	N	Y	Could we have a translation for the non-equestrian?	Hyland analyses what is known of Roman cavalry in a manner that will tell  the expert or middling rider a lot, but she needed more summary for the  non-equestrian to make this valuable to her supposed target audience:  the  historian who knows little about horses, and therefor dismisses their role.   She goes over the cavalry display in Arrian in such great detail that,  except for the javelin part, your drill team could set it up.  In the end,  she tells us, yes, the Romans could do just what Arrian describes:  wow,  big surprise.  Only the crown-of-creationists, to whom all previous  cultures must be inferior in all matters including horsemanship, would have  thought otherwise; you know, the sort of people who say, &quot;Even though  this ancient authority says they did such and such, of course they could  not have, being too crude.&quot;  This book is most useful for its  description of the construction details and use of reconstructed Roman  tack, when one feels balanced or overbalanced in which actions, and that  sort of thing.  I also dislike her using her own books so often as an  authoritative reference:  I'd like to know where she got her ideas or  information originally.  Her Medieval Warhorse books are much better.	1998-08-21
US	52675193	RQVEL5I5SZ3IQ	0938289845	470007384	Medieval Warhorse: From Byzantium To The Crusades (Medieval Military Library)	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	Hands-on opinions and excellent research	As a medievalist since my teens, I had long heard how the medieval charger  survived as the Shire or Suffolk draft horse.  However, my recent research,  starting with just looking at how the Middle Ages represents horses, had  convinced me this was not so.  Hyland provided superb support to this idea.   She analyses the size of horse that can go through known openings, the  size of horseshoes from battlefields of the period, and many other pieces  of evidence to show that the early medieval Great Horse was about 15.2  hands high -- often considered small by modern competition riders, who like  16-17 hh Thoroughbreds and warmbloods.  She actually traces horse descent  from the beginning of domestication, though I believe she is too obsessed  with Nesaeans while totally ignoring Scythian contributions to horsemanship  (like the saddle and stirrup).  Other than this, she gives a good if not  impressive picture of the ancient horse as well.  She covers not only the  European warhorse, but its Byzantine and Saracen counterpart and their  riders as well.  It's good reading, not overly technical for the non-rider  but with enough depth for the incurably horsey, too.	1998-08-21
US	52675193	R1ZZ5MPZIXMY36	094248701X	4747195	Nuclear War Survival Skills: Updated and Expanded 1987 Edition	Books	5	35	37	N	N	Relevant Again, Alas; also good for writers	With the destabilization of the balance of terror, we are back looking at the possibilities of nuclear wars, at least on a small scale.  Kearny's book is dead practical on surviving in your house or in a quickly built shelter in the boonies.  No sentimentality here, he points out that older people should do the jobs that risk nuclear contamination, because they are less likely to live to develop cancers from it.  Very good on structures, staying warm (how many layers of newspaper sheets to put under your bathrobe), lots of very clear photos and drawings, and pretty good on cooking, sanitation, and lighting, too.  Just a trifle weak on nutrition, as he does not understand vegetarian protein.  So don't make this the only book you take along. Fiction writers -- here's your protag's survival hazards and solutions in one place, with nothing stupid or extreme.	1998-08-11
US	52675193	RW0KR6JMC0DHP	0936622113	996832054	Home Tanning and Leather Making Guide	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Everything you need to know, from skinning on	This has been in print so long because it is so good.  Written by someone raised before gobbledegook became so fashionable, it is clear, practical, and as simple as it can be.  Only a live teacher could improve on it.  Gives several methods of treating hides, including making the invaluable &quot;prairie iron&quot; rawhide, buckskinning, actual tanning, and tawing (tanning with the hair on).  Especially good for estimating times and amounts.	1998-08-11
US	52675193	R33IC32HZKRWEU	0062720376	116892054	Roget's International Thesaurus	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Organization by ideas still beats organization by alphabet	A dictionary of synonyms or a &quot;thesaurus in dictionary form&quot; (now that's phony titling) requires that you think of one of the words by which they sorted the language.  A true thesaurus, though, while unfamiliar at first like any new and powerful tool, will let you find the word you are looking for when you can't think of ANY word to start.  All you have to do is go to the area with the right sort of ideas and browse a bit.  This book only gets better with time.  Every writer of every sort needs a copy of this. (Oh, and the index makes a great spelling list for all the words science- and law-obsessed spellcheckers leave out.)	1998-08-11
US	52675193	R1FYH7F7R1AS54	0713722622	72003921	Women Warlords: An Illustrated Military History of Female Warriors (Barbarians)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Some Soldiers, Some Generals	Newark gives a good analysis of what one might call the Amazon influence.  Rather than just being about female generals, he gets down to the trenches, compiling the evidence for woman warriors among the Steppe tribes of Eurasia, in South America (the reason they called the one river the Amazon) and in Dahomey.  Also, he makes plain the sociological change from the Medieval woman warlord like Aethelflaed of Mercia or Matilda of Tuscany -- a feudal noble defending her turf -- to the modern &quot;Joan of Arc&quot; image, of the idealistic woman of the people fighting out of patriotism.  He does not cover any of the lower-level fighting women of Europe, however, nor the female warlords outside of Europe.	1998-05-27
US	52675193	R39PTS6HJ1GQS8	050002071X	417851894	Sarmatians (Ancient Peoples and Places)	Books	4	28	28	N	N	Detailed and (but?) Scholarly	A detailed review of archaeological information available on the Steppe tribes of Eurasia.  Prepare for a certain dryness, but also for information you won't find elsewhere, like the remains of iron stirrups found in Olbia late BC (everyone else seems to miss this), and the later life of the Sarmato-Scythians in Eastern Europe, not to mention their language's survival as Ossetinian.  Worth the extra effort and attention if you are trying to build a mental picture of these people, and their effect on their neighbors.	1998-05-27
US	52675193	R3OODYXHM5DWYB	0873584872	141889299	Packing: A Guide to the Care, Training and Use of Horses and Mules As Pack Animals	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Great How-To	Edited back from an Army manual, my softback copy was done in a floppy 8.5&quot;x11&quot; format, while the subject matter would suggest a half-size packable manual.  Absolutely everything, step-by-step, on how to pack gear onto the pack saddle, with good chapters on health care, feeding and watering, and even conditioning your animals before the trip -- an important point many horse owners miss.	1998-05-27
US	52675193	R13HISX8OS3QJT	0385423667	893300091	Encyclopedia of Amazons, The	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Warning:  This Book Can Rearrange Your World View	Discounting the entries for fictional woman warriors or even a few misplaced aggressive sorceresses, after reading through this you will realise that women have never acquiesced entirely to being penned inside the role of nurturer and care-giver.  If anything, in ancient days they may have been just as aggressive and destructive as men, because they were just as powerful.  Certainly, this book made me realise that at any time in history, in almost any culture, there are women who take up arms, whether in wars or barfights, and if a minority, they are not a myth or &quot;a twisted male fantasy.&quot;  This would have been stronger as a history, or at least an encyclopedia arranged by dates rather than alphabet (it has been done).  It would benefit from the addition of an index by time and place.  It's excellent to carry with you to browse in traffic jams, waiting rooms, and other bits of time, since you can read it one or two articles at a time.	1998-05-27
US	52675193	R19P3SLKC676LS	0850455650	384368568	The Vikings (Elite)	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Excellent Trip to the Viking World	Excellent detail on the construction of ships and the prevalence of archery, as well as the usual info on swords, shields, and armor.  I recommend this as a first book on Viking sailing and fighting, as well as to the deeper researcher.	1998-05-27
US	52675193	R1EWMPPZPN53WK	067440646X	403685427	Horse Power: A History of the Horse and Donkey in Human Societies	Books	2	14	15	N	Y	Tidbits, but no cohesion	Why does a &quot;history of the horse and donkey in human society&quot; have some ten pages on prehistoric evolution?  This points up a basic flaw of the book, that it wanders from one interesting point about equids to another that the author dug up in her researches, without either sticking to a limited or focused thesis, or being really comprehensive.  I don't care what her academic credentials are, she doesn't seem to have actually both read and understood her sources.  She shows the illustrations of ancient traction from Spruytte's *Early Harness Systems* which completely refutes any of LeFebvre's claims of inefficiency based on his phony &quot;ancient traction&quot; system (created to support his thesis on slavery) but then discusses LeFebvre without Spruytte.  She shows a photo from Spruytte's reconstruction of Assyrian mounted archer's reining system, using a weighted tassle on the rein to maintain contact on the bit, and thereafter, to her, every big tassle is part of a similar control system, even when the tassle isn't attached to the reins.  By her writing, she could never be mistaken for a horsewoman, or anyone who has bothered to read a book on horse breeds.  Simply, she claims that the emergence of carriage use &quot;led to demand for well-matched draught horses&quot; and by the mid 1660's &quot;the heavy horse had become established as a breed for use on the land, for haulage, and to carry the nobility in their armour.&quot;  On the contrary, the development of carriages led to a demand for carriage horses, not draft horses, and by the mid 17th C. the nobility wore very little armor *even* just on ceremonial occasions and were riding the proto-Thoroughbreds, not cart horses and plow horses!  If you've read everything else on horses, you may enjoy some of her new bits, like covering the size of ancient and medieval horses based on analysis of bones, but the book best serves as an annotated bibliography to her sources.	1998-05-27
US	52675193	R26AW8K1NIKRLJ	0964066882	420281646	The Mule Alternative: The Saddle Mule in the American West	Books	4	24	24	N	N	A Well-Balanced Discussion Based on Evidence	Stamm is as willing to decry the school of mule fanciers who can see no faults in the animal as horse people who ignore the mule's existence.  The book was put together to help a rider decide which animal best suits his or her individual usage, but it has a more important historical result.  With his vast collection of quotes from all first-person journals and reports, he demolishes our usually distorted view of the mule in the West as an animal only for the poor or eccentric -- the beasts normally cost 50% more than horses, and was usually in short supply!  I recommend this book to anyone researching the West, researching equid use, or looking for a mount surefooted enough to follow the worst deer tracks in the high mountains and tough enough to do it all day for a week.	1998-05-27
US	52675193	R23J8BKM1RPE2P	0520068645	793981762	The World of the Scythians	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Beautiful and Smooth, but Missing on One Cylinder	Generally a well-written, smooth-reading, much-detailed and well-illustrated book, the author does not seem to be examining the material.  For example, she repeatedly insists that the Scythians had no stirrups.  Then she shows two artifacts that show them with stirrups -- the riders on the terminals of the Kul Oba torque, and horse being hobbled on the Certomylyk amphora.  Very good for compiling ancient reports, and refuting several of them, as when she uses the evidence of excavated skeletons to show that pseudo-Hippocrates' description of little, bloated, yellow men on stumpy horses simply wasn't so, or represents an odd minority.  Read but do not memorize to give you a basis with visuals, then go on to Sulimirski's *The Sarmatians*	1998-05-27
US	52675193	R2W6AZA3OF978	1855323184	458882094	Viking Hersir 7931066 AD (Warrior)	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Halfway There	Does little or nothing on its supposed thesis of showing the development of the hersir from the free farmer-warrior.  Too much space wasted on showing a system of catagorizing swords which then is never used to show anything.  One of the worst things I've ever seen from Osprey, though still an okay book.  You are better off getting the Elite series #3 on Vikings.	1998-05-27
US	52675193	R2SSXFMA6XE6ZB	0948253479	961535	Horse and Carriage: The Pageant of Hyde Park	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Slim but Rare Pickings	The book was written to help promote the park, and is more a big pamphlet than a deep or serious history of either driving or riding, or even of interesting stories of the park.  Still, reading it will help you keep your etiquette straight, as to what was fashionable or unacceptable in the park at various periods, if your interest like mine is social history.  Interesting pictures of period equestrians.	1998-05-27
US	52675193	R1OXJV8E3HUI7E	0486292886	907925197	The Archaeology of Weapons: Arms and Armour from Prehistory to the Age of Chivalry (Dover Military History, Weapons, Armor)	Books	4	26	29	N	Y	Easy Reading Doesn't Mean Light on Research	I was actually prepared to take a negative view of this book, but Oakeshott's relaxed but enthusiastic and well-informed book won me over.  This subject is obviously the love of his intellectual life, and he has compiled a wonderful study of the development of swords, often being able to match those in art to surviving bits, and the rest of weaponry by the by.  He discusses techniques of use with good sense and practical experiments.  Also, he is one of the few authors to mention that the Vikings were adept at riding and fighting, by his choice of quotes, and explaining the term Riddaraskap.	1998-05-27
