US	52677149	RZ0H7O8LXS3M9	0674011732	1484261	Kashmir: Roots of Conflict, Paths to Peace	Books	4	14	15	N	Y	A balanced and informed account	Numerous books have been written on Kashmir -- most are either too academic or too journalistic. This book is a refreshing mix of academic rigor and readable narrative. The author admirably stays away from political diatribes or predictive posturing that many South Asian authors tend to relish. Perhaps the only missing element is the relative lack of fieldwork on the Pakistani side of Kashmir which may have provided some further insights. Chapter 5 is a special treat to read as it provides clear and plausible recommendations for conflict resolution. Overall an excellent effort.	2004-11-26
US	52677149	RM3JO0QXT7CBV	0393035158	2927274	The End of Faith: Religion, Terror, and the Future of Reason	Books	2	7	18	N	N	Another kind of radicalism	This book joins a line of fatalistic and simplistic accounts of the human condition that started with Francis Fukuyama's \\"The End of History.\\" We subsequently endured John Horgan's book \\"The End of Science\\" and now we have the \\"The End of Faith.\\" While invocations to critical reasoning are welcome, we need to be far more nuanced about understanding religion before incriminating theologies and tenets with blanket accusations. Rational thought on its own is not enough to save us from pugnacity. Atomic bombs and nerve agents were not developed by theologians but by ostensibly rational scientists. That does not mean we dump science - similarly misinterpretation of religious doctrine should not mean that we dump religion. This book is throwing out the proverbial baby with the bathwater. What is most disturbing is the arrogance that the book exudes about the believers as if there is a mass-neurosis in the world of the faithful. This reminds me of Carl Sagan's famous novel Contact (later made into a movie as well) in which the protagonist is asked in a congressional hearing if she thinks that 90% of the world are delusional because they have transcendental beliefs?  Even if one is not convinced with the veracity of religion, from a purely practical point of view it is unrealistic to think that religion will simply slip into oblivion. There is a need for faith in human societies -- even if we relegate it to a Darwinian survival mechanism. Such mechanisms are very real and have meaning and value. In a recent radio interview the author of this book, mentioned that some societies such as Sweden are moving away from Faith - but it is not clear that they are improving their conditions as a result. Sweden also has one of the highest suicide rates per capita in the world. While there may  be many other causes for this, we should not dismiss the value of religion as an important means of social sustenance. Research by social psycholopgists has repeatedly shown that religion helps people to cope with adversity. Admitting that we do not understand everthing about the universe is not insecurity or delusion but a mark of our humble humanity. It does not have to negate science or rationality either. Religious fervor is like any source of power - with negative and positive consequences in the hands of the practitioner.  The productive conversation that we need is how to channelize that fervor into constructive action rather than dismissing it as fiction.eople to cope with adversity. Admitting that we do not understand everthing about the universe is not insecurity or delusion but a mark of our humble humanity. It does not have to negate science or rationality either. Religious fervor is like any source of power - with negative and positive consequences in the hands of the practitioner.  The productive conversation that we need is how to channelize that fervor into constructive action rather than dismissing it as fiction.	2004-11-23
US	52677149	RC2TM56OKZMCM	006019247X	173288464	Human Accomplishment: The Pursuit of Excellence in the Arts and Sciences, 800 B.C. to 1950	Books	2	20	79	N	N	Monumental but linear reasoning	I recently heard an hour-long interview with Murray on this book and was troubled by the tone of his conversation. He described the book in fairly innocuous terms as an attempt by a quantitiative social scientist to document &quot;creative explosions.&quot; However, whenever the interviewer would ask him about other grand non-Western achievements such as the Egyptian civilization, the Umayyad's and Moors in Iberia, the Central Asian artists and poets, the Aztec and the Incas -- he would dismiss them as great but not of the same &quot;magnitude&quot; as Europe. Murray completely neglects the borrowing of traditions that went on in Europe as a reason for the increased &quot;magnitude.&quot; He also neglects the influence of colonialism in artificially augmenting Europe's accomplishments. If you are interested in the question of why certain societies have &quot;accomplished&quot; more, I would suggest Jared Diamond's pulitzer prize-winning book Guns Germs and Steel. Murray should also be more forthright in discussing the negative consequences of presenting data of this kind without constructive commentary. This was the same problem with The Bell Curve. While the analysis may be internally consistent and statistically impeccable, the role of the social scientist is also to discern what the research could be used for and how it can potentially reinforce negative stereotypes about societies and cultures. If you are going to present such highly charged data, that is fine, but then spend the extra time in contextualizing it and preventing its misuse by prejudicial circles.	2003-11-23
US	52677149	R1AEPP3K9YPEL5	0971865949	577992374	Who Killed Daniel Pearl?	Books	3	3	17	N	N	A well-written tribute but flawed political analysis	This book provides a worthy tribute to Daniel Pearl -- who was indeed a brave and exemplary journalist. However, the analysis about Pakistan is deeply flawed and dangerous in terms of its implications for US policy. The author incriminates Pakistan far too easily for helping Al-Qaeda. Indeed, there are elements in Pakistan that have aided the Taliban and Kashmiri militants. However, the reason for this has nothing to do with anti-US sentiment. The main cause for their support to the Taliban has been the constant security threat which Pakistan faces from India and the abandonment of Pakistan by US foreign policy in the 1980s. The only way to combat the problem of radicalism in Pakistan's military and security services is to push a peace process on the Kashmir conflict in accordance with numerous security council resolutions that have been passed. If Indonesia could be pressured to have a referendum on East Timor's self-determination, why can't the same be done in Kashmir? Pakistanis want to live in peace with their Indian neighbors as well. I would also urge readers to consider the kind words which Daniel Pearl's widow had for Pakistan after this tragedy -- she received enormous support from Pakistan's police and indeed the Pakistani people and she publicly refused to cast any aspersions on Pakistan for her husband's death.	2003-09-28
US	52677149	R1TM5HQIS84TW2	0316168718	802115246	The Ornament of the World: How Muslims, Jews and Christians Created a Culture of Tolerance in Medieval Spain	Books	5	8	13	N	N	A scholarly yet readable account of Iberian history	I read this book while traveling through Spain and Portugal for six weeks and was deeply moved by the sensitive tone which the author keeps throughout the text and the accuracy of her descriptions. This is a book which provides a balanced and apolitical account of history. She embraces the common humanity of all three ethnic groups that created a remarkable mosaic of cultural influences -- the vestiges of which are still found in Spain. Contemporary Middle Eastern politicians have much to learn from this book.  Academics also should strive to capture the essence of creative historiagraphy in the same way that Maria Rosa Menocal has achieved here.	2003-08-19
US	52677149	RFC2PF0L8L3MH	0791454568	399850103	Environmental Conflict: In Search of Common Ground	Books	2	3	3	N	Y	Rather elementary text with a deceptive title	As a professor who teaches courses on environmental conflict resolution, I acquired this book with great anticipation to find a new text for my students. Alas, this book was an utter disappointment. First, it assumes the title of &quot;environmental conflict&quot; clearly to reach a popular audience when the substance of the book is almost entirely about economic concepts for high school or freshman college courses. The publisher should make this more clear in marketing the book, since there is an entire field of environental conflict resolution to which this book has little relevance.<br />As far as the coverage of economic conepts is concerned, the redeeming feature of the book is that it presents these concepts in a freindly (though opften trite) way. The coverage of these concepts is perhaps intentionally superficial. This book would have been better suited as a supplement to a commercial text book rather than as a stand-alone volume from a generally respectable university press.	2003-05-10
US	52677149	R2V3GPCJNDABOP	080187193X	176307050	Environmental Peacemaking (Woodrow Wilson Center Press)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	A worthy but scattered effort	Using environmental issues as a means of catalyzing cooperation among adversaries is a plausible goal that deserves greater attention. This book is an initial attempt at this emerging field of inquiry. The authors are affiliated with one of the most well-recognized research programs in this field at the Woodrow Wilson Center.<br />However, the title is a bit deceptive since much of the discourse in the book is a reflexive continuation of the environmental security literature, rather than offering a fresh theoretical path towards an instrumental vision of environmental issues in conflict resolution. A major cause of this lapse is the choice of case studies that are presented. All except one (India and Pakistan) are low level conflict situations where cooperation is far easier to engage. Even in the chapter on South Asia, the authors do not address the question of why cooperation over the Indus has NOT led to a larger cooperative mood between India and Pakistan?<br />Much of the text presents historical material and some \\"thick description\\" of cases and a literature review rather than involved analysis or recommendations. To be fair to the authors, they admit that this is an embryonic work -- but perhaps they should have waited a couple of years and chosen better case studies before producing the volume. Some suggestions for closer analysis would be \\"peace parks\\" between Ecuador and Peru or more localized cases such as the alliance between \\"red-neck\\" fishermen and Native Americans over preservation of the wild rice plantations in Northern Wisconsin (two sides which were previously inveterate adversaries).<br />Nevertheless, the book offers a workable starting point for further research.	2003-03-23
US	52677149	R32A5AL7UQSGVG	089608650X	79932578	Water Wars: Privatization, Pollution, and Profit	Books	2	44	60	N	N	Much potential, but lost in hurried and cursory analysis	The term \\"water wars\\" has gained popular currency ever since Joyce Starr wrote an article by this title in Foreign Policy almost 12 years ago regarding hydropolitics in the Middle East. The alliterative ring of the phrase has endured many empirical studies that dispute its relevance, including some by erstwhile proponents of environmental determinism such as Thomas Homer-Dixon. Such is the allure of the term that only last year (2002) two books of this title were authored (the other one by the American journalist Diane Raines Ward).<br />Vandana Shiva is a renowned Indian environmentalist who is known for her eclectic interests. However, in the last few years she has focused her indignation for the world's problems on private capital. Thus her eclecticism has reached a rather reductionist end, which unfortunately leads her popular writings to shed more heat than light. In \\"Water Wars,\\" Shiva weaves together anecdotes (largely from India) and secondary references to present yet another scathing indictment of multinational corporations and international development institutions.<br />After presenting a brief history of water property rights, which she largely dismisses as \\"cowboy economics,\\" Shiva goes on to describe instances of conflicts pertaining to water in four areas: i) climate change, ii) dams, iii) potable water supply and iv) irrigation. In all these cases, she makes connections -- some more tenuous than others -- to multinational corporations and international development institutions. In the last two chapters, she prescribes atavistic solutions predicated on traditional practices, such as the Bihari irrigation system of ahars and pynes. The book concludes with theological and transcendental references to the sacred spirit of water and an appendix enlisting a 108 names of the Ganges River.<br />Overall, Shiva's sincerity of purpose shines through the text, but preconceived notions and normative assertions occlude any rigorous analysis. Regrettably, Shiva appears to have abandoned her methodological roots as an academic physicist. Instead of laying out all the evidence and the arguments in favor and against particular schemes, she chooses to harp on negative cases and offer broad generalizations, which often limit the credibility of her argument. While the book serves a useful purpose of sounding the alarm about world water issues, it does not go the next measure to provide a coherent and constructive vision for change.appears to have abandoned her methodological roots as an academic physicist. Instead of laying out all the evidence and the arguments in favor and against particular schemes, she chooses to harp on negative cases and offer broad generalizations, which often limit the credibility of her argument. While the book serves a useful purpose of sounding the alarm about world water issues, it does not go the next measure to provide a coherent and constructive vision for change.	2003-02-20
US	52677149	R280MTUZ5V9WWZ	0262550423	883073626	The Elusive Quest for Growth: Economists' Adventures and Misadventures in the Tropics	Books	4	20	21	N	Y	A simple and revealing exposition of development economics	This book is likely to spur immense controversy, specially in the current climate of anti-globalization  protests. Easterly provides a telling history of well-intentioned but somewhat misguided and didactic development efforts since the Bretton Woods conference. The book speckles careful theoretical exposition with lively anecdotes and \\"intermezzos\\" of personal stories from the developing world. This gives the book a humane touch that is often lacking in most economics books.<br />My only problem with the book is that the author is still rather hung up on the singularity of growth as the panacea for allevaiting poverty. While growth could be sufficent condition for alleviating poverty in many cases it might not be a necessary condition in all cases. The author also neglects environmental concerns that are often not properly internalized in short-term growth models.<br />I am also wondering what the World Bank establishment have to say about this. Some of the conclusions are so simple, that I am left to wonder why didn't all these smart people \\"get it?\\" Perhaps the Bank has its own set of counter-arguments for Easterle's specific examples, which I will continue to explore.<br />Nevertheless, this is a good read and gives much food for thought.	2002-10-28
US	52677149	R2G7W3OD87VUGT	0595242790	724288646	Echoes from the Abyss: a novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A poignant tale predicated on cruel reality	This book captures the most cruel manifestations of poverty in South Asia, with remarkable accuracy. The author shows candor and compassion in her story-telling and shows how the most apalling crimes are continuing to be committed against innocent girls in South Asia. While, a fictional account, the book is based on the author's extensive research on the topic of child abduction and prostitution in South Asia. The prose is hauntingly beautiful, yet simple and dignified -- a rare combination when dealing with such a subject. This book definitely deserves to be picked up by a larger press for distribution and recognition. In the interest of full disclosure, I should mention that the author is my sister, but I have always been a candid critic of her work, and this is truly a masterpiece.	2002-10-28
US	52677149	R3I9F40X38YOBJ	0691003815	775405711	The Ultimate Resource 2	Books	3	13	20	N	N	Much better Cornucopian perspective than Lomborg	While I do not agree with the conclusions that Simon and colleagues reached after presenting their data, this book is a much more rigorous treatise than Lomborg's recent book &quot;The Skeptical Environmentalist&quot;, that has been given undue publicity.<br />Many of Lomborg's ideas are premised on this book. If you really want the Cornucopian perspective read this rather than Lomborg.	2002-09-05
US	52677149	R2JIQYJV7EU85I	0521010683	572523055	The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the Real State of the World	Books	2	16	30	N	N	The Renewed Vitality of Real and Mythical Numbers	I am amazed at how much attention this book has received when much of the information presented here has already been discussed before in various settings. Greg Easterbrook's 800-page book &quot;A Moment on the Earth&quot; and the late Julian Simon's &quot;The Ultimate Resource&quot; among others. The Cornucopian and celebratory view presented here and the equally self-righteous criticism by some environemntalists is disturbing. There needs to be a more reasoned way to approach this topic and alas both sides are too polarized to do justice to the issues at hand.<br />The biggest problem with Lomborg is his equivocation under the pretense of objectivity. While environmentalists may be accused of the same, they tend to predicate their perspectives on morally premised relativism and are thus more humble about the human perception of nature. Like good insurance evaluators, we should rather err on the side of humility and caution in the face of vastly complex environmental phenomenon rather than be skeptical and dismissive about risks that we don't fully comprehend.	2002-08-21
US	52677149	R2G7TDWZ1RDAQJ	0618001905	966326914	King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror, and Heroism in Colonial Africa	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Objective and Thorough Analysis WITHOUT European Bashing	This book is one of the most carefully researched popular works on African history. Contrary to what some cursory reviewers have written, Hochshild approached the subject by reference to original primary sources -- letters, diaries, original manuscripts of Belgian officials and numerous others who were at the heart of this shameful period. The list of references at the end of the book lays out the depth of his research. Need I say more in defense of the author -- the Belgian Prime Minister, recently apologized for his country's nefarious role in Congo. Another example of the author's objectivity is how he describes the personality of some anti-Leopold activists such as Williams, pointing out their frailties just as much as Leopold's himself. He also points out the preexisting practices among African tribes which were also reprehensible by modern standards. There is no hidden agenda in this book -- what Leopold did in Congo was ghastly, and this book should not be dismissed as \\"political correctness\\" -- it is the clear and verifiable truth. Specially in this day and age where we feel emboldened to refer to despotic regimes as \\"evil\\", we should feel quite confortable in referring to Leopold's reign of terror as \\"evil.\\" Furthermore, this period was even more ghastly because it was carried out through direct deception of many well-meaning European and American philanthropists, who were given to believe that enterprise was being carried out for humanitarian reasons. Yes, this exposition should not be used as a means for perpetuating tensions between the colonized and the colonizers. We should indeed move on, but reconciliation is only possible when there is an unequivocal acknowledgement of past injustices, which this book provides with adequate objectivity. We must remember that objectivity does not preclude culpability -- with adequate evidence, it is the academic and moral duty of all analysts to acknowledge the culpability of certain players in a conflict. In this case, the burden of blame clearly rests with Leopold's regime, as described through their own words and deeds, and as documented admirably by the author.se, the burden of blame clearly rests with Leopold's regime, as described through their own words and deeds, and as documented admirably by the author.	2002-05-24
US	52677149	R21CWOTCFYNMX5	0465061508	59964273	A Problem from Hell: America and the Age of Genocide	Books	4	9	11	N	N	An informed and textured text	I had an opportunity to meet Samantha Power at a lecture which she gave in Providence, Rhode Island recently. After hearing her speak about the way in which she carried out research for this book and the academic and applied aim of the treatise, I am convinced that this is indeed one of the truly great books on American Foreign Policy. Some reviewers have lamented that she has excluded certain episodes of genocide, such as those in Russia and China or the full scope of conflict beween the Turks and Armenians. However, her aim was not to encompass all episodes of genocide --rather her aim was to focus on those episodes in which the U.S. government could have prevented the killing but did not intervene effectively. The title of the book is in fact a quotation from Warren Christopher, the U.S. Secreatry of State during the first Clinton administration describing the Bosnian and Rwandan situation at the time.<br />All sides will certianly not be pleased with this book because the author certainly shows one party as the aggressor and one as the aggrieved. However, she does try and substantiate her claims, rather than relying on conspiracy theories.<br />Thus this book, despite being a six-hundred page endeavor, is not meant to be exhaustive about the topic -- rather about a particular foreign policy context. It is indeed sad that we need such a long chronicle on this topic but it is nevertheless essential reading for all politicians. We need to be shaken out of our complacency and this book does it with academic rigor and sensitivity.	2002-05-01
US	52677149	R1EV68JRCCMYH4	0896086402	158455161	Resource Rebels: Native Challenges to Mining and Oil Corporations	Books	3	2	7	N	Y	Interesting Case Studies but more was expected	Following his earlier book &quot;The New Resource Wars&quot;, Al Gedicks eloquently presents numerous negative case studies regarding exploitative mining. In this book, I was hoping there would be more direct social science analysis as well. However, there is simply more descriptive and investigative material about pernicious cases of exploitation. Instead, it would have been useful to also consider some cases of corporate resposibility, or cases where Native communities have in fact chosen to go forward with mining and have had positive experiences -- indeed cases of mines such as the Raglan project in Quebec, The Red Dog Mine in Alaska, Argyle in Australia, mining in Botswana and Ghana or oil in Brunei might also have provided an interesting comparison. Nevertheless, the book certainly has some good expository material on some of the &quot;bad boy&quot; companies. It is important to consider that there might also be some better players in the mix -- which the activist perspective in this book does not want to even acknowledge.	2002-04-01
US	52677149	R3MKAWJNE8WA4A	0060188804	657007054	In the Footsteps of Mr. Kurtz: Living on the Brink of Disaster in Mobutu's Congo	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Written with rigor and sensitivity to the Congolese cause	After visiting Kinshasa earlier this year, I gained a better appreciation for this book and how skillfully the author has revealed the multiple causality behind Congo's present predicament. This is not just a journalistic travelogue -- it is a carefully crafted poltical analysis which is written in an accessible style that may lead some cursory readers to be cynical about the author's journalistic credentials. However, I wish we had more journalists like Michela Wrong covering the world -- who are willing to spend extended peeriods of time in a difficult location rather than flying in and out on assignments. It is true that the book has an urban flavor and does not cover life in the villages that some readers may be yearning for -- but the aim of this book is not to romanticize a battered land but rather the reveal the creation of a despot and how he was enabled to ravage a truly enchanting part of the planet. The following quotation from one of her chapters sums up the treatise of the book and shows how brilliantly the author can express complex sentiments and concerns about the way in which ostinsible national stability was guarded at the expense of a economic and social decline:<br />&quot;Deprived of the chance to learn the lessons of its own history, Zaire's population was kept in a state of infantilism by a more insidious form of colonialism. Instead of the roller-coaster of war, destruction and eventual rebirth, the intervention of the U.S., France and Belgium, of the World Bank and the IMF, locked the society into one slow motion economic collapse. Balked of expression, unable to advance, mindsets froze over somewhere in the 1960s, leaving the country's leadership at the turn of the century stuck in an ideolgical time warp.&quot; (p. 215).	2002-03-30
US	52677149	R1PY5GOI9WAJQS	0415039304	938099528	Discovering Islam: Making Sense of Muslim History and Society	Books	4	10	12	N	N	An excellent introduction to Islam	Professor Ahmed has provided an excellent anthropological introduction to Islam in this book. This book is not meant to be a theological treatise (as the other reviewer tries to belabor), but rather a clear and personable introduction to the Faith and people of Islam.	2001-10-29
US	52677149	R3SAQ65S13H1TT	0393049221	732718986	Darkness in El Dorado: How Scientists and Journalists Devastated the Amazon	Books	3	27	50	N	Y	An indictment that should be cautiously considered	While many anthropolgists are dismissing this book as the work of &quot;a journalist,&quot; academic researchers should not forget that the aim of this book is not to study the Yanomami people but rather to investigate accusations about their exploitation that have been made for decades by numerous people. The only difference is that now a mainstream publisher has dared to publish such a work. Mark Ritchie's book (The Spirit of the Rainforest) highlighted many of the same accusations about Chagnon a few years ago as well. Perhaps the most stunning indictment of Napoleon Chagnon comes from his own writings which reflect a fundamental lack of sensitivity for his &quot;subjects.&quot; For example Chagnon states that &quot;The best they can achieve by entering mainstream society is to become bums beggars and prostitutes on the fringes of society.&quot;<br />While Tierney does have tendency to sensationalize and perhaps overstate the significance of unsubstantiated information, there is definitely a need for further introspection on the part of anthropolgists, and all of us who want to learn more about other societies.	2000-11-09
US	52677149	R17MH67PQSS58	0262650533	501817523	Making Better Environmental Decisions: An Alternative to Risk Assessment	Books	2	7	11	N	N	Some good points are raised but then lost in emotionalism	I began reading this book with great expectation given the bold title and the accolades that are printed on its back cover. However, I was soon disappointed. While she raises some important points about the limitations of risk assessment, her argument is occluded by a rash sentimentalism about environmental concerns that is removed from the real economic choices that risk-takers may CHOOSE to make. There are indeed many problems with sole reliance on risk assessment and the author raises some good methodological points. However, her alternative to risk assessment is a somewhat ad hoc and feel-good process which she calls &quot;alternative assessment.&quot; I think it is somewhat disingenuous for Ms. O'Brien to suggest that risk assessors do not consider alternatives -- risk assessment is a further step by which each alternative is subsequently analyzed with analytic rigor to make sure all factors of hazard and exposure are accounted for. Perhaps we should heed Ms. O'Brien's advice and further institutionalize the consideration of alternatives. However, that alone cannot substitute the subsequent assessment and comparison between the alternatives. Ms. O'Brien, in my opinion, is presenting a sort of pseudo-methodology, that is predicated on a belief that the right to a clean environment should be placed before all other criteria. I agree with her completely that de facto, all communities have a right to a clean environment and pollution should never be inflicted upon them. However, individuals and  communities, inevitably make choices about their lifestyles and may CHOOSE to tolerate a certain measure of environmental harm for other benefits. In this case they should have measurable indicators by which those choices are made -- hence the need for risk assessment. My fear is that in her aversion for risk assessment Ms. O'Brien has thrown away the proverbial baby with the bathwater.	2000-09-23
US	52677149	R1UUQM5OYLNK53	0060977493	521720988	The God of Small Things	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Beautifully written, but there are problems	Roy has admirably invented a rich and engaging style of writing beyond  temporal synchrony. Her poetic refrains throughout the novel are truly  quoteable. However, the theme of the novel, despite the exotic setting of  Kerala, is a somewhat hackneyed one -- a tale of forbidden love. That too  is fine -- however, Roy doesn't really wrestle with the issue of why the  &quot;love laws&quot; exist in the first place. Instead she spirals into a  kind of postmodern relativism that leads her, inter alia, to tangentially  condone incest between twins! Towards the end of the novel, I felt somewhat  disappointed -- all that build-up to this -- if nothing else, there are  genetic reasons why acultural natural selection would lead us to be  repulsed by such actions. Anyhow, this is a good first novel. I might add  that Roy is particularly admirable as a writer for using her literary  pedestal to publicize many important social and environmental causes as  well -- such as the movement against the Narmada valley dam.	2000-09-04
US	52677149	R1X09W7GK60FTN	0773520708	773422717	First Nations? Second Thoughts	Books	2	7	14	N	N	Internally consistenty but flawed arguments	While there are some important insights in this book about the current problems with Canadian Aboriginal policy, the book is written in a highly opinionated style with little substantiation for many of the claims that  are made. There is a selective editorial usage of information and a  remarkable disdain for opposing points of view. For example the author  asserts that &quot;European civilization was several thousand years more  advanced than the Aboriginal cultures of North America both in technology  and social organization&quot; (p. 6). The author completely neglects the  engineering mastery of Ancient Puebloans in their cliff dwellings, the  political adeptness of the Iroquois (even though that has been exaggerated  in its own right), and the complex linguistic and artistic accomplishments  of Native peoples. One can say that their civilization was not  &quot;outward bound&quot; like the European explorers (which most  anthropologists believe is a resource-dependent attribute), but the kinds  of statements which the author makes  in this book are condescending and  offensive.<br />One can have disagreements about Native policy without  belittling cultures and downplaying past injustices. Interestingly enough,  UBC law professor Alan Cairns, is quoted on the back cover of the book with  qualified praise for the volume as  a &quot;comprehensive critique.&quot;  Dr. Cairns' book &quot;Citizens Plus&quot;, is in my opinion, a far more  comprehensive evaluation and critique for those interested in this topic.	2000-07-27
US	52677149	R4JFSAEDVQX1B	0060193670	419086161	Without Reservation: The Making of America's Most Powerful Indian Tribe and Foxwoods the World's Largest Casino	Books	2	11	18	N	N	Misses the bigger picture	This book has received much publicity because it is a typical anti-establishment narrative. However, the author loses the forest for the trees in his argument about the Pequot's alleged &quot;fraud.&quot;<br />While it may be true that the Pequot tribe in its current form does not  have as much Native &quot;pedigree&quot; as some other tribes, that does  not necessarily mean that they are being deceitful. Native people were  historically forced to assimilate and were made to feel shameful of their  lineage and it is thus not surprising that some of them had claimed to be  &quot;white&quot; at some parts of their life. This reality in fact adds to  the tragedy of native persecution.<br />Moreover, on a factual basis, the  descendents of the Pequot tribe started to seek government recognition long  before the casino was even an idea (see the concluding chapter of Thomas's  book Skull Wars in this regard).<br />What is even more troubling about this  book is that it is suggesting a reversal of governmental policy towards  Native Americans in terms of compensation for past injustices. In a recent  radio interview the author suggested that we should &quot;let bygones be  bygones&quot; -- I think the author does not have a full appreciation for  the kind of genocide that Native communities have endured. It is easy to  say that &quot;well we were not the ones persecuting them then, &quot; but  the whole point is that there were clear violations of treaties and other  agreements by settler governments that are meant to be valid for time  immemorial unless otherwise stated. The US Supreme Court recognized as  early as 1905 (in US v. Winans) that a treaty was in fact a right given by  Indians to settlers and not vice versa. Indian sovereignty, the court  recognized, predated the settlers.<br />Even if there were no treaties (as is  the case in British Columbia or Australia), there should still be a  recognition of past injustices -- isn't that what Western notions of  timeless truth are all about?<br />This book is thus quite myopic in its view  of Native American politics, despite the assiduous research about the case  in question.less truth are all about?<br />This book is thus quite myopic in its view  of Native American politics, despite the assiduous research about the case  in question.	2000-06-12
US	52677149	R37HCWHNQQL1HX	0465092241	841571040	Skull Wars: Kenniwick Man, Archaeology, And The Battle For Native American Identity	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Admirable attempt to reconcile culture and science	This book is truly a landmark achievement in its breadth of coverage and ananlysis. I am quite surprised to read some of the negative reviews since none of the assertions that are made about &quot;bias&quot; hold for any  part of the book. It is no wonder that the Native scholar Vine Deloria Jr.,  who has been the most ardent critic of anthropolgists, has written a  laudatory foreword to the book. I would urge people to read the book in its  entirety before passing judgment.<br />Thomas has put the Kennewick  controversy in historical perspective and he has done so with utmost  respect for native sentiments. As Deloria has said in the foreword, this is  an excellent companion to S. J. Gould's classic &quot;The Mismeasure of  Man.&quot;<br />Perhaps the only concern I have with the volume is that it has  too many chapters and is often too discursive. Nevertheless a much-needed  and refreshing voice in anthropology.	2000-06-12
US	52677149	R2E0VG87VDEEYY	0140264450	445923384	The Origins of Virtue: Human Instincts and the Evolution of Cooperation	Books	3	19	28	N	N	Too discursive and circular, though nicely written	I read this book because of my interest in conflict resolution in the environmental arena. I was initially impressed by the scope of literature from game theory to genetics that the book covers in its arguent. However,  I was quite disappointed that Ridley bascially keeps coming back to his  zoological credentials and hammering in the &quot;selfish human&quot;  hypothesis. In many ways this book is an embellished version of Dawkins'  &quot;The Selfish Gene.&quot;<br />There are also a few instances where  Ridley oversteps his knowledge base to make inferences about human behavior  that are not well-argued. For example, chapter 11, entitled &quot;ecology  as religion&quot; reiterates revisionist notions that Native Americans were  not environmentally sensitive. While there are some aspects of this  argument that are credible, the tone of Ridley's narrative is at times  journalistic, condescending, and not well-argued.<br />Ridley clearly has the  potential for writing some of the most lucid scientific prose. However,  this particular work gets away with too much simply on account of engaging  anecdotes.	2000-05-29
US	52677149	RETC276999BW4	026219435X	507686976	The Land That Could Be: Environmentalism and Democracy in the Twenty-First Century (Urban and Industrial Environments)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	A lyrical and compelling work -- though somewhat Utopian	Bill Shutkin's sensitivity to the environment and the human dimension of ecological concerns shines through brilliantly in this book. The case studies which are at the core of his narrative and his exposition of environmental problems are well-researched, and well-experienced. As an  activist/lawyer/entrepreneur/academic, Shutkin provides an unusual blend of  insights which are indeed rare in environmental literature.<br />Optimism  permeates this book which is certainly refreshing to many readers who are  probably tired of the gloom and doom that resonates from many green texts.  The foreword by David Brower is perhaps a prelude to this optimism and to  the change in perception and outlook concerning environmental policy among  activists.<br />Nevertheless, the primacy of this change in contemporary  times is perhaps overstated by Shutkin. I was somewhat disappointed with  the Amero-centric nature of the text, particularly when it comes to the  poetic celebration of so global an issue as environmentalism. By this I do  not mean the case selection - which is quite appropriate considering  Shutkin's own expertise in working with certain communities. Rather, I am  more concerned with the way in which the \\"reforms\\" within civic society are  heralded as a hallmark of American democracy. Indeed, the work of the  Austrian / British economist and thinker E.F. Schumacher (who died in the  seventies) are not even mentioned. Much of the community oriented \\"small is  beautiful\\" approach which is at the core of Shutkin's argument can be found  there (and elsewhere), and has been in motion for decades.<br />I think that  the book should have perhaps been less ambitious in its title and argument  by focusing on a certain class of  environmental concerns where a sense of  place and association with the land can be imbibed. It is important for all  of us to consider that there are also many environmental concerns, where  such associations are impossible to foster - many global environmental  issues such as climate change, ozone depletion or other scientifically  dependent areas of environmental concerns which do indeed require a certain  intellectual \\"elite\\" and an elaborate decision-making apparatus. Let us  also not forget that even at the community level and the urban planning  level, many of the great success stories of environmental reform have  worked with strong top-down approaches - Singapore being a living example.  Also, what is one to do when civic environmentalism does not emerge even  within a democratic process? The book should have perhaps addressed such  anomalies to the argument.<br />Despite these minor shortcomings, this book is  a momentous achievement which will undoubtedly spur much reflection and  debate.vironmental  issues such as climate change, ozone depletion or other scientifically  dependent areas of environmental concerns which do indeed require a certain  intellectual \\"elite\\" and an elaborate decision-making apparatus. Let us  also not forget that even at the community level and the urban planning  level, many of the great success stories of environmental reform have  worked with strong top-down approaches - Singapore being a living example.  Also, what is one to do when civic environmentalism does not emerge even  within a democratic process? The book should have perhaps addressed such  anomalies to the argument.<br />Despite these minor shortcomings, this book is  a momentous achievement which will undoubtedly spur much reflection and  debate.	2000-05-10
US	52677149	R3FXKGR9F4MYBC	0374213542	594654916	Moth Smoke	Books	3	15	18	N	N	A good start, but  there is more to Pakistan than this	While it is refreshing to see a novelist of Pakistani originpublish a novel with a major publisher, I must say that this book isover-rated.  Though the nuanced allegories in the book will undoubtedly strike chords with many Pakistani elite (often the ones who are web-savvy), Western readers must not take this to be a representation of &quot;Pakistani society&quot; ...<br />Hamid is describing the top 0.01 % of Pakistan's pretentious elite -- which is fine, but unfortunately the book is being marketed as if it were about Pakistani culture -- which it is not. In fact much of the &quot;wannabe&quot; cultural attributes that Hamid highlights among Pakistani elite can be found in most developing country elite from Argentina to Zimbabwe (I can speak from personal experience of interacting with elite from both those counties as well).<br />The imagery is lyrical and at times compelling, but the language does not reflect the stylistic maturity of other South Asian writers such as Sara Suleri or Anita Desai. Nevertheless, a good start. I hope that Hamid's next novel will also try and cover some of the more exemplary attributes of Pakistani society, particularly among the majority of the populace who do NOT drive Pajeros nor drink Scotch!  END	2000-04-29
US	52677149	R2TPI5S0YA7WN1	0393047555	182813813	The Ecological Indian: Myth and History	Books	4	55	68	N	N	Beyond revisionism	At first I thought that this book was yet another revisionist history of Native/Nature relations. However, I recently had an opportunity to interview Professor Krech and realized that much of his argument has been misunderstood and caricatured by people on both the right and the left of  the political spectrum. Krech is not trying to state that Natives do not  have a particular respect for nature but rather that their actions were  often not congruent with the Western notion of &quot;conservation&quot; a  la Gifford Pinchot or Aldo Leopold and certainly not the kind of  &quot;preservation&quot; ethic articulated by Muir. Krech is deeply aware  of the  Native respect for nature and has lived and worked with native  communities in Northern Canada.<br />My only problem with the book is that he  does not address the resurgence of native environmentalism in much detail.  The work of Winona La Duke, Tom Goldtooth, Ward Churchill and others is  briefly mentioned at the end but not much is provided in terms of how this  movement has arisen. In my interview, I questioned him about this and he  responded with great respect for native environmentalists, saying that he  knew that their feelings were genuine and grounded in native history to  some extent. However, their feelings for the environment have  been  realized in a modern context that is somewhat different from the less  self-conscious relationship which ancestral Indians had with nature.  Critics of Krech should certainly give him the benefit of the doubt and  read his earlier works, particularly his criticism of Calvin Martin's first  book (Keepers of the Game). Interestingly enough Martin has since changed  his views and has taken a much more mystical approach to describing Native  / environmental relations  in his recent treatise: The Way of the Human  Being&quot;. So please, reviewers and readers, try to step back for a  moment and read this as an academic work which was well-intentioned, but  perhaps needed another chapter at the end, further explicating the current  rise of native environmentalism.her chapter at the end, further explicating the current  rise of native environmentalism.	2000-04-25
US	52677149	R2BSJA5CDWA4E2	0896085996	754348165	All Our Relations: Native Struggles for Land and Life	Books	4	16	19	N	Y	Excellent case descriptions but more was expected	La Duke is an inspiration to young environmentalists all over the world irrespective of their lineage. This book clearly resonates her strong beliefs and convictions about environmental issues through numerous case  examples. However, I was hoping that there would be more in terms of  research inquiry about the causes of environmental injsutice. Why is it  that tribal leadership, and often a large constituency within a tribe,  often repudiate much of the environmental ethic which is presented here? It  is easy to dismiss this question by saying that the government or  corporations are to blame, but I  personally think that there is more at  play than just external manipulation. I would urge La Duke to respond to  some of her critics within the Native American establishment in her next  work -- which I am sure will be just as compelling and positively  provocative. Also it may be useful to have a chapter responding to  environmental historians such as Calvin Luther Martin. I think a good work  responding to these revisionists is needed from a seasoned and erudite  Native voice such as La Duke.	2000-04-01
US	52677149	R2Z7YPSGEOTHS7	0375501185	419327837	Beyond Belief: Islamic Excursions Among the Converted Peoples	Books	1	31	54	N	N	Naipaul should stick with fiction	Using his brilliant literary credentials in the world of fiction and a traveler's (in)discretion, Naipaul has been able to publish accounts of a religion with which he has cursory familiarity. However, the argument which  he presents is at the core of  the questionability of *secular* Islam and  the disaggregation of culture and theology. Naipaul asserts that Islam is  essentially an Arab religion which has indoctrinated cultures all over the  world and caused a \\"neurosis\\" vis-&agrave;-vis the pre-existing cultures of it  adherents. If Naipaul is to be believed then Islam, because if its rigidity  and its atavistic Arab approach, has homogenized many world cultures -- an  argument analogous to the one used by many opponents of McDonalds and  Hollywood.  Clearly there are two layers of  association in this  context that need to be better appreciated. Islam does indeed imbibe  certain common attributes on its adherents like any other religion but that  should not, and does not, eclipse the locational ethos of the people who  embrace it in those areas. Pakistani Muslims, such as myself continue to  revel in our South Asian roots, and our cultural expression is quite  different from our brethren in Indonesia, Lebanon, Morocco or many other  parts of the Muslim world. We have our own cuisine, our own special  expression of festivity, our own language and consequently our own  cultures.  While I deplore the misconduct of many ostensibly Muslim  governments, their behavior cannotbe used as an indictment of an entire  Faith  (this would be analagous to simplistically blaming Christianity for  the inquisition). Books on religion which are based on peripheral  experience such as this generally tend to embody Alexander Pope's famous  saying from his Essay on Criticism:  &quot;A Little Learning is  Dangerous  Thing.  Drink deep or taste not the Pierian Spring.  Its Shallow draughts  Intoxicate the Brain.  But Drinking Largely Sobers us Again&quot;ÿ	1999-11-28
US	52677149	R3NJ4IKTRQN3OG	0761908447	954723518	The Consensus Building Handbook: A Comprehensive Guide to Reaching Agreement	Books	5	24	27	N	N	An amazing achievement	This is a splendid compendium of articles and case studies by some of the leading practitioners in the field of dispute resolution. A true magnum  opus which is worth the price. It takes the &quot;fluff&quot; out of  negotiation literature and presents a welcome mix of theory and practice.	1999-10-28
US	52677149	R20KT5DUYWWGES	0226779815	222909921	Meatless Days	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Eloquent, Irreverent  and Provocative	Sara Suleri's command on the English language is of course quite clear from the first page. She is among the few contemporary writers who dare to use difficult words without feeling apologetic about looking 'prententious.&quot; Bravo! Of course the words are used very appropriately as well. We need a revival of good English usage -- after all what's the point of testing kids on SATs.<br />Among South Asian writers she is a rare breed to balance a love for their homeland with candid criticism (unlike the much too  celebrated Rushdie or Roy). She is an intellectual in the highest tradiation -- it is no wonder that a University Press published this book instead of some market-frenzied publishing house.<br />I disagree with some of her irreverent portrayal of Muslim society and traditional values but that is all tempered by the  sardonic cadence of the work.<br />Hope you will write a novel as well.	1998-07-03
