US	52675625	R3OP3RFPQ1RJH1	0515134376	551427604	Under Fire: A Novel of the Corps	Books	2	5	9	N	N	Paid by the unedited word	I'm always tempted to send an edited copy of a Griffin novel to his publisher, showing the large number of editing mistakes.  I'm sure it wouldn't do any good.  Through his Army and Marine sagas, Griffin and associates refuse to believe books need editing.  But the editing gaffes are less noticeable if one listens to the book.  However comma (as we used to say in the Navy, the service Griffin hasn't glamorized, apparently because he has such disdain for Uncle Sam's Canoe Club), there are other problems with Griffin's potboilers.  But let's consider a different point of view:  Griffin's characters and plots are the way he'd LIKE to see the USMC portrayed.  In other words, they're fantasies!!  All the protagonists are good-looking and get the hot babes!  They all have AWESOME miltary skills!  They're all mavericks.  They all get involved with high-level miltary and political figures.  They're everything WE didn't have in OUR military experience!  So if you didn't have that glamorous experience, write about it!  Wouldn't be any different if I wrote about my college experiences with coeds.  But I digress.  I suggest readers leave their credibility cloaks behind, and just enjoy the story for what it is:  an unrealistic rambling unedited version of history.  Keep in mind:  most archeologists aren't Indiana Jones, most boxers aren't Rocky, and most vets aren't James Herriott.  With that in mind, enjoy Griffin---as best you can.	2005-07-21
US	52675625	R1UGMJ8SPAGCTC	1594200106	734819982	The Shadow of the Wind	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Exquisitely beautiful and haunting---wonderful!	This book is a tremendous combination of mystery, thriller, love story, and romance.  The author juggles all these genres with skill and finesse, never allowing any of the threads of the story to dominate so much that the other subplots become secondary.  There are also wise sayings about life in general interspersed in the story.  An example would be the comment about not losing your dreams:  \\"You never know when you might need them.\\"  As an American who lived three years in Spain (albeit quite a ways from Barcelona), I was transported back by this story 30+ years to the days when I glimpsed parts of the Spanish culture.  Other reviews will give you the outline of the story, but I will attempt a small capsule summary.  The narrator, as a boy, discovers a forgotten book by a forgotten author.  He is enthralled and tries to learn more about the mysterious writer.  In the process, he encounters picaresque, dangerous, beautiful, and eccentric people, who complicate and enliven his life.  This book was a joy to read and I recommend it most strongly to you.  I would be very surprised if most readers wouldn't want to hug the book after finishing it.  I know I did.	2005-04-09
US	52675625	R2IOEW7WEJYCIV	B0002Z0HKQ	265598858	Up Country: A Novel	Books	1	9	19	N	N	Unedited autobiographical novel that I couldn't finish	What IS it with this author and me??  I couldn't finish Word of Honour (didn't care what happened to the main characters), couldn't finish Spencerville, after having read 80% of it (same problem), and now I've quit Up Country after getting over 700 pages through it.  To be fair, I should state I finished, and enjoyed, Mayday and The General's Daughter.  I was prepared to like Up Country.  DeMille and I are in the same generation and although I wasn't in Vietnam, I was in the Navy for 5 years during the Vietnam War.  It was my generation's war.  Anyway, I was hopeful.  But do we need 859 pages of DeMille's cathartic writing about the war?  I don't.  Yes, writing is cathartic, and of course writers can feel that a book is inside them and needs to get out.  I understand all that.  But barely-camouflaged autobiography is pushing it.  I would have preferred DeMille to write a non-fiction account of his miltary experience in-country, and then an account of his return.  There is just something about DeMille's writing, perhaps the glacial pace, that I can't abide.  \\"Get on with it!\\", I keep thinking.  And DeMille apparently has only one kind of male character, the smart-mouth type.  This typical DeMillian guy disobeys my first rule of travel, and it's especially egregious because of his secret mission:  DeMille gives a lot of grief to people who have power over him, in this case the local Vietnamese officials.  Not very bright for a CID agent.  And his sweet and sour relationship with the heart throb-de-tome isn't very convincing either.  So...my advice would be to find DeMille books on ABRIDGED audio if you must read him.	2005-02-17
US	52675625	R3RHKX41PFCWUC	0060512806	555229230	Cryptonomicon	Books	5	8	10	N	N	War and Peace for the late 20th Century!	The erudition and information in this book are humbling.  Wait, wait! It also has humor, tragedy, war, romance, a bit of sex, intrigue, a treasure hunt, famous historical characters, and a whole bunch of other things---truly the complete range of human experience, across two generations of families.  One of my more unusual tests for a book is its ability to keep me interested if I have to leave it for awhile.  Well, I read Cryptonomicon over a period of more than 3 months, and even if I stopped reading for a week at the end of a paragraph (much less a section or chapter), I found I could return to it easily without losing the many threads of the story---minimal paging back to refresh my memory.  In a book of this magnitude and complexity, that is a rare, perhaps unique compliment.  I admit readily that it isn't fair to do this to a book, but sometimes stuff happens.  The author even enlightened me about a personal character trait!  That isn't something one expects in a work of fiction.  On the minimal downside, Stephenson is so knowledgeable about technical matters that he devotes some space to theories, graphs, computer programs, and the like.  The good news about this is that all of it is relevant to the story.  The bad news is that I couldn't begin to repeat much of it after reading it.  My best advice would be to read those sections several times, as I did, trying for a basic understanding of the concepts.  Going to either extreme (skipping them entirely or getting bogged down in them or, horrors, quitting the book in frustration) is not advised!! Cryptonomicon ends with a brief excerpt from Quicksilver, the first book in a new trilogy.  Stephenson has me intrigued already, and I eagerly await reading all of his other works.	2005-01-12
US	52675625	R2U67T1CAN0NO4	0670032573	511631376	Wizard and Glass (The Dark Tower, Book 4)	Books	1	21	43	N	N	Flashback fizzles; read only pps. 1-110 and the last 60	Okay, mathematically, here's how I calculate 1 star for this drivel.  FIVE stars for the first 112 pages and the last 61 pages, which is almost exactly 1/4 of the total of 672 pages.  So that's .25 x 5 = 1.25 stars.  ZERO stars for the other 500 pages.  Total stars = 1.25.  Round to one star.<br />Now some advice:  1. find the book in your local library (or the unabrdiged audio version).  2. Read the first 110 pages, which advance the story of the Dark Tower and are great. 3.  Use this instead of the next 400 pages:  &quot;As a teenager, Roland falls in love with a girl.  She dies, and so do his 2 friends.&quot; 4.  Read the last 60 pages of the book, which advance the story.  There, wasn't that easy?  You're welcome.<br />The first three volumes are sprinkled fairly heavily with references to Susan Delgado, and one assumes she is dead.  Ditto for Alain and Cuthbert, Roland's two friends.  So there is absolutely no suspense, and for me absolutely no interest, in reading page after page after page of juvenile love story.<br />In books like this, there are several &quot;kisses of death&quot;, severl omerta if you will.  The first is when I quit a book part way through, because I'm just not into it.  (That happened with this book).  Then, if I resume the book, I try to find the unabridged audio and listen to it while I exercise.  (That happened here, too).  Rarely does this fail to get me through the book, but of course...  When I got to the audio part about Alain whining about going back to the Hillock because Jonas was destroying it... yuck.  So I quit the audio version too, went home and tore out the first 400 pages of the book and put them in the recycling bin.  At least no one else will suffer through THIS copy of the book.<br />Now I have returned to the print versiion, tearing out sections as I read.  A sense of accomplishment, don't you know.  And so, dear reader, do I plod my ponderous path through this pithy pablum.  I really do want to read volumes 5-7 but Mr. King is trying my patience mightily.<br />I have even started rooting for the bad guys, which is the ultimate kiss of death, I suppose.  I mean, maybe the Good Man isn't so bad after all.  Keeps a lot of people employed, it seems.<br />In conclusion, read the beginning and end and skip the rest.  Use the saved time to do something enjoyable.r. King is trying my patience mightily.<br />I have even started rooting for the bad guys, which is the ultimate kiss of death, I suppose.  I mean, maybe the Good Man isn't so bad after all.  Keeps a lot of people employed, it seems.<br />In conclusion, read the beginning and end and skip the rest.  Use the saved time to do something enjoyable.	2004-03-16
US	52675625	R2TCOC82SOKA4N	0385497709	548814469	London: The Biography	Books	1	14	20	N	N	Existential claptrap	London is my favorite city in the world.  I've visited there many times, and love it each time.  I thoroughly enjoyed Stephen Inwood's A History of London, and looked forward to this book by Ackroyd.  What a disappointment!  I made it through 80 pages of existential waxing about the history of London, filled with rhetorical (or non-rhetorical)questions which were irritating and insulting.  Note for the author:  Let the READER speculate and reflect on what you're telling him or her.  Asking constant questions just makes me think you consider all of us to be idiots.  I quit this book during the chapter on silence, where Ackroyd's existentialism went even more overboard than usual.  In addition, he seems to enjoy flaunting his vocabulary, using \\"numinous\\", for instance, twice in several pages, and repeating a quote about a silent London courtyard twice in one paragraph.  Must be a really dumb reader who has to be shown the quote twice.  Note to the author:  good that there's a quiet part of London, and good that Hawthorne and Washington Irving discovered it and wrote about it.  One paragraph suffices, not a whole chapter.  Note to the author:  stick to fiction.	2003-06-26
US	52675625	R19PCN2L8VHMM0	0399117776	984948227	The man who died twice: A novel about Hollywood's most baffling murder	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Time Travel Murder Mystery based on a true story	This well-researched murder mystery reminds me of Jack Finney's wonderful pair of time travel fantasy-mysteries, From Time to Time, and Time and Again.  Peeples' book does not have the romantic charm of Finney's books---the protagonist here is more into the physical aspect of love---but the time travel theme is similar.  While Finney used an elaborate deliberate scheme to effect time travel, Peeples chooses to make the ultimate trip an accident.<br />In The Man Who Died Twice, a 1970's Los Angeles Police detective travels back to 1922 Los Angeles, and inhabits the body of William Desmond Taylor, a Hollywood producer who was murdered in real-life Hollywood in February 1922.  The LA detective, Ernie Carter, has the advantage of knowing lots of details about the case, from having read the police files, and just living in the Hollywood/LA area all his life.  Carter, with Taylor's personality serving as a kind of alter ego, tries to prevent Taylor (and himself!) from being murdered.<br />Along the way, Taylor/Carter encounters many legendary Hollywood figures, including D.W. Griffith, William Randolph Hearst, John Barrymore, Mabel Normand, and Rudolf Valentino.  It is sobering to read about the sad and/or untimely end of many of these stars, and to contemplate how little Hollywood has changed since, to wit Judy Garland, Marilyn Monroe, John Belushi, Tony Perkins, and many many others.<br />Peeples brings Hollywood in 1922 to vibrant life, transporting the reader to the silent era with great skill.  He seemingly mentions all of the possible murderers, and keeps the reader guessing as to which one he will use as the actual shooter. In real life, the case was never solved, but Peeples' murderer is convincing.<br />An old science fiction story once had a time traveller in the age of dinosaurs walking along a special path, from which he could not stray.  He could not pick flowers, kill any of the animals, or leave any evidence of his visit.  If he did, all of the ensuing history of the world would change, subtly in the time of dinosaurs, massively in his own 20th century.  I am reminded of that story when I read a book like this. I will leave it to you, if you read this book, to discover if Peeples adheres to the tenets of the SF story.the world would change, subtly in the time of dinosaurs, massively in his own 20th century.  I am reminded of that story when I read a book like this. I will leave it to you, if you read this book, to discover if Peeples adheres to the tenets of the SF story.	2002-01-04
US	52675625	RK1ZDMZPIRN8V	0375708677	340222761	Find a Victim: A Lew Archer Novel	Books	2	4	43	N	N	Tough guy P.I. takes a beating, but keeps on trucking	This is a typical private detective book from the post-WWII era.  In it, as usual, the hero (Lew Archer) is accidentally involved in a case, and then decides to pursue the case, even though DANGER is everywhere.  There is the requisite amount of hero-being-beat-up stuff, combined with hero-beating-others-up.  There are the &quot;bad&quot; girls, and the who-knows-what-they-are girls (or 'gals', perhaps).  There are the seedy denizens of the seedy town doing seedy things. And those are just the cops!  There is also the seedy motel owner and his dissatisfied wife.  Also on hand is the young criminal (just graduated from the juvenile delinquent ranks) and the wise old man who has seen much heartache.<br />I suspect this book was pretty hot when it came out, but it's almost a parody of the genre today, sad to say.  I can stand about one Ross MacDonald a year, just to give me some perspective on this part of the mystery/suspense scene, and Find a Victim is it for this year.	2001-12-30
US	52675625	R1COPES7RB8PLJ	0892965746	673423127	Nightmare Syndrome (Yellowthread Street Mystery)	Books	1	2	4	N	N	Marshall tries to emulate King and Koontz, and fails	I have given several of Marshall's Yellowthread Street Hong Kong police procedurals 5 stars, and deservedly so, for they mix suspense, mystery, and zany humor in wonderful combinations.  This time, however, Marshall has strayed into the King-Koontz genre, and has failed---dismally.<br />As usual, there are three plots, one involving Detective Chief Inspector Feiffer, one with his deputy, Christopher O'Yee, and one with Detectives Phil Auden and Bill Spencer.  All 3 threaten the lives of these police officers more than in other Marshall books.  But really!  Is a bomb going to do away with Auden and Spencer?  I doubt it.  And is O'Yee going to be murdered by somnambulist thugs?  Of course not.  And is Feiffer going to die in some supernatural way?  No way.<br />The bomb plot, in particular, is massively overwritten, with the same sub-basement slime, bomb wires, and tension between Auden and Spencer repeated ad nauseum.  The O'Yee plot is interesting, but O'Yee's repeated failure to get help---even though help surrounds him outside the police station and below, in the sub-basement---strains credibility.<br />And as for the supernatural plot, well I'm not of Asian descent, nor have I travelled much in that part of the world, but I don't find it believable at all.  A crime wave caused by an eighty-year old man using magical powers is just too much.<br />I hope Marshall returns from left field in the next Yellowthread Street book I read, for I am fond of his characters and their travails.  But this book is only a nightmare.	2001-12-30
US	52675625	RB2LUZQXLQUF1	0445405481	996823805	Yellowthread Street	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The first Yellowthread Street murder mystery	This was the first in the series of ficitonal murder mysteries set in Hong Bay, Hong Kong.  Protected by Detective Chief Inspector Harry Fieffer, Detective Inspector Christopher O'Yee, and Detectives Phil Auden and Bill Spencer, Hong Bay seems to be an authentic, frenzied, violent part of Hong Kong.  While the station deals with a 'lost' American tourist and his harridan wife, more serious crime intrudes, with a Mongolian who is demanding 'protection' from local merchants, and attacking those who resist.  The denouement is typical Marshall, a combination of fast action, violence, and chaos, with chaos being the most prominent factor.  In this book, Spencer is the 'new guy', and Marshall convincingly shows us how Spencer has a difficult time fitting in with the other detectives.  But as experienced Yellowthread Street readers know, the detectives prevail---at a price.  Marshall is the pre-eminent writer of humorous, suspenseful police procedurals writing these days, and I am continually impressed by his expertise.  Long may the detectives of Hong Bay continue to fascinate us!	2001-12-14
US	52675625	R1TFGMFH1QSXV2	0030705274	126805234	The Far Away Man (A Yellowthread Street)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Suspenseful, moving, ironic mystery set in Hong Kong	This is an unusual murder mystery set, as are most of William Marshall's books, in the fictional Hong Bay section of Hong Kong in the last several decades of British rule in Hong Kong.  This time, Chief Inspector Fieffer, O'Yee, Spencer,and Auden are looking for a seemingly cold-blooded killer who is murdering Hong Kong residents who apparently have no connection to each other.  As in other Yellowthread Street mysteries, it is up to Fieffer and company to figure out the connection between the crimes they are investigating.  In this book, the connection is filled with irony, sadness, and greed, making this book far more than just a murder mystery.  Marshall deserves to be much better known, and read, in this country than he apparently is.  I hope, with Amazon.com's help, that he finds additional readers.	2001-12-14
US	52675625	R12278T4LG9MLZ	0030474868	221297146	Sci-Fi: A Yellowthread Street Mystery (Rinehart Suspense Novel)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Hong Kong Mardi Gras	This is another superlative police procedural mystery, set in the fictional Hong Bay section of Hong Kong, starring those inimitable Hong Kong police officers,  Harry Fieffer (the boss), Christoper O'Yee (Amerasian), and Detectives Auden and Spencer, playing once again their combination of Marx Brothers and NYC's finest.  Anyway, in this outing, the boys are challenged by the arrival of a science-fiction convention, with the usual fans dressed up as their favorite aliens, parades, and general mayhem.  O'Yee is hunting for...well, we won't spoil it...something REALLY hard to find, while Audena and Spencer are looking for a mugger in a multi-story parking garage.  Feiffer is looking for the fiend who is incinerating citizens for no apparent reason.<br />Marshall once again combines the zany with the suspenseful, and once again my eyebrows are sore from raising them at all the hair-raising (pun intended) hold-your-breath scenes.  If you're looking for a great police procedural series, and one that doesn't take itself too seriously, you are in the right place in Hong Bay with Marhall's band of loonies.  Long may they reign!	2001-12-11
US	52675625	R3OVN4YF7KXXMA	0241894727	150556810	Gelignite	Books	4	2	2	N	N	&quot;Explosive&quot; mystery set in Hong Kong	This is another in the wonderful series of fictional mysteries set in Hong Kong in the last several decades of British rule.  The continuing characters, Chief Inspector Harry Feiffer, Christopher O'Yee, and Detectives Auden and Spencer, once again are challenged to a series of baffling crimes.  Marshall succeeds in blending the suspenseful with the humorous.  &quot;Zany&quot; is the adjective that seems to describe his humor most accurately.  In this adventure, someone is using gelignite to blow up citizens of Hong Bay, part of Feiffer et al's beat on Yellowthread Street.  A secondary plotline has O'Yee hunting for a stuffed bird on behalf of a wealthy Hong Kong businessman.<br />I usually give these books 5 stars.  However, the labyrinthine explanation at the end of the book went on a little longer than I thought was necessary.  But I readily admit that those readers with a LeCarre bent will probably feel right at home.<br />I know of no other mystery writer who can combine the gruesome with the gross, the horrible with the humorous, and the suspenseful with the silly.  I've already started another Marshall mystery, and hope to review it here shortly.	2001-12-08
US	52675625	R2XTO42K5O06AL	0446404551	777671081	Inches	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A bank, a bum, and a baseball bat	This is William Marshall at the top of his form, writing once again about the police officers of Yellowthread Street in British Hong Kong.  Chief Inspector Pfeiffer, Inspector O'Yee, and Auden and Spencer are challenged this time by a locked room mystery, a mysterious assignment for O'Yee &quot;from Headquarters&quot;, and by a congenial set of brothers who are into fantasy fulfillment as psychotherapy.  Marshall skilfully weaves the three stories together; all 3 denouements are superbly done.<br />I can regularly be seen on the D.C. Metro, when reading a Marshall book, with my eyebrows way up my forehead, as Marshall either turns the tension up yet another notch, or describes some of the most bizarre scenes in crime fiction.  This time, my facial muscles hurt from the scene with Spencer and the seagulls. Not to be missed!<br />Marshall is one part Ed McBain's 87th Street police procedurals, one part Janwillem van de Wetering's Gripstra/De Gijr existential police procedures in Holland and elsewhere, and one part Frederick Forsyth, in terms of the suspense involved.  With ingredients like that, how can you miss?	2001-11-30
US	52675625	RDRD3CB0SVXFO	0816136548	755446715	Keystone	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Mack Sennett and the Keystone Cops in a fictional mystery	In a style similar to Stuart Kaminsky, who has also written fictional mysteries with famous Hollywood stars of the past, Englishman Peter Lovesey has written an excellent thriller with silent screen pioneers Mack Sennett, Roscoe (Fatty) Arbuckle, and the Keystone Cops that Sennett  created and made famous.  Lovesey sets up an English actor, who has just transited the States doing Vaudeville, as his hero.  The actor, whom Sennett dubs &quot;Keystone&quot; falls in love with a Sennett actress, who is endangered by &quot;real&quot; villains on the set.  This period-piece book wonderfully recreates the Hollywood of 1914, and the mystery takes many twists and turns before the hero ultimately prevails.  Lovesey once again proves his versatility, and he seems to have had fun writing this book.  If you like it, check out other Lovesey works, especially The False Inspector Dew.	2001-11-25
US	52675625	RAI45K0150L95	0060807954	15027652	The Family Tomb	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Treasure, thieves, and romance in Florence	Everything Michael Gilbert has written is either on my &quot;looking for&quot; list or my &quot;already read&quot; list.  Only a few other authors, including Andrew Garve and Edmund Crispin, rate that distinction.  How can I describe a Michael Gilbert book?  There is, above all, a sense of relaxation caused by the feeling in me that here, after many mediocre books by other authors, one is in the hands of a master.  Perhaps it is akin to hearing the opening notes of a new concerto and realizing that what will follow will be special.  Or the feeling that the superb appetizer from a great chef will be followed by an equally excellent entree and dessert.  Michael Gilbert's books impress me the same way.<br />In this book, set in modern-day Florence, Gilbert spins a tale of Etruscan treasures, unscrupulous art collectors, some VERY villanous bad guys, several colorful expatriate Brits, and a soupcon of romance.  Along the way, we learn about Etruscan values, Florentine and Italian politics, Mafia methods, and even English crossword puzzles.  It's all done with a delightful flair that makes me think Gilbert really enjoys writing.	2001-10-13
US	52675625	R27E7O3VWC2NE	0380727501	157497316	Notes from a Small Island	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Regrettably, I can only give this book 5 stars!	Comparisons between this book and Theroux's Kingdom by the Sea are inevitable.  In fact, Bryson even refers to Theroux's book several times.  But the comparison is a legitimate one, for both Theroux and Bryson set out to travel around all or part of Great Britain, taking public transportation, or their own feet, as much as possible.  Here, however, the similarity ends.<br />Whereas Theroux didn't seem to enjoy much of anything, Bryson provides much more of a range of experience.  He tells us enthusiastically about the things he likes, and tells us explicitly about the things he doesn't like.  And he admits there are things, like cricket, he just plain doesn't understand.  And he is enough of an adult to tell us when he has goofed up, as he does when he is locked out of his hotel and, when finally admitted, berates the manager for his being locked out so early in the evening.  The next morning, Bryson tells us, he apologizes  to the manager, who is extremely gracious about the whole incident.  So in one small episode, Bryson reveals much about his own character AND that of the English.<br />Bryson's style is perfect for such a book.  He occasionally uses such ploys as &quot;Does anyone else feel this way?&quot;  This serves to bring the reader into the story and, although it sounds hokey, it works very well indeed.  Lovely, as the Brits might express it.  Bryson also mentions his family, how he met his wife, and the joy he felt when he returned home late in the trip, peering in at his family through the window before letting his presence be known.<br />So the author is comfortable enough to let us see him, warts and all, as he attempts to understand the country where he has spent many years and is, at the time of writing, leaving.<br />If you are contemplating visiting England, read this book.  If you have just returned from England, read this book.  If you are purely an armchair traveler, read this book.  If you have ever heard of England, read this book.  There!  Does that cover everyone?  And by the way, leave Mr. Theroux on the shelf, there to gather its well-deserved dust.that cover everyone?  And by the way, leave Mr. Theroux on the shelf, there to gather its well-deserved dust.	2001-09-01
US	52675625	R160KH1OWWWWOE	0140071814	392149278	The Kingdom by the Sea: A Journey Around the Coast of Great Britain	Books	2	10	16	N	N	Mr. Negativity Takes a Hike	Does Paul enjoy ANYTHING?  I first read this book in 1993, just before my first trip to England involving areas outside London.  My reaction then was that Theroux had captured most of the negative aspects of British society---and very few of the positive ones.  I have now read the book for the second time, after several more trips to England and additional contacts with the English people in Surrey, Kent, and East Anglia.  I still feel the same way I did in 1993. What does Therous consider &quot;wonderful&quot;?  The comment made by a Brit that someone &quot;mispronunciates&quot;.  So Therous enjoys other people's mistakes.  How warped is that?  And what does he compliment?  The National Health System.  Well, it may have been great in the early 80's, the setting for this book, but it is pathetic now, if numerous UK newspapers, and discussions with the English, can be believed. So Therous is tired of London.  He even QUOTES Dr. Johnson about someone who is tired of London being tired of life.  Well, Theroux seems to be tired of life in this book, for he notices ugly nuclear power stations, tacky vacation camps, loud teenagers, dirty b&amp;b's, lower class people, drowning sheep, and the unemployed.  Paul!  Every society has these features (except perhaps for the drowning sheep).  Where are the delightfully eccentric Brits, the Underground that works better than its much newer counterpart in Washington DC, the wonderful ethnic restaurants, the beer and ale, the overall civilized behavior of drivers, and the thousands of years of culture?  Your books need some balance, Mr. Theroux.  So, on balance, so to speak, one can use this book as an accurate picture of the negative aspects of the UK in 1982.  If one desires a picture of positive things in the UK culture, then or now, go elsewhere.	2001-07-21
US	52675625	R16R12ULJZKR4U	0553251139	159869687	The Fourth Protocol	Books	3	3	10	N	N	Good, but not great	I'm going to be the exception to the other reviews written before mine.  I think this is a good thriller, but certainly not up to Forsyth's previous books, especially Day of the Jackal and The Odessa File.  In addition, I have a problem with books like this one, AND Day of the Jackal, in which I have the constant thought, &quot;Well, this DIDN'T happen, so how involved can I get with this?&quot;  In other words, DeGaulle DIDN'T get assassinated, and the catastrophe in this book didn't happen either.  That, as I see it, is the problem in including historical characters and timeframes as an integral part of a book.  In The Hunt for Red OCtober, on the other hand, there isn't as much historical linkage, and the plot is therefore much more believable. Furthermore, Forsyth lost me with his grossly excessive &quot;letters&quot; from Kim Philby to the Secretary General of the USSR, explaining the political left, and the poltical climate in general, in Great Britain.  If I wanted a poli sci lecture, I'd go back to college!  There must be better ways to give background info to the reader than the lecture format.  I just skimmed through it, and therefore Forsyth didn't 'teach' me as much as he probably wanted to. Also, Forsyth has the obligatory (Hammond Innes does the same thing) hero with the broken marriage.  Let's go back to James Bond, who's fascinatingly single, or George Gideon, who's happily married with an interesting family.  And Forsyth doesn't even mitigate Preston's marital woes with a sultry female character.  Why not just leave out Preston's family and declare him a &quot;I live to work&quot; guy? So here's the deal:  read enough of the book to find out what the threat is (I won't tell you), then skip to the back, where the SAS comes in and saves the day. That's the best part.  Then find something better to read.	2001-05-13
US	52675625	R1NMC67XIJOG3W	0312971079	146857774	Hungry as the Sea: A Novel	Books	2	1	8	N	N	Beginning and ending action sandwiched around boring middle	Smith accomplishes a near-impossible feat.  One of his characters is a Persian/Iranian woman, and he fails to convey her beauty, allure, and mystery to the reader.  Since (IMHO) these women *are* incredibly beautiful, alluring, and mysterious, Smith's failure is especially egregious.  His other heroine is a near caricature American woman:  bold, aggressive, interested in causes.  Conclusion:  Smith can't write about romance, love, and intimacy.<br />In addition, his book should have been reviewed by an American before publication.  Americans do *not* eat &quot;shrimps&quot; any more than they eat &quot;trouts&quot; or &quot;turkeys&quot;.  In that context, these are nouns of mass, not nouns of number.  Also, there is no United States Coast Guard Service.  It's just the U.S. Coast Guard.<br />Finally, Smith starts with a thrilling tugboat-liner rescue, then bores the reader to insensibility with interpersonal relationships among the main characters, and then ends with the extremely unsurprising rescue of another ship (kind of) by our hero in his tugboat. When I can summarize a book in one sentence, it's always bad news.  &quot;Tugboats save some ships, some lives, and Planet Earth.&quot;<br />Finally, compare Smith's action/inaction pattern with someone like Dean Koontz, who almost always grabs the reader on the first page, keeps up the suspense and thrills, adds a *believable* romantic subplot, and ends with a satisfying and frequently happy conclusion.  Smith could learn a lot from Mr. Koontz.	2001-02-21
US	52675625	RNCA53DPXYX4K	0553273868	385971283	The Delta Star	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Donald Westlake meets Ed McBain	My only regret is that I can only give 5 stars to this terrific police procedural by Joseph Wambaugh.  There aren't many books that make me grin constantly, even at 5 in the morning!  Wambaugh combines zany characters with (what seems like) gritty realism about cops' lives to form a wonderful read.  There are strong female and male characters, and enough villains to keep things rolling.  Wambaugh's LA is smoggy (dare I say gritty also?) and filled with mean streets; his police officers cope as best they can.  I've read and enjoyed other Wambaugh books, but I'd have to say this is #1 (so far).  Police Officer Ludwig, in particular, is unforgettable.	2000-11-09
US	52675625	R298LBJ26JV79N	0736616985	443864412	Shout At The Devil	Books	1	2	20	N	N	Infanticide and assorted gore (again)	Smith is sick.  &quot;The Angeles Weep&quot; contains a disgusting murder of an unborn fetus, and this book has the immolation of an infant girl.  There is the usual assortment of other blood and gore, of African animals, indigenous people, and whites.  It may be historically accurate, but it isn't my thing.  I have helped future possible readers of this book by destroying it.  Once again, I emphasize:  this author needs professional help dealing with his bloodlust.	2000-11-08
US	52675625	RZO05CB19YBVQ	0195134249	813742409	The Lion's Pride: Theodore Roosevelt and His Family in Peace and War (Oxford University Press Paperback)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Wonderful story of a heroic American family	I have just finished The Lion's Pride and have finished crying.  Theodore  Roosevelt has been my hero since boyhood;  I've visited Sagamore and TR's  grave, read Morris's excellent Rise of Theodore Roosevelt, the delightful  Mornings on Horseback by McCulough, other bios, and TR's own The Rough  Riders, so I know the major triumphs and tragedies in Roosevelt's life. But  in Renehan's book, whose focus is on TR's 4 sons, 2 daughters, and their  children, I kept hoping what I knew would happen would NOT happen. I wanted  TR to win a third term, survive into old age, have some active role in  World War I, not have a son die in that war, etc.  I kept saying, &quot;NO,  I don't WANT this to happen this way!&quot;  But it did; there is more  sadness in the Roosevelt family than, perhaps, in most others.  But the  Roosevelts lived life to the fullest (the &quot;strenuous life&quot; in  TR's words) and that is a lesson we could all remember.<br />Renehan draws on  first-person accounts of people who knew TR and his children to paint  vivid, vibrant pictures of a prominent American family in peace and war.  There are unforgettable vignettes of veteran Rough Riders visiting TR long  after the Spanish-American War, of soldiers who served with TR's sons in  WWI, and of TR's &quot;war&quot; with Woodrow Wilson about America's role  in WWI.<br />The deaths of 3 of TR's sons can legitimately be seen as  metaphors for America in the 20th century.  One died in combat, one died of  a coronary, and a third, an alcoholic, died by his own hand.  All were  successful in various ways, but one wonders if they ever really escaped the  shadow of their father.<br />Renehan omitted my favorite TR story.  TR, his  wife, and a friend were on a back porch somewhere, rocking and talking on a  warm summer evening.  The quiet was broken by TR, who slammed his fist down  on the arm of the chair.  His wife, who knew him well, asked calmly,  &quot;What is it, dear?&quot;  &quot;A mosquito,&quot; TR replied.  His  wife replied, &quot;He killed mosquitoes as if they were lions, and lions  as if they were mosquitoes.&quot;  (Apologies if I have the wording and  setting a skosh wrong).<br />Finally, compare TR with today's politicians, and  anyone who has been in the White House in the lifetime of the vast majority  of us.  Do any compare to TR?  I don't think so.<br />This story of a famous  American family deserves an honored place among the best of bios about TR.  It is history at its most compelling:  the interweaving of the lives of one  group of individuals in the great events of the previous century.replied.  His  wife replied, &quot;He killed mosquitoes as if they were lions, and lions  as if they were mosquitoes.&quot;  (Apologies if I have the wording and  setting a skosh wrong).<br />Finally, compare TR with today's politicians, and  anyone who has been in the White House in the lifetime of the vast majority  of us.  Do any compare to TR?  I don't think so.<br />This story of a famous  American family deserves an honored place among the best of bios about TR.   It is history at its most compelling:  the interweaving of the lives of one  group of individuals in the great events of the previous century.	2000-08-04
US	52675625	R1G2PKH6GLJJ86	0449204979	198164412	Angels Weep	Books	1	5	27	N	N	Blood, gore, and other assorted violence	If you revel in gratuitous and other violence, then this is the book for you.  Thrill to non-indigenous settlers as they slaughter thousands of animals.  Glory in indigenous people murdering and massacring, including  pregnant women and unborn fetuses.  Revel in insect and animal carrion  eaters as they fulfill their role in nature.  All this and more in Wilbur  Smith's lurid melodrama of &quot;life&quot; (read:death) in southern Africa  in the late 19th century.  For those with other interests, discover that  Cecil Rhodes was, shall we say, not interested in women.  Sit back and  enjoy the displeasure of the one of the main characters, whose brother has  a relationship with Rhodes.  If this is your thing, you will also like the  blood and violence in Alaska, by Michener.  As for me, I have destroyed my  copy of The Angels Weep, and will purchase and destroy other copies if I  find them at bookfairs.	2000-03-22
US	52675625	R3J1Z1CKQQZOBO	0553271466	203661111	The Scarlatti Inheritance	Books	1	3	7	N	N	Mr. Conspiracy writes a melodrama	This is the third book by Robert Ludlum that I have endured.  Ludlum finds a conspiracy in everything, apparently, and this book is no exception.  The dialogue reminds me of conversation one can hear on the late late show from  '30's and '40's movies.  Some of it is so bad it's funny.  See the villain  threaten the flawed hero (otherwise known as the &quot;field  accountant&quot;).  See the heroine mistreated by the villain.  See the  villain go over to the other side, become powerful and vindictive and  murderous, without any motivation at all!  You too can read about Snidely  Whiplash and Nell, in 354 pages of melodramatic muck.  And it's even worse  on audio:  Ludlum's flaws are magnified.	1999-06-03
US	52675625	R2EU3WG490VN3X	0446403350	533625670	Scent of Evil (Joe Gunther Mysteries)	Books	1	10	20	N	N	An unedited overwritten police procedural	Joe Gunther of the Brattleboro, VT police force finds himself involved in a complex case involving multiple murders and drugs.  There are also subplots concerning cover-ups, Joe's relationship with his significant  other, and city politics. By the time the case is resolved, long after I  ceased to care one way or the other, the author has written over 400 pages  of uneven prose, punctuated, to be fair, by occasional dramatic episodes.  However, there are way too many comments from Gunther about the complexity  of the case, the political danger of the police proceeding as they do, and  Gunther's hope that with just one more clue, the case will be solved.  So  get on with it already!  This book needed to be edited down to about  two-thirds of its published length.  Compare this to tighter writing by  Andrew Garve or Ed McBain and you will really notice the difference.	1999-06-01
US	52675625	R2MXOY7J2OWTQJ	0804109729	363747821	Russka: The Novel of Russia	Books	2	8	19	N	N	As endless as the Russian steppes	Having enjoyed Sarum and London, Rutherfurd's other two books, I was prepared to like Russka, too.  But the author's formula of interweaving family histories throughout many eras, does not succeed this time.  Somehow, the cumulative weight of the story, and of Russian history, became  as oppressive as most of the governments of that country.  I ceased trying  to remember which family did what to whom in some previous generation, and  ultimately ceased to care.  Rutherfurd also seems to have an aversion to  the 20th century, which is strongly evidenced in Sarum, and is apparent in  Russka.  Perhaps olden days are more interesting to him, but the price to  be paid is that some readers identify more with recent times, and would at  least like to have some balance in the storytelling. It is possible that  the cultural gap between this story of Russia, and his previous stories  about England, had some negative effect on my reaction to this story.  If  so, that would be my fault, and we will see what happens when Rutherfurd's  next Micheneresque book comes out.  But I will be chary.	1999-03-01
US	52675625	R37N42ADI94YMZ	0440224764	999720718	The Partner	Books	1	18	25	N	N	Simplistic plot with a rotten ending	This Grisham paperback is now in my wastebasket and I feel I've done my good deed for the day, saving someone else from reading this drivel.  To me, the kiss of death for any book is my ability to summarize it in one  sentence.  Although many books can thus be summarized, I find that I do it  only for real clinkers.  This is one of them.  My summary is: &quot; A guy  disappears and is found.&quot; I admit to a preference for happy endings.  This is one of many reasons I so love Dean Koontz's books.  But I don't  think I dislike a less-than-happy ending IF the groundwork has been laid,  or the reader can otherwise say, &quot;Yep, that works.  Sad, but it  works.&quot;  In this Grisham potboiler, NO foundation is laid anywhere for  the ending, which I assume was meant to be surprising or ironic or  something.  &quot;Oops, we'll just turn things upside down for a memorable  ending.&quot;  Memorable indeed.	1999-02-03
US	52675625	R11A8E7WBGFSVS	0445406836	439301913	The Corpse in Oozak's Pond (Peter Shandy Mysteries)	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Peter Shandy mystery marred by geneaological complexity	This is one of the weaker novels involving Professor Peter Shandy, his  librarian-wife Helen, and the colorful folks at Balaclava Agricultural  College.  This time, a corpse turns up during a Groundhog Day ceremony, and  college President Svenson once again calls on Professor Shandy to get to  the bottom of the crime.  Perhaps it is indicative of the complexity of the  interrelationships among the characters that the author chose to put a  geneaological chart in the front of the book.  It doesn't help much.  The  characters' names are clever, but morphologically similar, as are some of  their backgrounds.  Several of the women in the town also resemble each  other, adding to the confusion.  This book is not leavened, as are others  in this series, by much humor between Shandy and his wife, or with the  colorful President Svenson.  Cronkite Swope, ace reporter, is present, but  the overall tone is of various people resenting each other for past or  present transgressions.  I did, however, like the groundhog character and  Jane Austen, the Shandys' cat.	1998-09-18
US	52675625	R3T5C3IS0OC5ZI	0380541718	976164732	Luck Runs Out (Peter Shandy Mysteries)	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Humorous mytery with Peter Shandy at Balaclava College	This is the second humorous mystery involving Professor Peter Shandy, his  wife Helen, and the folks at Balaclava Agricultural College.  This time,  the local farrier, who tends to the college's horses, has been murdered,  and the college's prize sow, Belinda, has been pig-napped!  Can the two  events be related?  And are these two heinous crimes linked to a robbery  and kidnapping?  There is certainly a lot for Peter Shandy to investigate.  MacLeod also provides romantic suspense, as new and recurring characters in  several generations become attracted to each other.  MacLeod seems to have  had as much fun writing this book as I had reading it, especially those  scenes involving the Viking-like college president, Thorkjeld Svenson.  This is a book that should leave you with a smile on your face and is an  excellent example of writing that combines mystery, suspense, and humor.	1998-09-15
