US	52685665	R28GEZMGSF1072	074320607X	219080118	Nighttime Is My Time	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Another 5-star masterpiece by the Queen of Suspense!	A 20-year high school class reunion honoring six top achievers turns into a riveting whodunit. Protagonist, Dr. Jeanne Sheridan, college dean and author is among the six. Laura, a fading soap opera diva and four men, previously class nerds who have since made it big, are the other honorees.  Ironically, another former student scheduled to be honored was discovered dead in her swimming pool only days before the event.  Her death adds to the uneasiness among the group because five women comprising the former school lunch table clan have mysteriously died over the past 20 years leaving only Jeanne and Laura. Each incident had been ruled accidental, but the killer who refers to himself as \\"The Owl\\" knows differently.  He leaves his mark, a tiny pewter owl charm, inconspicuously hidden at the crime scene and proclaims: \\"Nighttime is my time.\\"<br /><br />During the reunion festivities Jeanne receives mysterious faxes and notes threatening her daughter whom she gave up for adoption when she was 18 after her fiance was killed by a hit and run driver. Then, just when the festivities are coming to a close, Laura suddenly disappears leaving everyone on edge.<br /><br />In my opinion, this was one of the author's best suspense novels with a well-executed plot sprinkled with clever twists & turns guaranteed to keep the reader flipping the pages groping for more clues.  I was sure I had guessed the killer, but it turned out I was wrong! What a surprise ... but isn't that just like Mary Higgins Clark?	2005-04-22
US	52685665	R2TML40ZWW1ERF	0764226932	971087422	Wings of Mercy	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A 'must read' for all bird lovers	I can't say enough good things about this uplifting book and highly recommend it to anyone \\"in tune\\" with our captivating feathered friends. An entertaining read from start to finish, each chapter encompasses a true life experience connecting it spiritually to the bird featured in that chapter. Mockingbirds, cardinals, wrens and bluebirds are a sample of the songsters the author has chosen, comparing their habits and personalities to everyday situations--the end resulting in a renewal of our faith, hope and love. Awesome!	2004-08-23
US	52685665	R23QT1M6BVXOR2	0786868716	891971809	The Five People You Meet In Heaven	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Heavenly story . . .	Brilliant is the best word to describe this mesmerizing yarn of Eddie, a simple ordinary man who leads a lackluster life as a maintenance worker for an amusement park. Eddie dies suddenly at the age of 83 from a quirky accident and is transported to heaven.  At first, he's disappointed that heaven isn't all he had it cut out to be.  Turns out, before he can advance to a higher level and finally be free of his pain and bitterness, he must meet with five people-people who have had a significant influence on the course of events during his lifetime-events he wasn't aware of or able to comprehend at the time.  Mitch Albom intertwines the heavenly encounters with flashbacks of Eddie's birthdays from his childhood years to present time and does it superbly.  Read it once, then read it again.  You'll appreciate the story and meaning behind it even more the second time.  Brilliantly written and most deserving of its status on the top ten list, destined to be number one. You will laugh, cry and mostly think--think about what REALLY matters in life.	2004-02-23
US	52685665	R2KP22IRY7VSF5	1588180670	944944042	Damn Good Dogs!  The Real Story of Uga, the University of Georgia's Bulldog Mascots	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A tribute to America's #1 Mascot	Guaranteed to please all Georgia fans and English Bulldog lovers, this entertaining book contains the individual stories of six beloved Ugas who have served as mascots for the University of Georgia since 1956. Filled with delightful photos, illustrations and memorabilia spanning nearly five decades, it is loaded with fun facts, heartwarming stories--even poems written in their honor. Uga flies free on Delta, has an air-conditioned doghouse and an official Student ID Card, eats steak, attends social affairs, occasionally wears a tux, has appeared on the cover of Sports Illustrated, in Coca Cola ads, in Playboy magazine, in Animals Who's Who, on credit cards, in movies, TV shows--and more!  Following lavish funeral tributes, Ugas I through V were interred in a mausoleum at Sanford Stadium with inspiring epitaphs outlining their achievements engraved on bronze tablets. Uga VI has already made a name for himself \\"woofing\\" his encouragement to a well-deserved SEC title in 2002.  GO DAWGS and long live Uga VI.	2003-10-14
US	52685665	R1SVQKZI6V0BJT	1582971420	644572832	Pocket Muse: Ideas and Inspirations for Writing	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Like a breath of fresh air . . .	Like the popular &quot;Little Instruction Book&quot; craze, The Pocket Muse is a another delightful mini book that belongs on every writer's bookshelf. Better yet, keep it very close at hand, especially whenever you need to push your muse a little! Clever illustrations and photos accompany Monica Wood's writing prompts, exercises, mini lessons, cures for writer's block . . . more! There's a little bit of everything in this small package: humor, advice, wisdom, inspiration.  Never stilted, never boring . . . always positive.  I love it!	2003-10-08
US	52685665	R18E4K6OZZS3D2	0743206061	789567455	The Second Time Around (Clark, Mary Higgins)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Second to none!	True to Mary Higgins Clark's distinctive writing style, The Second Time Around radiates with breezy, natural dialogue, sparkling descriptive text and an intriguing plot.  Being a devoted fan, I've read practically all MHC's books and this one is  another winner. At first, I was somewhat disappointed she had used  first person point of view for the female protagonist, Carly DeCarlo. However, as I dug into the story, I immediately changed my mind.  She did a splendid job typifying the likeable, down to earth Carly's persona intermingling her first person between chapters with the menacing Ned Cooper's third person narrative. Excellent! Carly is an investigative reporter for Wall Street Weekly, assigned to report the mysterious death of Nick Spencer, founder of Gen-Stone--a corporation claiming to have discovered a vaccine to cure cancer. Conspirators, co-conspirators, angry stockholders, a cold devious stepsister, and a psychopath killer all figure in her latest riveting, unpredictable plot filled with twists and turns.  Definitely one of Clark's best!	2003-10-08
US	52685665	R2F9BQBHI0IDLT	0898799384	460944082	The Complete Guide to Editing Your Fiction	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Essential for new writers:  Read before you proceed!	Before pronouncing your novel a final draft, I suggest reading this invaluable book. In a simple but effective approach, Seidman covers every aspect of problem writing including setting scenes, dialogue, viewpoint shifts, grammar, backstory, characterization, imagery . . . the list goes on.  The appendix contains a handy reference guide in bullet format--that alone is reason enough to buy the book. Highly recommended for new unpublished writers or even published authors who need to &quot;brush up&quot; on style and pace.	2003-07-26
US	52685665	R3B2KGOKJXCCAD	0671726730	972577972	To Dance With the White Dog	Books	5	118	125	N	Y	Doggone phenomenal  story!	I recently attended a writers conference in Athens, GA where Terry Kay was one of the speakers at an all day session.  I had seen the Hallmark series production of Kay's &quot;To Dance With the White Dog&quot; when it was on TV in the early '90s and remember being very inspired by the story; however, I never read the book. I purchased an autographed copy at the conference and dug right into it on the long ride home.  I'm so happy that I had the chance to be re-introduced to this tender story. As well as being inspirational, this is one of the best character-driven novels I've ever read.  Based on the author's own parents and set in the deep South, it tells of an old man who has recently lost his wife, leaving him to feel very much alone and lost.  A white dog appears shortly after her death, almost as if by magic!  Strangely, the dog makes its appearance only when the old man is present. Thus when he mentions it to his married daughters and sons, they can't help but think their father is starting to get senile. One day when the man has a sudden attack and collapses, one of the daughters who lives in the neighborhood sees the dog in her father's yard, almost as if to alert that there's trouble inside.  Then they know--the dog is real.  But just the same, they continue to fuss and dote over their father, worrying about his every move.  The author paints a remarkable and realistic picture of each character in the novel, and he'll have you laughing, crying and most of all wondering--who is the &quot;White Dog&quot; and where did she come from?  I can't say enough good things about this heartwarming and tender story.  Buy the book and see for yourself!	2003-07-24
US	52685665	R2D467073CM48P	0446531332	939348220	Nights in Rodanthe	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Lacks "Sparks"	In my opinion, Nicholas Sparks was not up to his usual \\"spark\\" in his latest best seller, Nights in Rodanthe.  It started out good and I was all prepared for a riveting page turner, burning the midnight oil with a box of tissues close at hand. However, after the first few chapters the story became predictable and was a somewhat boring read.  Furthermore I couldn't get overly enthusiastic about any of the characters, and in my opinion the plot lacked depth and pathos. The story begins with Mom (Adrienne Wills), a sixty-year-old divorcee, consoling her daughter (Amanda).  Amanda had recently lost her young husband in an untimely death and claims that Mom cannot possibly understand what she is going through.  After all, her marriage was a failure and she never knew the meaning of real love.  Mom finally tells all, revealing her fourteen year old secret short-lived romance with Dr. Paul Flanner, a fifty-four year old guest at an inn she was managing for a friend in Rodante, North Carolina...does this sound a tad familiar??  There are conflicts, of course, but not the obvious ones. Alas, but not even one tissue got put to use!  On the bright side, Sparks descriptive text is in his usual excellent form.  That in itself is a good reason to read the novel, but if I had to do it again, I'd save my money and buy the paperback or a used copy.	2003-02-28
US	52685665	RKAGD47NG9C2O	0525946969	166374947	The Last Promise	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Better &amp; better...	This emotional story breathes with heart, soul and zest.  You can practically taste the mouthwatering Italian cuisine and envision every detail of the Tuscan hillside village where it all takes place. The characters come alive-you can feel their pain, their love, their passions; it is as though they are in the same room. Magnificent!  Evans just gets better and better. The story is about a young American artist (Eliana) married to a wealthy Italian businessman (Maurizio) seven years her senior. Eliana met him while she was on a university extension program in Florence and he sweeps her off her feet with his continental charm.  He comes to America to finish his schooling and be near her. They eventually marry and she leaves the familiarities of her small hometown in Utah and establishes permanent residency in the Tuscan region of Italy near Florence.  Her friends and family back home sigh in envy at her storybook lifestyle with her handsome husband indulging in the finest of foods and wine in a picture postcard setting of culture and history including their residence, a quaint fifteenth-century villa beside a vineyard.  However, not all fairytales have a happy ending.  Maurizio turns out to be an unfaithful, uncaring husband as well as a workaholic. While he is away on frequent business trips, she spends most of her time painting and caring for their seven-year-old son (Allesio) who has a severe asthmatic condition.  She tries to make the best of her situation and is reasonably happy but secretly craves a more fulfilling, deeper relationship with her husband. When Maurizio is home, she does everything to please him, hoping he'll change but it only gets worse. He continues seeing other women while he's away and when he returns is even more demanding and insensitive to Eliana's needs.  After a time, Eliana learns to accept her situation realizing there is nothing she can do. If she left her husband, he would seek custody of their son whom she loves more than anything in the world. In the meantime, an American (Ross Story), with a mysterious past rents one of the villas in the same complex where she lives.  Their paths cross one evening when she needs help in getting Allesio to the emergency room after he suffers a life-threatening asthma attack.  He agrees to take her and they become close friends, discovering they have many common interests. Their friendship grows into an intense unconditional love for one another, but at the same time Eliana knows it's hopeless and that nothing could ever develop in their relationship. Her narcissistic husband would never consent to a divorce or allow  her to have custody of Allesio, and with his influence, the Italian courts would support him all the way.  The uncertain saga continues until Story's past is revealed and we reach a surprise conclusion.  The novel is cleverly laced with Italian proverbs at the beginning of each chapter intermixed with excerpts from Ross Story's diary. Evans has a writing style all his own and after reading the comments in some of the other reviews, I have to disagree with the reviewers who compare his style with Nicholas Sparks or Kirk Martin.  Sparks and Martin are good authors in their own right, but only Evans has the unique savvy that the others lack. In my opinion, only The Notebook by Sparks deserves the same accolades.  Keep up the quality writing, Richard Paul Evans!  I look forward to your next book.ng in the world. In the meantime, an American (Ross Story), with a mysterious past rents one of the villas in the same complex where she lives.   Their paths cross one evening when she needs help in getting Allesio to the emergency room after he suffers a life-threatening asthma attack.  He agrees to take her and they become close friends, discovering they have many common interests. Their friendship grows into an intense unconditional love for one another, but at the same time Eliana knows it's hopeless and that nothing could ever develop in their relationship. Her narcissistic husband would never consent to a divorce or allow  her to have custody of Allesio, and with his influence, the Italian courts would support him all the way.  The uncertain saga continues until Story's past is revealed and we reach a surprise conclusion.  The novel is cleverly laced with Italian proverbs at the beginning of each chapter intermixed with excerpts from Ross Story's diary. Evans has a writing style all his own and after reading the comments in some of the other reviews, I have to disagree with the reviewers who compare his style with Nicholas Sparks or Kirk Martin.  Sparks and Martin are good authors in their own right, but only Evans has the unique savvy that the others lack. In my opinion, only The Notebook by Sparks deserves the same accolades.  Keep up the quality writing, Richard Paul Evans!  I look forward to your next book.	2003-01-14
US	52685665	R2MATZAXUDGJBP	0898798752	485748385	Your Novel Proposal From Creation to Contract : The Complete Guide to Writing Query Letters, Synopses,  and Proposals for Agents and Editors	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Comprehensive, concise and positive!	This book should be on every new writer's bookshelf! It's an excellent source of information chock full of suggestions, ideas, tips, dos and don'ts and terrific examples.  Query letters and synopsis's are covered in great detail, and the authors present them in a way that the normally dreaded task can actually be a fun exercise and a challenge. I especially praise them for their positive approach, encouraging new writers to keep on writing in spite of rejections, that can actually serve as a learning experience and convert a mediocre writer into a great author.  They emphasize rewriting or honing what one has written rather than giving up.	2002-10-20
US	52685665	R4X2PQ4VCRASK	0595197906	660791213	Seasons of Forgetting	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An unforgettable affair ...	If the word gets around, this novel could even be more successful than \\"Bridges\\" . . . Bridges of Madison County lest you forgot. Jeanne Howard has done an outstanding job in putting together a unique plot in a distinctive format guaranteed to leave you breathlessly spellbound. She tells the poignant story of a forbidden romance involving Joanna Ransome, an attractive coed with a promising future and Jared Fowler, a handsome dramatics professor who teaches at the small college she attends. Unlike Robert and Francesca's meager four days together in \\"Bridges,\\" Joanna and Jared's tale spans four decades. I won't go into too many details as you'll want to see for yourself what fate has in store for this captivating couple who will tug at your heartstrings throughout the entire book. Ms. Howard is to be commended for her snappy dialogue and well-portrayed descriptions of scenes and characters that literally came alive throughout the entire novel. Keep that midnight oil burning . . . this one's a real page turner.  In checking the author's website I am delighted to see she has written a sequel: \\"Jared's Promise.\\"	2002-05-26
US	52685665	R1WOR4QV61VCN2	0743206045	991690611	Daddy's Little Girl	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Missing the 'thrills and chills'...	I've always considered MHC my role model as an author, but I simply could not get excited about her latest effort.  Although<br />her atypical first person format was well done, the plot sagged and compared to the heroines in her previous novels the female protagonist lacked spark and depth. With each chapter I remained hopeful that something would happen that would make me change my mind. There was virtually no suspense and the only thing that had me turning the pages was hope that a magical twist would eventually evolve to save the boring plot. To sum it up briefly, a seven year old child (Ellie) experiences the awful tragedy of learning that her teenaged sister (Andrea) was murdered in the sleepy Westchester County village where she resides with her parents.  Andrea had previously confided in Ellie about her secret meetings with her boyfriend, Rob Westerfield, a spoiled product of family wealth.  Rob is the main suspect, and is tried and convicted of murder.  Andrea had always been the favorite and was known as \\"Daddy's Girl\\". Consequently, Ellie's father blames the poor child for not telling him about Andrea's secret hiding place before the murder, thinking that if he would have known he could have gone there to prevent it from happening (Yeah, right!).  As Ellie grows older she becomes estranged from her father after her mother dies and he remarries.  She moves to Atlanta where she becomes an investigative reporter. Twenty some years later, Rob is up for parole and Ellie is convinced that he is still a dangerous killer and should not be freed.  She takes a leave of absence from her job and returns to her old hometown where she goes through great lengths to dig up all the dirt she can find out about Rob, to the point of being obsessive.  She interviews and lunches with ghosts of the past hoping something will turn up that she missed before; she creates a website trying to gather public interest for her cause; and finally,  she goes to Sing Sing and holds up a sign hoping a prisoner can shed some light on what Rob may have revealed while he was in prison.  Although Rob Westerfield did in fact turn out to be a  monster, I kept wishing all along that it was someone else who committed the murder just to make the story more interesting. However, for all of the sentimentalists out there (me included!) it does have a warm,fuzzy ending when she eventually reunites with her father and earns the title of \\"Daddy's Girl\\".  This novel was not typical of MHC's usual intriguing `whodunit' format but just the same I give her credit for her authentic dialogue and excellent depiction of characters and settings.  For a more exciting read I highly recommend her other novels, specifically--You Belong to Me; Loves Music,Loves to Dance; Moonlight Becomes You; On the Street Where You Live; Let me Call you Sweetheart; Silent Night; Pretend You Don't See Her; and Remember Me -- all in the 4 to 5 star category.gn hoping a prisoner can shed some light on what Rob may have revealed while he was in prison.  Although Rob Westerfield did in fact turn out to be a  monster, I kept wishing all along that it was someone else who committed the murder just to make the story more interesting. However, for all of the sentimentalists out there (me included!) it does have a warm,fuzzy ending when she eventually reunites with her father and earns the title of \\"Daddy's Girl\\".  This novel was not typical of MHC's usual intriguing `whodunit' format but just the same I give her credit for her authentic dialogue and excellent depiction of characters and settings.  For a more exciting read I highly recommend her other novels, specifically--You Belong to Me; Loves Music,Loves to Dance; Moonlight Becomes You; On the Street Where You Live; Let me Call you Sweetheart; Silent Night; Pretend You Don't See Her; and Remember Me -- all in the 4 to 5 star category.	2002-05-19
US	52685665	RZB0TTLNAEJQL	0971766711	412001018	A Thousand Country Roads: An Epilogue to The Bridges of Madison County	Books	5	14	19	N	N	Welcome Back, Robert James Waller!	I was a huge fan of Waller after I read Bridges for the very first time back in 1993.  I can't ever remember getting so swept up by a novel before!  I suppose not since Gone With the Wind, even though that would be like comparing apples to oranges.  After that, I wanted to know everything about this virtually unknown author, Robert James Waller. I also looked forward to reading more of his books that I had hoped would be just as magically spellbinding as Bridges. At the same time I did extensive research on Madison County only to discover that one of the six bridges is named the Imes Bridge (same as my last name). That intrigued me!  I'd never been to Iowa but suddenly that became my dream.  I wanted to visit the unobtrusive little town of Winterset and see the antique covered bridges for myself. I wanted to see the rolling farmlands he described, the famous `blue-eyed grass', the dusty country roads and the quiet farmhouses that were so lucid in my mind -- in other words capture the setting and relive the engaging tale of a short-lived romance that changed the lives of two people in just four short days during a hot August in 1965.  In short, I never made it to Iowa and probably never will. But needless to say I was disappointed by Waller's subsequent offerings.  \\"Slow Waltz\\" was OK, but the two books that followed were just plain awful.  I became disillusioned. What had happened to this extraordinary writer genius who even inspired me to write after so many years of wanting to fulfil my lifelong dream of becoming a published author? Then a few Sundays ago my husband (knowing that I used to be Waller devotee many years ago)showed me a newspaper article about a new book that had recently been published...an epilogue to Bridges! How could that be, I said?  We all know what happened in Bridges.  They both died. How could Waller expound on that story?  Curious, I immediately bought a copy of A Thousand Country Roads as soon as it hit the bookstores.  The first spare afternoon I had to myself, I curled up on the sofa and read it from cover to cover.  Several hours later with tears streaming down my face, I closed the book... once again touched by yet another great story by my long forgotten author-idol, Robert James Waller. If you liked Bridges, you will LOVE A Thousand Country Roads.  You will love it for its poignant sub plots all leading up to what transpired during the years after Robert and Francesca parted and went their separate ways.  Once again you will fall in love with Robert who is his own man and  not dictated by the rules of our plastic society and material world. You will share his sentiments as he rambles down the familiar country roads of Iowa in the same truck, Harry, accompanied by his beloved dog, Highway, to re-visit the Roseman Bridge one last time before he dies. And despite knowing they won't meet again, you will still experience a chilling moment of anticipation when Robert and the widowed, Francesca nearly have a chance meeting, missing each other by a matter of minutes. Nighthawk, the old jazz musician is back (why they left him out of the movie is beyond me).  Last but not least you'll especially be inspired by the course of events that bring Robert face to face with another woman from his distant past and a son that he never knew existed. Get out three hankies towards the end.  Welcome back, Mr. Waller, and thanks for bringing us another masterpiece!ternoon I had to myself, I curled up on the sofa and read it from cover to cover.  Several hours later with tears streaming down my face, I closed the book... once again touched by yet another great story by my long forgotten author-idol, Robert James Waller. If you liked Bridges, you will LOVE A Thousand Country Roads.  You will love it for its poignant sub plots all leading up to what transpired during the years after Robert and Francesca parted and went their separate ways.  Once again you will fall in love with Robert who is his own man and  not dictated by the rules of our plastic society and material world. You will share his sentiments as he rambles down the familiar country roads of Iowa in the same truck, Harry, accompanied by his beloved dog, Highway, to re-visit the Roseman Bridge one last time before he dies. And despite knowing they won't meet again, you will still experience a chilling moment of anticipation when Robert and the widowed, Francesca nearly have a chance meeting, missing each other by a matter of minutes. Nighthawk, the old jazz musician is back (why they left him out of the movie is beyond me).  Last but not least you'll especially be inspired by the course of events that bring Robert face to face with another woman from his distant past and a son that he never knew existed. Get out three hankies towards the end.  Welcome back, Mr. Waller, and thanks for bringing us another masterpiece!	2002-05-05
US	52685665	R37ZA8IZ0HRW8G	0671886665	93183988	A Cry In The Night	Books	2	5	12	N	N	Disappointing	I am one of MHC's biggest fans and have read just about every novel she has ever written.  This is the only one, however, that I cannot endorse.  Jenny, recently divorced to loser husband, Kevin, meets rich and handsome artist, Erich, while working in a NYC art gallery. A product of old money, Erich hails from Minnesota where he also breeds prize cattle on his farm and heads up a successful family business.  Erich lures Jenny and her 2 small children from NYC to the wilds of Minnesota farm country after he convinces her (without any arm twisting) to marry him.  He turns out to be a 'silent' nut case and the rest of the story drags on and on and on...it is so unbelievably frustrating and unrealistic.  However, to MHC's credit, although the plot lacks merit, her descriptive text and dialogue is excellent as usual. This novel was written in 1982 earlier in her writing career.  Since then she has written countless dynamite novels.  Accolades to MHC for getting better and better as the years go by.	2002-03-16
US	52685665	RMO9S89WAYGQF	0446676098	430421115	The Notebook	Books	5	6	10	N	N	WARNING!  Have 3 hankies ready ...	Actually I read The Notebook in 1998 but wasn't actively writing reviews at that time. Recently I read it again and decided it was better late than never.  When I read a great story, I can't resist the opportunity to say great things about it.  And this book most definitely falls into my top ten  category of the best books I've ever read. Although it is fiction, the story is based on the author's wife's grandparents who were married 60 years and passed away a few years before he wrote the novel. I liken it in some ways with the non-fiction best seller, Tuesdays With Morrie. Not for the content but for the wise lessons that we all can learn from the elderly. Nicholas Sparks illustrates beautifully that love does not end in the winter of our years but can even be more complete, more passionate and unconditional among two people no matter what age. The story cleverly begins in the first person with Noah, already well up in years, talking about his daily humdrum routine in the nursing home. It is sad because from what we read, we can tell that his days are numbered. The next segment written in third person takes us back to Noah's younger years and explain the ironies of how he and Allie, his childhood sweetheart, are reunited after 14 years of separation. Allie is engaged to a successful young lawyer and reasonably happy about the situation but often thinks of her old flame Noah and decides to visit him one day apparently for the purpose of closure. But when they meet again, they both discover it is just like the first time. She has some hard decisions to make and the author has us believe during this segment of the book that she decides to marry the lawyer after a very touching parting scene between Allie and Noah.  The final segment takes us back to the nursing home again where we learn that Allie has become a victim of Alzheimers.  At the same time, Noah (confined in the same facility) is riddled with crippling arthritus, has heart problems and many of the other typical afflictions the elderly face.  We learn that they indeed did marry after all and had a happy marriage for 49 years, along with raising 4 children.  When Allie learned she was in the early stages of Alzheimers, she wrote a poignant letter to Noah (the first of the 3 hankies you will need), which he reads again and again to help him feel close to her true person.  As her disease progresses she no longer recognizes Noah. He befriends her in the home and it appears at times she has rekindled her love for him but there are also the bad days when she lashes out at him and tells him to go away.  Noah doesn't give up and faithfully visits her every day. He has a stroke (get out 2nd hankie) that sets him back for quite a while where he doesn't see his wife. Finally when he is able to walk (just barely) he is determined to see his beloved Allie and slips into her room where he can see she is slipping rapidly. However, by some miracle the sparks of recognition begin after he lies by her side and embraces her.  Subsequently she re-enacts a love scene that occurred between them over 49 years before.  Absolutely beautiful and time to get out that last hankie.cal afflictions the elderly face.  We learn that they indeed did marry after all and had a happy marriage for 49 years, along with raising 4 children.  When Allie learned she was in the early stages of Alzheimers, she wrote a poignant letter to Noah (the first of the 3 hankies you will need), which he reads again and again to help him feel close to her true person.  As her disease progresses she no longer recognizes Noah. He befriends her in the home and it appears at times she has rekindled her love for him but there are also the bad days when she lashes out at him and tells him to go away.  Noah doesn't give up and faithfully visits her every day. He has a stroke (get out 2nd hankie) that sets him back for quite a while where he doesn't see his wife. Finally when he is able to walk (just barely) he is determined to see his beloved Allie and slips into her room where he can see she is slipping rapidly. However, by some miracle the sparks of recognition begin after he lies by her side and embraces her.  Subsequently she re-enacts a love scene that occurred between them over 49 years before.  Absolutely beautiful and time to get out that last hankie.	2002-02-21
US	52685665	R2K5AV5FRFNGT4	192966415X	470352334	Lessons of the Turtle	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Life's Lessons ... in a nutshell	Throughout the last ten years, I've read many self help and inspirational books plus have listened to countless tapes and CDs on the same subject.  But somehow, this little book sums it all up in a nutshell.  In other words, a quick, easy read! After all, who has the time these days to read a 500 page tome or listen to tapes for 30+ days on how to think positively? Not only that, the author has presented the valuable lessons of a rewarding life in a most delightful way.  The parable begins with a  little turtle who stumbles one day and ends up on his shell facing life upside down. Although, in his eyes his fate appears to be doomed, he soon learns to see things from another perspective at this new angle.  He see things he never saw before -- treetops, clouds, butterflies, mountains, etc.  During the time he is in this uncomfortable situation, however, he gains an abundance of knowledge and insight about what is most important in life.  Situations he took for granted and accepted as truth in the past are now seen in a new and more positive light. I LOVED the story and highly recommend it for young and old alike.  No need to buy tons of self help books any longer ---this one says it all. I bought a copy for my 25 year old son for Christmas and plan to buy more as gifts for family and friends this year.	2002-02-04
US	52685665	R2WP67EFORQBBY	0385505833	999720718	Skipping Christmas: A Novel	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Absolutely delightful!	I loved the story, but having read some of the negative comments I can't help but wonder what has happened to our sense of humor?<br />True, this little book is not written in the typical Grisham style but nonetheless, it's a refreshing change and a short but sweet read. Exaggerated comical satire, with shades of the late whimsical Erma Bombeck, prevail throughout the story as a former yuppie couple are suddenly faced with the cold hard facts of 'empty nest syndrome'. The husband conjures a brainstorm scheme to skip Christmas the year their daughter leaves the nest to embark on a new adventure to Peru with the Peace Corps. He convinces his wife that in lieu of spending the usual astronomical sum for Christmas commercialization in the way of expensive gifts, elaborate outdoor lighting, lavish dinners and parties to instead indulge themselves in a luxury cruise to the Caribbean. However, the neighbors in this tight knit community are diehards in their Christmas traditions and spirit.  When they find out, they rebel and subtley do everything possible to make their life miserable. Despite my many outbursts of hearty laughter as the story unfolds, the unpredictable ending actually left me with misty eyes and a warm fuzzy feeling inside.	2002-01-31
US	52685665	R2YC9RXYI8HE8E	1892714140	426337666	Embraced By The Light: Prayers &amp; Devotions for Daily Living	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A Wonderful Source of Inspiration and Daily Prayer...	Betty's latest is a daily devotional guide.  Each page represents a new day and begins with an excerpt from one of her three books (Embraced by the Light, The Awakening Heart, or The Ripple Effect). This is followed by an appropriate inspirational bible verse and then cleverly she continues with a prayer in her own words that interacts with the message from her book and the bible passage. I can't think of a better way to start each morning with a prayer to our heavenly Father. I have found that the daily readings provide me with a fresh outlook and presents my daily routine tasks or problems in a whole new light.  Not only that, but her excerpts highlight what the author had experienced during her near death experience without having to go back and read each book.  I highly recommend this book to everyone. It would make an excellent gift for friends or family members.	2001-11-28
US	52685665	R2KXSZBXNGIR84	0292760434	952524778	The Cardinal (Corrie Herring Hooks Series)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A tribute to the Cardinal	This book is a definite 'must read' for cardinal lovers.  It will bring you closer to these very special winged angels as it provides the reader with season by season fact-filled details about their habits and rituals. I was awed by the colorful photos of the cardinals captured in all phases of their everyday activities. Since I've read the book, I've witnessed many rituals I would have never noticed before - the cardinal kiss, feeding the young, anting, preening, pecking order, gathering nesting material, building the nest, etc.  Now, I devote special time each day to watch the family of cardinals in our backyard and cannot believe all that I'd missed over the years. I credit this book for opening my eyes and ears to the phenomenal miracles of nature and God's wondrous creative process. It also provided the groundwork for a most fascinating hobby - birdwatching.  I now have become involved watching and studying other birds as well.	2001-08-05
US	52685665	R6NW421NK3R4B	0743206029	362049018	On the Street Where You Live: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Suspense down to the wire...	Well executed plot with an interesting twist and most definitely will keep you on the edge of your chair.  Emily, the female protagonist's character is a little thin and needed a bit more fleshing out, but nonetheless this is such a unique story I'll overlook that minor flaw. Mary Higgins Clark continues to amaze me with the ideas she comes up with for her novels.  She is truly one of today's best writers. In her latest, the present day villain is obsessed by a journal he discovers in an attic when he is only 14 years old. The journal contains explicit notes about three murders the writer committed back in the 1800's.  He becomes obsessed by the journal and eventually believes he has been reincarnated as this very serial killer. As he gets older he decides to reinact the crimes much the same way as they were committed decades ago.  He does in fact succeed with 2 local victims and has chosen Emily, a prominent defense attorney, as his third. I highly recommend this book as an entertaining read that will keep you guessing \\"whodunit\\" until the very end.	2001-07-27
US	52685665	R1Y3EVTI2FQO9X	0684868911	676150396	The Carousel: A Novel	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Carousel  rides with 'ups and downs' ...	Like a ride on a carousel, the story deals with the unforeseen 'ups and downs' we are all faced with in a lifetime.  It reveals how many of the characters struggle to conquer indecision, uncertainty, doubt and despair in their attempt to overcome the tough times.  At the same time, the book delivers a hidden message illustrating how we as individuals can grow and actually become better people as a result of those unpleasant experiences that seemingly aim to rip our happy and peaceful lives to shreds.<br />I've read all of Richard Paul Evans' books and this one is right up there on top.  Many successful authors seem to rest on their laurels after a few best sellers and amazingly continue to sell books despite their lukewarm slipshod offerings.  It is refreshing to note that Mr. Evans does not fall into this category.  It's as though he becomes more seasoned and strives to improve with each novel he writes.  Unlike some of his previous novels, he delves into many ugly issues and problems we are faced with in today's world -- for example, child abuse, suicide, AIDS, sexual harassment, and drug abuse.  However, as in his prior books, the realities are exposed but without the unnecessary overuse of expletives and explicit graphic detail.<br />The male protagonist, Michael Keddington, who was first introduced in The Locket, has a dream about his lovely girlfriend, Faye Murrow.  In the dream she is on a carousel riding a handsome jeweled Arabian horse.  On the first turn, she is smiling and happily waving to him while beckoning him to join her.  On the second turn, she mysteriously vanishes from sight.  Michael is troubled by his haunting dream and wonders whether it was just that...a dream, or a portent of things to come.<br />Prior to the two young lovers going their separate ways off to colleges 2000 miles apart, they decide to elope on the spur of the moment.  From that time on they are faced with difficult challenges and a course of tragic circumstances that cut into their seemingly blissful relationship like a fresh wound.  Many people of different walks of life and diverse backgrounds enter the scenario as if by destiny or fate.  It shows how each helps the other in their own special way, whether by kind deeds, actions or words.<br />My favorite passage reveals a thought provoking message so beautifully expressed and is found in the introduction to Chapter 13 -- &quot;...we do not walk alone in this life.  There are others, fellow sojourners, whose journeys are interwoven with ours in seemingly random patterns, yet in the end, have been carefully placed to reveal a remarkable tapestry.  I believe God is the weaver of that loom.&quot;  This illustrates that although there are times we would like it to be so, no man or relationship is an island.  Clearly put, people do indeed need people!<br />I highly recommend this book not only for an entertaining read but also for the inspirational powerful messages contained within the story that can be applied to our own lives.their seemingly blissful relationship like a fresh wound.  Many people of different walks of life and diverse backgrounds enter the scenario as if by destiny or fate.  It shows how each helps the other in their own special way, whether by kind deeds, actions or words.<br />My favorite passage reveals a thought provoking message so beautifully expressed and is found in the introduction to Chapter 13 -- &quot;...we do not walk alone in this life.  There are others, fellow sojourners, whose journeys are interwoven with ours in seemingly random patterns, yet in the end, have been carefully placed to reveal a remarkable tapestry.  I believe God is the weaver of that loom.&quot;   This illustrates that although there are times we would like it to be so, no man or relationship is an island.  Clearly put, people do indeed need people!<br />I highly recommend this book not only for an entertaining read but also for the inspirational powerful messages contained within the story that can be applied to our own lives.	2001-07-19
US	52685665	R1ART25W14W70A	1576737330	89800612	The Prayer of Jabez:  Breaking Through to the Blessed Life	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A prayer that works...	A powerful message tucked among one of the most boring books of the Old Testament -- 1 Chronicles, where we are besieged with begats!  Maybe it was placed there to see whether we were paying attention? A thought to ponder! This little book is all about that prayer found in chapter 4, verse 10 where Jabez (a name meaning pain) calls on God to bless him.  He is so named by his mother because of her painful childbirth but turns out to be the most honorable of her sons.  The author, Bruce Wilkinson, unravels the true meaning of the prayer and how it can help us in all areas of our lives. If you analyze the short 5 line prayer and really stop to think about what it means, I have faith it can work for anyone. Actually it is quite similar to the Lord's Prayer.  However, many of us recite these familiar prayers or memorize bible verses without any thought as to what they mean. That's the whole key! This book makes one stop and think seriously about prayer...any prayer! I have confidence it will work if we apply it to our daily lives and have faith!  And what miraculous results will follow -- love and service to our fellow man, which in turn pleases God.  Isn't that why we're here in the first place?	2001-07-12
US	52685665	R26AMVJKL9O7PW	0684870762	790691623	My Father's Daughter: A Memoir	Books	4	5	5	N	N	You can feel the love...	The end of this book left me bawling my eyes out.  You can just FEEL the love Tina had for her father.  Very well written!!  I believe I wouldn't elaborated as much about Barbara, however.  After all, it was his wife and maybe he loved her?  But I certainly can understand how Tina felt.  It's tough to lose your Dad...believe me, I know.  I lost my Dad in 1991 so I can certainly relate.  I highly recommend this book to any Sinatra fan.  He was the GREATEST!!  There will never be anyone to compare with him.  He did it 'his way' and I've always admired him for that.	2001-06-06
US	52685665	RM2PCB1B0SXIX	0553576348	167114485	Hello from Heaven: A New Field of Research-After-Death Communication Confirms That Life and Love Are Eternal	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Heavenly!	The irony of how this book fell into my hands is in itself a story all its own.  It was the anniversary of the death of a dear friend. I had thought that I had experienced ADCs in the past but doubts would continually crop up and I began to lose faith and occasionally get discouraged.  I was feeling particularly down at this time, when an unexpected surprise phone call came one evening. I was offered this book as a gift, and as promised it arrived in the mail a few days later.  Once I began to read the documented stories of people from all walks of life who have experienced these incredible ADCs, it was difficult to tear myself away! I am impressed by the extent of research compiled by the authors and the organized manner that this book was put together.  Not only that, there is a butterfly on the cover and one of the most significant communications I had experienced in the past had to do with butterflies. By the way, there is a whole chapter dedicated to &quot;Symbolic ADCs&quot; , which has helped me to put my 'contacts' into perspective. In short, my whole attitude has changed since reading this extraordinary and inspirational book.  Was it a coincidence or truly a miracle that I received that phone call at just the right time?  Only God knows.	2001-01-13
US	52685665	R1UMC7L51XY127	1892714027	618325240	The Soul's Remembrance	Books	3	14	22	N	N	A &quot;down home&quot; look at the other side...	Roy tells of his experiences in the realm of the spirit world BEFORE coming to Earth as well as a scattering of ephemeral divine events he witnessed while here.  At times these accounts sound almost too bizarre to be true. For example, the time he saw the clouds open up and heaven unfold right before his eyes while out in a field, and of course his thoughts while still in his mother's womb.  But you know, you can't help believing this man.  The way he presents his story is too simple and sweet to be a fraud, but he left many unanswered questions. I would like to see him write a sequel and elaborate more about life on the other side, e.g. spirits who have been gone for centuries...Do they return to Earth as another being or do they continue to remain there after their life on Earth is finished? Now, I'm talking about going back to the caveman! Are we reunited with old friends, loved ones, relatives when we return? What about our pets? Birds? Butterflies? Insects? Do they have a place in  heaven? And what does one do all day? Do earthly things such as sports, music, jobs, marriage, food exist?  Yes, you've got it, Roy, I'm one of these who likes to get down to the nitty-gritty and I'm afraid your book doesn't quite cut it.  Therefore, I implore you to write another in your same simple &quot;down home&quot; style that I love.	2000-10-12
US	52685665	R9YIUEDYWJB68	1892714000	399338396	The Ripple Effect	Books	5	91	98	N	N	Questions answered!	After reading Embraced by the Light and The Awakening Heart, I was  inspired and intrigued by Betty Eadie's near death experience and her  journey to the other side. However, I still had many questions.  The Ripple  Effect has answered most of them and is a definite 'must have' whether  you're a follower of Betty's writings or just curious. Not only does it  provide the answers but also gives insight as to why we're here and what we  can do to spread the love and goodness that our earthly world so  desperately needs. I highly recommend this truly wonderful book.  The world  would indeed be a better place if everyone read it and abided by 'the  ripple effect'.	2000-08-03
US	52685665	R3KISI11JBP0RM	0292715846	229641366	The Mockingbird (Corrie Herring Hooks Series)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Everything you've always wanted to know about Mockingbirds..	A delightful book with many resplendent photographs and drawings of the &quot;King of the Songbirds&quot; that are certain to capture your heart.  Not only is this an informative book which delves into the history and  habits of this charming creature of nature, but has bits of eloquent prose  and poetry tossed in as well.  After you read it, you're sure to fall in  love with these remarkable birds and their rapturous melodies.	2000-05-15
US	52685665	R1TGNFUT84W5C2	0684834723	290288221	The Letter (The Christmas Box Trilogy)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Great beginnings ...	This was the weakest of the trilogy series, but nevertheless was well written in Evans' typical eloquent style. I love most of his character descriptions, and thought he did a splendid job in fleshing out David,  Diedre and Catherine.  But, unfortunately, he lost it with Mary Ann this  time around.  When I began reading the novel it was a struggle to put it  down, but around the halfway mark the story seemed to lose its momentum and  I started to lose interest. Still, I recommend it to all who have read his  other books and quite honestly would put it between 3 and 4 stars.  As  usual the ending was touching and left me weepy-eyed.  The main problem was  the lag between the middle and the end.	2000-03-14
US	52685665	R2RPEWLVCHGM8F	0385491395	872531980	A Year by the Sea	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Why isn't this on the top ten best sellers list?	WOW!  Joan Anderson's eloquent descriptive text left me totally breathless.  I read at least two books each month and her writing style tops them all. Without being corny, cute or commonplace as the tendency of  so many of today's authors, her vivid scenes liken her to a camera with a  wide angle lens and provide the brick and mortar for a wonderful story.  This book should be read by all women.  Not to say they would be able to do  what she did -- get away for a year on their own -- but, in essence, her  story does encourage the average woman to dig way down deep into a her soul  for questions and answers she may seek.  Joan and I have different  interests and motivations, but when it comes to souls ... we're on the same  plane.  Great job, Joan. When is your next novel coming out?	2000-02-02
US	52685665	RWATRPDHG61M1	0345373170	341162253	For Writers Only	Books	5	16	17	N	N	The agonies and ecstacies of writing...	This book is an outstanding source of inspiration and encouragement to writers of any age or at any stage of their writing career. Unlike many 'how to' books I've read, this one does not tell give tips on style,  grammar or content.  It does provide the reader with the incentive to  continue writing and never give up.  It makes one realize that we are not  alone.  Even the greatest of authors has suffered from Writers Block,  despair and discouragement. At the age of five I said, &quot;When I grow  up, I'm going to be a writer.&quot;  Well into my teens, I was an avid  reader and dabbled in writing every spare moment I had.  When it was time  for college, I majored in Journalism and was active in writing for the  school newspaper.  However, as a young adult, I got caught up with 'the  real world' and due to lack of inspiration, time constraints, and countless  other excuses, I never realized my dream.  Finally, in the Autumn of my  years my first novel is well underway and I anticipate a completion date by  the summer of 2000. Sophy Burnham's book has given me the inspiration to  pursue my dream. My highest recommendation to ALL writers regardless of  whether they are just beginning their endeavor or are already  successful  authors.	2000-01-02
US	52685665	R14LE61JQOZZW4	0684835959	483765016	You Belong to Me	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Intriguing, well executed &amp; innovative plot!	In spite of my busy schedule, I couldn't put this one down until I found out who the villain was.  I kept going back and forth.  This is definitely one of her best.  WOW!  The book left me exhausted by the time I was  through.  Excellent dialog, descriptions and plot.  I can't say enough good  things about her writing style and the suspense in this novel.  Not only  that, &quot;You Belong to Me&quot; is one of my all time favorite songs  which prompted me to buy the book.	1999-10-19
US	52685665	R2UGIWQI87LM2C	0684810395	316670348	Pretend You Don't See Her	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Exciting and good research....BUT...some loose ends!	Her novel was action-packed and the character and scene descriptions were excellent. I couldn't put it down, and there was indeed a surprise ending. However, MHC left me in the dark about the brother-in-law.  Why did he act  so suspicious??  Apparently he had no ties, so why did he blush and change the subject when Heather's name was brought up?  That was never explained.  Also, she left me in the  dark about Heather's involvement with the drug cartel.  Was she actively  involved also?  Or did she only discover it after her romantic involvement with the perpetrator? I highly recommend this book for an entertaining and exciting read.  As always, I keep most of MHC's novels on my shelf for repeat reads and this is one of them.	1999-10-18
US	52685665	R2ECQWDUGKRZRV	0446525537	721431789	A Walk to Remember	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Short but Sweet . . .	I read and enjoyed the author's first two best sellers: \\"The Notebook\\" and \\"Message in a Bottle.\\"  Of the three, I rate \\"A Walk to Remember\\" in between. A tender story written in 1st person narrative, Landon Carter, a middle aged man, takes us back to the late 50s when he was 17 and how events during that particular time changed his life. Rich and popular, Landon's main concern is being cool and hanging out with the \\"right\\" crowd during his last years of high school. Then a bizarre twist of fate leads him to an unpredictable romance with one of his classmates, Jamie Sullivan, daughter of the local Baptist minister who delivers fire and brimstone sermons. Jamie is prim and proper but her simplicity and sweetness will tug at your heart as it eventually captures Landon's. Sparks portrayed his scenes and fleshed out his characters brilliantly. I was enjoying this unique story so much I almost hated to see it end. The narrator's concluding statement: \\"... knowing there's one thing I haven't told you: I now believe, by the way, that miracles can happen,\\" led me to wonder what actually happened between 1958 and present time.  But isn't that typical of most great novels?	1999-10-12
US	52685665	R2XIBSBHYZK1GJ	0684867818	467249495	The Looking Glass: A Novel (The Locket Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Unique!  Inspirational!	What a beautiful story!  Another Richard Paul Evans classic with a unique plot.  Again, I couldn't put it down once I started to read it.	1999-10-12
US	52685665	R28MQK5B0RMWQL	0684834731	589139798	The Locket	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Generations apart -- but each learns from the other.	How refreshing to read a book that has an inspirational message plus contains no graphic sex or \\"4 letter words,\\" yet at the same time, a believable story that is not contrived...a rarity these days!!  I enjoyed  the thought-provoking excerpts from Esther's diary at the beginning of each chapter--a clever touch by Evans.  The flow is good and his descriptions of the characters and scenes breathe with reality. A few times, however, he overdoes the character descriptions with a string of trite adjectives. This is a poignant, touching tale that has a little bit of  everything and will appeal to males as well as females.  I found it difficult to put down once I got into the story.  Keep up the  quality writing, Richard Paul Evans!	1999-09-10
