US	52688407	R26X96GIQEUYXJ	0553271369	409895538	The Lords of Discipline	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A very good coming of age novel	The narrator is Will McLean, a Georgian of Irish descent and son of a Marine.  In 1963, he enters the fictional Carolina Military Institute in Charleston.  Like all the \\"plebes\\" (first-years), but especially as an outsider, he finds life at the Institute to be brutal.  But he finds three friends who stand by him: Tradd St. Croix, an old Charlestonian from a very rich and respected family); Pig, a rough Italian, and Mark, another muscular Italian from up north.  The rough but kindly \\"Bear\\" Barrineau asks McLean to keep an eye on the Institute's first black cadet.  But McLean's journey to manhood is full of twists and turns, as he falls for a girl whose life he can never be a part of and also finds hismelf embroiled with a shadowy, corrupt gang of Institute cadets and grads called \\"The Ten.\\"  This plot is interwoven among 500 pages of musing on the beauty of Charleston; the fiece, loyal love of boys who've been through hell together; regret; what it takes to become not just a man but your own man; courage; and triumph.  There is a lot of purple prose, and some rather awkward dialogue, or at least stretches of dialgue that don't seem to belogn to the scenes they're in.  And while Conrad's remarks on the Vietnam War, which proceeds to escalate as the book pregresses, are poignant in their understatedness, the \\"first black cadet\\" subplot is seen only from a distance, in staccato blips, and Conroy has absolutely nothing weighty to say on the matter of race, racism in the South, racism in the military, or the appalling horrors a brave black knob would face.  Instead, he has his narrator describe in great detail his final basketball game, which he won with such a sweet shot, man.  Give me a break.  And some of the books' big revelations are easily guessed far in advance, and leave the reader wondering why Will doesn't piece together the obvious clues himself.  Still, despite the book's flaws, it is for the most part fine reading.  Conroy does have much of note to say on thesubjects of maturing and courage, and I raced through its 500 pages.  Conroy also has a way with words and can turn a poetic phrase or two, even if he gets melodramatic at times, and he knows just how to lead the reader along on an emotional roller coaster ride.  It's not up there with the all-time classics, but it's one of the finer popular novels you'll find.	2005-07-25
US	52688407	R13SBHPYNDYWUS	0743242173	596383408	Early Bird: A Memoir of Premature Retirement	Books	4	2	8	N	N	Lightweight and very funny	The author, a television writer, loses his job and decides to move into a retirement home in Florida ostensibly in order to \\"get a head start\\" on seeing what retirement life is all about.  And also, obviously, to write a book about the wacky experience.  As one might expect from a television writer, Rothman has an easy, accessible prose style; the book is very readable and doesn't make many demands on the reader's vocabulary or reasoning power.  It's also extremely funny, though, as David Eggers notes on a blurb, it's also, \\"at its core, unspeakably sad.\\"  Perhaps the book works because most of the gut-busting humor comes not from mocking the elderly, but at Rothman's own expense, such as when he's beaten at softball or shuffleboard by the retirees, or when they razz him mercilessly about his sex life.  I wouldn't go so far as to say that this is a moving memoir of personal triumph and finding motivation - it's too lightweight for that - but as a very amusing diversion, it's a great book to breeze through.	2005-07-20
US	52688407	RAP5E7C04C1NR	0446390909	881196780	Off the Record: An Oral History of Popular Music	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Brief anecdotes, little depth	This 430-page tome is a collection of brief anecdotes culled from interviews with over 200 music personalities, from Artie Shaw to David Lee Roth --- featuring huge luminaries such as Ray Charles, Bob Dylan, Ben E. King, Buddy Rich, Ella Fitzgerald, Tom Jones... an impressive assemblage.  However, I take issue with the authorial credit: in no sense is this a book \\"by\\" Joe Smith; his writing here consists of about eight pages in total.  These are stories told to Joe Smith, which is how the credit ought to run.  Why is he listed as the author?  Basically, this is a vanity project: Smith was the CEO of Warner's, and who's the publisher of this book?  Warner Books! What a coincidence!  Sure, he made the interviews and edited them down into anecdotes, but... well, then, what did the editor, Mitchell Fink, do?  Anyway, Smith's ego aside, this is an interesting enough collection to flip through.  Its broad scope is, as noted, impressive, but this also works against the book, in that each interviewee's remarks are brief, three pages at the most.  So unfortunately you get very little substance from each subject.  As a whole, it's an adequate, skim-the-surface overview of pop music from the jazz era to the late '80s, and it gives a nice idea of how the business has changed over the decades, but --- and I say this in disappointment, not mockingly --- unfortunately the brief interviews fly by rapidly, and are ultimately forgettable.	2005-07-10
US	52688407	R81HWIZ7631KV	1569473560	836861620	The Dragon Man (Inspector Challis Mysteries)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Rich and complex, but no whodunit	The beachside town of Waterloo, Australia (just outside Melbourne) is in fear due to a rash of abductions and murders. Inspector Hall Challis and his band of stalwart, or rather somewhat self-seeking and leaning toward the corrupt, coppers must try to find the killer.  Meanwhile, a rash of fires and burglaries complicate matters.  This is not so much a police procedural as an ensemble piece, with rich, fully realized characters and strings of interconnecting plots and subplots.  Each character, criminal and cop, has his or her own motivations and musings, and Disher creates a community that draws the reader in.  As I said, it's not so much a whodunit - if Disher thinks the killer's identity, \\"revealed\\" abruptly in a two-page chapter, is meant to be a surprise, he's a bit off. But my pleasure in reading this book was not abetted one whit by the easy and early deduction of who the killer was; the real strength of this complex, captivating crime novel is its setting and sympathetic characters.	2005-06-14
US	52688407	R3O71JG6JXQHMZ	0553560239	75701333	The Hot House: Life Inside Leavenworth Prison	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Excellent prison journalism	The author, a journalist, was granted unprecedented access into the Hot House, where he interviewed many inmates, guards, employees and family members.  The result is this immensely readable 375-page tome, a wake-up call to all the \\"Square Johns\\" across America as to what prison life is really all about.  Here are all the assaults, rapes, extortions, hooch, poker and drug deals you hear about in the media.  Earley did a fine balancing act, trying to tell the story both the perspective of both the con and the CO - though he did not get anything from black inmates, I suppose because of prison's segregated nature, this was impossible.  If two memes here stand out from the others, other than a simple overarching feeling of constant danger and oppression, they are: first, that the sentences that are handed out in this country seem sometimes to be whimsical and unjust - some monsters get nine years for rape and torture, while a man who never hurt anyone gets 25 for robbing a bank.  This latter criminal, of course, is turned into a monster just by living in Leavenworth, so when he finally does get out, it's society that pays a price in blood for not trying to rehabilitate this lesser criminal in the first place.  If we think long-term, we should realize it is not coddling the criminal to try to educate and rehabilitate him - it's a question of citizens' safety.  The second interesting idea that the scenes of this book imply - though Earley never explicitly makes the point - is that the guards seem to be very much akin to the inmates: both groups are self-segregated and show racist tendencies (the COs toss the N word around with abandon), and seem to share the same delight in violence.  Food for thought, you might say.	2005-06-06
US	52688407	R3MGB0C507THQ1	0345447980	134789254	Planet of the Apes	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Superb social satire	An astronaut - a Frenchman named Ulysse Merou, it turns out, not Charleton Heston - is marooned on a planet where the humans are mute animals, and the apes have evolved into a sentient and verbal race.  Ulysse's appearance, of course, threatens to overturn the conservative, orangutan-dictated dogmatic order of things.  So what secret origins lie buried in the past of this planet?  Well, it's not quite the classic film's twist ending, but as I now see, the remake was fairly faithful to the original source material.  This is a very interesting book, not what you might expect from only being exposed to the films.  Boulle makes no attempt to emulate any kind of \\"realistic\\" science fiction: this is social allegory in its purest form.  Ulysse's adventures are pure Swiftian satire; the planet is Earth under a different sun, the apes basically people, down to their Earth-style dress, cars, and airplanes.  And despite its modern publication date, the novel deals with very 19th-century concerns such as evolution, the frontiers of science, the ethical responsibilities of the preeminent species, and freedom of thought; for this, and for its rudimentary approach to the \\"alien\\" world, the book could easily have been written by H.G. Wells.  Which is a good thing, of course.  This is superb social satire, very funny and cutting stuff, as apposite today as it must have been in the '60s.  And don't miss that stunning second twist ending.	2005-05-21
US	52688407	RJ9SARF2CXSM6	0060198311	609892895	All the Flowers Are Dying (Matthew Scudder Mysteries)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	This book is a flawed gem	SPOILERS! <br /> <br />*** <br /> <br />The aged and mostly retired Scudder is working on a minor case - to find out the background on an AA acquantance's mysterious new boyfriend - when death strikes close to Elaine.  The demented serial killer with the razor-sharp intellect from Hope To Die is back, and out for revenge.  Block's writing, if not at its full power, is still taut and fraught with suspense, and keeps the pages turning.  Seeing the aged-in-real-time Scudder and all his cronies feels like a family reunion; that's a great deal of this series' charm.  In this, the possibly final entry of the Scudder saga, Block unfortunately falls back on a few thriller short cuts - to start with, the cliche of the brilliant and pretty much motiveless serial killer.  Since no one is truly that brilliant, so many steps ahead of the law, the hard-bitten, \\"real\\" edge of the series is dulled.  And the ending requires us to believe that Scudder would leave Elaine unprotected for a brief time, and that the killer would, completely out of character, devolve into a mindless bloodlust without first preparing for Scudder obviously imminent return.  Those lapses are the flaws on an otherwise polished gem; Block's got the writing chops to satisfy a nit-picking reader.	2005-05-13
US	52688407	RKN0NCBPAOQT2	0679443606	256512938	Kim (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Classic story of colonial India	Kim, orphaned son of an Irish sergeant in the Indian Army, is brought up as an Indian street urchin.  Fluent in Hindi, English and Pushtu, he is quick-witted and street-wise.  When he becomes attached to a Tibetan lama searching for the River of Buddha's Arrow, his life becomes intertwined with \\"the Great Game\\" - England's espionage network that safeguards British India.  This is a terrific novel: witty, suspenseful, rich in descriptions of forgotten or disappearing people and customs, and above all as complex and layered as India herself.  There is a smack of the colonist's superior airs in the novel - it is Kim's \\"white blood\\" that makes him immune to the suggestions of India's magic and his English education that allows him to resist hypnotism - but there is nothing, to my eyes, denigrating in the novel.  Kipling loves India, and Kim is India.  Able to mimic a Sahib, a Hindi, a Muslim, a beggar, a chela or what have you, he represents all of India: its \\"good, gentle\\" people who revere the wise and the virtuous.  The ending of the book is perfect: there is closure, but it leaves all of India, from its dusty plains to the bitter cold of the Hills (Himalayas), open to Kim's skills and knowledge.  A truly great book, much more than an adventure story, road trip, or coming of age story.  It is all these and more.	2005-04-23
US	52688407	R2MU47U0W4BMY8	0743249992	281016025	Bringing Down the House: The Inside Story of Six M.I.T. Students Who Took Vegas for Millions	Books	3	6	12	N	N	Heavily fictionalized account of card-counting	The story of Kevin Lewis and some other MIT kids of Asian descent, who were hand-picked by a former MIT prof to count cards in Vegas.  Backed by \\"shady investors\\" that they supposedly never met, the team used a decades-old method of card counting (a modified version of \\"hi-lo,\\" based on the number of high cards left in the deck) and some interesting hand signals to collectively rake in the millions.  This is Mezrich's first non-fiction book, and it shows; oh does it ever show.  There is a small \\"details have been changed\\" notice under the copywright info, but this does not justify Mezrich's copious use of detail and conversation that could not possibly be known to him, let alone accurately reported.  It's no great sin to use created conversation to capture the feel of a true event, but it's disingenuous of the author not to at least acknowledge what he's done.  And while I don't want to call him or Lewis a liar, the tacked-on drama (beatings in the bathroom of an off-shore casino; a break-in; a solitary poker chip left ominously on Lewis' table) seem a bit too much ripped from just the style of thriller that Mezrich is apparently accustomed to writing.  In sum, there might be an interesting story here, but this book (while admittedly fun to read) with its flat drama and unsymapthetic characters (aw, poor Kevin, making a great living at a trading firm, trying to \\"get out\\" of the humdrum existence of the MIT grad with the house and two cars... boo hoo, guy) isn't great.	2005-02-13
US	52688407	R126Y8LVN28ER4	0060515163	343152070	Mr. S: My Life with Frank Sinatra	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Entertaining gossip	Jacobs was Frank's valet from 1953 to 1968 (at which point he was summarily fired and cut out of the Chairman's life for, Jacobs says, chastely dancing with Mia Farrow whom Frank was divorcing at the time).  Jacobs tells all, getting into (anatomical) detail about Frank's larger than life personality: hookers, wives, drinking, mob friends, gambling, rages and regrets.  This is definitely a kiss-and-tell, gossip-heavy memoir, and Jacobs may or may not be the most reliable of raconteurs.  For example, he claims that he watched Marlene Deitrich and Great Garbo in a poolside lesbian encounter when both were in their fifties.  As someone once noted, you can't libel the dead.  Jacobs also seems to have a higher opinion of his standing as Frank's valet than he really did, presenting himself as practically one of the Rat Pack themselves, when it's pretty clear he was an ever-present aide.  Leaving aside Jacobs' veracity (could Frank have romanced a fifteen-year-old Natalie Wood?  Probably.  Did JFK do big lines of coke in front of Jacobs?  Seems unlikely), what emerges is a flawed, human and yet affectionate portrait of the titular Mr. S.  He could be a warm friend, but cut people out completely when they proved \\"disloyal;\\" he drank copiously, but hated drugs; he pushed the boundaries of song and entertainment, but couldn't fathom it when what was hip changed in turn around him; he respected women like Billie Holliday and helped black entertainers break down discriminatory boundaries, but was free with racist jokes and used women like tissues; he was arrogant and cold but insecure and craved love.  I think that Jacobs at least captures the depths of Frank's tortured artist's soul, even if he wasn't as close a confidant as he thinks he was.	2005-01-24
US	52688407	R31ZQYA4SLO1QM	0061098620	77138633	Sharpe's Trafalgar: Richard Sharpe & the Battle of Trafalgar, October 21, 1805 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #4)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Sharpe at sea	This is the (chronological) fourth book in the Sharpe series.  It follows the third immediately, so please start at the beginning if you have not done so.  For those of you who have read the previous Sharpe books, review follows. <br /> <br />On his way home to England, Sharpe sails with one Captain Peculiar Cromwell, and meets up with his old cordial enemy, Pohlmann.  He also begins an affair with an aristocrat's wife.  But traitors have sold the ship to the French, and he is captured.  Once Sharpe and the crew are rescued, the hunt is on, which leads them to meet Nelson and fight in the Battle of Trafalgar.  This is another very good entry in the series, even though I don't care for nautical fiction as much as I do reading of land battles.  As always, the historical details of ships, battles, dress and speech are mostly  meticulously rendered, mixed in with a perhaps more modern action-hero sensibility (perhaps some of Sharpe's actions, as a mere ensign, might have been frowned upon in reality).  It is true that the characters in this entry are painted in broader strokes than in the previous ones (thus the 3 rather than 4 stars): the heroes are all brave, good and dependable and the villains are all duplicitous and craven.  Still, it's a swashbuckling yarn, and great reading fun.  Recommended.	2004-10-28
US	52688407	RNU89AGD4MVSN	0345371135	234936263	The Quincunx	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Rich homage to Dickens with engrossing mystery	A Dickensian tome - 780 pages of the decline and fall of a young boy and his mother in 19th-century England.  It's a book with a plot that to describe as labyrinthine would be an understatement.  Scores of characters, twists, turns, red herrings, various interpretations, Rashomon-style, of the past; you get the point.  The hero and narrator, John Huffam, has a past shrouded in secrecy - in fact he turns out to be heir to one of the largest estates in England.  Unfortunately, his identity, the codicil which names him heir and even a copy of the original will have all been suppressed.  Several people are out to do him and his mother harm, even kill them.  Gradually, as John realizes his own story, he thirsts for Justice against those that oppressed him.  The end is left ambiguous; that's not the point to this book.  Quincunx makes it a point to stress that everyone, even old man Clothier who wants him dead, has his or her point of view and cannot be judged quickly.  Yet the book belies this - the things that John's enemies do in their self interest verge on sadistic evil, while the wrongs that John commits in pursuing his interest are accidental, even if selfish.  Clothier and his bunch will kill, happily; Mrs Fortisquence revels in seeing John and his mother ground into poverty, indeed joyfully steers them wrong; the Mompessons are arrogant and deceitful in a way that John and his mother never are.  So I did find the book, for all its layers of complexity, a bit old fashioned in its rendering of good and evil characters.  All in all, of course, this is a wholly admirable homage to Dickens, structured with care, and utterly engrossing, a page turner to be devoured despite its size.	2004-10-25
US	52688407	R1EOAY9D72NOM0	0140077022	981253911	White Noise (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Skims the surface, ultimately unsatisfying	Jack, the chairman of Hitler studies and his extended family, wife and children from multiple marriages, live peaceful lives in Middle America.  Yet they're terrified of death, and oddly estranged from the world.  When an \\"airborne toxic event\\" forces a town evacuation, it gives their fears shape - even after life returns to \\"normal,\\" the consequences linger inside them.  This novel has passages of great black humor and touches a very real nerve in American modern life.  DeLillo is like an alien looking rather fearfully at American pop culture through a telescope.  Who else would describe the crackling noise of frozen plastic wrap as \\"strange\\"?  I have to say my previous <br />critique of DeLillo, from Underworld, holds in this novel too - the dialogue is all much of a sameness: all the characters firing academic questions at one other, referring to themselves in the third person, using the same stylistic phrasings, even adolescents.  Only Jack's visiting father-in-law has his own voice (perhaps because he is a nomad, a worker with his hands, removed from the \\"white noise\\").  I also find it beyond credibility that Jack, the chairman for 20-odd years of a department he invented, could not speak German.  This isn't like claiming a degree you don't have.  People would know.  It's a funny conceit, but it doesn't ring true.  This is a recurring theme in the book.  All the characters are literally baffled to shock by the most quotidian disturbances in their routine - a visit from the father in law, a familiar face on TV - but why?  These over-reactions grow kind of tiresome, really.  DeLillo should go under the surface, beyond supermarket kitsch and TV ads, to show the real \\"white noise:\\" the pollutants, the political machinations, the incompetence behind the toxic catastrophes.  It reads well: the pacing is good, and the observations keen, but due to the sameness of the dialogue and tone I found it a bit unsatisfying.	2004-10-25
US	52688407	R21YFX5KJWI6SO	0060972610	50396174	Legends, Lies & Cherished Myths of American History	Books	2	44	47	N	N	Nearly no primary sources	Television news reporter (now there's a credential) Shenkman attempts to debunk some widely-held but erroneous beliefs about American history from Columbus to the present day, covering topics such as sex, family, the so-called good old days, arts and quotations. It's a fine and admirable idea for a book.  Unfortunately, this book does not deliver the idea's promise.  Shenkman uses nearly no primary sources, relying on modern historians' research.  This gives the result that in many instances, his \\"proof\\" of the falsity of one claim is simply another author's claim.  Shenkman also has an odd idea of what constitutes American history, often resorting to 17th-century history to refute claims of what \\"American\\" life really is.  He also quotes extensively but cites sources sproadically, often lumping a few paragraph's worth of sources together in one footnote.  There are one or two nuggets of good stuff in here, like the origin of Paul Bunyan, or some of Harvard's history, but the lack of primary sources and generally non-scholarly approach make this book somewhat interesting at best.	2004-10-16
US	52688407	R2UZBGSTR4T9Q6	0375422579	874649553	Cork Boat	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A real life fantasy come true	The author, a former speechwriter for a Congressman and Clinton, quits his job to build a boat made out of 165,000-plus corks held together by rubberbands, which he then sails with friends down the Douro River in Portugal.  It sounds like a fairy tale, and it practically is, a heart-warming true fantasy story of childhood dreams and adult sacrifice and priorities and adventure.  Pollack is, of course, a gifted writer, adept at spinning a tale and interweaving personal remenisces, anecdotes and a few strands of history here and there.  But it's Pollack's determination and optimism, though, that make this such a sweet story.   After the descriptions of camraderie, community, despair and dedication, I felt like cheering along as they pulled into Porto on the final day.	2004-10-15
US	52688407	R3R8SUAEBEI4EE	0061098639	137888326	Sharpe's Fortress: Richard Sharpe & the Siege of Gawilghur, December 1803 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #3)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Great military history fiction blended with suspense	The third book in the series, a direct sequel to Sharpe's Triumph.  Still in India (1803), Sharpe takes part in the brief battle of Argaum before performing a heroic pivotal role in the seige of the supposedly impregnable fort at Gawilghur.  Sharpe is still in pursuit of the traitor Dodd, but his old enemy Hakeswill is on Sharpe's trail, so treachery is everywhere.  This is very fine historical fiction.  Cornwell knows how to recreate the past; every character, no matter how brief his stay will turn out to be, is presented as if he will be a long-term concern, with foibles, motives and distinguishing characteristics.  The mechanics of the 1803 weaponry are presented with as much meticulous attention to detail as are the <br />politics and rivalries between officers, companies and armies in India.  In short, it brings the period to life in a vivid and colorful way, adding intrigue and suspense to the mix deftly.  I do wonder, though, how likely it is that Sharpe could beat Captain Morris, his superior officer, half to death (Morris waits for orders rather than allow Sharpe to go off on his own initiative to scale the walls, and this enrages Sharpe) and get away with it. (He even murders an officer - no, he's no by-the-book noble hero!)  At times the action is over the top with distinct shades of James Bond (the deathtraps like fighting jettis in an arena, seducing one girl after another, etc), but of course that's what Cornwell has set out to do.  My one quibble is that Sharpe, after vowing to make sure Hakeswill dies this time, does the typical serial adventure thing and leaves him to die, which is of course not the same thing at all and sets it up for the inevitable sequel.	2004-10-15
US	52688407	R3CE6YGK1J1CYC	0743474864	454045272	Brainwave: The Greatest Masterpiece by  the Science Fiction Grandmaster	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Optimistic, old-school hard SF	The Earth moves out of some kind of force field, and suddenly, all electromagnetic and -chemical processes; not only do intruments go out of wack, everyone and everything with a brain triples in intelligence.  For some individuals, this is liberating, albeit terrifying; some crack under the strain of such a jump.  The human race as a whole, indeed, finds itself wondering what wo do with itself.  This is a pretty good piece of speculative fiction, the idea taken to the limit.  There are great bits, like intelligent chimps rising elephants and teming with African tribes; the story of Brock, the one-time moron, is particularly resonant.  Overall, it's certainly a supremely optimistic view.  As one character in the book notes, just because people are smart doesn't stop them from doing stupid things like speeding or smoking; nor does intelligence always erase prejudice.  Yet Anderson envisions a human race that, due solely to higher intelligence, (after a lengthy period of great strife) transcends war, patriotism, and borders - indeed, seems at the end to have formed into some unified collective mind. I'm not so sure that all this necessarily follows from increased intelligence, even such an exponential leap in brain activity; but I see that Anderson is actually painting humans as the wise celestial visitors that most SF authors depict alien beings as.  It's sort of a nice touch.  Recommended.	2004-09-18
US	52688407	R4KQ3038V7BX4	1400076935	454177999	Absolutely American: Four Years at West Point	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Extremely revealing	The journalist author chronicles his observations of the cadets and staff at the military academy.  He doesn't stick with one class from induction to graduation, opting instead for a sort of scatter-shot approach which allows him a wider view: the ability to check up on graduates after they've moved on to real Army officer status, or to observe the plebes (freshmen) being inducted at any given year, which allows the reader more perspective on the experience.  (It's not in the least confusing.)  Lipsky writes with the clear, simple style of a reporter, informative and inviting.  He really gets into his subjects' heads, conveying all the cadets' and officers' thoughts, fears and dreams about West Point and military life.  He also touches on a bit of history and is not afraid to shine a light on some of the problems West Point would probably rather not admit: sex among cadets and illicit drugs especially (but both are remarkably scarce, all the same).  Kudos to the academy for having the integrity to allow Lipsky full access, and kudos to Lipsky for allowing civilians a good long peek at what cadet life can be all about.  (Oh, and a final word to the wise regarding some other reviews on Amazon: any \\"reader\\" that says the book is out to revel in the moral impropriety of West Point, or who could come away from the book knowing nothing about cadet Rash than he had trouble with the two-mile test, obviously stopped reading less than halfway through.  Do yourself a favor if you're at all interested in the military culture: buy this book and see for yourself.  Lipsky has nothing but respect for the honor and ability of these fine cadets and officers.)	2004-06-14
US	52688407	RBP4EZX1RMQ09	1573222666	383775935	Blue Blood	Books	4	20	23	N	N	Long, but worth slogging through	The author is a Harvard-educated NYPD cop, son of an FBI agent, writing his memoirs seven years into his career on the force.  Over the course of the book's 560 pages, he begins in Housing (drug busts in the projects), works with Narcotics, gets a feel for the midnight shift, sifts though the awful wreckage of 9/11 on Fresh Kills, and finally becomes a detective.  Every so often, he interrupts his own story to tell some other facet of police or New York life, such as that of the real Serpico or the tale of the French Connection, stories of crooked and heroic cops and politicos of the past, the Black Panther cop-murder spree, and so forth.  It's a very interesting book, with plenty of very funny bits (his descriptions of and banter with informants provide much humor) as well as food for thought. Certainly, though, it's no masterpiece.  For someone who clearly bristles when talked to about police corruption, Conlon breezes over Abner Louima, and takes a very Blue Wall-ish view of the Amadou Diallo case.  The book is also overlong; it could use some editing, especially given that there are no spectacular cases here (lots of gritty interrogation and stakeout stuff, but it is everyday police work).  On the whole, though, the great writing, the eye for a relevant story, Conlon's intense devotion to the NYPD, and a real flair for characterization make this a memoir worth reading through.	2004-06-04
US	52688407	R24XEREGMAUAVK	1582431795	763437592	Running After Antelope	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Science, human nature, war reporting --- it's all here	A collection of pieces loosely based on the author's obsession, inspired by his biologist brother's studies, with literally running down a deer, as some say primitive men once did.  In between the attempts to corraborate stories of Indian tribes who do this and trying to catch pronghorns in Wyoming, Carrier intersperses essays about his divorce, his attempts to produce radio segments on the road, his adventures in hitchhiking, and stories from global hot spots that he did for Esquire.  None of these digressions in unwelcome, especially the latter, which are superb stories of the best and worst in human nature, of death and survival.  Whether he's interviewing a Cambodian woman whose greatest relief is that she no longer has to spend her day making poison sticks to keep out the militia, or an Indian commander is Kashmir who says the daily carnage is only &quot;friendly fire,&quot; Carrier knows how to get the quotes and anecdotes that stick with his readers for a long time.	2004-05-18
US	52688407	RN2UEU2CGSVKS	0452264898	601259642	Flashman's Lady	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Flashman and the Pyrates, or, Flashman in Madagascar	Flashy - after, incidentally, pulling a hat trick on the three most celebrated cricketers of his time - accepts a &quot;friendly&quot; wager in a single-wicket match against Don Solomon, a foreign-born Eton-educated socialite.  The tie score results in he and Elspeth accompanying Solomon on a cruise to the Far East, where Solomon's true colors are revealed, and he absconds with  Elspeth.  Flashman must fight, however unwillingly, to get her back - until they both end up in the hands of the bloodthirsty queen of Madagascar, Ranavalona I.  This is a fine entry in the series, possibly a little more heavy on the humor this time around than the adventure.  The first half of the book is all cricket and social intrigue; a more thorough look at Madagascar might have been in order, tho' perhaps Fraser was dealing with limited intelligence on that subject.  Another minor quibble: At the book's opening, our hero is caught in a damned-if-he-does-damned-if-he-don't trap that pushed him again into adventure (lose the cricket match and see Elspeth go on a cruise with Solomon, or win and be beaten by crooked bookies?).  And, as in Flash For Freedom, the dilemma that prompted him into action, when he returns (in that case, cheating at cards), is completely forgotten.  I would have liked to see some closure in the matter of the threatening bookie, at least.  All that aside, this is, of course, another witty, well-researched adventure.  Bravo!	2004-02-08
US	52688407	R1T6KEUGPI6D0S	0375706135	855608574	One for the Road: Revised Edition	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Funny and lucid travel writing	The author, an American ex-pat living and working as a newspaper reporter in Australia, gets the wanderlust and decides to hitch around Australia.  He circumnavigates the continent, nearly, and travels deep into the Northern Territory and South Australia.  (He wisely avoids the utter emptiness of Western Australia.)  He meets a variety of Australians: truckies, anti-environmental loggers and tourists, racists, Aborigines in beat-up &quot;utes&quot; (utility vehicles, like pickup trucks), and professional wanderers.  He hunkers down in a ditch during a cyclone, wonders at the oddities of Australian cartography (&quot;rivers&quot; and &quot;lakes&quot; are plentiful in name, but dry as dust in reality), and watches as his chauffeurs down dozens of beers per hour.   It seems that the Outback, for all its barren aridity, is dotted with pubs.  Horwitz is an excellent writer.  He descibes the heat and the flies with great detail, finds poingnacy in meeting one of the only other Jews in Broome at Passover, and draws humor from the most aggrieving situations, such as the publican who hates serving food or letting rooms.  This book is a page-turner, but more than that, it introduces a great part of Australian culture with wit and skill.  Great reading.	2004-01-28
US	52688407	RU6TU18W7CUOH	0316735655	960898638	Live From New York: An Uncensored History of Saturday Night Live, as Told By Its Stars, Writers and Guests	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A fun read, but heavy on the gossip	560 pages of new interviews with the living cast members, past and present, from the show (no old material from the dead), as well as Lorne Michaels and writers.  It's a fairly interesting bit of reading, going from the show's origins in '75 to the 2002 season, and getting views from everyone except Eddie Murphy, who will not talk about the show ever for some reason.  There's a lot of gossip, anecdotes about the crazy all-night sessions, backstage sex, backstabbing, and so forth.  And plenty of tributes to, and aspersions of, Lorne, the literal father figure to so many of them.  The gossip and dirt does get a bit repetitive at times, and a few more insights as to the actual production of the show might have been a welcome relief.  A single sentence on Lorne switching the order of sketches and cutting them, for example, whets the appateite for more of how this process works.  So this book is more a long puff piece than an investigation of any kind of practical information.  Still, as puff piece, it's quite readable, and amusing at times.  It's interesting to note three constants throughout the show's history: Lorne lording it over everyone, Chevy Chase being an ass, and everyone hating Harry Shearer.  It did occur to me while reading this that a true look at the dirt behind the scenes would involve interviews with the make-up people, prop masters, and stage hands --- all people close to actors and totally under their radar.  If they were kept anonymous, what sordid stories could they tell?	2004-01-28
US	52688407	R1U16MI8YV0EM	0553580531	409245980	Gates of Fire: An Epic Novel of the Battle of Thermopylae	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Dramatic examination of military culture	After the battle of Thermopylae, a foreign-born Spartan squire named Xeones is found by the Persians, gravely wounded but alive.  Xerxes, wishing to know what kind of people the Spartans might be, who at hundreds strong could slay thousands of enemies in a valiant suicide mission, has the squire try to explain this.  Xeones tells this tale, but a more personal one as well: the sacking of his town, his unrequited love for his cousin, his rise up the Sparatan ranks, the cruelty of the Spartan school for warriors, the thoughts and fears of his master and the Spartan women that he somehow became privy to.  This is certainly an entertaining book: the various plots are interesting enough, and of course the drama of Thermopylae itself is inherently fascinating.  There are a couple of potential problems with Pressfield's handling of the Spartans, however.  One, Pressfield gives no doubt that he finds much to admire in the Spartan way of life.  That the Spartans were eugenically-minded, infanticide-practicing, child-abusing, secret-death-squad-using, insulated, jingoistic, land-grabbing hierarchical imperialists with proto-fascistic tendencies doesn't seem to affect his judgement any.  His affection for the culture leads him to present Spartan culture as a sort of freedom-loving patriotism when the truth was likely closer to a fear-based subsumption of the self to the greater good.  Two, Pressfield has the Spartan women interfere in political ritual, which I assume would be simply unthinkable.  Aside from that, though, the gritty historical detail is handled well enough.  Every detail - from the armor's accouterments, to the effects a thousand men's feet, blood, and urine have on dust, to the experience of a thousand arrows whistling through the air, to the psychology of fear - is explored.  As a military historical fiction, as a battle piece, as epic drama, the book works.	2003-12-24
US	52688407	R2Z7X10SUQP1U8	0452263034	110874900	Flashman in the Great Game: A Novel	Books	5	34	34	N	N	Flashman at the Mutiny	In 1856, Flashy is once again dragooned - this time not as a direct result of some peccadillo on his part - by Palmerston himself to go to India and keep an eye on possibly mutiny brewing there, fomented by Flashy's old nemesis, Count Ignatieff. Like all the other Flash books, this is a thoroughly researched piece of historical fiction, from the personalities of the great (and not so great) commanders of the day, down to the details of the daring exploits of the (not so) common soldier. Like its predecessors, this book is rife with wit, debauchery, wry observations on war and empire, and a few laughs at our hero's expense. This volume does, however, depart from the other books in two ways, in my opinion. The first is tone: where before I got the sense that Flash was so selfish and sadistic he was removed from the carnage he witnesses, in the Mutiny I got the sense that Flash (or Fraser, unable to hide himself behind his character) was moved by the massacres. Flash lets emotion creep in to the point of not just leaping in to rescue (!) a British couple, but to ruminate on the morality of the British retribution. Secondly, in this book Flashman is more propelled along by events rather than(even unwillingly and unknowingly) influencing them, as he has before, goading Raglan into ordering the charge of the Light Brigade or managing to repel Russian invasion of India, for example. All this is simple observation, not criticism; the quality of Flashman's exploits here in no way disappoints.	2003-12-13
US	52688407	R16MYTCYVVUK0X	0452264138	514899483	Flashman at the Charge	Books	5	28	28	N	N	More of the best	To those who have never heard of Flashman, please go look up the book &quot;Flashman&quot; and buy it.  If historical fiction is your cup of tea, you'll be hooked.  In this entry: Flash signs on to munitions duty as the Crimean War begins to heat up, never suspecting that one day he will unwillingly take part in Colin Campbell's stand (The Thin Red Line) and Scarlett's charge uphill of the Heavy Brigade, not to mention the infamous charge of the Light Brigade...  And then be captured, become an unwilling spy and resistance fighter, and of course bed a Russian noble's beautiful daughter...  All in a day's work for old Flashy, of course, who would rather be at home.  I have little to say about this entry into the Flashman series other than it offers up more of the same, and three cheers for it, and too bad there's not even more of it.  Flashy's still a rogue, bluffing his way through horrors, rogering his way into the confidences of the enemy, and sniveling his way out of danger.  The facts that Fraser re-creates historical characters and events with a scholar's eye for detail and a great novelist's flair for the story, that Flashman is neatly and unerringly made to be the impetus behind historical events, and the whole exciting yarn is awash in a heady dose of sly wit and knowing parody, all go without saying: this is Fraser, after all, the best historical novelist of all.	2003-11-27
US	52688407	R3698OLPRAICZJ	0312972962	185709915	Roman Blood: A Novel of Ancient Rome (Novels of Ancient Rome)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Fine historical mystery	Gordianus the Finder --- a Roman detective with a lust for the truth, hard drinking, and his slave-girl Bathsheba --- is hired by Cicero to unearth the facts behind a mysterious killing.  Gentleman farmer Sextus Roscius is accused of killing his estranged father, but the truth of the matter may reveal corruption not only in the man's own family, but in the noblest and richest families of Rome; the murder may involve even the dictator Sulla himself.  This is a superb historical detective novel.  Gordianus is a Roman Matt Scudder, a hard-living survivor with no special interests or abilities except a deep need for the truth and, possibly, a liking for rough justice.  He's an empathetic everyman with foibles and flaws, always a must in a detective.  Saylor's scholarship seems excellent; his Rome is vivid and picturesque.  You get a sharp portrait of Roman life in 80 BC, from the street gutters to the gangs to the games of trigon to the slave economy.  Cicero in particular is brought to life in fine detail.  The book's plot is convoluted and opaque, but in a satisfying way.  All together, a promising start to a mystery series with a very solid historical background.	2003-11-27
US	52688407	RU9L6S5D7RKQY	1892065894	967834367	Something M.Y.T.H. Inc.	Books	2	11	13	N	N	A sad ending to a fantastic series	Note to reader: since to read this book, you'd better have a long acquainatance with Skeeve and the gang, I decided I'd just jump right in with the review as well, leaving out pointless introductions of characters and setting.  Enjoy!<BR><BR>In this book, Guido and Nunzio take it upon themselves to investigate rumors of various uprisings against Skeeve the Great for dabbling in black sorcery and raising taxes.  This goes on concurrently with the events of the previous book, so I guess there's little suspense as to whether or not an uprising will in fact happen...  Asprin's well-known writer's block is on display here in all its glory, unfortunately.  For all the changes of \\"dialect\\" (if you can call dropping Gs and writing \\"sez\\" for \\"says\\" a dialect) with varying narrators, the prose style here is all of a sameness: Chumley, Skeeve and Aahz all speak in exactly the same way, while even a regular Klahd, supposedly in awe of the feared Skeeve the Great, who consorts with demons and dragons, refers to him as \\"the kid\\" after meeting him briefly.  There's also very little drama, not only for the aforementioned reason of chronology but because the \\"threats\\" to Skeeve are completely negligible.  Indeed, of the three groups supposedly plotting against Skeeve, Asprin writes about only two, because he must have realized that the other, a truly lame and unamusing parody of RPG gamers, is of no account at all.  A very sad end to a once-vibrant series: undramatic, unfunny, and shoddily written.	2003-11-25
US	52688407	R1W3KLFQR8NUO9	0452260892	125080911	Flash for Freedom! (Flashman)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The ultimate in historical fiction	Accused (falsely, amazingly enough) of cheating in a friendly game of cards, the Victorian rogue Harry Flashman injures the accuser in a rage.  His reputation damaged, Flash joins a ship's crew until the scandal cools down - only to realize to his horror (his own neck being on the line, of course) that it's a slave ship.  Here begin Flashy's adventures on the high seas and America, where at various times he is dragooned and bluffs his way into nearly every role concerning the slave trade: buyer, trader, seller, driver on a plantation, underground railroad smuggler, anti-slavery double agent, almost even a slave himself at one point.  It's all tremendous stuff, full of the usual (on Fraser's part) erudtion and wit and (on Flashy's part) lechery, as well as, of course, the historical tweaking: Flashman meets a young Disraeli, a young Lincoln, and even serves as the inspiration for Harriet Beecher Stowe's famous book.  Superb historical parody, historical fiction, and pure entertainment all in one.  Oh, a final thought: Flashy's definitely gotten a lot braver since the first book.  Scared or not, it takes guts to pull a gun on a killer, or even keep one's wits enough to play-act in the face of danger.  That's most likely a good thing, of course; as a reader, one can take only so much helpless, quivering terror from the narrator.	2003-11-19
US	52688407	R3HFKA9TMNZATO	0452261120	913821334	Royal Flash (Flashman)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Hugely entertaining	First things first: if you don't already know Fraser's character, Harry Flashman, Victorian Britain's Ace of Cads, start with the first book, Flashman.  For those in the know: in this entry, Flashman is lulled into a drama of espionage and political maneuverings by, of course, a woman.  Said woman is Lola Montez, doxy about town and paramour to princes and poltiicos; and the political plotter is none other than Otto von Bismarck.  This is one of the least realistic of the series, as the reader is given to understand that Flashman is the perfect double of Prince Carl Gustaf of Denmark.  Fraser escapes trying his audience's credulity with this premise by, first and foremost, presenting it in as realistic and believable a manner as possible, including the preparations and skills required for such a scheme, as well as the reactions of  the participants.  Fraser's other coup, however, is intimating that this incredible tale is itself the &quot;actual&quot; inspiration for the (extant) fictional novel, Prisoner Of Zenda!  That aside, Flashy is in fine mettle here, witty, profane and cowardly as ever.  Well, maybe not as ever: it takes guts to hit a skilled swordsman with a bottle, even from behind; the young Flashy, who was willing to give the Union Jack to Afghan raiders in return for his life, might not have been so sneakily bold.	2003-11-13
US	52688407	R3I9MWBZZ5T384	0452264871	502473981	Flashman and the Redskins	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Flashman in America	Harry Flashman, Victorian England's unlikely hero, the unknown &quot;ace of cads,&quot; is up to his old tricks.  He travels to the American west with a traveling bordello, goes on a scalp-hunting party, marries an Apache chief's daughter and rides out with Kit Carson in '49.  Then it's back to the West in '79 so he can attend the massacre at Little Bighorn and almost be scalped by Frank Standing Bear, who turns out to have a very reasonable grudge against our anti-hero.  Whew!  As always, Fraser is a raconteur of humor and wit and a historian of astonishing erudition.  His depth of research is commendable, and would be even if he didn't use it to make every nuance of historical events more human and understandable.  This book, while light reading, is hilarious and instructive: it's a  towering achievement.	2003-11-08
US	52688407	RKJWPHWVZQTWD	0452261910	690825902	Flashman and the Dragon	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The finest historical fiction anywhere	Another cracking good piece of historical fiction from Fraser: hilarious, well-researched, compelling.  The rogue Flashman finds himself in China, 1860: running guns, meeting the Tien Wang during the Taiping rebellion, with Elgin on the road to Beijing and even brought as a prisoner before the emperor.  An amazing book, as all the Flashman entries I've read have been.  An erudite, bawdy adventure yarn, masterfully plotted.  What's really impressive is how Fraser puts a human face on historical figures and events, giving concubines, princes and rebels distinct, believable personalities and motives.  And he adds Flashman as an historical mover and shaker, to boot.  Great stuff.	2003-11-07
US	52688407	R30J24BD73RGQ1	0399149716	802275827	This Just In: What I Couldn't Tell You on TV	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Very pleasant memoir from a man who was there	A memoir of the CBS newsman's life, from his early days as a police beat reporter, through Nixon and Watergate the bloodshed at home and at Vietnam in the '60s, up to 9/11.  I had never heard of Schieffer before, even though he was originally a Texas newsman, and I'm from Texas!  In any case, this is a very pleasant autiobiography which also serves as a sort of informal history of America's last half-century.  (The subtitle is somewhat misleading, as the book does not provide us with juicy tidbits which were too classified or secret to be revealed at the time.  This is simply a series of pieces on episodes of American history: Watergate, the Ford pardon, the Clinton years, etc.)  At times, too, it gets a bit too bogged down in CBS' internecine struggles and budget cuts for the average layman to get worked up about, but otherwise, Schieffer elegantly balances personal anecdotes and commentary about American history in simple, uncluttered, reflective prose.  I did enjoy the first part of the book more than the second, if only because Schieffer paints such an interesting picture of what American life was like in those pre-Watergate days (cops mistaking him for a detective because he wore a certain cap!  no security at the Pentagon door!).  I found this memoir very engaging and hard to put down; recommended.  Oh, and a final word about bias: Schieffer demonstrates that he's an ethical journalist, and his biases are admitted but not apparent from his writing.  I found his disapproving account of the Clinton years very fair, although I'm a big Clinton fan, and could find no fault with his assessments of Nixon, Ford or Carter (indeed, Schieffer opened my eyes to the accomplishments of these latter two).  So I don't think Schieffer is wielding any kind of political axe here, though it is odd that the Reagan years are largely absent from the book.	2003-10-26
US	52688407	R4FGKA9ZP9H3G	1893224864	260754801	Sex Money Kiss	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Financial &quot;How-to&quot; made very simple	A sort of &quot;how-to&quot; book, written in the larger-than-life, laughably shamelessly self-agrandizing Gene Simmons way familiar to anyone who's seen him on TV.  I suppose you'd call Gene a stark realist: his advice is to look out for yourself at all times, work hard, make lots of money, and never put yourself in a position where money will be forcibly taken from you.  Thus, don't get married if you're a man (but do if you're a woman, because alimony is your ticket to riches).  Gene's views on the sexes can fairly be described as primitive: men aren't meant to hold or nurture babies, men are meant to go out and hunt and kill, men's sperms &quot;shoot in a billion directions&quot; so they aren't wired for monogamy, etc etc - all the typical &quot;nature not nurture&quot; arguments, if overly simplified.  Gene's views on this subject are doubtlessly skewed by his father having abandoned his family when he was young.  On the other hand, a pre-nup is probably a good idea.  In any case, his advice on money is at times on target (live at about half your earning potential, work hard, don't take vacations, save up for emergencies, pay cash when you can and don't get strung out on credit and financing needlessly, work at the hobby you love in addition to a paying job).  Some of it is a bit disconnected from the real world: how can the average person pay cash for their first house or car?  Some  people *need* credit, as crippling as interest rates may be.  He also seems to think that most working people can simply opt to work weekends &quot;at double or triple rates&quot; - sorry, Gene; most companies are as cheap as you and deny workers overtime at all costs.  I suppose this is book will serve as self-help for very young people, the kind who max out on seven credit cards before they realize they actually have to *pay* for all that stuff... but for semi-intelligent people, this book isn't a &quot;how-to,&quot; just mildly interesting for its self-aggrandizing American dream, rags to riches story, as well as its light, humorous style (some humor unintentional).  And I guess KISS's fans will forgive Gene for bragging about how he charges them needlessly inflated prices (that he makes up on a whim) for KISS memorabilia.	2003-09-29
US	52688407	R7CVM5QMJNN45	0192833227	13409988	The American (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A subtle tale of manners	Christopher Newman, a wealthy, good-natured Western magnate, has retired to Europe in order to better himself.  There he is introduced to Claire de Cintr as a representative of his ideal woman.  He does prize her, and determines to marry her, though the nobility of her family, the Bellegardes, seems to preclude such a bond.  His friendship with her brother and easy democratic feeling make Newman regard himself as &quot;noble&quot; as they, though of course he isn't.  It's quite a subtle and clever tale; it's not quite a doomed romance, for there's little indication that Newman and Claire really love each other.  She finds him novel and he finds her ideal, but would they make a happy couple?  And as the book is told mostly from the viewpoint of Newman, it requires reading between the lines to see just what a bumbler the tall, rich, confident American is when it comes to European social traditions.  Finally, there is deep suspense when Newman has the chance to damage the Bellegardes' reputation.  James draws the question out masterfully, and provides a very correct, if bittersweet, ending.  It's a fine novel of manners, written in skillful, deft prose.	2003-09-03
US	52688407	R1SQI1215STYJN	0060932953	426668709	The Great Arc: The Dramatic Tale of How India Was Mapped and Everest Was Named	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Inspiring tale (told from European eyes)	A thin but inspiring history: how William Lambton, George Everest (pronounced EVE-rest), and other hardy and dedicated souls mapped a great deal of India.  The Arc was a series of triangles plotted through vertical and horizontal triangulation, sometimes confirmed by fixing one's place by observation of the stars.  This mapping required braving malaria- and dysentery-infested forests and plains; crunching the numbers in impossibly complex equations; lugging a vast instrument called The Great Theodolite over rugged terrain; contructing towers and scaffolding for flagmen and flares, and huge amounts of patience.  The story is awe-inspiring, if only for the bravery of these pioneers, who often faced greater casualty rates than soldiers in the name of science; but I was most impressed by the precision of the survey under the given conditions.  Every variable was predicted and dealt with, even to attaching thermometers to the measuring-chains so as to calculate the metal's expansion and compensate in the resulting calculation.  In all this plotting, the measuring of mountains was incidental, but Keay also reveals how the bad-tempered Everest somehow got his name attached to the world's highest peak. This book is a fine work of scholarship and very pleasant to read.  However, it is a pity that there is so little on the reactions of Indians to the survey: I'd like to know how Everest's own native contingent felt, what local villagers thought on seeing the great procession, what the survey's own Indian mathmatical genius felt about the project.  Perhaps there is no record of their feelings, but that's a shame.  Otherwise, this is a stirring tale of human acheivement.	2003-09-03
US	52688407	R3CPMM3BCYT5S9	0440241073	782272714	The Summons	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Great prose, but unfortunately less than thrilling	Ray, a law professor, is the son of a respected Judge of a small Southern county.  Summoned to the Judge's house, he finds his father dead and three million dollars in cash hidden in boxes behind the couch.  Where did the money originate?  Was his father corrupt?  Uncertain what to do and unwilling to tell his drug addict brother Forrest, Ray hides the money.  Soon, however, like all those who find a secret windfall (see The Treasure Of Sierra Madre, A Simple Plan, Shallow Grave, etc) the once moralistic Ray is plagued by greed and doubt.  he is also threatened by the more physical dangers of someone who knows about the money.  This is a pretty suspenseful book two-thirds of the way through, and prose-wise, it's light-years ahead of Gresham's big hit, The Firm.  The descriptions are evocative and rich, the characters fully realized.  What is lacking this time around, however, is thrills or action.  The pace is slow, and the ending is a dull anticlimax.  Too bad.	2003-09-03
US	52688407	R2103RH2COUJCJ	0679737324	274124055	No Mercy: A Journey Into the Heart of the Congo	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A grim look at modern Africa	The author travels to the Congo, down tributaries of the Ubangi, to Lake Tl in search of Mokl-Mbeb, possibly a living sauropod atavism.  Accompanied by pragmatic, homesick Lary, an American; educated Marcellin, a government employee, torn between his Western education and the supernatural spirit world of Africa whose power he fears; gentle Manou; and wild-eyed, hard-drinking Nz, he chronicles all he sees.  This allows for observations of much flora and fauna, especially birds and apes, as well as meditations on human behavior.  The Africa O'Hanlon \\"discovers&quot; is a world of sorcerers, fetishes and tribal rivalries, where slavery exists in fact, diseases ravage whole tribes, and pragmatic Western ideas like gutters and medicines are absurdities rather than possibilities.  It's a great book, full of humor and learning, equal parts natural history and the kind of insight into the foreign mind that the best travel writing can offer.  It's a bit grim to think how mired in ignorance and the supernatural Africa still is, but funny scenes like one with a clingy baby gorilla keep the reader enthralled with O'Hanlon's trek.	2003-09-03
US	52688407	R54JW6DJ56G3E	0380807599	681188656	The Devil Knows You're Dead: A Matthew Scudder Crime Novel	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Gritty writing, but not much drama for a Scudder	Let me preface by saying I'm a huge Scudder fan, so the three star rating is compared to the entirety of the Scudder saga.  In this entry, the clean and ostensibly happily domesticated Scudder is hired by a vagrant's brother to clear the vagrant of a shooting.  The victim happens to be a distant acquaintance of Scudder's, and though Matt didn't like the guy much, he ends up having a desultory kind of affair with his widow.  Meanwhile the accused killer is himself killed in prison, leaving a stubborn Scudder to attack the closed case (or as his cop friend puts it, &quot;trying to give a dead horse mouth-to-mouth resuscitation&quot; --- love that noir dialogue).  This is only an average Scudder entry, which means that it's a bleak look at a seedy world, rife with witty dialogue and sharp insights into AA philosophy.  Probably because the case here is so cold, however, a lot of drama in the sense of personal danger or action is lacking.  There's much of the traditional amoral, detatched soul-searching, which is terrific, but none of the rough justice Scudder usually hands out.	2003-09-03
US	52688407	R13ZFSMDLLQE2Q	0767912357	574332407	Ciao, America!: An Italian Discovers the U.S.	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Amusing and insightful	A light-hearted look at American mores and foibles from an Italian journalist.  He finds himself amazed by the efficiency of American bureaucracy and telephones, encouraged by shop clerks' smiling helpfulness, and bemused by such American institutions as the pancake house, political correctness, and love of pointless gadgetry.  It's not exactly hilarious stuff, but it's intelligent and informed, and Severgnini obviously has a lot of affection for the New World, despite our very real penchant for leaving air conditioning at frigid levels.  He's a literate, bilingual journalist, yet he looks on with amusement and understanding at even our appalling informal spelling (&quot;C U L8R,&quot; \\"E-Z-Brite&quot; --- argggh!).  We Americans couldn't ask for a more sympathetic observer.	2003-09-03
US	52688407	R3IX0NVHTSLAMG	0151008116	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An imaginative and intriguing fable	Pi is a boy from Pondicherry (old French India), attuned to spirituality in all its forms and a dedicated follower of at least three major religions.  His father, a zookeeper, decides to move the family (along with a few animals) to Canda for a new start.  Unfortunately, the boat sinks, leaving Pi the sole survivor on a life boat.  The sole human survivor, anyway, for he shares his 26-foot space with an orangutan, a hyena, and a tiger.  What follows is a tale of survival in its rawest form: the Young Boy and the Sea and the Tiger, if you will.  Martel writes with a certain fluidity of style: the first third is a delightful rumination on spirituality and Indian life through the eyes of a young boy; the main part of the book is a strange blend of detailed, realistic survival memoir and fantastic allegory in the medieval tradition (instead of Here There Be Dragons, you get Here There Be Meerkats, believe it or not).  The end, while probably disappointing for some, justified the entirety of the book to me, offering plenty of food for thought on the twin thirst for survival and faith.  It's not the finest book I've read all year, but I can see why it won the Booker prize.	2003-04-19
US	52688407	R2K7VH93PQRIYE	0670002526	377840852	Aspects of Antiquity	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Overly careful &amp; outdated scholarship; good for the beginner	A collection of essays on the ancient world, from Minoan Crete to the decline of the Roman Empire and the rise of Christianity.  Finley is a careful writer and an even more careful scholar; he doesn't make rash conclusions about points of historical controversy.  And there's much solid historical fact to learn in this slim collection: about slaves and freemen and the status of women in Rome, Plato and democracy in Athens, Diocletian the autocrat, and so on.  However, there are obviously good reasons not to read a book whose scholarship is thirty-five old (26, where it was revised in 1977).  And then, Finley is often simply too careful not to make pronouncements: many chapters end on questions, such as why cynicism as a philosophy became popular, or how Crete was related to classical Greek culture, without any answers.  Not too satisfying.	2003-04-19
US	52688407	R2WEN3O34MPAHY	0380789035	337033298	American Gods	Books	3	7	9	N	N	A fun read, but probably over-hyped	An ex-con named Shadow is hired by a mysterious man named Wednesday (and if you know your etymology or classics, you kinow who he is) for a series of odd, and I do mean odd, jobs.  Soon Shadow's involved in a coming war between the old gods --- gods like Ananasi the spider, Ibis, and Kali, brought to America by the beliefs of immigrants --- and the new gods --- things people worship with thier time and interest, like TV, the Internet and cars.  It's an interesting premise, and Gaimain tries valiantly to make this a Great American Novel: it's a road trip (aren't they all?), uses small towns as its settings, and there's even a murder msytery of sorts.  Many reviews complain of 'sub-plots'; there really aren't any, just background material which help bring what's happening behind the scenes into clearer focus.  In all, it's a perfectly good fantasy read, though I must say I don't understand why it garners quite so much praise (and so many awards).  It's good like a Stephen King novel is good: not literature, but an enthralling fantasy / horror story.  On the minus side, Gaiman does get a bit bogged down in useless details (he just *had* to cram in the leprechan, and a few words about slavery, and *two* kinds of dead resurrection, and the Fates, and American Indian mythos, and, and...).  Also, for a book whose premise is that belief = power, Gaimain completely and unfortunately sidesteps the very pervasive and prominent Christian belief in America (it's not all goths, pagans and lesbians, you know, as nice as they are).  Finally, I do wish the book had shown a little bit more of the sly humor that was such a seft touch in Gaiman's 'Sandman.'  Shadow is cold and unsurprised by everything, which makes it hard for the reader to empathize with him and gives the entire book an overall impression of taking itself too seriously.  Come on, even the Dreaming himself showed a smile now and then.	2003-04-18
US	52688407	R2E6VEOY3IJ3UD	0349115192	728343989	Big Deal: One Year as a Professional Poker Player	Books	3	14	14	N	N	Interesting and fun, even for the non-player	Jounalist 'London' Tony Holden, clearly no slouch at the poker table, is emboldened by a boss placement at the World Series of poker (he finished ninetieth).  He decides to see if he can 'run with the big boys,' or become a professional poker player.  Thus begins a year of much intercontinental travel and poker play.  Reading this account, it helps to be familiar with card games, especially Texas Hold 'Em; if you're not you might be perplexed or just bored by the play-by-plays of various hands ('the flop was a Qc-Kh-7c... Did the river hold an ace?').  But you need know nothing about gambling to enjoy Holden's breezy writing style: within these pages lie more than a few telling and insightful remarks on the foibles of gamblers, on his own gambling obsession (courtesy of a shrink Holden hires for that purpose), on the history of gambling and cards, especially in America, and the crazed capitalism concentrate that is Las Vegas.  It's good stuff, delivered with the wisdom of a seasoned traveler and the self-effacement of a confirmed Briton.  The book probably isn't representative of what might happen if Joe Public were to start mixing it up with the pros of poker; given the ease with which Holden mops up most of his competition, and regularly busts out old pros, he must be one of the better players out there.  But if you're looking for a book that takes a hard, sympathetic look at the culture of gambling, this is a good one.	2003-04-17
US	52688407	R2EA73C60Q1118	0156010704	900920530	Double Down: Reflections on Gambling and Loss	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Some insights into the world of addiction	The authors, two writer brothers who teach at the same university, slipped into a gambling fever, losing a quarter million dollars in the years following their aged parents' deaths.  This is a lucid, compelling book: the sense of addiction, the timeless, weird feeling one gets when gambling, is brought vividly to life.  There's also some measure of self-analysis: the brothers conclude that guilt and grief fueled their two-day-long losing sprees, and they appear to aptly judged themselves.  They are falsely and bizarrely accused of cheating the casino (they lose thousands in the night they're accused); their description of the indictment and booking, their sudden notoriety and helplessness at the indifferent, lying corporation that is the casino, is a scarily real morality tale.  On the minus side, the book does engage in a bit too much of this analysis; it gets repetitive.  Also, they drop the story of their indictment too early, leaving the conclusion (dismissal of the charges on the DA's request) unexplained.	2003-04-16
US	52688407	RYY8EDOEJM1GI	0609809911	524612057	The Tenacity of the Cockroach: Conversations with Entertainment's Most Enduring Outsiders	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Great fun	A very worthwhile collection, with something to entertain and inform in nearly every interview.  As the title says, the subjects are mostly entertainers who've maintained their popularity over some duration without ever going totally mainstream: Tom Lehrer, Berkeley Breathed, Dr. Demento, Henry Rollins, Harlan Ellison, KRS-One, etc.  There are few exceptions: what is cultural blip Vanilla Ice doing here?  Some of the interviews interested me especially, for various reasons.  Ian MacKaye proves himself to be a man of deep intelligence, which I already knew, but more than that: he possesses a strong, pragmatic view of the world.  Rather than railing (rather short-sightedly) at the evils of record companies, as several of the subjects in this book do, for example, he sees that they exist to make a rpofit, and those musicians who wish to make their own profit by signing onto them shouldn't be surprised when they're used as dollar-generating tools rather than as artists.  As he says, he doesn't want to destroy the world, just create his own little world that can co-exist within the larger system.  Andrew WK, whom I envisaged as some head-thrashing meathead based on his music (and song titles), turns out to be an introspective young man, honest and full of enthusiasm for all life has to offer.  He's a bit like Brian Wilson: meticulous, fragile, but wanting to bring joy to people with music.  Who knew?  KRS-One also turns in a surprising interview, with some rather unusual comments about the sate of hip-hop culture and how the black population is hurting it.  And there's David Lee Roth, whose interview is a splendid olio of self-aggrandizing, stream of (semi-)consciousness, disjointed logic, and outright nonsense.  The man's brain must be fried.  But all the subjects have something of value to impart (except perhaps Russ Meyer, whose answer to every single question involves his need for well-endowed women), even if a streak of the curmudgeon runs through most of them.  Good fun.	2003-03-23
US	52688407	R3AIYCRPPPFH9G	1565121627	430446100	Other People's Dirt: A Housecleaner's Curious Adventures	Books	4	7	8	N	N	The mean queen of clean	A collection of essays from an ex-academic and writer who cleans houses.  Why does she clean houses?  Well, therein lies the tale.  She uses cleaning as an excuse to snoop, living out her faded CIA dreams; she cleans because it helps her organize the mental and emotional clutter of her own life; and she cleans, at least once, simply to serve (in Japan, where a cleaning sect called Ittoen does precisely this).  Other pieces investigate how others clean: the aforementioned Japanese cleaning commune, ascetic and humble; her childhood Mexican maid, whom she interviews with minor success; the maid to nobility and American moguls; naked house cleaners; even a woman who cleans up after homicides and suicides.  At one point, Rafkin joins Merry Maids, a corporate cleaning service, partly due to desperation and partly as a kind of experiment (the horrifying abuse of labor she encounters there echoes Barbara Ehrenreich's findings from her own similar experiment in Nickel And Dimed).  Rafkin certainly has her downside: she gossips about her employers (in stark contrast to the proud, confidential maid to the ultra-rich she interviews), treats their possessions with indifference, to say the least (she doesn't even apologize for breaking one client's knick-knack), looks through their things, tries on their clothes, even makes love on one clent's bed.  But her prose is crisp and clear, and she has an unusual power to be disarmingly funny about a mundane subject like dirt, or zeroing in on the tragedy of a life without wallowing in sentimentality.  She's at her best when talking about her interview subjects rather than herself, but she's open about everything. It's a quick, edgy read, and everyone who's ever hired a maid should read it.	2003-03-18
US	52688407	RF8IB3QRS4IZA	1582343284	346702746	The Mandala of Sherlock Holmes	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Begins with a bang, ends with a whimper	A pastiche of Holmes, set in India and Tibet.  Taking as his starting-point the return of Holmes after his supposed death in the canon, wherein the detective reveals that he was travelling in Tibet under the name Sigurson, Norbu recreates those lost years in the Holmes chronicles.  His narrator this time is none other than Hurree Mookerjee, from Rudyard Kipling's Kim (which, lamentably, I've not read).  For the first half of the book, Norbu succeeds in weaving the two worlds, that of Victorian super-sleuth and the Raj, brilliantly.  The puzzle of the brass elephant, the way Holmes pulls a fast one on some Thugs who are sent to attack the stalwart pair, and Holmes' skills at disguise are all classic Doyle with an Indian flavor.  So far, so good - and the comic relief from the pudgy but proud Hurree adds even more color, as does the fine old Raj language (\\"a pukka villain,\\" indeed).  But suddenly, the book turns, and I can even pinpoint the exact location things begin to sour.  It's at the beginning of chapter 17, under the apt rubric \\"...And Beyond.\\"  As in, beyond the rational world of Holmes, and into a world where Holmes springs into actiuon spurred on not by deduction but by \\"an odd feeling\\" which, of course, turns out to be a mystical premonition.  A world of the mystic, of magic (hellfire, healing, magic crystals and energy shields!).  I felt as if by that point, Norbu was using a character named Holmes, but who wasn't anything like the Holmes of the canon, to propel his story into a bizarre fantasy blend of Tibetan myth and New Age occult theories.  Indeed, Holmes' personality changes altogether, and it's hard to believe that this super-powerful mystic could be the same character who goes back to England and solves murder cases.  Too bad, because judging from the first two thirds or so, Norbu's got a real flair for language, pacing, suspense and mystery.  A shame.	2003-03-17
US	52688407	RP3WGE7SUDRQD	0142002267	437745521	Word Freak: Heartbreak, Triumph, Genius, and Obsession in the World of Competitive Scrabble Players	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Fascinating look at obsession with a game	The author, an otherwise reputable sports reporter and writer, spent two years devoting his life to Scrabble in order to document the obsession, eccentricity, and passion found in the world of competitive Scrabble.  Fatsis talks about the history of the game and how the tournaments were born, but the real star of this book is the game itself, and the expert players.  He introduces us to the quirky oddballs, I mean esteemed luminaries, who form the upper echelons of Scrabble playing: the uptight, meditating and self-affirming expert who comes across as arrogant; the affable and possibly hypochondriac Joel, nick-named \\"G.I. Joel,&quot; as in Gastro-Intentinal, for obvious and unfortunate reasons; the unemployable African-American quasi-activist, ever complaining about the Man; the neurotic, pill-popping Matt, also unemployable.  Fatsis acknowledges that he's highlighted the eccentric characters among the experts and only breifly touched upon the many \\"normal\\" expert players, and why not?  It makes for more interesting reading.  Interesting, too, is the game as it's played by experts: a different game indeed from drawing-room amateurs' bouts.  The words are archaic to the point of unrecognizability: two-letter words like AA and SH also abound, allowing for players to lay tiles atop or below other words instead of intersecting them in the familiar way.  The only way to become an expert (a goal Fatsis soon becomes literally obsessed with) is to memorize reams of these words; many players are only vaguely familiar with their meanings, if at all.  They know only whether the words are acceptable in the official word list.  It comes to a point where the letters are, as one expert puts it, \\"scoring tools:\\" they may as well be colors, or shapes that you arrange in memorized patterns.  And in a way, that's strange and sad, for isn't Scrabble a game of active word power, not rote memorization of thousands of letter strings?  In any case, a fascinating look into a world of obsession, written in a clear, intelligent, and honest style.  Hard to put down.	2003-03-17
US	52688407	R3STPQBXZEP2J1	0679725458	398281410	African Madness	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Not the finest travel writing	A collection of four pieces on African history or culture.  \\"The Woman Who Loved Gorillas\\" is a stark, unflattering look at Dian Fossey.  Differing from the usual hagiography about Fossey, this essay focuses on her mistreatment of the Africans, her erratic and supposedly violent behavior, and her anti-social arrogance.  It's not a slam piece, though, offering motives about her murder and admitting that Dian did much for the gorillas of Rwanda.  \\"The Last of the Dog-Headed Men\\" is a look at the elusive indri, a \\"singing\\" lemur of Madagascar.  \\"The Emperor Who Ate His People\\" is a look back at the career of Central African Republic dictator Bokassa.  Finally, \\"In Search of the Source Of AIDS\\" is both a quest for possible sources of the virus and a look at how the disease is ravaging Africa (circa 1987).  The last essay might be the most powerful, if it weren't so dated.  On the whole, the book serves well as a source of interesting information, viz. on the indri, Bokassa, the history of Madagascar, how totemism works in modern Africa, etc.  It is marred, though, by Shoumatoff's odd tendency to make general pronouncements on national character (belied by the facts which he himself relates a page or two later) : \\"the Rwandans are a peaceful people who abhor violence\\" (and so are unlikely to have killed Fossey with a machete, of all things); \\"the Malagasies are, on the whole, a remarkably serne and wonderfully polite people\\" (I guess all that tribal warfare is just gentle native play).  So again, this is a fine document for learning facts, but great travel writing requires a clear and unbiased attitude, which Shoumatoff doesn't have.	2003-03-08
US	52688407	R2B0P6KE27OUXK	0060958472	797120900	Poker Nation: A High-Stakes, Low-Life Adventure into the Heart of a Gambling Country	Books	2	1	4	N	N	Too many subjects, not enough solid writing	The ramblings of a writer and expert-level poker player (he played, and was knocked out of, the World Series of Poker one year). It's clear that Bellin is primarily a magazine article writer, for his book is plagued by Short Attention Span Syndrome.  Bits of autobiography are scattered here and there, between chapters on probability, poker \\"tells,\\" a primer on bluffing, a few thoughts on cheating, the perils of gambling addiction, portraits of professional poker players, even a chapter on casino mogul Benny Benion, for some reason (why him in particular?).  The book is peppered with distracting poker lingo, which doesn't exactly help one sail through the passages on the probabilities of drawing various poker hands (yawn).  The chapter on tells is interesting enough, but how is a study of the individual idiosyncracies and tics of Bellin's friends and associates going to help the reader?  A more general assessment of the more common tells or probable tics (eyes darting away, hands covering the face, etc.) would be much more useful.  The book is rambling, there are odd segues, and Bellin both repeats and contradicts himself (for example, on whether poker has a \\"romantic\\" mystique, on the benefits of his personally stacking a deck).  And as if Bellin's aware that he doesn't have the material for a book length project here, he relies heavily on very lengthy quotes from his subjects: poker pros, female players, his own friends.  The bottom line is this is an interesting subject, but there's too much ground covered over too short a time; Bellin's prose is clear and simple, but he's a mediocre writer when it comes to the big picture, and there's a lot of filler here.	2003-03-08
US	52688407	R2PTFRZX1T8Y6K	0618001905	966326914	King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror, and Heroism in Colonial Africa	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Essential reading for the student of colonialism	The rarely told, indeed deliberately forgotten, tale of the greed of King Leopold II, who through hypocrisy, false promises, obfuscations and outright lies, took possession of the Congo.  Under his rule, which he tried to depict as beneficial to the natives (bringing the savages the ennobling light of civilization, the typical Victoriam delusions), a sadistic form of slavery was the order of the day.  Leopold's reign, offically endorsing mutilation, whipping, massacre and kidnapping, oversaw the killing of fully half the Congo's population, a figure Hochschild and others estimate at ten million deaths.  This is a chilling book, written as an indictment without a single false step.  The pacing is deliberate, the charges made plain, the research thorough.  It's a harrowing tale, and Hochschild peoples it with villains and heroes (the great pioneers of the human rights movements that challenged Leopold's self-serving catalogue of lies).  Hochschild never manages to secure absolute evidence that Leopold knew of the atrocities, but given the detail-obsessed, controlling personality that emerges from the book, it seems that the king had to know at least most of what went on.  An indispensable work of history.	2003-02-13
US	52688407	RWN6VF2C0S6J	0306809990	841876011	Da Capo Best Music Writing 2000: The Year's Finest Writing on Rock, Pop, Jazz, Country, and More	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fine writing on all genres of music	A collection of great (and maybe not so great) essays on all genres of music, from a day in the life of Puff Daddy to Roseanne Cash remembering the songs her father sang her, to Lester Bangs' criticism, to a superb analysis of Ry Cooder's personality and music.  I liked all the pieces, especially the quietly admiring piece on Cooder, the thorough look at the wild life and music of Nigerian musician Fela, and an erudite explanation of the musical legacy of gospel singer Dorothy Love Coates.  It's interesting that the pieces that interested me the most were about musicians I knew the least; the best writing made me want to hear their music and appreciate it as much as these writers did.  That really does make for the best of music writing.	2003-02-06
US	52688407	RYMCEH8Z63G0C	0306810662	257538027	Da Capo Best Music Writing 2001: The Year's Finest Writing on Rock, Pop, Jazz, Country, and More	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Something Here For Everyone	Another collection on music writing.from Da Capo, this edition does not dissapoint admirers of the previous year's entry.  Hornsby has chosen well, representing a broad spectrum of styles and artists (though it must be said that women and black artists are given relatively short shrift).  The most interesting pieces seem to be, once again, those on the least mainstream artists, probably because so much has been said about the hitmakers before.  Still, all the pieces are at least interesting (however, I don't understand why NPR editor Sarah Vowell's short essay on Al Gore is included).  Standouts include terrific novelist Steve Erickson's attempt to capture the mercurial Neil Young on paper; a sad tribute of sorts to the forgotten South African Zulu, Solomon Linda, who improvised the melody to the song we know as &quot;The Lion Sleeps Tonight;&quot; a lengthy New York Times piece on the impact of hip-hop culture on whites and blacks, and how they in turn shape the culture; and Metal Mike Sauders making a surprisingly good case for Disney Radio being the ultimate independent station.  More disappointing are a nostalgic homage to the gangsters that ran the early rock business by the usually powerful Nick Tosches, a prosaic account of a Barbra Streisand concert by a non-fan, and an uninformative tribute to Jeff Buckley by his neighbor.  But, as I said, all of the material here is at least interesting, and there's much here that will inspire readers to listen as well.	2003-02-06
US	52688407	R11GMUT95S2I52	0375702024	537031843	The Man Who Ate Everything	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Funny, informative and inspiring (to make you cook, that is)	Despite the Oliver Sacks-like title, this is a culinary florilegium by the food critic of Vogue and Slate.  I quote the New York Time Book Review, bowing to its laconic accuracy: &quot;Part cookbook, part travelogue, part medical and scientific treatise.&quot;  Steingarten is tireless in poring over the scientific research on nutrition and cooking, and clearly loves his subject as much as he loves to try the same recipe a dozen times, hunting for perfection.  He praises the greatest cooking and the finest simple pleasures (McDonald's, barbecue), investigates everything from ketchup to salt to Kobe beef, and argues for common-sense nutrition.  He kicks against the Food Police: salt doesn't raise blood pressure, sugar isn't that bad for you, alcohol is good for you once a day, etc.  (His essay &quot;Salad, the Silent Killer,&quot; even if it doesn't burst the bubbles of the Food Police, serves as wicked parody of obsessive toxin-phobia and fault-finding.)  To top it all off, Steingarten writes very well and is at times wickedly funny.  A great food read.	2003-01-26
US	52688407	R39U8ONDSWFI19	0446343455	293791358	Tourist Season	Books	3	3	4	N	N	More an amusing satire than a crime mystery	Set in Miami, this satiric novel of eco-terrorism concerns a newspaper reporter turned private eye who is pitted against a former colleague turned leader of a terrorist cell.  Skip Wiley, the crazed ringleader, wants to return Florida to the Seminoles and everglades by driving tourists out through terror.  It's lightweight, of course, but it's certainly amusing, has colorful characters and, with its sharp satire of everything from tourism to race relations to the newsroom, makes high entertainment out of mayhem.  Hiaasen is very good at keeping the reader guessing, giving background on minor characters doomed to become crocodile food and others who merely fade away, so that it's hard to tell which of the main characters will make it alive to the end.  The book is marred slightly by a few gaps of credibility, even for a farce (for example, the police center on one date only for a possible attack, not considering an equally possible date even after the first passes uneventfully).  In all, though, it's a fine, funny thriller, with a satisfyingly ambiguous ending.	2003-01-26
US	52688407	R12SQE2U8A8T8N	0140052623	875092793	Sherlock Holmes vs. Dracula	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Clever pastiche; more for Holmes fans than Dracula fans	A rather clever retelling of the Bram Stoker tale with Holmes as a character, narrated, of course, by Watson, and purporting to be a part of the main canon.  Estleman is good at recreating the Holmesian aspect: the boughs howling in moonlit graveyards, the gas-lamps' blobby light in thick fog, etc.  He's done his research as to the period and the writing style, and it does work.  (Less present is the macabre horror of Stoker's novel.)  On the whole, it's a great idea, and the book presents Victorian thrills and action and chase scenes aplenty.  Only the end of the book is a disappointment: in order not to rewrite too disruptively the Dracula side, Esteleman must leave Holmes out of the finale altogether, making for a rather anticlimactic ending.	2003-01-26
US	52688407	R3ESZ54ZOIRCFN	0380811189	429465760	A Walk Among the Tombstones: A Matthew Scudder Crime Novel	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A good Scudder, but not a classic	A very gritty and black entry into the series of the former alkie but still unlicensed private eye.  In this book, Scudder is hired by a drug dealer to find the sadistic spree killers who kidnapped and butchered his wife.  With the help of his street connections, Scudder decides to mete out some more of the rough justice that is becoming his trademark.  But lest he become a remorseless killing machine, Block allows Scudder to begin to craft some domestic bliss at the end of this saga.  It's a fine read, because Block is always entertaining.  A few points distract from the story.  One is unfortunate timing; the book is dated, with its labyrinthine plot to get ahold of a phone number that today could be obtained by the police without a second thought, and most civilians who have the technology.  Block uses a pair of teenage hackers as the tools for this caper, and it seems like Block's stretching, trying to get into the big \\"thing\\" of the early '90s.  Clearly Block's not on familiar ground, plot- or dialogue-wise.  He should stick to cynical thugs and world-weary cops.  The other point is that this book has a lot of black humor of the particularly morbid variety.  The Scudder that I'm familiar with wouldn't have made a joke about a woman getting her breast cut off (in A Dance At the Slaughterhouse, his reaction to torture was appropriately grim).  Maybe now that Scudder's found love, he's light hearted enough tocrack about torture and mutiliation, but I'm not sure I like it.	2002-10-24
US	52688407	R85JCEBEKRVTL	0785108661	918692176	Origin	Books	4	1	4	N	N	One of the best comics of recent years	I don't care at all about keeping up the \\"mystique\\" of Wolverine. Some self-appointed comics purists might fear that telling his origin definitvely will mar his \\"mysterious\\" image. I'm with the editors of Marvel and this project: 35 years is long enough to be coy about a character's past; and if you have a good story to tell, do it. That's what escapist literature is all about. This is a very well-written story, with twists of plot, rich characterization and fair dialogue. I disagree with the back jacket blurb that it's up there with Speigelman's Maus or Moore's Watchmen, but it is up there with the best work of Neil Gaiman, Grant Morrison or the touching and exciting drama of DC's Crisis.  The art is truly superb: not too stylized, but not John Byrne / George Perez \\"comics standard\\" either. In particular a scene with a pack of wolves is beautifully drawn. I heartily recommend this graphic novel for anyone with an interest in a good story.	2002-10-12
US	52688407	R33YBHGFDP64SD	0815606532	858319395	Teleliteracy (Television and Popular Culture)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Well-written, but fails to convince	A rather lengthy argument by a TV critic for respecting television as a medium and appreciating the rich cultural gifts it's given us.  The author's right when he shows that new media are always reviled by the protectors of the old, from Plato to the very recent birth of \\"film studies\\" as a legitimate field.  And yes, many critics of TV are simply following this pro-status quo, kneejerk line of reasoning.  But Bianculli goes a little overboard.  Yes, a lot of BBC specials and American literary adaptions are high theater, and \\"The Simpsons\\" is a very clever reflection and parody of our society.  But he has to keep referring again and again to the same thirty shows, in all the 50 year history of TV, to make his point.  Obviously, when television is used to adapt literary works, or documentaries, it's a very powerful medium, and kneejerk criticism of it - \\"Turn TV Off day\\" including the news, Discovery Chanel, etc. - it's absurd.  And he certainly makes his point that what's on TV becomes common knowledge (does anyone disagree?).  But popularity isn't a sign that a medium deserves respect.  What Bianculli constantly steps around in his at times repetitive treatise is that 99% of TV is, at most, amusing; at worst, appallingly inane.  In short, he succeeds in arguing that TV is a superb medium of creative expression; but he fails to convince that the great bulk of what is actually on TV is worth watching.	2002-08-03
US	52688407	RMMVNGGH13NYO	0151002967	785572493	A Flame of Pure Fire: Jack Dempsey and the Roaring '20s	Books	2	10	13	N	N	Far too biased	This purports to be a study of the heavyweight who helped legitimize boxing by being a superb athlete and, outwardly at least, a gentleman.  Dempsey was, without question, a very interesting character.  This biography, which is actually hagiography, however, is almost usless in showing us Dempsey the man rather than the icon.  A man, you see, has flaws, and the Depsey portrayed here - by a starry-eyed, name-dropping adorer who more than once describes the Manassa Mauler as \\"beautiful\\" - has none.  What about those tales of Dempsey being in with the mob?  A myth.  How does Kahn know?  According to Dempsey, he turned Al Capone down, and that was that.  That's good enough for Kahn.  Wasn't Carpentier too light for Dempsey, as all contemprary reporters thought?  No, another myth.  (Even though Kahn quotes Dempsey himself as saying \\"he's just too light to beat me.\\")  What about rumors of Jack's hands being taped with plaster of Paris?  Another myth.  But, on the other hand, was Dempsey-Tunney II, which Jack lost, fixed?  Without a doubt, according to Kahn.  Playing fast and loose with quotes and facts, casting Dempsey's first wife as \\"a whore\\" \\"out of a screaming nightmare\\" and Dempsey as a knight in shining armor, dismissing all other boxers without any thought, Kahn is obviously far too in love with his subject to have anything useful to say.  Oh, it's fairly well written and does give some picture of the era.  But Dempsey the man?  He's not in this book.	2002-06-23
US	52688407	R3JDL2MOL4ZBDE	0805063889	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Very readable, extremely important	The author drops her writing career and works for a short time in three states as a waitress, a maid (and nursing home assistant on weekends), and a stock sorter at Wal-Mart. It's a sort of experiment to see if she, like the millions of America's poor, can try to make enough on bare minimum wage to pay rent and food for at least a month. While this is hardly a feat of in-depth undercover journalism (Ehrenreich refuses to relinquish a car, quits the jobs after a month or when she has a rough day, and is picky about housing; George Orwell would smirk endlessly), the book more than makes its point. It is simply shocking that so many who work full time, sometimes also having another part-time job, cannot make enough to live alone. That so many of America's poorest cannot scrounge together enough to make a deposit on an apartment, so they live continuously and precariously in motels or other weekly lodgings. That so many large corporations and the vile managerial staff they employ are so devious, truculent, and willing to break the law in their constant degradation of wage employees. Wal-Mart in particular comes out looking pretty bad, the employees can't even speak to each other on the floor; however, maid referral services are also exposed as hypocritical and uncaring. Ehrenreich may not be an intrepid reporter, but she's a fine prose stylist and essayist, and she says what needs saying. Bravo.	2002-05-31
US	52688407	R3AYTMFA28UN0L	0860512347	3591015	Rocky Marciano	Books	3	9	12	N	N	A good read, but glosses over a few things	A biography of the undefeated champ, from his somewhat hard childhood and attempts<BR>to break into baseball, to his boxing career after the army, to his retirement and the life of Reilly that followed.  It's written in an almost fictionalized style - quotes from scenes in Rocky's life come from interviews, doubtless, but as exact quotes they must be taken with a large grain of salt.  Skehan doesn't judge, nor is he critical; he merely reports, without skepticism.  The picture that emerges is an ambiguous one.  The Rock was obviously a tightfisted cheapskate, sometimes to the point of criminality (cheating pay phones, defrauding an insurance company for ten grand).  He had strange ideas about money; not trusting banks, he'd squirrel away large chunks of cash.  He had all sorts of business deals, shady and otherwise, that he enacted without so much as a signature or IOU.  Many of Rocky's friends insist he was staunchly loyal, but his long-time trainer Al Columbo's estrangement, his lifelong argument with another friend over a probably imagined forty bucks, and his failure to help out the boxer he hospitalized all belie this picture.  The consensus is that Rocky was pretty much the all-time greatest; since he faced the champions of his time when they were nearing 40, this is disputable, and the book should state that.  Certainly, Skehan blatantly glosses over serious flaws in Rocky's character, such as soliciting prostitutes, leaving his wife and daughter for long stretches, cutting short vacations with them, etc.  In all this is a thorough, interesting, easy to read bio, but it could stand to show a few more warts than it does.  He was a great champion; we don't need to think he was a saint, too.	2002-05-29
US	52688407	R30FPCXWCMNKY	0786884665	30407008	My Goodness: A Cynic's Short-Lived Search for Sainthood	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Mildly amusing, without any real wit	The mildly right-wing curmudgeon writes about his attempts to practice random acts of kindness, support dozens of charities, and just generally act in a ecologically sustainable way.  Obviously, he did this because he got a book out of it; whether there was any genuine impulse to be a nicer guy, or regret at attacking fatuous, self-important leftists like Alec Baldwin, I can't tell from reading the book.  On the whole, it was vaguely amusing, especially the parts where he apologized to famous people for his various catty remarks.  But most of the book was just a recital of all that is Extremely Left; Queenan quotes classified ads from environmental papers, or talks about manatees and wheatgrass or saving lab rats as if they were inherently funny things.  In some ways I guess they are; but you have to be a mildly right-wing middle America mass media curmudgeon to think it's funny just to point and laugh.	2002-05-27
US	52688407	R2DHSTKQZ2VMQO	B000066TRO	451518791	The Devil and Sonny Liston	Books	3	1	7	N	N	A fine mood piece, but lacking as hard biography	A study of the short, mysterious, brutal and strange life of Charles Sonny Liston.  Tosches is an erudite writer; his vivid, poetic prose propels his narrative along, even when as a detective biographer he goes out on a limb.  It's fact that Liston was in with the Mob, but that it's a given in this book that Liston's two fights to Ali were fixed is a little preseumptious - but only a little.  Tosches has a wealth of interviews and solid evidence at his disposal; that and his moody, evocative prose keeps his story going.  At times, the book meanders too much into mini-bios of Mob figures and peripheral boxing people, and skips too quickly over important events in Liston's life (his fights with Ali and the media hype preceding them, for example).  On the whole, though, this is a finely-crefted and important look into, not so much Liston's shadowy life, but the shadowy world that he inhabited.	2002-05-27
US	52688407	R5GAZVBMN86NW	1585790249	552381525	Quartered Safe Out of Here: A Recollection of the War in Burma	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Superbly written, totally honest	The author of the Flashman series gives his account, from the ground level, of the campaign in Burma with his beloved Nine Section.  This war memoir is fascinating for several reasons.  First, Fraser is, for all intents and purposes, Flashman himself: the broad racial delineations, the bald admiration for famous generals, the unabashed Imperialist fervor mixed with rational analysis of battle, even the fear of waiting before battle and the mad adrenaline rush afterwards.  It strikes me that Flashy isn't a character at all, just Fraser himself, made a bit more cowardly, and set in the Victorian era.  For Fraser is one of the last of the old unreconstructed crotchety men of the empire: the book is vehemently non-PC.  Fraser admits that he still feels hatred for the Japs (as he calls the enemy), even preferring not to sit by them in public places today.  The '40s propaganda image of the Jap as \\"an evil, misshapen, buck-toothed barbarian who looked and behaved like something sub-Stone Age\\" is Fraser's image of them to a T.  (Which might say something about his abilities to assess things rationally, since by his own admission civilized lights mustn't shine much in war, or you'll lose; and his section committed what would be called war crimes today; obviously, both sides harbored the same kind of racist illusions, but Fraser can't see that).  He bemoans many other facets of modern mores as well (like \\"counseling\\" and \\"war guilt\\"), but the main thrust of the book is the sometimes funny, sometimes appalling, obviously soul- changing experience that was war.  It's a superb war memoir, peppered with odd characters and vivid battle scenes, and a very important record of what the average foot-soldier felt at the time.	2002-05-21
US	52688407	RN9R04G1ZBX9G	0345336976	318730795	Without Feathers	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Mostly hilarious	A collection of Allen's comedic writings.  This is for the most part solid, laugh-out-loud Allen parodies and absurdity.  Allen is at his best when parodying, say, the great Russians writers (\\"Should I marry W.? Not if she won't tell me the other letters in her last name.\\") or Ibsen, as in \\"Lovborg's Women Considered,\\" or just being plain absurd, as in the superbly useless \\"Slang Origins.\\"  Throughout, the neurotic Allen themes resonate --- fear of death and intimacy, etc.  There are a couple of low points, like \\"God (A Play),\\" which is somewhat flat compared to the true absurdity of the meta-textual pioneers it parodies like Pirandello and Ionesco.  But in al, this is prime, vintage Allen, and at his best, he's note-perfect.	2002-05-21
US	52688407	R14MQ2NCS42LAN	0156013975	376797360	Jumping Fire: A Smokejumper's Memoir of Fighting Wildfire	Books	3	0	3	N	N	Great material, could use an editor	The oldest active smokejumper in history tells all, or at least what he went through during one hard season of parachuting into the Alaska wilderness to fight fires.  Taylor gives a blow-by-blow account of the smokejumper's life, from early training to equipment checks to freefall to digging soil lines at the foot of raging fires to the boredom and loneliness.  Along the way he manages to tell of his sexual exploits with two pretty girls and pack in several anecdotes of jumping, some funny, some tragic, almost all involving wounds.  My problem with the book is that Taylor's not such a great writer.  I got a fair sense of what it might be like to face a forest fire, sawing logs and digging line; and though the jumper's jargon threw me, his accounts of parachuting are good (there is a glossary).  Still, Taylor lacks a good sense of dramatic structure (except in his depiction of the final, almost fatal conflagration), he doesn't try to explain what motivates these men to face hell daily, and the book's way overlong at 440 pages.	2002-05-21
US	52688407	R1D8SY12XVUDGS	1571430814	796647175	I Really Should Have Stayed Home: The Worst Journeys from Harare to Eternity (Travel Literature Series)	Books	2	7	8	N	N	Pretty dull	This book is a third sequel to a book of established writers' travel horror stories.  Here, amateur writers share their travel woes.  It is, clearly, an attempt to milk a cash cow.  While the writing is adequate (certainly not great), it's the content of the stories that really makes this a useless anthology.  They're the quality of story you might tell your friends at dinner, but are in no way deserving of publication.  Examples include: I was on a plane that was delayed; I couldn't find my car after the Super Bowl; we rented a boat and wrecked it; the service at this restaurant in England was very slow; we went to a hotel and damned if it wasn't a fairly shabby hotel; we ate some food and got sick.  There are a few stories as interesting as, say, getting hurt and experiencing Vietnam's standard of hospital care.  But mostly this is very dull, and pretty close to worthless.	2002-05-21
US	52688407	R3IEWNQLRRCZ51	0380977753	38857560	Walking the Bible: A Journey by Land Through the Five Books of Moses	Books	2	31	39	N	N	What a wonderful idea... Poorly executed	As the subtitle suggests, the author retraces the Pentateuch as best he can, Bible in hand and affable expert in tow.  Mostly a disappointing book, I'm afraid.  First, Feiler is a rather laborious writer --- the 424 pages are packed with rather stilted purple prose at times (his imagery is wild and uninformative: mountains resemble pies, &quot;a drip castle,&quot; &quot;sweet potatoes,&quot; &quot;rancid hamburger meat,&quot; or bizarrely, &quot;melting dinosaurs&quot; [!]).  Second, Feiler is one of those travel writer who feels the need to make every single thing an epiphany: this is okay for places like Mount Ararat, or the possible site of the burning bush; but I counted at least ten places where Feiler recorded a soul-shaking discovery (Egypt isn't the bad guy in the Bible!, The actual spot where things happened doesn't matter! &quot;The desert was part of my own geography&quot;! The desert gives you confidence by showing you how small you are! Etc etc).  By the way, he feels fear of that inner geography ebbing away not once, but twice.  Third, Feiler is a rather naive scholar.  He tries to get at the &quot;truth&quot; of the Bible by asking stupid questions about the context of the stories: yes, they really had birthrights that could be sold, for example.  Well of course: the stories don't take place in a fictional universe, they're products of their time!  It's like approaching the &quot;truth&quot; of Dickens by triumphantly showing that people really did talk like his characters in 19thcentury London.  His naivite is deeper than that: &quot;I basically believed there was a unified notion of God,&quot; he writes.  What?!  He never considered that God differs in Islam, Christianity, Judaism, even within the Bible itself?!  Is he really the best person to write this book?  Obviously not.  There's a lot that's very informative and interesting in this tome --- ruminations on and possible explanations for manna, Moses' name, the location of the Sea of Reeds, eventhe abundance of quail during the exodus.  But there's  too few gems to justify slogging through this mountain of banality, really.	2001-05-26
US	52688407	RN43ARD410O2	006099486X	418849151	The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of The Oxford English Dictionary	Books	3	7	8	N	N	A great story; suffers just a bit in the telling	The fascinating, appalling, sad tale of the lunatic American, John Minor, who became one of the most prolific contributors to the Oxford English Dictionary as it was being created by its learned Scottish editor, James Murray --- while Minor dwelt in an asylum for murder.  An amazing tale, well worth telling, even if Winchester pads it with purple prose and much tangential material.  Perhaps the most important part of the book is the debunking of the myth that told how Murray and Minor met, and how Murray was only then clued in to Minor's position (in fact the Scot was told before by a friend).  Oddly, this myth is reprinted, as fact, on the dust jacket.  Winchester also adds drama to the tale, which is like painting the lily; he tries, for example, to force a sort of parallelism on Minor's work on the OED and improvement in his condition, though the story he tells doesn't support that; Minor just stopped contributing as he declined, though the OED continued apace.  I would have liked to read more on Murray's prodigal depth of learning and his method of work --- but this is mostly Minor's story, and it's an enthralling one.	2001-04-17
US	52688407	R2SDV7E47MBYEM	0871131900	248732697	Night Train to Turkistan: Modern Adventures Along China's Ancient Silk Road (TRAVELER)	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Very funny, but lightweight.	Stevens and three friends (including author Mark Salzman) follow the route of Fleming and Maillart, a 1930s adventure couple from Beijing to Kashgar, the capital of Chinese Turkistan.  This is a fun little book, at times truly hilarious, as Stevens blithely recounts the squalid horrors of traveling in a Third World country, or is challenged again and again by mendacious, obstinate bureaucracy who will say anything to prevent them from traveling.  But there's not much history or anthropology to speak of, other than a few comments about the Tibetans or Uighurs, or passages from Fleming's book.  Nor does Stevens come to any novel or shrewd insights about China, other than the Cultural Revolution must have sucked, although no one will talk to him about it, and its bureaucracy is like an army in its cold homogeneity.  It even dismisses  the Tienanmen Square riots at the end!  A lightweight, amusing travel piece; it could have bean more meaningful, such as Salzman's books or Bill Holm's Coming Home Crazy.	2001-04-03
US	52688407	R2MMKOTTWU2WU7	158234082X	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Entertaining stuff	A memoir of the chef's life, from his first raw oyster as a lad in France to becoming executive chef in a New York restaurant.  Along the way, there are tales of depravity (everyone he knows seems to be, like himself, a drug-snorting, rock-and-rolling, profanity-spewing reprobate) in the kitchen, caveats about what is and isn't hygienic in most restaurants, and essays on subjects like his Tokyo sojourn, or a portrait of a more sedate master chef.  This is great reading; both the memoir parts of the book and the essays on general subjects are well-written, delightfully disgusting, and always fun.  Bordain tries just a bit too hard to be Hunter Thompson at times, and overdoes it with the military metaphors for the chef's life --- but he did hit bottom on heroin, so he gets to be Gonzo, I guess.  The book also could have used a glossary; Bordain tosses around chef's names and cooking terms with alacrity and no definitions.  Aside from that, this  look into the &quot;culinary underbelly&quot; is darkly comic, informative, and satisfying.  It's no great literature, but for what it is, it's just right.	2001-04-01
US	52688407	R1T4OB6VO26EQN	0385494327	214937180	Black Dogs: A Novel	Books	5	35	38	N	N	brillaint observation of social decay	The story of a young couple whose estrangement begins almost the day they're married, as told by the fascinated son-in-law, an orphan himself.  An amazing novel, as universal as the fall of Communism and the memory of genocide and as introspective as one young woman's discovery of the mystical, of God, inside herself when she encounters some vicious dogs.  As cosmic as the problem of pure evil and as ordinary as a bickering couple.  Beautifully written, masterfully paced, and told with just the right amount of tension mixed with a soothing degree of acceptance.  Each character is fully realized, and the dialogue perfect in its realism as well as its restraint.  McEwan lets the characters reveal themselves, though their actions as well as actual descriptions of each other, and the subtleties, and potential misunderstandings, are complex and brilliant.	2001-03-29
US	52688407	R20I83230TI3BW	0060920084	754387444	The Lost Continent: Travels in Small-Town America	Books	3	10	15	N	N	Funny, but hardly a cultural document	Bryson is a very funny writer.  He pokes fun at everything and everyone, including himself, which is good, because he's clearly a fussy, cheap, crotchety, fat old jerk.  The self-deprecation goes a long way to mitigate  his lack of appeal.  This book is extremely humorous - Bryson's got real  comic timing - but it has all the weight of a Dave Barry column.  Bryson  never explores small town America, despite his purported intent; he just  visits the same tourist traps any of us would on a cross country trip.   This isn't bad, necessarily; it's just not exactly a rumination on the  &quot;lost America.&quot;  If you want that, get William Least Heat-Moon's  Blue Highways or Jonathan Raban's Hunting Mister Heartbreak - two excellent   books about the real underbelly of non-corporate America.  Bryson's book  is a great read, but it doesn't say anything that any halfway observant  person hasn't already grasped about mainstream America.	1999-12-02
US	52688407	R3TK8XFDLKV35R	1850893829	896734674	The Great Pursuit (Transaction Large Print Books)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Restrained, for sharpe	The story of a publisher, Frensic, who convinces an unimaginative would-be author, Peter Piper, to pretend authorship of a wildly successful, pornographic novel.  It's a funny book, though not riotously so: more witty  and arch, or getting its humor by deflating stereotypes.  Its plot is  devious and twisted, but though there's sex and a riot and some explosions,  it seems restrained compared to other Sharpe books.  I must say I don't  care much for the abrupt, highly unsatisfying ending.  Start reading Sharpe  with Wilt or Blott.	1999-08-11
