US	52683862	R3GUSJW9YY0V0E	0143034901	734819982	The Shadow of the Wind	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A most enjoyable and intense read	I bought the book on a lark because I saw it advertised in the The New York Times Book review.  This is usually not a great recommendation but I was feeling easily influenced at the time.<br /><br />I set the book aside for a time because I was preoccupied with other readings and just barely skimmed it and just as I was about to embark on a trip to Kong Kong I really started getting involved in the book.  Suffice it to say that I read most of the book on my long flights to and from Hong Kong.<br /><br />The plotting was intricate and totally and absolutely engrossing.  The imagery was descriptive and yet ever so subtly amorphous.  The author uses a very seductuvely mode of writing that simply draws you into the story in slow and subtle shades.  By the time you realize that you are completely consumed by the whole package, it is too late, you are hooked.<br /><br />Unlike most of the best sellers that I have read lately, Zafon does not use MTV styled quick pacing and action to move the narrative along.  Instead he works and molds and pulls you along with the story.  Some times in languid dream like sequences and sometimes in quick staccato pacing. The idea is that these are different people telling the story and he changes the pacing according to the way the characters are telling the story.<br /><br />Since much of the story are third person narratives, his job is made that much more difficult, but he is clearly up to the task.<br /><br />Like the previous reviewers, I can see Garica Marquez in the phrasing and imagery, and I can also see the stylings of the genre writing termed magical realism in this book but it isn't quite fully embraced in the traditions of the form.  Instead, it utilizes the tools of the genre to tell a more contemporary and less mythological mystery.<br /><br />As I sat in my seat in the 747 coming home, I closed the covers of the book, breathed a sigh of satisfaction and started to berate myself for not having read the book earlier and lamented the fact that the grand adventure of the story was over.  I also started plotting to get the next book by Zafon.  Yes, i felt like a dope addict, hooked on a story and an author.k earlier and lamented the fact that the grand adventure of the story was over.  I also started plotting to get the next book by Zafon.  Yes, i felt like a dope addict, hooked on a story and an author.	2005-10-08
US	52683862	R1M938R1U1G8PU	0374148368	129507717	An End to Suffering: The Buddha in the World	Books	4	42	44	N	N	Ambitious Yes.  Organized? NO.  Relevant and interesting? Absolutely!!	As the previous reviewers noted.  This is a very complex undertaking.  It is obvious that Pankaj Mishra is a very talented and original writer and thinker.  It is also very obvious that he really needed to sit and contemplate long and hard on what he wants to say in this book.<br /><br />As previously noted, this is a autobiography of a student in search of a life and a calling.  This is also a cultural biography of the Buddha, thirdly, this is also a meditation on the meaning of Buddhism in contemporary society.<br /><br />I would say that Mishra missed on all three but he aimed so high that upon reflection, the sum of the effort is brilliant.  The synthesis of the bits was ragged, which made for rough reading and understanding, which in turn detracted from the intent of the author.<br /><br />I felt the meditation on the meaning of Buddhism was the weakest part of the three.  Not that he lacked valid points and arguments, on the contrary, he did a greatjob of raising questions and ideas for contemplation.  The whole section towards the end of the book dealing with our society as we know it and as we saw it metamorphose in the aftermath of 911, seems forced and rushed.  It really did not seem like he had much time to really think through his ideas.  He had done much hard work, and he needed to do more, but he stopped short.<br /><br />The history of the Buddha was much more successful, although I think a more pedantic and to the point biography can be found in Karen Armstrong's Buddha.<br /><br />The autobiography was very interesting, the main disappointment I had with it was that I had expected a linkage between the autobiography, the history of the Buddha, and the meditation on the applicability of Buddhist philosophy.  There were parts where he was brilliant in integrating the three, but ultimately he failed.<br /><br />This does not mean that this book is not a good read, or that it does not raise important and fascinating points, it does.  But you finish the book with the feeling that a great opportunity was missed.ut you finish the book with the feeling that a great opportunity was missed.	2005-07-01
US	52683862	R12Z5A8FFKKIAS	0066210704	631741128	The Music of the Primes: Searching to Solve the Greatest Mystery in Mathematics	Books	3	38	42	N	Y	The good, the bad, and the ugly	As the previous reviewers have already noted, du Sautoy does a great job bringing together the history of research that has been done on prime numbers, especially the Riemann Hypothesis and anything that pertains to that problem.  I had not heard of the physics connection until I read this book and I did enjoy reading about it.  The coverage is also very comprehensive and very thorough.<br /><br />The bad is the purple prose that du Sautoy resorts to in order to make the material accessible to the lay reader.  i think perhaps he underestimates his audience -to some a fatal flaw, to others a grating annoyance.  My opinion is somewhere in between.  It is rather difficult to express higher mathematics in a language other than in the mathematical language.  I thought he did a pretty decent job with many of the concepts but I wonder what Simon Singh could have done with the same information.  For example, du Sautoy's explanation of the RSA encryption method was lightweight and confusing.  I think I had to read the pages four or five times before I saw how he was trying to explain the method. I am not a mathematician but I do have extensive background in mathematics, so if I got confused, what happens to the average reader?<br /><br />The ugly is the way he flits around in his narrative.  There is never any sense of when he is done talking about one development and the beginning of another.  the history of the mathematicians were cursory at best.  I understand that the purpose is to explore the idea of primes and their frequency but I agree also that the history and quirks of the mathematicians are interesting sidenotes that help the narrative move along, but don't leave the reader hanging!!!<br /><br />regardless, I would recommend the book because of the expanse of mathemtical ground covered and the interesting concept introduced.  I like the concept, I just did not care for the execution.	2005-06-08
US	52683862	R2OLIJZT4PFSG8	1400061989	897137524	The Franklin Affair: A Novel	Books	2	7	13	N	N	Great premise, ultimately disappointing	How do you write a mystery starring Benjamin Franklin and make it inconsequential?<br /><br />This book started out well enough, plenty of neat \\"I didn't know that!\\" moments about the founding fathers but especially about Franklin, but the book fell far short.  the villain was incredibly one dimensional, the many threads of the story were left unraveled and the whole exercise seemed contrived and forced.  The mystery itself was trite.  I am very disappointed.  I am big fan of Mr. Lehrer but this book left me cold.	2005-05-14
US	52683862	R1H6IRMHCRIE42	0375707425	580961678	Embers	Books	5	5	7	N	N	This was a very pleasant discovery	I just finished this book and it is an amazing read.  Novel grabbed me from the first sentence, and it kept me enraptured until the very last sentence.  The flow of the words, the coherence of thought, and the descriptions were all impressively alluring.  What was most impressive is the thought and emotional forethought that went into plotting the novel.  I truly enjoyed the story but the way the story was told was simply exquisite.<br /><br />I bought the book the week of Christmas, and I read it over the holidays.  It wasn't hard reading but it was very satisfying.<br /><br />Some have found fault with the translator's work.  All I can say is that the translated text flowed beautifully and the plot was nicely relayed to the reader.<br /><br />I have Casanova in Bolzano on my nightstand right now.  I can't wait to start reading.	2005-01-02
US	52683862	R1RYEZIEGBIWPH	067088457X	263289727	Zero: The Biography of a Dangerous Idea	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A most engaging of books	Charles Seife has written an excellent book on the concept of zero.  An idea that had been taken for granted for years.  No one really understand the meaning of the value of the concept of zero at first, but once contemplated, the concept is quite ingenious.<br /><br />I thought Seife did a very admirable job introducing the concept, following along on the chronology and explaining why it was such a devious and subversive concept to the church and to philosophy in general.  I found his explanations lucid and clear and the history is quite interesting.  The chapter on projective geometry was particularly enlightening.<br /><br />Where he really shines is when he coupled zero with infinity.  I have always had a real problem with the relativity concept, even when I was studying physics.  But Seife does an excellent job explaining all of the ideas.  Where he falters is where he tries to make the connection between the numbers with the theories of modern physics, perhaps it is the problem with the concept of superstrings that bogs the narrative down into the morass of incomprehention, but the narrative does bog down when it enters this section.  Since Brian Green has written a much bigger and thicker book on the subject of superstrings, I would hazard to guess that the fault does not lie with Seife but with the subject, which is, by the way, a sub-area of the book, so I wouldn't worry about it.  Even if no one understands the connection between modern physics and zero, the book is a rewarding read.	2004-09-07
US	52683862	RWR5Q9S33ZR0A	0385508719	254491312	Every Second Counts	Books	5	4	8	N	N	I have much more respect for Lance now.	We all know what Lance did these last five years.  We all kind of sort of know about his failures, the Olympics, his failure of his marriage.  What we did not know is that Lance was evolving into a thoughtful and introspective human being.  This book isn't about the bike either.  It is about life, it is about teams, it is about competition, it is about living.  Most bike enthousiasts probably won't like this book because Armstrong and Jenkins did not go into the minutiae of training, racing, and the grueling pace of the Tour.  What they did accomplish is to follow Lance along in his thought process and his reaction to the amazing things that have happened to him since he started winning the Tour de France consecuetively and deal with his reaction to these events.<br />I enjoyed the book thoroughly, as a coach looking for motivational material, as a person who is searching for meaning, as sportsman looking for people who understands competition and honor.<br />I would recommend this book to any thinking person who is not looking for a quicky celebrity bios, because you would be disappointed with this book.  If you are looking for blunt, intelligent, sometimes funny, sometimes philosophical inquiries into a life, then this book is for you.	2003-11-01
US	52683862	RN9J5N7ZPNGWW	0786868716	891971809	The Five People You Meet In Heaven	Books	2	5	10	N	N	I really, really, really, wanted to like this book, but...	As much as I loved Tuesdays With Morrie, I can not bring myself  to love this story.  I think Mitch Albom had the right idea.  I think the message is noble and true.  But instead of being uplifting and intelligent the whole book seemed naive and awkward.  Not much rang true in the plotting and the material just was not up to standard.  i think the plot made for a very good short story.  Something that people can enjoy and appreciate, but the novella form is way too long for what Albom had in mind.<br />I felt like this was a pretty shallow exploration of mortality, ethics, spiritual maturity and the basic lessons of life.  Maybe I was expecting way too much, but it seems to me that Mitch missed Morrie more than he knows.	2003-09-28
US	52683862	R12J5M2G2BJBUQ	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Better than average, BUT....	I just finished the book.  It is definitely a page turner, kind of like John Grisham novels.  Unfortunately, it also has the same drawbacks as Grisham's novels, not mysterious enough.  The book is a tad too predictable.  I must admit, I didn't solve all of the mystery before the end, but I saw enough of it coming to make reading this book a tad annoying.  Now, did I enjoy it?  Yes, aboslutely.  I think Brown did a very good job researching the facts and the characters were mostly well developed.  I liked Sophie Neveu and Robert Langdon.  They could very well develop a la the characters from Iain Pears' art history novels.<br />I liked the puzzles, I loved the historical aspect of the story.  Yes, I started to look up the Opus Dei and Priory of Sion, as well as the Louvre and all the other sites.  BUT, I believe the history of the knights templar via a novel form was better told by Umberto Eco in Foucoult's Pendulum.  Eco didn't go into Mary Magdalene either.  The parts on the Gospel according to the Gnostics was intersting to me because I started to read the Gospel of Thomas a while ago.<br />Overall, I liked the book, but not enough to give it 5 stars.  It does, however interst me enough to read more of Dan Brown.	2003-05-05
US	52683862	R3QXT4WNB7LQBY	0961508825	953951738	Pass, set, crush: Volleyball illustrated	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Great Illustrations.	This is a book geared to the player.  This will teach the average adult player about the game and expose them to some of the subtleties of the game.<br />The truely great thing about this book is the phenomenal illustrations.  I believe each one is a charcoal drawing and they really illustrate what proper positioning should be.  I used it to help my own game, such as it was, and it helped me with my coaching.	2003-03-25
US	52683862	RHY6B9AK52RF4	0736001360	508812640	Complete Conditioning for Volleyball (Complete Conditioning for Sports Series)	Books	4	22	23	N	Y	It fills a great need in the volleyball literature	Al Scates is a legend in the volleyball world.  Anything with his name on it should grab any volleyball fanatic's attention, as the success of his previous book will attest.  But the key component about this book is the contributions make by Mike Linn, the strength and conditioning coach at Saint Louis University.<br />The book itself follows the usual structure.  There are chapters on volleyball drills and conditioning exercises and what not.  The key here is the Mike lays out the kind of exercise regimen that will help you with your volleyball game.  The pictures are good illustration of the drills but most importantly, the material covered complement each other very nicely.  There is now a bonfide volleyball conditioning book that focuses on the volleyball athlete, rather than try to cover all sports and doing a poor job of it.<br />I know of Mike's work through some of the Saint Louis University athletes that have come under his guidance.  the man knows his stuff and have doe great things to improve the team strength and conditioning of all the Saint Louis University athletic teams.	2003-03-25
US	52683862	R32RT65QIQK3ZD	061815468X	379002520	Dogs Bark, but the Caravan Rolls On: Observations Then and Now	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A revelation.	Yes, this book was a revelation to me.  I am a writer wannabe, a pretender to the mantel of nonfiction writing.  While I was searching blindly through the literature to find myself, my voice, perhaps an inspiration, I heard Frank Conroy interviewed on Michael Feldman's radio program on NPR.  Conroy was talking about this very book.  I was intrigued, I was interested.  I went out, I bought the book.  I read, and I learned, in the most pleasurable way possible.  I was in the hands of a good writer, one that is able to carry me through his narrative and make his point with clarity and humor.<br />I learned about jazz, about music in general.  I learned about the Iowas Writers Workshop, what they are trying to do and how they are trying to do it.  It was, alas, a short book, but it made me a more knowledgable person.  It made me appreciate life.  It made me excited about things I never thought I would be interested in, and I am excited about writing.  What more can you ask for from a book?	2002-10-11
US	52683862	R27CZMRN95053D	0792395948	838504813	Finite Element Analysis of Electrical Machines (Power Electronics and Power Systems)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The only book on the subject	There are lots of books on finite element analysis.  There are a good number of books on finitie element analysis for the electrical engineer.  This is the only book devoted solely to the FE method for the analysis of electric machines, so it is kind of hard to say that this is the best because it is the only horse in the race.  But I can confidently assert this because it answers most of the questions dealing with the area.  Prof.  Salon has done a very good job of putting a lot of results in a very slim volume.  he has sought to answer most of the question concerning analyzing different machines and he has devoted just enough mathematics to clear up a number of important issues concerning the accuracy of the methods.  Most specifically, he dealt with the air gap mesh problem very clearly and succinctly.<br />He also tells you how to go about calculating the inductance, the flux linkage, and the magnetic flux density from the vector potential.  This is a very complete treatment of a very broad subject.<br />Do I think he could have done more with specific machines?  Yes.  I wish there were more on permanent magnet machines, I wish there were more on how to calculate iron losses, but these are subjects that are still being researched.  maybe he can update the book in a few years and catch all of these topics.  For now, the book is pretty darned good.	2002-07-31
US	52683862	R36W232DXKT20P	0060006641	545117488	On Writing Well, 25th Anniversary: The Classic Guide to Writing Nonfiction	Books	5	6	7	N	N	An excellent guide for everyone	I stumbled upon this book as I was looking for a guide to writing essays. It looked interesting and the first few pages read well, so I bought it. Little did I know that this book would change my world view on writing and learning.<br />In the first few chapters Mr. Zinsser sounds like an old fashioned English teacher, harping on the fundamentals and simplicity. The fact that he is right made the message easier to absorb. In the latter chapters he focuses on different kinds of writing, that is when he hooked me. Even if you never write a memoir, it is fascinating for me to read about how people go about writing one. Now I am writing my own, for my own consumption, because the process sounds like something that is enlightening and worth doing. The same is true for his chapers on art critique, sports, humor, etc.<br />I have also gained a massive reading list from Mr. Zinsser, now I am curious to a whole new world that I was not aware of and more importantly, I did not care about. But he made me interested in these books because he made me curious about how these authors are able to communicate their message so clearly.	2002-07-30
US	52683862	RN4C1VIKCPIO2	0130425885	857836384	Volleyball Coach's Survival Guide: Practical Techniques and Materials for Building an Effective Program and a Winning Team	Books	4	12	12	N	N	As close to a How-To Guide as you're going to get.....	This book is pretty close to being a how to guide. Coach Gozansky has thought of just about everything that is relevant to running a good volleyball program. This is not to say that you need to follow the book word for word, but she has set out a lot of information on issues that most people would not have thought of when they start coaching.<br />The technical section of the skills and strategy are pretty reasonable. But since I am a believer in the nuances of the game, I can't abide by learning the game by the book. You really have to be a observer and a student of the game in order to gain the necessary nuances in order to be a good game coach. So I don't believe that any book on skill is ever adequate. However, everything else mentioned in this book is very good. This is a great reference book for someone who want to build a program, whether it is in the colleges or in high school. The information set forth are pragmatic and reasonable, the presentation clear and concise.<br />I would recommend this highly to any coach, including club coaches.<br />July, 14, 2003.<br />This book is now the textbook used for the USA Volleyball Coaching Accreditation Program Level II Course.	2002-06-11
US	52683862	RZB7GP76448PE	0060919884	427033152	The Writing Life	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Definitely not a how to book.  But very inspirational	I was in search of books on essays, not so much on how to write but how to go about writing.  The approach, the discipline of writing.  I have been a writer of technical material most of my life and I wanted to look at non-technical writing.  This little book was not what I was looking for at the time, but it is definitely inspirational in unexpected ways.<br />The book seemed to be unstructured, even though it is.  The ideas within each chapter leads nicely into one another and it tells Annie Dillards story of what she fights with daily as a writer and what joys she finds  in writing, the joys  which continues to propel her onward at her craft.  I enjoyed the book thoroughly even though I stumbled onto it by accident.  Ms Dillard kind of gave me a &quot;hang in there, I've been there too..&quot;  feeling, which is always comforting.  She also uses some incredible writing to convey her experience.  So you can look at the book on many levels, as a very nice work of writing, as an advice book, and as an enjoyable read.	2002-02-20
US	52683862	R2803LGU9TWLKG	0425180883	22156232	Iron Chef: The Official Book	Books	4	17	18	N	Y	My guilty pleasure	I started watching the Iron Chef show as a lark. I thought it was fun and funny. Very cheesy and very funny. The whispered notes of disbelief, the cries of : &quot;very sophisticated&quot;, &quot;very well controled&quot;, &quot;this is so good&quot; really got me to giggle about the silliness. This book prolongs and deepens all the silliness. It is written as a serious review of all the shows in the series, with features on certain challengers deemed worthy by the author and of course all the Iron Chefs. It kind of walks the fine line between treating the show as reality and as a farce. Regardless of how you feel about the show, the book is superficially fascinating. I would never have thought that I would be the owner of a book on a TV show, a Japanese TV show featuring Chefs as gladiators and a comically dressed emcee who looks like he was dress by a crazed Andrew Lloyd Webber. I love the show, I never miss a new episode, I even sit through some of the old ones I have already seen. I like this book. I wouldn't feature it prominently on my bookshelf. I would, however, stealthily break it out whenever anyone speaks fondly of the show. Then I can share my guilty pleasure.	2001-09-07
US	52683862	RQO90299OBWFZ	0761123849	696216471	In Code: A Mathematical Journey	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Very interesting and very readable.	Sarah Flannery is a most remarkable young woman.  The story of how she approached her mathematics project and how she was able to discover the Cayley-Purser algorithm is fascinating.<br />Instead of giving the Reader's Digest version of the book, I will just say that she wrote the book in the same manner in which she approached her work, with a lot of vim and vigor.  One can not but get excited with her as she felt her way through the mathematics and learn as she did, step by step the methods of cryptography.  Not being one who is familiar with crytography per se but an amateurish afficionado of Number Theory, I found her explanations of the pertinent mathematics charming, refreshing and stimulating.  Her intermittent puzzles were fun and illustrative.  I recommend this for anyone wishing to inspire curious youngsters with mathematics.<br />The only quibble anyone could have with this book is the honesty and naivete exhibited by young Sarah, but then again, that is what is so attractive about this gem of a book that stands out amongst the jaded sea of mathematics book being cranked out by authors too cynical to be excited by the mathematical ideas they are writing about.<br />Be forewarned however, you must be atleast a bit amused by mathematics or you won't get the maximum pleasure out of this book.	2001-09-07
US	52683862	RS12GXDBTXX57	1585182230	252386453	101 Volleyball Drills	Books	4	16	18	N	Y	Drills, drills, and more drills	Coach Martin is a hoot.  I had the pleasure of sitting in a session in a coaches seminar where she was one of the featured speakers.  She is energetic, smart, entertaining and knows a whole lot about volleyball.  She is the head women's coach at Central Missouri Stat U and has been there since forever.<br />The problem is that it is really difficult to translate all that she embodies into a book.  Don't get me wrong, the drills are awesome and they are presented nicely, but that is what you would expect from a drill book.  But, the sense of fun, the way she conveys the knowledge, that is kind of lost in the translation.  The main thing I like about this is that the skill level progresses with each drill.  So if you are dying for some new drills, here is a bunch, but make sure that they suit your needs.  Another good point is that these drills are easily adaptable, so it is easy for coaches to change them to fit their own needs.<br />I just wish they could package Coach Martin's dynamic personality and enthousiasm into a book.  Oh well....	2001-07-12
US	52683862	R2R1FAOINARE6F	0380975122	499378390	Flashing Before My Eyes: 50 Years of Headlines, Deadlines & Punchlines	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Name dropper, sure.  But what a bunch of names!!	I was kind of put off by the two negative reviews from this site, then I decided to read the book anyways just because I have been a fan of Dick Schaap's for a long time.<br />I must say that the personal stories of his failed marriages was kind of off putting, but he seems to be poking fun at himself more than anything else.  The book itself is incredible.  This guy knew everybody.  He was able to befriend just about everyone out there, whether they are in politics, sports, or anything else that matters.  The stories are great, and the view points hilarious.  Anyone can find fault in what anyone says.  I find that the two reviewers who gave this book a negative review seems to be looking for something to pick on.  The faults that they ascribe to the author may be valid, but they are also nitpicking.  I would highly recommend this book to anyone who has some time and want to read about a fascinating life spent conversing with some of the more interesting people in our society.  So what if Schaap gloats a little or lamentsa his many marriages, he's entitled.	2001-05-22
US	52683862	R12ALIYBRZ25JF	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Well, here is another positive review...	I know Mitch Albom as a straight talking sports writer from the Detroit Free Press and ESPN's Sports Reporters.  Little did I suspect that the man can write a good story on any subject other than sports.  I come from the school of thought that only the true sport nuts with blinders on can write sports.  Albom certainly changed that viewpoint.<br />This story as many have noted, cuts deep into the psyche of anyone of a certain age where they are at a point in life where they can afford to look back on a portion of their life and contemplate.  Contemplate on the path not taken, on what might have been, on what was good in their lives, and on what they had but did not realize they had.  Albom talks about the impact and wisdom of his old professor Morrie and the battles he waged against the ravages of disease.  The key to this dialogue is the invariance of the lessons learned and the obviousness of it all.  the truth to life is and will always stare us right in the eye, whether we choose to pay heed to these lessons or to ignore it is up to us.  What Albom did is to pay heed, and he transformed these lessons into a dialogue that is not quite as involved as the Socratic dialogues, but the relative impacts are pretty similar.  He is able to point out life's lessons that we are all aware of but have rarely observed.  The wisdom of Morrie is not that he had these insights, but that he is able to put into words and synthesize the ideas to such a point that sinks in to our psyches in a conscious way.  Morrie points out some of the obvious, Albom makes us appreciate the view and more importantly, internalize the lessons.  The fact that the lesson was there all along is irrevelvant, waht is relevant is that the source of the synethesis, the voice of the book is about to fade away.  There comes an urgency in the book as Morrie moves to his inevitable destiny.  We feel alarmed, sad, and not a little guilty as we see Morrie moving past his last stages of life.  We feel like we are missing out on some great wisdom that is inperceptable unless it is through the mind of Morrie.  In actuality, wisdom that Morrie passes on is that the lessons have always been there, we just have to pay attention to the forest sometimes and let the trees go for awhile.<br />A very good book.re missing out on some great wisdom that is inperceptable unless it is through the mind of Morrie.  In actuality, wisdom that Morrie passes on is that the lessons have always been there, we just have to pay attention to the forest sometimes and let the trees go for awhile.<br />A very good book.	2001-05-22
US	52683862	R25VFJQORXJE5Z	1888698373	981500045	Get with It, Girls!: Life is Competition	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	An awesome book by an awesome lady and coach.	For those who have kept track of collegiate volleyball during the 1990's, the name Teri Clemens should bring a smile and a look of appreciation to your face. For those of us who are lucky enough to live in St. Louis in that period, it was a golden time for volleyball in this region. Coach Teri Clemens coached the Washington University Bears to seven NCAA Division III volleyball titles in her tenure as coach. She did this with non-scholarship atheletes attending one of the premier institution of higher learning and one of the most demanding liberal arts institution in the nation, and she did it with a myriad of very different groups of personalities. Her motivation skills are on a par with Pat Summitt and John Wooden, it is no wonder that she is considered to be on that same echelon of collegiate coaches.<br />Now, after reading her book, I know what gives her the edge over other coaches in Division III. The sense of fun, competition, and excitement that explodes into your mind as you read this book is contagious. I now know why every single one of Coach Clemens' players that I have ever met all have the same three attributes: a love of the game of volleyball, a take charge attitude about life, and an undying love and respect for Teri. You can feel her love for the game, her players, and competition coming through each page of this very short book. Her lessons are simple, almost obvious, but never obvious enough for the rest of us to understand by ourselves, because we if we did, we should be applying the things she elucidates in the book by ourselves. Her comments are always timeless and to the point. No time to pussyfoot around the point, just get to the lesson.<br />Every single Wash U team I have seen are well prepared, confident, fun loving, disciplined, and incredible to watch. I have seen better athletes and better volleyball in college volleyball, but rarely have I seen a TEAM that cared for each other so much AND win so much at the same time. Coach Clemens has laid out her philosophy and touchstone, now it is for each and every athelete to devour this book and come up with their own success story.<br />I have had the good fortune of attending one of Coach Clemens coaching seminars recently, I never laughed so hard in my life, and I learned a lot in the period of fun and exchange. This book is an extension of her philosophy and it is a great reference point for her way of motivating athletes. Each of the chapters contain one idea that she expounds on, she uses her player's experience as examples and she makes an excellent case for each one of her points. She is never preachy and always humorous. I will have this book with me all the time as I coach my junior select club team because everything she mentions is important for all ages. She has rejuvenated me and recharged my thought process this season.<br />I can not express how important this book is to the female athletes that are out there striving for excellence. This is one heck of a blueprint to help them get started.has laid out her philosophy and touchstone, now it is for each and every athelete to devour this book and come up with their own success story.<br />I have had the good fortune of attending one of Coach Clemens coaching seminars recently, I never laughed so hard in my life, and I learned a lot in the period of fun and exchange. This book is an extension of her philosophy and it is a great reference point for her way of motivating athletes. Each of the chapters contain one idea that she expounds on, she uses her player's experience as examples and she makes an excellent case for each one of her points. She is never preachy and always humorous. I will have this book with me all the time as I coach my junior select club team because everything she mentions is important for all ages. She has rejuvenated me and recharged my thought process this season. <br />I can not express how important this book is to the female athletes that are out there striving for excellence. This is one heck of a blueprint to help them get started.	2001-05-02
US	52683862	R3AAGJIAWBR79A	0553377868	735890843	The Flanders Panel	Books	5	10	12	N	N	One of my favorites	I started reading Perez-Reverte with the Seville Communion and then followed up wi the rest of the translations.  I am not sure which is my favorite, The Flanders Panel or The Club Dumas.  Both have a lot to recommend, not the least of which is the mystery itself.<br />I find that I learn something with every novel, whether it is chess in this particular book or fencing or literature and antiquarian books.  I am entertained by the book's plot, its premise, its character development or the style with which the story is told.  On top of all that I get a wee lesson in an arcane discipline, what more can one want.<br />The character development is very good, the best part is that the author does not rely on cute devices to get himself out of jams that he has written himself into.  Are you listening John Grisham?<br />I won't reveal too much of the plot, except to say that the duality problem presented by the painting and the duality presented in the novel itself was simply exquisite, a very neat and tidy way to unscramble the mystery, a way that is very satisfying to the rational mind.<br />I have enjoyed these books very much and I will continue to await more translations from Spain.	2001-04-20
US	52683862	RU1GFQF4XQENM	0671628186	651935791	Men of Mathematics (Touchstone Book)	Books	5	23	27	N	N	The definitive mathematical biography of its time	This was the book that piqued my interest in mathematics and the people who does mathematics for a living. Be aware that this book was written in the days when only caucasian western men did mathematics.  Asian mathematics weren't considered and women mathematicians were considered to be novelties, not worthy of attention.<br />This book considered all of the heavy weights in mathematics at the time.  From the Greeks onward until those mathematicians considered worthy at the time of Bell's writing.  Bell's review of their lives are partly general biography, part assessment of their mathematics, and part psychological studies of why they did what they did.  Bell is by no means an objective reporter of the facts.  He definitely had his favorites and he had his not so favorites, and he was not shy about letting you know.  That is partly why this is such a good book.  He puts in his opinions of the foibles and genius of each of the men he is writing about and he puts their genius in a pecking order that he himself created.  I found it informative and entertaining.  Others may find it bothersome, but this is by far the most complete book of its kind for its day.  I recommend it to anyone even remotely interested in mathematics and mathematicians.	2001-01-17
US	52683862	R2KA6VFECR1Z2C	0385493622	603019861	Fermat's Enigma: The Epic Quest to Solve the World's Greatest Mathematical Problem	Books	5	11	11	N	N	An excellent account of the solving of the puzzle	When Andrew Wile came through with his proof in 1993, I was flabbergasted.  In my undergraduate and graduate days, this was it, THE prize in mathematics.  The fact that there are two popular accounts on this topic is a tribute to how special an achievement proving Fermat's Last Theorem has become.  Prior to to the solution, there is at least one book for the layman that Eric T. Bell had written that illustrates the difficulty of the problem.<br />The achievement must be placed in historical context in order to better appreciate the amount of work and innovation it took to finally prove the theorem.<br />Both Singh and Amir Aczel wrote very good accounts of the process of solving the problem.  They both did a good job of summarizing the history of the problem, they followed through with the building of the solution through each time consuming pain staking step.  Indeed the solution is a literal accumulation of important results from many mathematical developments from over the past century.  Each one of the steps illuminating the path toward the final proof.  The solution encapsulates some of the most innovative solutions to mathematical problems that are seemingly unrelated to Fermat's Last Theorem.<br />It seems to me that Singh did a more thorough job of explaining the proof.  The pace was a bit more leisurely and collegial.  Aczel's account seemed more rushed, less considered, and had more of a rush to publish flavor.  Not that is was a bad account.<br />I think that Singh had a more thorough understanding of the history of the problem because he took more time to set up the problem in its historical context.  His explanations were also more detailed and better thought out for us amateur mathematician, who understand the fundamentals but not the details of rigourous proof.<br />Regardless, it was a treat to read and gave me a rush of discovery that usually comes with finishing a good murder mystery rather than an account of a mathematical achievement.	2001-01-17
US	52683862	R2HHNKVX9C4SNZ	0824799186	358460525	Protective Relaying: Principles and Applications, Second Edition (Power Engineering, 5)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	An outstanding book	In order to appreciate this book, one must understand the history behind power system protective relaying.  As the previous reviewers have mentioned, the two classic bibles in protective relaying is the Westinghouse Protective Relaying book and the Westinghouse T &amp; D book.  Lewis Blackburn put the former book together while he worked at Westinghouse and he had a hand in the second book as well.  My father attended the Westinghouse training courses in the 1950's and his instructor was Lew Blackburn.  Over time, Mr. Blackburn became a family friend and I grew up listening to them talk about the electric power industry and learned about the subject at the feet of the master.  Even though I went into motors instead of relaying, I still enjoyed reading this book.<br />After Mr. Blackburn retired from Westinghouse, he became a consultant and proceeded to put the material in this book together.  It was a labor of love, for a lot of people have said that the practice of protective relying is like black magic because there are many correct ways to protect a system, they all have problems but it is up to the practitioner to determine the best solution for a given situation.  Mr. Blackburn poured his years of experience and expertise into this book.  He tried to do this in a systematic manner in order to reduce the amount of ambiguity usually associated with the black arts.  I believe he has succeeded.<br />I would agree with the others that the second edition was a letdown from the first, but then again, most first editions are more informative because authors wrote &quot;their&quot; book with the first edition, the following editions are ususally to answer the critics and publishers.	2000-11-06
US	52683862	R1W63I8TQ3TGW6	0780310845	966699780	Power Electronics and Variable Frequency Drives: Technology and Applications	Books	2	14	14	N	N	A compendium of papers	This book is a selection of papers that deals with the basic principles of power electronics and drives.  The idea was not to give a definitive and unified treatise on the subject.  It is instead a collection of papers for the practitioner and the novice to gain some understanding of the basis of the ideas behind drives and power electronics by reading the original papers written by the original researchers.  These papers are considered to be definitive in the mind of the editor.  If you need a complete guide to the analysis of power electronic circuits and drives, this is not the book.  I would recommend Principles of Power Electronics by Kassakian et. al. or Power electronics: Converters, Applications and Design, by Mohan et.al.<br />This book is more for the graduate student or the researcher who needs to read the original work in order to move along in their research.  This is not for the practically minded trouble shooter  or the designer.	2000-10-17
US	52683862	R25C4U08KGVQ5R	0965944514	931765044	The Volleyball Mom's Manual: What SportsMom Thinks You'd Like to Know (SportsMom sports manual)	Books	4	29	29	N	Y	Finally, a how to book for moms.	I have been a club volleyball coach for going on six years now, and a club director for almost three years.  I have been answering the same questions from parents for years.  Mostly about how club volleyball works and how their kids can get the most out of the experience.  Now there is a book that can answer most of those questions in an intelligent manner.  The book is not actually a how to guide but it is close enough.<br />Some of the stuff that I talk to my club team parents about, such as nutrition, preparing for the tournaments, how to mentally prepare kids for tryouts, how to deal with the stress of competition, the kind of equipment to buy, what to look for when shopping for a club and a coach, etc. are all in this book.<br />The authors also attempt to deal with the rules of the game.  Although the book is brand new for 2000, it is also a tad out of date for this upcoming year.  The libero rule and other rule changes being integrated into the USAV rules were not touched on.<br />In a way this book is somewhat minimalist in that it deals only with the basics, but that is more than enough for most parents or players.  I would have like to have seen more on how to prepare kids for club recruiting, or the peer pressures that comes from the experience, and the competition for players from the different clubs.  The book touches on some aspects of college recruiting, not really enough to prepare the parents for the onslaught, but they do mean well. The authors does a generally good job of differentiating between the different levels of competion, but I think they really need to emphasize the difference between a traveling team and a local team.<br />Another issue that is ignored is the level of coaching and how to identify good coaches versus bad coaches.  The usual way is through the volleyball grapevine, but there are certain tell tale signs from how the clubs run their tryouts that will tell you whether this is a good or a bad club.  Most of that is quibling because I love this book.<br />I love the fact that I now have a book to recommend to parents who have a million questions about club volleyball but have nowhere to go.  This is a must read for parents who wants to get their kids involved in volleyball as well as those parents whose kids are transitioning to higher levels of club volleyball.<br />Now if only they could add a chapter about how valuable coaches are and how they really should be paid a lot more money, all my problems would be solved!!!:)ecause I love this book.<br />I love the fact that I now have a book to recommend to parents who have a million questions about club volleyball but have nowhere to go.  This is a must read for parents who wants to get their kids involved in volleyball as well as those parents whose kids are transitioning to higher levels of club volleyball.<br />Now if only they could add a chapter about how valuable coaches are and how they really should be paid a lot more money, all my problems would be solved!!!:)	2000-10-07
US	52683862	RH6DU4P3V82I4	0312261632	22627196	Games Girls Play: Understanding and Guiding Young Female Athletes	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Excellent book for Coaches and Parents of Female athletes	I have coached club volleyball for six years and have been a club director for three years, a lot of the lessons that Dr. Silby presents are pretty lessons that I have learned over the years through sheer hard lessons.  I wish that I had this book to reference when I first started to coach young women.<br />Dr. Silby's book has been less a revelation but a reinforcement of what I had learned these last few years.  This is not to say that I learned nothing from the book, on the contrary, I feel like I have gained important nuanceson communicating with young women and allowing them to tell me how I can help them get better and stronger both physically and mentally.  An invaluable book indeed.<br />The only slight problem is that the book is geared toward the coaches of both individual sports and team sports, so not all the lessons are applicable completely.<br />I would recommend this book for anyone who coach, or are looking to coach.  The lessons embodied in the book will make the road to success in coaching much smoother.	2000-10-07
US	52683862	R2CJC6S9PRS8M1	0195135156	53004101	Voodoo Science: The Road from Foolishness to Fraud	Books	5	32	38	N	Y	Bravo for Bob Park.	Profrssor Park has written a clear and scathing book about fraud in the name of science.  Whether the fraud is perpetrated by those who are pure of heart yet devoid of knowledge or those who are driven by greed and uncaring  of knowledge.  This is, quite simply a most necessary book in the present  society, as we are bombarded by outrageous and dubious claims from  celebrity hucksters.  This extends from the government to those perveyor of  quality widgets at the home shopping channels.<br />Professor Park's examples,  from SDI proponents to UFO worshippers to technophobes to my favorite,  perpetual motion machine enthousiasts truly covers a wide swath of people.  Being an electrical engineer, I have had the distinct displeasure of  dealing with two issues in particular, one is the perpetual motion machine  and the other is the power line controversy.  We all knew that the claims  are bunk, but it was hard to convince the layman.  Hence the opportunity  for people to mislead themselves or to be mislead by others.<br />This book  clears up a lot of the arguments presented by the voodoo scientists.  The  moment, as described by Professor Park, that these hucksters are revealed  are the best moments of the reading.  It redeems our faith in science and  technology as well as strikes a blow for competent scientists  everywhere.<br />His description of Edward Teller and SDI as well as the Space  station fiasco very much reaffirms all that we have suspected and further  reveals the lack of technical depth that is plaguing the leadership of our  governemnt.  His description of the expert panels mandated by law to review  technical claims actually gave me a sense of relief, that yes there are  redeemable qulaities for the legal profession.<br />Overall, this was a great  book to read and it was all very enjoyable, especially if you have followed  some of these cases closely.	2000-07-25
US	52683862	R2FB8BPY4XKMQU	0452273226	471169026	The Mind Map Book: How to Use Radiant Thinking to Maximize Your Brain's Untapped Potential	Books	3	8	10	N	Y	Interesting but ultimately disappointing	I was introduced to Mind Maps in a short class I took in Austin Texas on concentration.  The teacher was recommending this book like it was the greatest discovery since sliced bread.<br />I must admit, I find mind maps  fascinating and very useful, but this book was kind of a waste.  Well, it  is a waste because the points are hasshed and rehashed time and time again  with no real insight offered into the technique.<br />For those who have not  been exposed to Mind Maps, Mr. Buzans other books are more help ful.  For  those who have been exposed to Mind Maps, this book is a disappointment.  I  would hope that mind maps and radiant think would be capable of inspiring  the author to great depths and heights.	2000-07-14
US	52683862	R2L3AEDUCNKNBB	080501246X	51063647	The Glass Bead Game: (Magister Ludi) A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Hesse at his most profound	This book, along with the rest of the Hesse catalog, and Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance changed my life forever.  I am sure many have said this and many more will in years to come.<br />I started reading Hesse  when my best friend in high school got me to read Steppenwolf.  I worked my  way through Siddartha, Narcissus and Goldmund, Beneath the Wheel etc.  But  Magister Ludi was hard for me.  I had a very hard time getting through the  book for some reason.  perhaps it is so dense and perhaps it is because I  read it while I was in graduate school.  But the book was difficult when I  found other Hesse books absorbing.  But like Pirsigs book, I understood  that sometimes the hardest books to start are the ones that are the most  rewarding.  It is with that conviction that I finally finished reading  Magister Ludi.<br />The philosophical points and ideas in this book have  transformed my world views and have given my life a meaning that wasn't  there before.  For better or for worse, this book change my world view and  made introspection a daily part of my life.<br />I think that this is a must  read for any intelligent adolescent and that we need to require everyone  who has read it to reread it at least once during their lifetime.	2000-07-14
US	52683862	R2P00TGMD9WNHJ	0873225724	294046158	Science of Coaching Volleyball	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A bit dense for beginning coaches.	This is a book that I looked forward to reading.  After many years of trying, I finally got the jist of it.<br />Carl McGown is a very knowledgable coach.  He will coach cirles around a lot of people.  The  information in the book however is a little too academic for the beginning  coach, or even the intermediate coach.  Lots of great ideas and information  here, but it is really hard to make sense of it.<br />This book isn't for  everybody.  Least of all the beginner to the game.	2000-07-13
US	52683862	R1VTN5VWX4R92Y	0880117788	928378224	Volleyball Drills for Champions: Mastering Key Skills with 7 Winning Coaches	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Oh no, not another drill book!  Well, kind of...	One problem with being a beginning coach is the constant and nagging suspicion that there is one absolute and definitive drill that will magically solve all of your problems for you.  Well, no.  It takes a  systematic design of the practice and a good understanding to coach the  sport.  But what is a beginning coach to do?<br />This book is a good source  for drills, but Coach Wise presents the drills in a format that encourages  people to think about the skill first and then go into the drills.  This is  a drill book but it is a little more than that.  Each chapter breaks down  the essntials of the theme of the chapter and THEN goes into the drills.  For those desperate for more drills, that does not prove to be enough of a  side track to force them to think about what they are teaching, but for  those who do stop and reflect on the technique and skills required to  perform the drills, it is a nice touch that proves to be very beneficial.  Because of the scattered nature of the book, a name college coach  wrote  each of the chapters, this is a compendium of knowledge which is quite  uneven in terms of writing.  But is serves its purpose well.<br />I would  recommend Arie Selinger's book and Mike Hebert's book for more advanced  coaches and Bill Neville's book for beginning coaches who actually wants to  coach and not just throw the kids into a maze of drills.	2000-07-13
US	52683862	R1DYY4BXCLKFUQ	1570281246	720215058	Coaching Volleyball	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Great book for reference	This book is a revamped version of the American Volleyball Coaches Association (AVCA) Handbook.  Like the title of the review suggests, it is a great reference.  I find myself going to it a lot in order to refresh my  memory about some technical aspects of the game.<br /><br />If you wanted just one  book to help you with your coaching or with your own game.  This is  probably the book for you.  If you have a deep burning desire to delve into  other aspects of coaching and the game of volleyball, this is a great way  station.  One of the many books that you need to keep in your library, but  a very dog eared book due to the many times you will need to look into the  book.<br /><br />Like the previous reviewer said, an excellent book for beginning  to intermediate players and coaches.	2000-07-13
US	52683862	RDAEXMWO52EXT	0880115327	680059996	Insights & Strategies for Winning Volleyball	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Great book for a limited audience	As the other readers have commented, this isn't a book for everyone.<br />As a University of Illinois grad, I was curious to see how Coach Hebert had turned my alma mater's volleyball fortune around.  He touches on the  technical aspects of that turnaround as well as discusses how he feels a  major college sport should be administered.  The section on how he evolved  into a coach is interesting too.<br />But by far the most interesting section  for me is his discussion of the Primary Hitter system and how that relieves  the setter from a lot of pressure.  This is a particularly good system with  experienced stud hitters and a relatively new setter.  It takes some of the  pressure off of the setter and puts it on the primary hitters.  This is an  advantage for the team at least until the setter develops into a leader and  develops some confidence.<br />Overall, an interesting read.	2000-07-13
US	52683862	R3OE2GHWUNHPO7	0471033782	415602210	Optimal Control	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Great book on optimal controls	I had the pleasure of having taken my control courses at Georgia Tech while the author, Frank Lewis was a professor there.  He was probably one of the best professors in this area amongst a stellar group of control  professors.  He explanations and presentation of the topics were concise,  clear, and extremely applicable.  These same traits are present in this  book.  One of the main knocks against control theorists is that they tend  to refrain from using real world examples to illustrate their point.  Dr.  Lewis is quite the opposite, he believes that the real world problem is key  to understanding the theory and he is never shy in using those examples.  The number of examples may be a problem here, afterall, students live and  die by the worked problem to get to understanding.<br />This book is an  excellent introductory guide to the fascinating world of optimal controls.	2000-06-15
US	52683862	R2EWQ39TBVR0CL	1582340676	278851859	Uncle Petros and Goldbach's Conjecture	Books	5	5	9	N	N	A good fictional book on mathematicians? Astounding!	I apprached this book with both excitement and trepedation.  I have seen too many fiction trivialize the technical professions.  Poking fun at what may seem like inconsequential tics of the practicioners of the technical  trade.  This book surprized me.  Even though the author did not delve  deeply into the guts of the mathematics, he was able to convey the sense of  excitement and intrinsic satisfaction associated with doing higher math.<br />The plot twists were entertaining and unexpected, the prose pretty good  considering that it was translated from the original Greek.  I hope that  this is a sign of better things to come.	2000-06-13
US	52683862	R1MQ95IMGXY3LG	0740704575	676179060	Citizen Dog Collection 3: D Is for Dog	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Another winner for fans of Mel and Fergus	Mark O'Hare continues his string of hilarious collections of the misadventures of Fergus, Mel, Cuddles, Bruno, and Fluffy.  The humor is sly and mischievious.  There are plenty of recognizable situations and far out  extrapolations.  For folks who enjoy a daily giggle via the comics, I  highly recommend this collection, as well as the previous two books.	2000-05-31
US	52683862	R3PA5JNW4G8XFM	0824701801	898768046	Nonlinear Control of Electric Machinery (Automation and Control Engineering)	Books	1	5	9	N	N	Not impressive	I was asked to review this book before it was published and dismissed it as a terrible joke.  Now I see that it isn't.  The authors have a very limited understanding of electric machines.  They are excellent control  engineers but lousy electric machinery people.  The concepts they use in  controlling the machines here are pretty useless in the real world.  It  makes for great academic papers and may generate discussions in the  controls world but the book is incredibly naive in its assumptions and the  control concepts are useless.  Don't waste your money.	2000-04-14
US	52683862	RDUAMIPMOE45A	2884491996	138153149	Induction Machines	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Wow, an Alger reprint	I am not sure if anyone else would be wanting to read this book, but it is one of the classic induction motor design books out there.  Phil Alger was one of the top practicioners of the electric machine design black art.  This book lays out the basics of lumped parameter model and explains  exactly what goes into the calculations.  he then methodically explains the  calculation methods and possible ramifications of all the variables.  All  this was done prior to the advent of the digital computer, which makes it  all the more impressive.  A true classic.  I am glad to see it still in  print.	2000-04-14
US	52683862	R3V9EWRKCSXN25	0961508868	953951738	Pass, Set, Crush: Volleyball Illustrated	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Great book for learning about the game	This is an excellent book for those who want to learn more about the mechanics of the sport.  The explanations are good and the illustrations are excellent.  The techniques are well illustrated and the strategies are  also well illustrated.  A good one stop shop for beginning to intermediate  players and coaches.	2000-01-21
US	52683862	R2EX45N5OBDULO	1570280096	114547242	Volleyball Centennial: The First 100 Years (Spalding Sports Library)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great historical chronology of volleyball	Byron Shewman was a great player, historian, writer, and proponent of the game of volleyball.  This book traces the sport from its inception to the present day.  A bit biased towards the sports development in the USA but  that is expected because a lot of the growth came in this country.  Although the growth all around the world should have been documented.  The  stories that Byron wriote about were fascinating.  He writes with an  interesting view because he knows and have played with most of the people  he writes about.  I wish he had more pictures from the early days on the  beach and with the National team.  This is THE book for a great volleyball  history book, well the ONLY volleyball history book.  I enjoy reading bits  and pieces of the book picking through the chapters and picking what ever  struck my fancy.	2000-01-21
US	52683862	R16A8KCX2D3LWM	0880113626	225421569	Coaching Volleyball Successfully: The Usvba Coaching Accreditation Program and American Coaching Effectiveness Program Leader Level Volleyball Book	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Good basic book, with good perspective	This book is used as the textbook for the first level of the Coaching Accreditation Program for USA Volleyball.  It has a good broad perspective on the game, how to motivate and how to teach the skills.  It also goes the  through season and practice planning and breaks down the process in a very  basic manner, which I found very useful.<br />A great beginning coach's  book.	2000-01-21
US	52683862	R2JPTZKT4X3FRZ	1570280835	921058945	The Basic Elements of the Game (Best of Coaching Volleyball)	Books	5	30	33	N	N	Great series	There are three books in this series of compilations of articles from Coaching Volleyball Magazine, the magazine of the American Volleyball Coach's Association.  These articles are written by coaches going through  the Coaching Accreditation Program Level II certification.  Many are  collegiate and high school coaches, some are club coaches.  Interesting  perspectives on many different aspects of running a team, a program, or a  club.  The technical elements are good, but you have to know the game  relatively well for some of the advanced parts because the illustrations  are kind of vague.  The basic elements book is good for the beginning  coaches.	2000-01-21
US	52683862	R1ONCYMI924UQX	0151001812	297422625	The Fencing Master	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Very very good, but not great	After having devoured the previous three books by Arturo Perez Reverte, I had extremely high expections for this book.  In fact I bought it online before it was released.  I wasn't exactly disappointed, but the plot just  doesn't seem as gripping as the others.  The action and descriptions of  19th century Spain is excellent as expected, but the plot just did not hold  me like the author's other titles.  Maybe I psyched myself out of an  excellent book.  The narrative was excellent, I felt myself transformed to  Madrid, an old fantasy of mine.  The descriptions of the fencing and the  settings were magnificent.  Like I said before, it is much much better than  most of what passes for mysteries out there but I was just a touch let  down.	1999-05-13
US	52683862	RKWTV8HQU5QIF	0312049153	610996211	Arie Selenger's Power Volleyball	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A professional volleyball coach's view on the sport	I just returned from an Arie Selinger camp and it was terrific.  The man is passionate about the sport and is obviously extremely knowledgable.  He has spent the last 40 years thinking about the training and the teaching of  the game.  Whether it has to do with technique, strategy, training, mental  game, or state of the game, he has an opinion which is more than backed up  with experience and data.  Lots of data.<br />The book is a little problematic  in that the explanations of the concepts are a little too involved for the  beginning coach.  But the man is obviously the foremost thinker on the game  that the American game has seen in a long time.  You may disagree with his  conclusions, but his attention to detail and his arguements for his ideas  are very strong.  He is a great believer in statistics and measuring  progress, so a lot of it has to do with measuring athlete  accomplishments.<br />If you are looking to get a book to help your kids with  their intramural team, forget about this book.  If you are out to learn to  coach volleyball at a very high level, this could be the one book you need.  Keep in mind that he has always dealt with the highest level of athletes  and have had the luxury of training six hours a day seven days a week, so  some of the offense are way too complicated, even for college teams. But  they are good ideas which stimulated even more ideas.<br />I wish he had put  in more of his unique training ideas based on the Asian training  methodology, but that is quibbling.	1999-03-31
