US	52680322	R5C8Z6O8SZ7NN	4770026080	531012718	A Dictionary of Basic Japanese Sentence Patterns (Kodansha Dictionary)	Books	3	29	35	N	N	Just not quite enough	A basic dictionary is right. This book can be used to help one deconstruct simple sentences, but any complex structures involving one or more patterns just isn't there. You won't be able to learn Japanese from this book, nor construct more realistic, complex sentences.<br /><br />The book spends too much time with routine analysis of each sentence pattern and not enough really useful, complex examples that use one or more patterns together. Most of the examples for the polite speech are fairly routine and what one would expect in a text book. However the casual sentence patterns that are also provided give a more detailed look at real conversation. But these complex examples are few and far between, and sometimes quite complex to understand.<br /><br />I also found the reference section of verbs and adjectives at the back lacking in detail. There were many verbs used in the book that just weren't there.<br /><br />So, in all, I read it. It was okay. I wouldn't buy my own copy if I had borrowed it from someone else.	2004-09-13
US	52680322	RDCPV0ZSQBIM6	0375724508	79158641	Ghostwritten	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Intertwined stories	Stories. At first seemingly disconnected, but slowly clues in one story indicate something else in another. Some of the links seem simple and easy, some are are quite obscure. Some stories are quite tightly linked together. The more you progress through the book these connections become stronger. The first few stories however seem to link only by the simplest of coincidences, those connections become stronger as the stories move on. The multiple links through mutiple stories.<br />By the end of the book I kept checking back in earlier stories for the events that I had missed.<br />The author spent time in Hiroshima teaching English, and I think this has had an influence on his writing, both for locations and in the use language. You can read each story by itself, or as a whole. The final one however does seem to bring everything together.	2004-07-01
US	52680322	R2EISQQPFLOL33	1400047285	150767402	Blinded by the Right: The Conscience of an Ex-Conservative	Books	4	10	12	N	N	A detailed look at things as they were	First of all, let me deal with the things I thought were bad about the book. There's no index or references in the book. This caused me a lot of problems because the author would switch between using first and last names for many of the key players, and so I became constantly lost about who he was talking about. As there was no index to look up the names or cross-reference I usually had no idea who he was talking about. Also, there were no referencing of quotes in the book, so I also had no way to verify what he had written. As I'm not an American, and as most of the events happened over 4 years ago I couldn't remember all the details he was talking about. It's for this reason I'm giving it 4, not 5, stars.<br />These problems aside, it was a very good book. What I could follow, and that was quite a bit, it read as a disturbing change in the conservative movement in the U.S. Going from a traditional cconservative agenda to a fiercely right-wing religious one served as a clear backdrop to what we have today.<br />Other reviewers have nit-picked some of his details and references, but overall, the book is a passionate plea to those who still care to change their ways. He does this through discussion of his own change and ostracism from the movement to one of, not empowerment, but acceptance of the follies of his way.	2004-04-09
US	52680322	RMMZQL1RBWY64	0820314919	806032067	Styles of Creation: Aesthetic Technique and the Creation of Fictional Worlds (Proceedings of the J. Lloyd Eaton Conference on Science and Fantasy Li)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Lots of pieces of your brain	This book, although now quite dated serves a good portion of food for your brain. Essasys look at different aspects of science fiction from writing technique, story telling and at a few unknown authors.<br />I usually find most theory books dull, and a chore to read through. But as I am an avid Science Fiction reader I found almost all the essays approachable. Many books I've read were discussed and so opened new doors to me for re-reading them. Discussing Science Fiction in a literary fashion should help to promote the cause that Science Fiction is real fiction.<br />Work such as the creation of new words in British Science fiction, the role of Utopia, and so on. Each is written by a different author and are usually well footnoted and researched.<br />If you're a Science Fiction fan, but don't enjoy reading theory books, this one might surprise you.	2004-04-01
US	52680322	R33N0FF0K58GW6	0521525322	180395806	How to Argue with an Economist: Reopening Political Debate in Australia	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A good detailed read for those dinner discussions	This is a good book. It doesn't get bogged down in economic language or take too long to read. It provides a historical context to the last few decades of Australian politics and the way things have been done. It takes note of the relationship between the Tax Office and it's bureaucrats and those on the edge, the back bench Members of Parliment, and outer government agencies.<br />It goes into detail of the nature of Economic Rationalism. Although we may feel we understand it, this book gives examples and help us understand that which is around us but not necessarily understood. It talks about people, and how people see the world. It doesn't humiliate those of either side of politics and doesn't dismiss the beliefs we, or they have.<br />It is however, focussed wholly on the Australian experience of politics and the economy. This may put some international readers off, but on the other hand we already have enough books about how the American Market works.  This book provides a good balance for those of us not under the American sphere of influence.	2004-03-21
US	52680322	R2CPKT01M8LZ5B	0804832277	176533839	Japan's Big Bang: The Deregulation and Revitalizatiion of the Japanese Economy	Books	4	0	1	N	N	An important but difficult read	This is a detailed book. Almost too detailed. As a Professor of International Business in Tokyo's Sophia University the author is in a prime position to detail the woes of the Japanese financial system. And maybe that's where the problem with this book lies. He is a professor and not a writer. His insistence on using the expression &quot;Big Bang&quot; started to become a little annoying.<br />His main emphasis is to point the finger at the Ministry of Finance, the government department which is supposed monitor the economy, regulate the banks and other duties as well. But the Bank of Japan, Tokyo University, private banks, gangsters, construction companies and everyone else are included where necessary.<br />But the main problem with the book is that it is fairly technical and dry. As I am not an economics student, I had trouble understanding a lot of the financial terms and expressions used through out the book. There is little in the way of explanations or a glossary or index for the average reader to use.<br />For the parts that I could follow, it paints a dire picture of the continuing Japanese economic malaise. Even though the book is a few years old now, the indications presented in the book and the remedies are still valid today because reform in Japan is a slow moving beast.	2004-03-21
US	52680322	R3605LR42D4DQ0	0864423705	242625838	Lonely Planet Journeys: Lost Japan	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A passionate, but reactionary book	This book, written from an experience of living in Japan for 30 years, highlights many of the experiences the author has taken. It is however quite self indulgent in it's content.<br />Contrast Alex Kerr's description of Kabuki, with Dave Barry's &quot;Somebody stab him again.&quot; Alex has entered a private world that few are able to enter,and as such is dying from it's own asphyxiation. There is beauty to be seen here, and is being lost in Japan but Alex's description of it comes across as a reactionary rant. That said though, sometimes it takes an outsider to point out what is wrong with the inside.<br />This book, written in 1996 also serves as a prequel to Dogs and Demons, which is a much better, more detailed and objective look at the problems besetting Japan.	2004-03-21
US	52680322	R2EAJ1UNU0OMAD	4915645193	961891144	Tokyo Confidential: Titillating Tales From Japan's Wild Weeklies	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Stimulating stories from a different side of Japan	This collection of magazine articles, translated and re-written in English come from the Mainichi Daily News, who have sourced them from Japan's weekly tabloid magazines. Each article exposes a truth about Japan that most would be surprised to hear. Stories about old age people and their sex lives, schoolgirls and their \\"compensated dating,\\" or selling their used underwear. About Tax Officials and exclusive hostess clubs, stay at home loners and bored housewives, of corruption, perversion and down right weirdness.<br />This is the real Japan. Not the Japan of Kyoto, Geisha or high-tech, but of real people and their perversions. It is a highly entertaining read.<br />Although now a little dated, they all ring true and are all still happening somewhere in the Land of the Rising Sun.	2004-03-21
US	52680322	R3B4NU9LK3D382	1876438347	5042066	Japan: A Working Holiday Guide	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A good start, with lots of information	This book provides a lot of the information one might need to start living and working in Japan. It goes through everything from before you leave about obtaining a visa, to first steps when you arrive. It is also quite good at considering jobs other than English teaching, which 95% of all English speaking foreigners seem to take up. It also includes sections on food, apartments (key money!) and simple laws and regulations.<br />The first edition was specifically for Australian and New Zealand citizens, and a lot of the material is still biased towards them. This second edition, which now has more contact information for American, Canadian and British citizens is more helpful.<br />It is however now a little out of date. A lot of the prices have changed (such as the cost of renewing a visa.) And some regulations may have changed. As always with something like this, use many sources for your information.<br />Use it as an accompaniment to Loney Planet's Japan book and you'll have most of what you need.	2004-03-21
US	52680322	R3DXZRMQND8FZ9	1861891539	296217039	Image Factory: Fads and Fashions in Japan	Books	5	22	25	N	N	An up to date book of a changing landscape	This is an up-to-date book. In a country where fads and fashions change rapidly this book serves as a postcard of the now. The author's writing is articulate and indicates a wide array of research and reading going into the material presented here. He has a good knowledge of the Japanese words used, and their lexigraphic meaning. He has been to the places he talks about and spoken to the people involved.<br />He covers fads and fashions such as kawaii (cute), manga (comics), pachinko (vertical pinball as gambling) and kosupure (costume play). He also doesn't shirk away from the sex industry and porn, an major cultural asset in Japan. The use of mobile phones and faux theme parks. From fashion shops in Shinjuku and Harajuku to the seedy parts of Tokyo.<br />Maybe the only thing missing I feel is a discussion on the different aspects of Japanese drinking. Alcohol is an important part of Japanese culture, as are hostess bars. But that is mostly an avenue of the salaryman, where as this book deals more with the younger generations.<br />Think of this beek as a modern version of Alex Kerr's Lost Japan.<br />The book also contains 48 colour photos which help to highlight and detail the topic material.	2004-03-21
US	52680322	R30QHMOQDOE8M5	0804821135	940086894	Sake Handbook (Yenbooks)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	oishii, ne	This book is excellent. It's main sections on How Sake is Made, Drinking and Where to Buy are very detailed. Most of the terminology will be new to those unfamiliar with sake, the author  takes the time to explain them in detail. There is the history, the people and some of the ritual of sake as well.<br />With each of the sake detailed, the author provides tasting notes and information about other sakes from the same brewer.<br />As a side note of the detail of the book, one of my Japanese friend's found her favourite sake in the book. I went to my local bottle shop with the book, pointed to the picture of the label and found we found it, leading to a night of entertaining drinking.	2004-03-21
US	52680322	R9QNIN7AK4JXS	0449908100	532321115	Dave Barry Does Japan	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Small pieces of large chunks	Dave Barry spent 3 weeks in Japan. The end result is this book. I did like it very much though. The experiences he writes about are  indicative of what those who live here have to deal with each and every day.<br />He takes the view, as most middle aged Americans do, of ignorance. And it is this ignorance that drives the humor. It could be said to be the complete opposite to Alex Kerr's Lost Japan. He readily admits to the ignorance, and tries to understand.<br />I did feel that a little more research, or perhaps any research could have made the stories a lot funnier. But for those who haven't been to Japan, or have recently arrived it is a good start at taking everything you see with a dose of humour.	2004-03-21
US	52680322	R2Z3VB7ES7XN7O	188521104X	700310409	Travelers' Tales Guides Japan: True Stories of Life on the Road	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Like a a japanese meal	Small portions, but so many courses.<br />This book, consisting of lots of extracts from other peoples writing, serves as a good introduction to the nature of Japan. From the serious to lighthearted, most tales consist of people trying to understand, to reason and just plain survive in a foreign country that seems a little familiar yet very foreign. Stories from groups that consider cleaning toilets a ritual to stolen bikes and strange food.<br />Each tale is a few pages long. Sometimes either a whole magazine article or chapter from a book, but complete in itself. One feature I liked was small boxed inserts on some pages from another writer which complimented or highlighted the story you were reading. At the end of each tale is an extra excerpt from someone else's story on the same topic.<br />There's a little bit here for everyone.	2004-03-21
US	52680322	RWBGCFAIZDHKX	0809039435	504768367	Dogs and Demons: Tales from the Dark Side of Japan	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Detailed, depressing and true	This book, of which Lost Japan serves as a prequel, is a very good guide to the current condition of the health of Japan. And it is of one very sick patient. After living in Japan for 30 years, and seeing what he has seen, Alex Kerr is in an excellent position to detail all that is wrong with the country. He is like a doctor, talking to a patient that doesn't want to listen.<br />This book is much better than Lost Japan. It details the flaws in each aspect of the Japanese system. From concrete politics to public education. He doesn't provide cures, that is for others to do, but points out the symptoms. Where as Lost Japan serves as a self indulgent rant, this is more objective and well researched piece of writing.<br />He contrasts Japan with other Asian countries and Europe which also have the same population/living space restraints and growth patterns. From the problem with Cedar plantations to city and towns with expensive and useless town halls and museumsm he details in each chapter one aspect of a land with a termial illness.<br />If you have a picture of Japan as an idyllic island of beauty and peace, then this is not the book for you. It is gritty and depressing. But true. It is well worth the read.<br />To complete the set, you should also read Tokyo Confidential edited by Mark Schreiber as well.	2004-03-21
US	52680322	R2AZU898O2EV7S	0099448769	323270866	Dance Dance Dance	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another surreal twist in time	This is a good book. Murakami's writing involves detailed characters who do not always know where they are going nor who they are. The characters and environment are detailed and exquisite, making one want to visit the places written about.<br /><br />This book includes a sideline into a metaphysical world for the narrator, which helps to drive him and guide him. By the end of the book, typical understanding of all the events and characters may not be achieved but a sense of peace is created.<br /><br />When you read this book, do not expect typical Western narrative structures, details or a sense of closure. As with other Murakami books consider the leaves, on the trees in the forest.	2004-03-21
US	52680322	R3SOQCXMYHZ307	0099448785	683839369	Hardboiled Wonderland and the End of the World	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A mind bending twist	This book, is and of itself, a mind bending twist. Esentially two stories that are intertwined (and I won't spoil how.) His characters are well crafted and deep. The story goes into a deep, metaphisical discussion of the nature of being while characters are chased by phantoms and gangsters.<br />It is however still Japanese, and as such, is not tied down by Western notions of writing. This makes reading it a whole lot better. Details, descriptions and people are just more, well, detailed.<br />Murakami's wit and attention to detail is crafted well. The main character, who may not be the typical hero (or anti-hero) one comes to expect, displays a layer of cool as his problem becomes manifest. A whole system (or should I say System) is provided, with a history and detail that we are not always privy to.<br />You should read this. Just don't forget where your shadow is.	2004-03-21
US	52680322	R13OBZAMVDQU4J	0679761675	647444547	Martian Time-Slip	Books	5	1	1	N	N	My Brain on a Platter	I'll be honest, the psychotic breakdown of Arnie Kott, which comes quite late in the book has been better represented in Dick's other books (such as A Scanner Darkly) but this book is carried by the power of the characters and social narrative. Dick doesn't write about nice people, he writes about people who have neurosis, quirks, failings, freaky episodes and just general annoying traits.<br />Here, all the characters are tied in together though many strands of the story making it a complex, rich (I can't believe I'm going to use this cliche, but) tapestry of life in something akin to a frontier lifestyle, where life is hard, the men are away and the wives stay home and, well, I'll leave that for you to read about.<br />He also looks at possible social and polical situations, like the co-op appartments that provide everything from schools to shops (why would you ever leave?) and the economic power they provide, and political power they wield. To the idea of the UN controlling the water supply, the thing that keep everyone alive. There are ghettos from different countries, like the Israel Settlement and areas that are free (or too far) from the law.<br />It is a good book, but I don't think it is his best from the pure  internal madness point of view. But as a social commentary, it is excellent.	2003-08-03
US	52680322	R2UTDOD51LZ1C1	0393324397	861144841	Globalization and Its Discontents (Norton Paperback)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Insider's view	It is not often that one can read an insiders view of the institutions that most of the protestors want to tear down. His review of IMF policy and approach to the Asian and Russian financial change is illuminating. He doesn't gloss over China's human rights abuses (but he doesn't highlight them very much either.) He provides an analysis of what went wrong, and suggestions for making the world a better place.<br />His style is easy to read, and one doesn't get bogged down in massive footnotes or techincal economic jargon. But that said, he doesn't turn an inward eye at The World Bank. Or review any projects like the Grameen Bank in Bangladesh or other similar projects.	2003-08-03
US	52680322	R3F3YGKWX9QV2S	0375406921	392405614	David Boring	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Searching for something	David Boring is searching for something. His father, that perfect girl, meaning. His meaningless sexual encounters, his collection of things (scrapbook, comic book), his life as a movie, his friends, his fear of his mother all culminating in a story that is anything but boring. David's life is like one of his old movies, which we are taken through from start to finish. As the world slowly revolves without his noticing, much to annoyance of some of his friends, he can't seem to find what it is he wants.<br />This comic written as a whole story, rather than the vingettes of Ghost World provide a detailed narative that is quite satisfying. Every character is detailed, to the point of having a list of credits at the end (Daniel Clowes makes a cameo, but where I don't know.) The three acts give a clear path through which to solve the enigma of what David is searching for. I won't tell you if he finds an answer at the end, you'll have to read it for yourself.<br />Daniel shows us another excellent window into the lives of teenagers and young adults in the post-modern meaningless world that we all inhabit. Although some of the panels may shock you in their graphic nature, it is a real world, a real place that we live in and not a fake, cliche/angst ridden hell hole that some may have us believe.	2002-12-19
US	52680322	R2ACW1X1LPJRD6	0345390466	930549656	GenX Reader	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Signpost for its time	Although this tome dates from 1994, it now reads like a history book of GenX culture. We may have moved on from there, but in 1994 this was where it was at.<br />Some of the articles seem out of place, like the interview with Ice Cube, while others are spot on like Dan Clowes comic make the whole work a useful compendium of GenX work. It must be remembered that as a &quot;Reader&quot; it represents an overall view of the (at the time) current trends. It does this quite well.<br />From a historical view though, it is frustrating that none of the potential of GenX (such as the global protest movement) could be seen from 1995, and as such is not included as a concept.<br />If you can get your hands on a copy, then read it if you're interested in an overview of content that elsewhere is hard to find. Otherwise try more up to date books such as Naomi Klien's No Logo.	2002-08-02
US	52680322	R2WNC5CIS5Z1H2	0733609406	553499260	The essence of capitalism: The origins of our future	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent overview of the state of the world	Any book that tries to cover everything about the history of Capitalism is doomed to fail because of the extent of its history. This book however avoids that by containing itself to using Coca-Cola as its base to start from. This is not a book about the benefits and wonders of Capitalism. It is a bare bones, warts and all tale of how Coke was lucky in its marketing and business practices to enable The Company to expand beyond its original market (that which a horse drawn cart could cover in a day) to today's massive corporate juggernaut. Through the use of the franchise, extreme quality control and powerful marketing it show how the company went from being a feel good tonic in competition with over a thousand other similar drinks to being the major market force for soda pop. The book covers topics such as the creation of the idea of a corporation to having the status of person, how the money market works in the flow of capital, the effect of marketing and advertising on consumer tastes and how free trade really becomes oligopoly. A frightening set of examples are presented, enough to make the strongest advocate of free market forces to rethink their position. An excellent book which goes hand in hand with Naomi Klein's No Logo and Eric Schlosser's Fast Food Nation.	2002-06-27
US	52680322	RD9EWD1KT74P5	0375507264	700141431	Number9Dream	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Post-modern search for meaning	From a small fishing village to Tokyo this is the tale of a young man looking to find meaning in his life. Verbal witticism abounds and a multitude of references of other works of fiction this book is and very good read. Written by a Gaijin in Japan the book shows an understanding of the moods of Japanese thought and practise. There are twists and turns in the plot that leave one wondering if, like the title suggests the book is all a dream. But exploding cars, geisha girls and stray cats bring the stream of consciousness work to ground level. Although there are strange interruptions within the book with stories within stories and distractions that may annoy some readers, it is still worth the work to plow through it all. The characterisation of the main player, Eiji is very well done. His foibles, inner thoughts and reactions are all well portrayed. Almost to the point of wondering if Mr Mitchell is trying to tell us something about his own life. The book includes suitable post-modern elements in the search for meaning within his life by the search for his own father. Elements of this are revealed through the book, and played with by the author leaving the reader to bang his head against the wall in frustration at the futility of the search (but, I won't spoil the ending though.)<br />The ending however left me wanting more, much, much more.	2002-06-27
US	52680322	R17F3853ZX5BIT	0071375007	930023830	Managing Einsteins: Leading High-Tech Workers in the Digital Age	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Good information for managers of IT workers.	The first thing about this book is that it doesn't use the term nerds or geeks  to describe IT workers. The reason the authors give is that the stereotype of pocket protectors and coke bottle glasses just doesn't fit any more. This is a book written for managers, and so the terminology and style (almost) always refers to the Einsteins as \\"your workers.\\" To the point that with the summary at the end states:<br />Referring to super-intelligent, curious, passionate, often introverted, talented individuals as \\"geeks\\" is outdated. Although Einsteins can call colleagues \\"geeks,\\" it is not appropriate or cool for non-Einsteins to refer to computer, technology, systems or software geniuses as geeks. (page 217)<br />These are the difficult to work with, yet life saving employees who solve problems where most people don't understand the question.<br />There seemed to be several themes running through this book that were re-emphasised several times, such that the book can be summarised down to a few simple statements. Many of which to Einstiens seem pretty obvious. The advantage though, is that as the book is written by \\"Management Professionals,\\" so the expectation of managers accepting its wisdom is more likely (hopefully).<br />The main statements within the book about IT worker is that they are highly motivated, intelligent (usually more intelligent than their manager may be), introverted, tribal and independent.<br />The mains themes throughout the book are<br />* that a manager should be honest with their workers about how the company is going,<br />* that they guide and suggest rather than being autocratic (a metaphor of herding cats was used to illustrate this),<br />* let the Einsteins have their freedom in work environment (location - there is a whole chapter on telecommuting, hours, style),<br />* Einsteins are project focused, not job focussed,<br />* they value training and education quite highly,<br />* and they require a stimulating and fun work place.<br />The issue of remuneration is covered to include the idea that Einsteins are not solely motivated by money (as sales people may be), but other considerations should be taken into account (such as training, location, work conditions). Also that the traditional notion of promotion does not always work. An Einstein may not want to become a team leader, or higher up the management hierarchy. A manager should be aware of their Einsteins burning out, such that maybe a temporary demotion may be in order to take the stress of the Einstein for a while.<br />The book includes short examples and case studies from various work places, and excerpts of articles from newspapers and trade journals to help illustrate points. There are also highlighted points (Influence Tips, Black Holes and Einstein Wisdom) which emphasise important things, such as:<br />Managers should be very cautious not to introduce projects that have a low likelihood of getting started. Einsteins abhor routine and crave novel projects. But they abhor being misled and crave honest leadership all the more. In staff meetings, when managers talk about upcoming projects, they should attach a probability of launch along with the projected launch date. The common term for this is \\"managing expectations.\\" (page 70)<br />One good description of the nature of how Einsteins work is the concept of flow.<br />Flow is reported by individuals as a satisfying state they reach when they are completely absorbed in challenging yet achievable projects. (page 54)<br />Flow is an important concept for managers to understand. Once an Einstein starts a project, and becomes fully involved, there is nothing worse than being pulled off to attend a sales meeting, or other time consuming function. It interrupts the flow.<br />The book is broken into three parts:<br />1. Realities of the Twenty-First Century - a brief summary about the nature of Einsteins and how they fit into the work environment and the world. It covers the basic themes of thebook and introduces the concept of an Einstein.<br />2. Managing Einsteins: Challenges and Actions - this section, the bulk of the book covers from recruiting Einsteins through to the management of them on a daily basis. Topics such as communication, teams and tribes, remuneration, etiquette and disciplining are included.<br />3. Building for the Future - includes humour and fun at work, telecommuting and a summary.<br />As it is the only book at the moment that directly with managing this class of workers, also get your manager to read Jon Katz's Geeks. Both of these together will help management, or anyone understand the mindset and working modes of IT workers.<br />One point that the book suffers is that is seems to have been started before the tech slump of 2000-2001 really started to dig in. So the book waxes and wanes between promoting how IT workers are highly mobile, but also that the job market is not that strong.<br />The other was the chapter on Etiquette and Manners. Now, I can understand the mannerisms and habits of Einsteins can be a little unpleasant at times, but it begs the question, why would a manager take one of these people out to a client dinner in the first place? If the client needs to meet the tech people to be convinced that a company can do the job, why not at the place of work? Or, take an Einstein who you know you can trust to behave and present well.introduces the concept of an Einstein.<BR>2. Managing Einsteins: Challenges and Actions - this section, the bulk of the book covers from recruiting Einsteins through to the management of them on a daily basis. Topics such as communication, teams and tribes, remuneration, etiquette and disciplining are included.<BR>3. Building for the Future - includes humour and fun at work, telecommuting and a summary.<br />As it is the only book at the moment that directly with managing this class of workers, also get your manager to read Jon Katz's Geeks. Both of these together will help management, or anyone understand the mindset and working modes of IT workers.<br />One point that the book suffers is that is seems to have been started before the tech slump of 2000-2001 really started to dig in. So the book waxes and wanes between promoting how IT workers are highly mobile, but also that the job market is not that strong.<br />The other was the chapter on Etiquette and Manners. Now, I can understand the mannerisms and habits of Einsteins can be a little unpleasant at times, but it begs the question, why would a manager take one of these people out to a client dinner in the first place? If the client needs to meet the tech people to be convinced that a company can do the job, why not at the place of work? Or, take an Einstein who you know you can trust to behave and present well.	2002-02-18
US	52680322	R2VXEA93P6MPXN	0262640414	576085655	The Invisible Computer: Why Good Products Can Fail, the Personal Computer Is So Complex, and Information Appliances Are the Solution	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A good read, although difficult to accept his major thesis	This book covers in detail the role technology has pervasively interrupted our lives by intruding into everyday living. His major point is that we should have small, independent devices that do one task and one task well, rather than a general-purpose computer to do many tasks. Personally as a technologist I disagree with his major assumptions and points and found the book and some of it's major themes troubling.<br />An example is the way children interact with computers compared to senior citizens. When a child grows up with something is becomes natural. Most children who have access to a computer at an early stage find it as natural as using a video/DVD player, television or CD player. If the technology is introduced at an early stage it become part of the natural language of the child. Normal disagrees with this, and I think although he is a well researched observer that this is one failing of the book.<br />It wasn't until I reached the last quarter of the book that I could start to agree with his ideas and see the point he was trying to make. That is that some devices work as an appliance. The examples of the TiVo (which we don't have here in Australia) seem best to fit the example. They do one thing, and do it well. Network Computers are the other example, where the complexity of the device is hidden from the user (although he still feels uncomfortable with NC's as they are still &quot;computers&quot;.)<br />Norman's style of writing made me think I had skipped back a few pages every now and then as he often will repeat himself in greater detail over points he thinks are important.<br />If you're a technologist you should read it. But don't take it as gospel. Although Normal is correct in some of his point, you need to use your own experience and environment to understand the points he is trying to make, rather than accepting them carte blanch.	2002-01-30
US	52680322	R4KRWUQQKYES9	0345392167	674886146	How to Mutate and Take Over the World	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Strange weird and not to serious	R. U. Sirius and St. Jude have taken us all for a ride. This post-novel is a poke in the eye for want-a-be cyberpunks and cypherpunks. I'm sure the book is not to be taken seriously.<br />It is a mix of email between the two authors, interspersed with email to their publisher, news stories, book reviews (yes, reviews for a book in the book they review, and very poor ones too!), and interviews. We are left no knowledge of what is real, fake or somewhere inbetween. Some of the interviews (well, one because we see the credits for it at the start) may be real, and as for the editorial assistant Trudy, who knows?<br />The only clue is a note at the end telling us that the book does make fun of some of their friends, and their only consolation is that it makes fun of the authors as well. Also the Phil Zimmerman defence fund mentioned on page 26 is true, thus leading the reader to believe the rest is complete fabrication.<br />Where that leaves us is that it is a complete work of fiction. Which I suppose we should expect. As a work of fiction it meanders, walks around, tells tales and really doesn't get us very far. It is interesting as a story telling device, but you need to realise that R. U. Sirius and St. Jude are fictional characters created by each author. They are their online persona's that seem to leak out into the real world every now and then. The book is interesting for its own sake, and that's about it really.	2002-01-05
US	52680322	R16AMS213CM3KB	060980474X	818805296	TechGnosis: Myth, Magic, and Mysticism in the Age of Information	Books	5	7	10	N	N	A surprising read	I had initially thought this book would a rah-rah about how great US West Coast liberalism is, .com utopian dreams and all thing American. Instead I found a very well researched, non-biased piece of work that covers a lot of information in a very readable format.<br />Starting with a history of technology and how it interacted with religion, through major technological discoveries where the inventors had to carefully toe the Catholic Church line, to out and out heretics.<br />The author does not push one view point over another, and gives a fairly free analysis of most counter culture, sub-culture, major religious and alternative groups seeking one of a number of different end results, from those wanting to leave the planet behind through mind uploading to pagan rituals or role playing/adventure games.<br />The Gnostic stream is woven through the text, and fully explained with relevant references. The writings of Philip K. Dick, Scientology and the Heavens Gate cult all get a good mention.<br />All in all, a good read. Not your usual West Coast utopian rubbish.	2001-12-28
US	52680322	R32N6F6N0FQ8YU	068486875X	11617672	Emergence: The Connected Lives of Ants, Brains, Cities, and Software	Books	4	15	19	N	N	A popular science type of general introduction to emergence	This book covers the theory of emergence, which states that there within a system of what seems to be anarchy, there are underlying rules that govern the pattern of behaviour and bring order out of chaos.<br />This books serves as an introduction to the field of emergence. It is something that is already happening around us, but we usually cannot see. The reason for this is that you need to look at a higher level then the individual organism. Ants can not see the society as a whole that they are members of. Just as we humans may have an understanding of the local community we are in and of ourselves, we need to step outside (or above) the city to understand how it functions. A city, like an ant colony does not have rules from the top as such, but rules that each occupant obeys, and it is these rules that give order to the chaos and make the resultant community behave like an organism as a whole.<br />As I read the book though, an uneasiness came upon me, just as I do when reading books on neo-Darwinism. There is no mention of where these rules as such come from except through evolutionary survival or initial chance. If anything, he implies that we are in a universe that had the initial conditions set, and left running. So we'd evolve or grow into who or what we are.<br />The idea that a God figure could be there, tweaking the parameters as the model runs, or even setting the initial conditions works against his ideas. This view is however explored in the chapter Control Artist, where he comments on the development of software models, notably computer games. Games such as SimCity are discussed where the rules are set, but as a player we get to choose what gets built, what gets destroyed. Although here we are playing the Mayor of the City, the notion is the same; we control the macro level and not the micro level. But at the micro level, the software developer who built the game in the first place controls each inhabitant. Nothing really, is left to chance. Given the exact same initial conditions and same set of instructions the computer will create the same environment.<br />So, like most popular science books currently available it will educate you, entertain you and keep you occupied whilst reading it. But it is not a book of philosophy to base a life on, which thankfully, the author has not tried to provide. It is very well researched, and the author seems on top of current trends and ideas. His writing style jumps around quite a bit, and some of the connections between topics might seem a little far fetched but it is an entertaining read as an introduction to the field of emergence theory.exact same initial conditions and same set of instructions the computer will create the same environment.<br />So, like most popular science books currently available it will educate you, entertain you and keep you occupied whilst reading it. But it is not a book of philosophy to base a life on, which thankfully, the author has not tried to provide. It is very well researched, and the author seems on top of current trends and ideas. His writing style jumps around quite a bit, and some of the connections between topics might seem a little far fetched but it is an entertaining read as an introduction to the field of emergence theory.	2001-12-07
US	52680322	R3OYM0W5QWJDTD	2825413267	352601744	Spiritual Values for Earth Community: #89 (Risk Book Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An alternative to current materialistic trends	This book, based on a talk the author gave at the Inter-Religious Consultation on Climate Change being held in parallel with the UN Climate Change conference in Kyoto, addresses the need of Western Society to re-address the excessive materialism present in today's world. Although a Christian book, other religious traditions are explored for their input towards providing a way of alternative living. After the introduction there is a good analysis of the problems western society is suffering including consumerism, globalisation and violence. The bulk of the book covers the necessary spiritual values required for justice and sustainability, with Scripture references and case studies. The last section includes study material based on difference parts of the book. The author, having worked for the World Council of Churches makes good use of international examples as well as feminist theology and post-modern analysis. I would recommend the book for people interested in any sort of social justice activism, or to give to someone who cannot see the relevance of Christianity in relation to activism in today's society.	2001-11-15
US	52680322	R2B3SJRHSYBWC6	187555968X	97222927	CyberFeminism	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A good collection of feminist writings	This anthology from Australian, Asian and other international writers covers feminist writings with a diversity of areas including connectivity, critique and creativity. The book includes mostly strong feminist views, with compelling argument against the patriarchy of the Internet and related technologies, although some of the writings may shock a few of the more conservative readers. It is fairly academic in some parts, and a good knowledge of current media theory may help the reader as will knowledge of current technology. I'd recommend the book for anyone currently studying either a technology or media related course, or interested in these issues. You may not agree with some of the writings, but it will make you think and appreciate the feminist point of view in the male dominated world of the Internet.	2001-11-15
US	52680322	RL791QKMJU2B8	0060955511	949556910	Brave New World Revisited (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A historial look at the current world	Although this book was written over 40 years ago, and is a reflection on a book written over 60 years ago the issues it covers are surprisingly relevant in today's society. Throughout the book Huxley contrasts his work with George Orwell's 1984, and the (then) state of the post WW2 world and current scientific discovery. Covering issues such as overpopulation, propaganda, the art of selling and brainwashing as well as drugs and political control he gives prescient warnings to the reader. My personal favourite chapter, The Art of Selling is an excellent analysis of the (then) new art of marketing. The final chapter though, is a call to activism through education of the people. The book is very accessible, and if you have not read Brave New World, you will not be at a disadvantage. I'd recommend it to anyone wanting a historical perspective to today's issues.	2001-11-15
US	52680322	R1WVKRZS0R7OGR	0688178057	284789064	Culture Jam: How to Reverse America's Suicidal Consumer Binge--And Why We Must	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Eye Opening Images	Not being an American (am Australian) I thought that it would just be a rant about how bad American society was. And yes, it does cover that. But since reading I can now view and understand the symbols of corporate greed around me even over here.<br />The book has four main sections, Autumn (that's Fall), Winter, Spring and Summer. Each section is well named. By the middle of Winter I was depressed thinking there was no hope in the world of consumerism around us. But by the time I got to Spring and then Summer, rays of hope broke through. Spring and Summer give us helpful tips, guidelines and ideas to break out the consumerist vegatative lifestyle that some of us take. You *may* think you don't participate in the system, but you may even to the smallest degree.<br />Get the book, read it with an open mind. Then read another related book. Go outside, view the billboards and then yell: &quot;You don't have power over me anymore!&quot;<br />You'll feel refreshed.	2001-09-05
