US	52686408	R2ZW0O9ZJ8JZ3V	1560255153	799881837	My Husband Betty: Love, Sex, and Life with a Crossdresser	Books	5	46	56	N	N	Required Reading for Crossdressers and their Partners	?My Husband Betty? (?MHB?) by Helen Boyd is a remarkable book relating to a generally misunderstood, and also often fairly well-hidden, segment of our society:  the world of heterosexual men who crossdress, and their female partners.  The book is remarkable not only because it is one of the only books to address this group from the perspective of a wife of a crossdressing male, but because it is an extremely well-done melange of personal experience, shared experiences of others, as well as a survey of the available scientific and other literature available pertaining to this group.  But the main virtue of MHB is that it is (at times brutally) honest about the significant challenges the author and other women have faced in the context of being in relationships with men who are crossdressers.  In the end, it is this frank honesty, which some readers ? including ones who may be male crossdressers ? may find hard to swallow at times, that lends the book an enhanced degree of credibility, openness and accessibility to anyone interested in this area, and particularly to those who are living this experience. <br /> <br />The book begins with an examination of the crossdressers themselves, including the different kinds of things that they do, the different ?types? of crossdressing men, the different phases of crossdressing that a crossdresser may experience at different points of his life.  This chapter of the book is enlightening for crossdressers themselves, but is invaluable for a partner of a crossdresser who is at square one.  An extremely helpful appendix contains a glossary of crossdressing and related acronyms and jargon. <br /> <br />Next the book addresses the women who are the partners of crossdressers, taking into account the various experiences that they have had, their reactions to their partner?s crossdressing ways, the negative or at best conflicted feelings most of them experience, as well as the diversity of viewpoints among them as to how they relate to their crossdressing partner and his crossdressing.  This is one of the primary chapters where the author?s own experiences, and her willingness and honesty in describing them, lend the book a remarkable depth and credibility.  As the author notes, she is not trying to put a pretty face on crossdressing, but to address it squarely and honestly, and her admission of her own continuing challenges, fears and difficulties relating to her husband?s crossdressing is both illuminating and touching, and should be required reading for any crossdressing man who is, has been, or intends to be in a relationship with a woman.  The chapter which follows ? addressing the various modes of relationships between crossdressing men and their female partners ? is told through the experiences of six different couples, each of which has come to their own way of managing the experience in a different way, and helps to move the experiential part of the book beyond the author?s own experiences to reflect those of a broader group. <br /> <br />A chapter is devoted to the question of whether crossdressing is a ?Slippery Slope? to transsexualism, and here again the book is brutally honest in its confrontation with the often-spouted semi-propaganda by some crossdressing groups to the effect that crossdressing has nothing to do with transsexualism and does not ever ?progress? to transsexualism.  A well-done survey of the historical and existing scholarship relating to crossdressers and transsexuals forms the foundation for the author?s frank conclusion that this can sometimes happen, together with her indictment of the soft-sell engaged in by some crossdresser?s groups on these issues, which, in the long run, actually undermines trust between crossdressers and their partners and harms the crossdressers themselves by limiting their self-awareness and therefore their self-acceptance.   <br /> <br />A frank chapter addressing the challenges in having a satisfying sexual life with a crossdresser similarly debunks the notion advanced by some crossdresser groups that crossdressing does not have a sexual element to it.  In addition, this chapter should be required reading for any crossdresser who is, has been, or plans to be in a relationship with a woman, because the impacts here are extremely well presented and accurate and need to be addressed in an active manner by the crossdressing partner. <br /> <br />The book concludes with a chapter addressing the larger ?scene? of crossdressing outside the house, and the various options for being more open about one?s crossdressing, and a chapter relating to gender politics.  It is the last chapter that is addressed to the crossdressers themselves and, while it may be hard for some crossdressers to read, in my opinion the author is dead right that the reason why the crossdressing community has lagged behind other groups in obtaining rights for itself is that it has been unwilling to build bridges with the larger feminist, gay, lesbian, and bisexual communities, and has instead spent a great deal of time trying to wall itself off from these groups in an effort to maintain its ?straightness?.  In the end, I agree with the author that the crossdressing community ? which may very well be mostly heterosexual ? is nevertheless not ?straight? in any meaningful way, and that the sooner it accepts this (both on an individual level and on a broader, collective level), the sooner it will be in a position to work together with other alternative groups to forge its rightful place in society.  That will not happen without changing perspectives, work and sacrifice.  All of this amounts to sobering thoughts for many, but necessary ones for crossdressers themselves to hear and reflect upon. <br /> <br />In sum, MHB is basically required reading for anyone who is a crossdresser or who is the significant other of a crossdresser, as well as anyone who may be involved in the therapeutic community and who may deal with crossdressers and their partners from time to time.  While it is likely that most who read MHB will not agree with everything in it, it is precisely this honesty and frankness which makes the book very useful because it certainly will spur the readers to think and reflect on their own experience.   <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-07-20
US	52686408	R2UXSZSAW83JQ2	0425192938	919064525	Pattern Recognition (Blue Ant)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Great Reflection on The Present Way of Life	Pattern Recognition, unlike Gibson's other novels, is set in the present day, in the hyperconnected cyberlinked yet increasingly chaotic and uncertain world of the post-9/11 era.  Into this background steps the wonderfully quixotic, quirky, loveable character of Cayce Pollard, an enigmatic 30-something freelance &quot;coolhunter&quot; with a pathological evasion to certain trademarks and logos.<br />The main thrust of the novel's plot involves unraveling the mystery of who is secretively releasing snippets of film footage in digital format onto the world wide web.  But the novel is really about the way we interact and relate to each other in this digitally charged age, the way in which the internet and its modes of personal interaction are changing the web of human relationships in ways both known and surprising.<br />Gibson's prose is fluid and at times electric, wonderfully joyous to read and savor.  His cast of characters is interesting, particularly the principal character of Cayce Pollard, whom we can hope we will see again in a future Gibson work.  The novel is somewhat marred by a weaker ending than was probably justified by the balance of the work, together with a love-related ending that did not seem likely based on the previous interactions between the characters involved.  But in all and on balance this is a very fine, clever, insightful and ultimately relevant novel, and an important read as we all embark upon our digital journey into the 21st Century.	2004-06-07
US	52686408	RW1LLIEQ391G4	0761542191	673966336	Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided (Prima's Official Strategy Guide)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Okay, not great	The manual in SWG is, despite its length, generally lacking in several areas (as is often the case with MMORPGs), and so this book is sometimes a handy reference.  Interesting tips about starting out professions and races are included, and there are some town maps and some charts and tables that are useful.  In all, however, it could have been *more* useful and to a certain extent it is rather out of date because things have been changed in many areas since the release of the book.  If you can find a cheap copy, it's worth a look, but I wouldn't recommend paying full retail for it.	2004-02-03
US	52686408	R37ZUBZ04L9FXD	0942637534	424554637	When AA Doesn't Work For You: Rational Steps to Quitting Alcohol	Books	5	118	121	N	N	The Alternative for Cognitively-Oriented People	Virtually everyone knows of AA and its efforts to address problem drinking -- it is the largest, most visible and most accessible group, and the group that most entering recovery will either gravitate towards or be directed to by the therapy community.  Yet, AA, for all of its benefits, doesn't work as a program for everyone -- particularly for those who are not spiritually inclined (and don't want to have to become spiritually inclined in order to recover) or those who are more cognitively-oriented people.  There are thankfully alternatives to AA available for those who seek them out, and the &quot;RET&quot; (rational-emotive therapy) approach founded by Dr. Ellis, and which is the foundation of the SMART Recovery approach to recovery, is well outlined in this easy-to-read, easy-to-understand book.<br />The basic idea is very simple ... you are not powerless over alcohol as AA says but rather you are empowered, or exercising your power, every time you make a decision in life about anything, including the decision to drink.  When you drink even in spite of the fact that your drinking is interfering with your life goals (as you define them) or causing you tangible problems (legal, financial, relationship, career, etc.), then you have a good sign that your decision-making process around drinking alcohol needs some examination.  RET is a technique that helps the individual drill down into her cognitive processes and isolate the real mental issues underlying her decision to keep drinking under these circumstances.  In particular, a lot of attention is paid to &quot;stinking thinking&quot;, which in RET terms means underlying beliefs we may have about ourselves, the world around us and others that are irrational, self-defeating, and lead us to make the decision to drink.  RET teaches the individual how to unearth these often hidden, reflexive beliefs, examine them, challenge them, and replace them with healthier, rational, self-helping beliefs, ones which will not lead one to make the irrational decision to problem drink.  RET also teaches how to relate more healthily to life's frustrations and disappointments by placing them in perspective, not overblowing them, and developing a higher frustration tolerance over time ... in other words, how to deal more effectively with the frustrating things in life, in ourselves, and in others that may have led us in the past to decide to drink.  In all, RET teaches the individual to be much more aware of what is going on inside themselves, to be much more in control of that interior situation, or at least be able to manage it and relate to it more effectively, and thereby to make better choices about how to act ---- rather than being largely unaware of what is happening interiorly, but nonetheless being subjected to what may be a somewhat or largely irrational set of interior beliefs, whether we are aware or not, and acting accordingly.  <br />In all, it is a wonderful approach, for some people.  I don't believe that this approach is for everyone (and neither is AA), but if the AA approach isn't working for you (see title of the book), and particularly if you are the kind of person who is more cognitively oriented, then Ellis' approach of RET is certainly worth a read, and just may hold the key to your own recovery.	2003-11-03
US	52686408	RED2R2PL3CIJD	1550224921	443161996	Natalie Portman: Queen of Hearts	Books	1	15	16	N	N	Disrespectful, Speculative Rubbish by a Paparazzi with a Pen	Yet again, this work is an excellent example of how ultimately fruitless it is to attempt to write a biography of someone without having access to that person.  In this rather tendentious, seedy little biography, Dickerson has essentially strung together snippets from the public interviews conducted by Ms. Portman over the past several years in magazine features and on TV talk shows, and has attempted to concoct a \\"biography\\" based on this meagre store of real information.  As a result, the book abounds with \\"it is believed that\\", and \\"many consider that\\" ... because ultimately there are many things that Dickerson writes in the book without knowing whether or not they are true.  Speculation begins with the details of Ms. Portman's family background, and continues at several points along the way, because without having access to Ms. Portman and her devoted parents, Dickerson has no other alternative in order to write a biograhphy that is in any way interesting for the reader (whether true or not).  The reader therefore comes away with a speculative vision of the person that Natalie Portman is -- and certainly none the wiser as to who that person, in fact, really is.<br />Surely Ms. Portman must be laughing at times when she reads Dickerson's fatally flawed \\"biography\\"; in fact, it seems, based on the voluminous interviews that appeared in the press as part of the media campaign for \\"Star Wars: Attack of the Clones\\", that she is almost deliberately slipping in this or that true biographical detail into her conversations with the press to subtlely (and with some wit) undermine the more egregious of Dickerson's speculations.<br />But perhaps the most troubling thing about this book is that it categorically refuses to respect Ms. Portman's right to maintain some semblance of privacy.  Surely, a celebrity of her level has a more limited expectation of privacy than the average citizen, but her well-known choice to act under a pseudonym -- out of respect for her own privacyas well as that of her parents -- has been completely disrespected by Dickerson, much to his discredit.  Dickerson is entitled to disagree with Ms. Portman's decision in this regard, but his own decision to completely disrespect her own privacy is regrettable and credibility-shattering, as this happens at the very outset of the book.<br />In all, this is an example of a papparazzi with a pen -- not a biographer in any meaningful sense of the word.  Save your money, and read Ms. Portman's interviews in the media and watch her films ... you'll surely have a better sense of her person than you will by reading this speculative drivel.	2002-07-08
US	52686408	R2HVDAY325O8YV	0834802228	427000907	Essential Kanji: 2,000 Basic Japanese Characters Systematically Arranged For Learning And Reference	Books	5	48	54	N	N	Excellent Resource	In a somewhat crowded market of Kanji resources, this book serves as an excellent learning tool and resource for 2,000 very useful Kanji.  The book is organized according to level of difficulty, and introduces Kanji only based on elements that relate to a prior Kanji learned.  A helpful index of readings (ON and kun) helps one identify quickly sound-loans and related Kanji with much ease.  Critics of the book harp on the use of roomaji for the readings, but this is a minor quibble for what is otherwise a very worthy and useful tool for the student of Japanese.	2001-08-17
US	52686408	R3NDMQ8JJN0AAQ	0781807239	445999652	Beginner's Armenian (Hippocrene Beginner's)	Books	3	17	18	N	N	Okay, but hard for beginners	There are very few books available to teach the Armenian language to adults.  This book's main strength lies in the fact that if you manage to complete it, you will acquire a substantial Armenian vocabulary.  The downsides of the book, however, are a much too glib chapter on the challenging Armenian alphabet, too few reading exercises (almost none, really), and a grammatical/structural organization that is rather a baffling way to organize such a book.  A more &quot;inductive&quot; language book on Armenian needs to be written, but until then this is a good, not great, introduction to this fascinating language.	2001-08-17
US	52686408	R2JJ48PQGYJSX6	0140257713	420072900	The Fall of Yugoslavia: The Third Balkan War, Third Revised Edition	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Expertly Conveys Eerie Sense of Being Witness to Disaster	Misha Glenny, a longtime observer of matters Balkan who is blessed with knbowledge of the local languages, has written this impressionistic yet brilliant portrayal of the beginning of the Yugoslav crisis in the early 1990s.<br />Critics of &quot;The Fall of Yugoslavia&quot; shoot at this book due to the fact that it is opinionated, and that it does not focus on the entire period.  These criticisms are, however, inapposite.  The book focuses on the period that it covers -- the descent into war.  It was never intended to focus on the outcome of these wars, and criticising it for that reason is inappropriate.  Similarly, the charges of bias are inappopriate as well.  Glenny is neither pro-Serb nor anti-Serb, pro-Croat nor anti-Croat.  In a complex conflict laced with villains on all sides, Glenny's courageous effort to avoid portraying things in &quot;black and white&quot; is hardly a sign of bias, but rather a refreshing sign of realism in journalism.  Rather than succumbing to the tendency in the Western media of demonizing one party to the conflict in toto, Glenny presents a more nuanced picture -- which is admittedly more complex, but certainly closer to the truth.<br />Glenny's work is strengthened by his fluid writing, his lucid skills of description and analysis and his balanced viewpoint.  One feels as if one were there with Glenny, which is at times rather frightening.  Together with Brian Hall's &quot;The Impossible Country&quot;, this book excels in its ability to give one the sense of what it was like to be there as Yugoslavia slid into oblivion.<br />Other good compliments to this book include the chronologically arranged &quot;Yugoslavia: Death of a Nation&quot; (jammed with as many facts as you can bear) and Glenny's recent magnum opus history of the region &quot;The Balkans&quot;.	2001-03-09
US	52686408	R1LY1GHVEZ78KX	0312233965	641321782	Why Angels Fall: A Journey Through Orthodox Europe from Byzantium to Kosovo	Books	2	72	78	N	N	Flawed Work on a Much Needed Topic	Victoria Clarke, a British journalist with a wide range of experience in Eastern Europe, has written a book which is noble in its effort but regrettably mistaken and unenlightening.<br />The topic is a good one -- Orthodoxy.  In the decade since the end of the cold war, the Orthodox Church has reemerged in Eastern Europe as a strong cultural and political force.  It is becoming increasingly clear that in order for Westerners to understand the region well, a thorough understanding of Orthodoxy is also needed -- and there are remarkably few works that address the contemporary situation of Orthodoxy in these countries.  So far so good.<br />Where Clarke's book misfires, however, is in its approach to Orthodoxy.  Rather than trying to understand Orthodoxy as a spiritual system, as a religion, and attempt to understand its force in that way, Clarke instead focuses on the worldly aspects of the Orthodox Church, leaving the reader with a good understanding of how worldly some Orthodox prelates can be, but with almost *no* understanding of what really drives the rank and file of Orthodoxy in their beliefs.  In other words, Clarke fails to delve deeply enough into Orthodoxy to really explain it well to anyone, and this is a very serious shortcoming in a work that is an attempt to explain Orthodox Europe to Westerners.  Because Clarke never really excapes her Western/Secular viewpoint (which must be thoroughly entrenched to have survived her tremendous exposure to Orthodoxy), neither does the reader -- and the result is that the reader is given a Western/Secular understanding of Orthodoxy.  This is the equivalent of &quot;Orientalism&quot; done this time not for the Near East, but for Eastern Europe.<br />Clarke poses the question &quot;Why do Angels fall&quot; as the issue of her book, and answers it, for Orthodoxy, in one word: phyletism (religious nationalism).  That is a fine perspective to have, but it really does not explain Orthodoxy at all other than as an expressionof nationalism.  Clarke spends almost no time explaining Orthodoxy as a spiritual system, exploring the meaning of Orthodox liturgy and worship, the forms and meaning of Orthodox piety, the differences between East and West.  In other words, Clarke fails to address some of the central issues that must be understood well, in order for a Westerner to understand the tenaciousness of Orthodoxy in Eastern Europe, why it is experiencing a revival there currently, and why it remains so apparently stubbornly recalcitrant in its relations with the West.  Religious nationalism is a part of the picture -- but focusing on that aspect to the exclusion of a broader, spiritual perspective provides a woefully incomplete, and therefore unsatisfactory, picture.<br />In the end, the most complete picture the reader gains from &quot;Why Angels Fall&quot; is that of the typical Western/Secular view of the Orthodox Church.  Clarke provides this in flying colors, and to her credit she does not hide her own views.  Clarke is clearly upset at the political incorrectness of Orthodoxy (her choice to begin the work with a lament of her inability to visit Mount Athos due to her gender sets the tone for the book), upset at its doctrinal exactitude (exemplified in a heated chat Clarke has with an Orthodox Bishop, where she is clearly disturbed by his stubborn insistence on Trinitarianism), discomfited at the level of its faith, time and time again.  Perhaps it is this discomfort with the &quot;religious&quot; aspects of Orthodoxy that led Clarke to focus on the more &quot;worldly&quot; aspects of the Church -- but, in any case, it was not lost on those with whom she spoke (one perceptive Serb Bishop noted that Clarke seemed awfully interested in politics for someone writing a book about Orthodoxy).<br />Ultimately, because there are so few works on Orthodox Europe, Clarke's book deserves a read.  But, to be honest, the most enlightening thing the reader will take away is an accurate portrait of how the Secular West views Orthodoxy -- not &quot;what makes Orthodoxy tick&quot;.	2001-03-02
US	52686408	R2BVDK3H4HDU1	0385720408	873683868	Ali and Nino: A Love Story	Books	5	43	49	N	N	What a Hidden Jewel!	First, you simply must read this book.  There's no way around that.<br />Ali and Nino is a lyrically written story of love and war, honor and country, cultural blend and clash set in WWI-era Transcaucasia (ie, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Georgia).  The novel has simply *all* the elements of greatness:  well-developed characters, a vivid setting, a gripping plot, and an examination of larger themes -- all crammed into this little-known, relatively compact work.  <br />Love in the face of cultural obstacles, in the face of war and patriotic duty.  Love in its innocence, its longing, its maturity.  Love between people, love for a people, and the tragedy of a lost world.  It's really an incredible, incredible book -- one which, despite its age, seems more capable of tackling the issues we see in our own post-cold-war world than any other book I've read.  <br />Read this book.  It will delight and reward you.	2001-02-08
US	52686408	R3JOIF860GS0FP	0156005344	605277560	The Waste Land (Harvest Book)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	shantih shantih shantih	Simply the defining poem of the 20th Century -- the standard against which all contemporary poetry must be judged.  A rambling, rumbling tour de force of intellect, history, allusion, literature set amidst the decayed landscape of interwar Europe.  Make no mistake -- this is a hard, hard poem to get your mind around -- no lazy metaphors or sappy sentimentalism here.  But the poem is immensely rewarding -- deep, thoughtful, varied, inspired.  My best advice would be to get a critical or annotated edition and move slowly, learning along the way.  But don't let your own limitations prevent you from experiencing this work of art -- your understanding of the last century of poetic literature will suffer from a gaping hole if you omit this classic, seminal work.	2001-01-22
US	52686408	R1CWTZS05O6F8S	0848809971	906940214	Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock	Books	5	9	9	N	N	&quot;Let us go then, you and I ....&quot;	Perhaps not the seminal work which is &quot;The Waste Land&quot;, nevertheless Prufrock is one of the key poems of the early 20th Century.  I remember fondly first encountering this poem as a high-schooler -- what an enchanting mixture of ideas, emotions, allusions, sympathies, images.  And all of this from Eliot's early 20's!  Simply a smashing poem -- it will move you, it will cut you to the core, really, even if you do away with the many erudite allusions and references that are so typical of many of Eliot's poems.  Whether you read it in a separate volume such as this, or in a larger collection of Eliot's works, you should rad &quot;Prufrock&quot; -- you will learn more about yourself if you do.	2001-01-22
US	52686408	RLCS9WFD80CUG	015121185X	359746537	The Complete Poems and Plays: 1909-1950	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Oh, Go On!  You NEED this collection!	In spite of the drawbacks of the arrangement in this volume (as described by other reviewers infra), this remains a must-have volume for anyone interested in contemporary poetry.  T.S. Eliot's *best* works are all collected here, in a readily readable and comprehensible form.  I remember reading and re-reading and re-reading my copy as a youngster and it still enjoys both a place of honor on my shelf as well as the even greater honor of frequent use and perusal.  Let's face it, you can't come to terms with contemporary poetry without an understanding of T.S. Eliot, and this is probably the best place to start that effort because of the comprehensive (though not exhaustive) nature of this collection.  You simply have to have this volume if you are a lover of contemporary poetry.	2001-01-22
US	52686408	RW7W068P3ZYK1	0965231240	931149847	Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam	Books	1	7	71	N	N	Don't Waste Your Time With This Mush!	Don't waste your time with this trite collection of vapid, paganistic, intellectually lazy and self-indulgent quatrains.  The soul of Persia and Persian literature is poorly represented here.  You are better off reading  Rumi and Hafiz than this twaddle.  What we have here is an unrepentant  pagan being translated by a 19th Century neo-pagan, and the result is an  incomprehensible, senseless mush.  The writer and translator appear  unwilling, or rather incapable, of plombing the depths of the questions  raised here, rather opting for the trite, tired, vapid and unsatisfying  answers of antiquity - -and this not out of any deep reflection, but rather  as the result of intellectual laziness and epicurean self-indulgence.  Make  no mistake -- this is lightweight drivel.	2000-07-13
US	52686408	R393IOO43OZMWD	0670853380	442684524	The Balkans: Nationalism, War and the Great Powers, 1804-1999	Books	5	117	124	N	N	The Balkans Book We've Been Waiting For	In recent years, there have been many books published about specific areas of the Balkans (particularly, the countries of the former Yugoslavia), but no one book (other than Robert Kaplan's travelogue &quot;Balkan  Ghosts&quot;) has attempted to tackle the entire Balkan region, taken as a  group.  Misha Glenny's latest work does this admirably well, and has  instantly become the most comprehensive, and comprehensible, book available  regarding this fascinating region.<br />Misha Glenny is no newcomer to the  Balkans, and some readers may be familiar with his &quot;The Fall of  Yugoslavia&quot; which recounted the principal events leading to the  breakup of Yugoslavia.  However, here Glenny is focussed on surveying the  major events of Balkan history over the past 200 years, drawing together  the similar threads that play through various countries, while pointing out  the important differences that led to different outcomes in various parts  of the region.  In particular, Glenny focuses on the relationship between  the Balkan region and the countries outside that region, and the impact  that this relationship has had in the past and continues to have on the  region today.  In this sense, the book is very timely and sheds much light  on the present situation.<br />Unlike the extremely popular &quot;Balkan  Ghosts&quot;, Glenny simply doesn't buy the notion that the recent  conflicts in the Balkans are principally the result of ancient  ethno-religious hatreds and stubborn intractibility, but instead forcefully  and convincingly argues that the carnage that we see today is the product  of relatively recent Balkan history, which itself has been greatly  influenced by powers beyond the Balkans.  The book is convincing in its  thesis, breathtakingly broad in its scope (it covers the entire region,  including the former Yugolavia, Romania, Bulgaria, Albania and Greece), and  yet fascinating in its attention to detail and the individual events and  personages who have shaped the history of this corner of Europe.  <br />This  is simply a great history book, hands down.  Anyone who wants to understand  the Balkan region would be well-advised to purchase and read this  remarkable book.	2000-05-10
US	52686408	RFRQBP0E9FYXZ	1898323984	727889423	Georgia	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The Best Guide to Transcaucasia Available	The Bradt Travel Guide is the best guide to Transcaucasia currently available.  The Guide is comprehensive in its scope of coverage of Georgia, with reliable details on sights, lodging, restaurants, etc. -- but the book  is most notable for its outstanding background information regarding this  little-known region.  The history and development of the region, the  present political situation, the ecological state of affairs, as well as  cultural, religious and culinary background are well covered.  Almost as a  bonus, the book contains a good chapter for a short visit to neighboring  Armenia.  The author is an experienced travel writer (see also his  &quot;Rough Guide to Romania&quot;) and it shows.  You really can't go  wrong with this book if you find yourself travelling to this fascinating,  off-the-beaten-path part of the world.	2000-04-17
US	52686408	R2ZEC4FC3QBMF	1858283051	533967205	Romania: A Rough Guide, Second Edition	Books	5	42	43	N	N	The Best Guide to Romania Currently Available	This book is the best general guide to Romania presently available.  The book contains good background information and tips, as well as practical information that is invaluable.  The book is many times better than the  Lonely Planet guide for this country -- more deep and perceptive coverage,  and more consistently accurate.  This book was an invaluable companion  during my stay in Bucharest last fall.	2000-03-02
US	52686408	R2EE1PXN3FHCPM	0679749810	806639526	Balkan Ghosts: A Journey Through History	Books	3	246	287	N	N	Read It, But With a Grain of Salt	Robert Kaplan's \\"Balkan Ghosts\\" is a flawed book, but certainly worth reading in order to understand, if nothing else, the prevailing Western attitudes towards the Balkan region of Europe.<br />The books clear strength  lies in the author's lucid, fluid and descriptive writing style - it truly  makes the book, from the literary point of view, a joy to read.  The reader  is given a vivid picture of the Balkan lands Kaplan visits in a sort of  `travelogue from hell' or `anti-travelogue' regarding places that most  readers will not yet have visited.  Added to this is a good deal of insight  and reportage, interviews with locals, and so forth, that lend the book  much readability and depth.<br />Unfortunately, however, the book is marred by  the author's own Western prejudices and biases.  What we have here is a  critique, in many ways, of the `backwards East' and a not-so-subtle  head-shaking that the region is not more `Western' in outlook.  <br />The  problems surface on two levels:  First, Kaplan's descriptions of the local  cultural life are off the mark, due in many cases to his lack of  understanding of Orthodox Christianity.  Many ignorant comments are notable  regarding Orthodox religious art, piety, liturgical life, church  organization, etc.  Kaplan is right that the Orthodox tradition has had a  profound influence on the region, but his conclusions as to the nature of  this impact are nothing more than a perpetuation of the common and  long-held Western stereotypes about the Eastern Orthodox part of Europe -  in particular, the myth that Eastern Orthodox Christianity is a dangerous  brew of mysticism, austerity and nationalism.  Not only is this an  incorrect summary, but the impressionistic conclusion is false -- the  reality of the impact of the Orthodox Church on these countries in the  twentieth century is much more complex and nuanced than Mr. Kaplan leads  the reader to believe.  Kaplan would have been better served to study more  about Orthodox Christianity before repeating so many tired stereotypes  about it in this book.  But, alas, many Western readers are not in a  position to correct Mr. Kaplan, and will accept what he writes as true,  thereby experiencing a convenient confirmation of their existing  stereotypes.<br />Second, Kaplan's `program' for the region is unabashedly  biased towards the 'enlightened' Western approach.  According to Kaplan,  the post-Enlightenment West is the paradigm that the world (or at least  this part of it) must follow, and he accords much of the problems of these  countries to their non-Western, Byzantine, Slavic, Eastern Orthodox  Christian background - in a vast, vast overstatement and oversimplification  of the real situation in the Balkans and in Europe in general.  The fact  that the Enlightenment itself led to the drastic decline of ethical life in  the `West', and the development of the political ideologies that are the  real cause of the tragedies of the Twentieth Century seems lost on Kaplan,  who would solve the problems of the Balkan region by imposing the  full-blown developments of Western Enlightenment ideology on these  Southeastern Europeans.<br />The story of the Balkans is simple enough - it is  a region that has been `put upon' by outsiders for centuries, each with  their own designs for the region - the Venetians, the Byzantines, the  Ottomans, the Austrians, the Nazis, etc.  In the act of being downtrodden,  rivalries developed and these have in some cases developed into ethnic  hatreds.  These hatreds are easily manipulable by local political powers to  engage the population in one or another act of internal or external  agression (read: scapegoating).  The influence of outsiders on the region  has been profoundly negative historically, and in my opinion, Kaplan is  mistaken to assume that yet another `design' for the region would meet with  any greater success than the previous ones have.  <br />Read `Balkan Ghosts'  for a great travelogue and an excellent portrayal of the present Western  stereotypical view of the Balkans.  But don't take his strereotypes to  heart - the truth is much more complex and nuanced, and the region needs to  be understood from the `inside out' rather than the view from the `outside  in' that Kaplan presents here.	1999-12-27
US	52686408	R3LE1HGSAFMDTA	0345384563	286200112	A History of God: The 4,000-Year Quest of Judaism, Christianity and Islam	Books	2	39	76	N	N	Erudite But Ultimately Flawed	While Karen Armstrong certainly displays adeptly her familiarity with the philosophy of religion, if you will, this book is ultimately flawed for several reasons.  First, the unstated assumption of an  &quot;evolution&quot; in the &quot;idea&quot; of God flies in the face of  the religious experience of each of these three faiths; this results from  her method of approaching religion as an &quot;idea&quot; rather than as a  living reality for the believers who espouse each of these faiths.  This  flaw in particular is humorously ironic, in light of her stated but cryptic  preference for the mystical traditions in each of these faiths ...  traditions which themselves completely eschew the notion that God can be  treated as an &quot;idea&quot; in favor of a personal experience of God  that cannot be reduced to an &quot;idea&quot;.  Second, Armstrong has an  unmistakeable if yet unstated bias against what she considers to be  'organized' religion, in general, and Western organized religion in  particular.  This slants her analysis considerably in favor of mysticism,  first, and more significantly, against Christianity in general, as it has  been, for much of its history, considerably more 'organized' than Judaism  and Islam.  Third, Islam fares much better in this book, as it does in  Armstrong's other books, than a realistic look at that faith reveals --  again, at the expense of Christianity in general and Western Christianity  in particular.<br />This book is well-researched and erudite -- but make no  mistake:  it is pure opinion, and is ultimately and principally a  reflection of the author's own skepticism and lack of faith, and a yearning  for the &quot;religion withouty doctrines&quot; or a &quot;spirituality  without religion&quot;, the great Holy Grail Myth of the contemporary  popular &quot;spirituality&quot; of our times.	1999-08-30
US	52686408	R2ZWUHSC610H6U	0671779974	476491260	Turkish Reflections: A Biography of a Place	Books	1	14	69	N	N	Tolerant Turkey?? What about the Armenians and the Kurds?	This book is highly disappointing in its approach to contemporary Turkey.  It is well-known and is well documented that the Turks committed a major genocide earlier this century against the Armenians, something which they  deny and which they continue to attempt to cover up at every step, each  year removing more and more Armenian relics and holy sites in a  concentrated effort to remove from history all traces of the existence of  these people in Anatolia for thousands of years.  Similarly, they are  conducting an armed war against the Kurds (so-called &quot;Mountain  Turks&quot;)in the Southeastern part of the country even today.  And, yet  again, the Turks continue to forbid the development of Greek Orthodox  theological schools, hoping once and for all to snuff out the existence of  the Ecumenical Patriarchate in Istanbul by means a cynical &quot;war of  attrition&quot;.<br />A more realistic and revealing portrayal of what is  actually happening in contemporary Turkey can be gleaned by reading William  Dalrymple's From the Holy Mountain or Michael Arlen's Passage to Ararat.   But unless one has complete utter blinders on, it is difficult, if not  impossible, to believe that this book is anything other than a hopelessly  romanticized vision of Turkey based on a lack of real knowledge of what  life in Turkey is like for the minority groups which have lived there in  the past.	1999-08-26
US	52686408	R281ZAVRW3UZXG	1561250198	440603233	We Are All Schismatics	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Heal the Schism!	Kyr Elias Zoghby is a Bishop (retired) of the Melkite Greek-Catholic Church -- one of the Eastern Churches in communion with Rome.  Throughout his life, Kyr Elias has been a tireless ecumenist and advocate of closer  ties between Eastern Catholics and Orthodox Christians.  This book explains  in detail his views that (1) the schism between East and West was  principally historical and not theological, (2) both the Catholic and the  Orthodox Churches are truly the &quot;Church&quot;, and (3) the continued  separation is not justified by history, theology, or ecclesiology.  Kyr  Elias proposes a &quot;double communion&quot; in which Greek Catholics and  Greek Orthodox would be in communion with both churches, so that the issues  that divide the two churches could be worked out in the context of a  &quot;lived communion&quot;.  While his ideas are not uncontroversial, they  have formed the basis for the Melkite Church's Synodal declarations of 1995  and 1996, which largely adopted the views expressed in this book.  The book  also contains a section in which Kyr Elias responds to some of the more  common criticisms that have been raised regarding the ideas in this book.   This is a book which is intentionally provocative, and one which ought not  be missed by anyone interested in the ecumenical issues that separate East  and West.	1999-06-04
US	52686408	R2CCRLA2BRYT5N	0913836583	566465397	The Orthodox Way	Books	5	45	48	N	N	The Only Way	Bishop KALLISTOS (Ware), famous for his companion volume &quot;The Orthodox Church&quot;, presents in this offering a comprehensive approach to Orthodox spirituality.  While &quot;Church&quot; deals with the history,  organization, structure and basic theology of the Orthodox Church,  &quot;Way&quot; is concerned exclusively on the Orthodox spiritual life --  the Orthodox &quot;way&quot; of spirituality.  Having said that, since  Orthodox theology is in its essence mystical and closely related to  spirituality, KALLISTOS' book covers much spiritual theology from the  Orthodox perspective.  This is not a complicated treatise for experts, but  a readable, usable guide for everyone wishing to uncover the incomparable  glories of Orthodox spirituality.  A tremendous guide to Orthodoxy  &quot;from the inside out&quot;.	1999-06-02
US	52686408	R1I6LNJDUYELDS	0913836044	899878910	Great Lent: Journey to Pascha	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Indispensible Guide to the Lenten Journey	Father Alexander Schmemann, of blessed memory, the great Orthodox liturgical theologian, presents in this volume a series of brief yet spiritually incisive essays guiding the Orthodox believer through the  season of Great Lent -- the period of prayer, fasting and alms-giving thaht  precedes Pascha, the Orthodox Easter.  Father Alexander explains the  spiritual significance of the Lenten calendar, practices and special Lenten  services, such as the Liturgy of the Presanctified Gifts, in a fresh and  thoughtful manner.  This book is required reading for all Orthodox  Christians on their Lenten journey.	1999-06-02
US	52686408	R1AK5M3G8XXSVO	0913836087	219826018	For the Life of the World: Sacraments and Orthodoxy	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Best Book on Sacramental Theology I've ever read!	Father Alexander Schmemann, of blessed memory, explains in a stunningly articulate and beautiful work the Orthodox approach to sacramentality.  Father Alexander's book is less concerned with issues of  &quot;validity&quot; and &quot;form&quot;, and much more concerned with  intrinsic meaning and spirituality.  For Father Alexander, the Christian  life is quintessentially Eucharistic in nature, and it is against this  background that the remainder of life is imbued with sacredness and  meaning.  This is a brief work, but an excellent read both for Orthodox  Christians as well as others who wish to understand the true meaning of  Christian sacramental life.	1999-06-02
US	52686408	RG69XC5KFOZ89	0921440456	23629456	Christmas: Birth of Our Lord God and Saviour Jesus Christ and His Private Life	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Beautiful Exposition of Byzantine Christmas	Archbishop Raya of the Melkite Greek-Catholic Church explains, in terms of extreme poetical beauty and eloquence, the heart of the Byzantine understanding and celebration of the Nativity of Christ, and the meaning  and significance of this celebration in the theology and liturgy of the  Byzantine Church.  Raya uses the liturgical hymns, traditions and  iconography to describe the living Byzantine tradition regarding the  Nativity of Christ, and the private life of our Lord.  This is an excellent  introduction to the Eastern Christian view of Christmas, as well as a  beautiful book overall	1999-01-04
US	52686408	RR4XMADK530SF	0911726071	182974380	Byzantine Daily Worship	Books	5	50	50	N	N	Comprehensive Eastern Prayer Resource	Archbishop Raya of the Melkite Greek-Catholic Church, together with Jose DeVinck, has produced a tremendous volume of Eastern Christian liturgical spirituality covering a breadth and depth that is quite unsurpassed in any  other single volume work.  This remarkable  book contains the order of  prayers for Vespers, Matins, the lesser canonical hours, Compline and Grand  Compline, the Liturgies of Chrysostom and Basil, the Presanctified Liturgy,  the cycle of the Octo-Echos, weekday hymns and theotokia, as well as proper  prayers for every day in the liturgical calendar, including prayers from  the Menaion, the Triodion and the Pentecostarion.  In addition, texts are  included for devotion to the Theotokos (the Akathist Hymn and the  Paraclisis) and for Funerals.  BDW, as it is affectionately called among  Eastern Christians, is a stunningly comprehensive collection of prayers,  rubrics and explanations usable by Eastern Orthodox and Eastern Catholics  alike (the book was received by the Greek-Catholic Patriarch in Damascus as  well as the Ecumenical Orthodox Patriarch of Constantinople) -- presented  in a book that is not cumbersome to use and is of a size that makes it  fairly easy to transport.  Altogether, an excellent treasury of prayer for  those who practice Byzantine spirituality.	1999-01-04
US	52686408	R31BOFEUVU3W6E	0060654988	504464883	Facing East: A Pilgrim's Journey into the Mysteries of Orthodoxy	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Terrific Introduction	Mathewes-Green describes a year-in-the-life of a small Orthodox mission parish outside Baltimore with such eloquence, detail and &quot;feel&quot;, that she succeeds in communicating the enthusiasm, the excitement, the awe,  of the ancient , sometimes inaccessible, Christian traditions of Orthodoxy.   The book is human, frank, and humorous, while still conveying with much  detail and passion many of the liturgical practices, devotions, and  spirituality presented by Orthodox Christianity.  This is a great book for  those wishing to introduce themselves to the Orthodox Church without the  dryness of a treatise.	1998-11-04
US	52686408	R17PMWE3PD64CD	0140146563	270035970	The Orthodox Church: New Edition	Books	5	203	209	N	N	Comprehensive, Comprehensible and Outstanding Introduction	This is the best single-volume introduction to Eastern Christianity currently available.  Bishop Ware's approach covers virtually all aspects of the Eastern Church -- history, theology, sacramentality, church organization, and the Orthodox diaspora with a special emphasis on rendering Orthodoxy comprehensible to Western Christian readers.  Ware's approach is very ecumenical, and he frankly and even-handedly addresses the issues that unite and divide the Christian East and West.  Because of his own dual background as a Westerner (he teaches at Oxford) who chose to become Orthodox, Ware is particularly well-situated to explain the wondrous and beautiful mysteries of Eastern Christianity to Westerners.  While the book is in the nature of a broad overview, it actually covers the issues addressed in an impressive level of depth.  The bibliography is also a great starting point for further reading and research, broken down helpfully by topic.  This book is a must-read for anyone wishing to acqaint themselves with the riches of the Eastern Christian tradition.	1998-05-14
