US	52689126	R2FIBIEQP49OLQ	0062516876	453447781	Touching My Father's Soul: A Sherpa's Journey to the Top of Everest	Books	4	5	5	N	N	His dad would be proud.	Jamling Tenzing Norgay is many things. He is a husband, father, climber, Buddhist, featured star of the IMAX film Everest and last, and by no means least, son of the Tenzing Norgay, the Sherpa who in 1953 summated Everest with Sir Edmund Hillary. His book, Touching My Father's Soul: A Sherpa's Guide to the Top of Everest (told with Broughton Coburn), is his successful attempt to relate and reconcile these identities.<br />Throughout this is a very personal account in every sense. It is a tale of his life, his father's life, his climb to the top of Everest, his father's climb to the top of Everest and his attempts to address his feelings about his upbringing, family and flagging religious beliefs. Added to this mix is the literal and emotional climate of the Everest summit attempt during the tragic spring of 1996.<br />He relates his story in a manner which makes for a very interesting, inspirational and insightful read. He moves fluidly from his climb to his father's, from his life to his family's, from his spiritual issues to the material world, from the tragedy to his personal investment in being a climbing Sherpa, without losing the overarching narrative.<br />The famous and fateful climb of the IMAX and other teams in 1996 during and after the tragic events of that climbing year are well known, but Jamling gives us some further insight and perspective into those events.	2002-05-15
US	52689126	RP1JE8HTINOMN	0871138255	745066592	The CEO of the Sofa	Books	2	5	12	N	N	CEO of the Retreads	P. J. O'Rourke is very funny. P. J. O'Rourke is very smart. P. J. O'Rourke is very clever. P. J. O'Rourke is very intelligent. P. J. O'Rourke is very savvy. Sadly, P. J. O'Rourke is neither as funny, smart, clever, intelligent or savvy as he thinks he is, nor as he would like us to believe he is.<br />In CEO of the Sofa, a loosely connected collection of some of his random and previously published works, he takes the pose of someone working from home to discourse about everything from cellular phones, and driving lessons to a trip to India he took several years before. He does this both in an interesting (and funny) and uninteresting (and unfunny) ways; As an example of the later his discourse on wine tasting is a complete waste of time (over ten pages worth).<br />When his is funny however he is very funny. But in this work very funny does not occur often enough.<br />Interspersed throughout is his usual brand of conservative political posturing designed to skewer Clinton (Mr. &amp; Mrs.) or any governmental personality, quirk or bureaucratic quirk that may get his attention. Though George W. takes a couple on the chin, Clinton material is getting a little stale.<br />Some of his rants are funny, some are tedious, but the lack of consistency in approach, topic connection and writing make this seem like a book by committee. Oddly, some of the best parts are the chapter guides at the beginning of the book, which may or may not describe the chapter contents, but always do so with great humor.	2002-04-30
US	52689126	R3WG1Y1YQPMFK	0684868695	988319449	In a Narrow Grave : Essays on Texas	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Narrow Graves & Wide Open Spaces	Larry McMurtry knows Texas, and in 1968 put together a book of his observations about all things Texas called In a Narrow Grave. The title is a fragment of a line from the song \\"The Dying Cowboy\\"; the title of the song relates more obviously to McMurtry's main topic. From McMurtry's perspective Texas is on the cusp of a change of identity, from cattle rich to oil rich. He both laments and celebrates the passing of the cowboy looking from the Texas that once was to what Texas is becoming. He does all of this in a manner that is both amusing, informative and thought provoking.<br />McMurtry chose to be \\"bookish\\" as he puts it, to following in his father and uncles' footsteps, though as McMurtry relates, those footsteps were being blown away and getting more difficult to follow all the time. He is critical of both the past he admires and the present he seems to distrust.<br />His journey is at times objective, subjective and intensely personal. In the most touching piece, the last in the book, he introduces us to the McMurtry clan and gives us a family profile of success and failure on the open Texas plain that is touching and heartbreaking in its depth. He describes lost times, places and people.<br />The shortfall here is the material is dated. Thirty-plus years have produced much change and it would have been interesting if McMurtry had produced an epilogue to bring us up to date and help us close the years since In a Narrow Grave was first published.	2002-04-30
US	52689126	R35043RO3RAAA3	0312261780	33453175	Looking for Alaska	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Extreme Alaska, Extremely Interesting	In Looking for Alaska, Peter Jenkins has delightfully found what he was looking for and much more. Though overawed by the topographical extremes, which comprise most of what people think of when they think of Alaska, Mr. Jenkins has shown us an Alaska made up of a very impressive hybrid of native and transplanted people.<br />He takes us down several roads, both literally and figuratively to meet residents whom we might never have encountered using his notoriety and ability to be recognized as a introduction gets many to open up in ways they might not have with some other author.<br />His stay of just over a year the timeline is true though exact dates and events seem occasionally misplaced. You will wish he stayed longer, met more people, and participated in more things.<br />He meets and stays with a family in the bush, goes on fishing and hunting expeditions, travels extensively within the state on all forms of conveyance. The phrase you can't get there from here is never truer than in Alaska where roads connect to everything but each other and someplace else.<br />The few weak spots should be noted. The first, though he seems to connect very well with the native population and their myriad frustrations he makes the \\"lower-48\\" mistake of referring to the highest mountain as McKinley and not Denali, a sore point to some. Though this is trivial it is not to the native Alaskans who today still complain that Russia sold something it didn't own.<br />An interesting dichotomy occurred during a final chapter. While on a moose hunt with a guide the guide states he has seen only about ten calves in a dozen years. Primarily, blaming the wolf population for the shortfall. The guide then goes on to scout a male moose with four cows pre-rut and has him shot, surely doing more potential damage to the dwindling moose population than the wolves. This point is left to the reader to work with and the facts are left uncommented on though obvious for all.<br />The final flaw was theauthor's ability to go on for pages on some vaguely and often strained humorous vein, and then casually drop in a life-experience a few pages later almost as an afterthought. For example, in one late chapter he goes about the \\"honey rocket,\\" a convoluted vacuum toilet, and then a few pages later casually states, \\"Riding along with a caribou herd that numbered in the thousands across the snow-covered tundra was one of my most profound moments in Alaska.\\" In the same paragraph he goes on, \\"To see a herd of musk ox with this year's crop of baby musk ox protected in the center of the herd when anyone comes around was more inspiring than I had thought possible.\\" Mr. Jenkins should spend more time developing the \\"profound\\" and \\"inspiring\\" and less time on the vagaries of the honey-rocket. Or both.	2002-03-07
US	52689126	R3BHJ4A504O96K	0393049949	762531115	Hitler: 1936-1945 Nemesis	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Springtime for Hitler 2	The two part Ian Kershaw's biography of Adolph Hitler are separate but equal portions of the life of Adolph Hitler, not the most popular, attractive or marketable of personages to dedicate a two volume biography. Though each volume is capable of standing on its own, both should be read in sequence.<br />The first volume, Hubris 1889-1936, deals with Hitler's origins, various incarnations, and initial rise to power in 1936. This volume ends with Hitler's controversial invasion of the Rhineland. The second volume, Nemesis: 1936-1945, immediately picks up where the first leaves off, and takes us through the escalating war to its inevitable conclusion just outside a bunker in Berlin within range of the Soviet's artillery. Throughout both, we walk uncomfortably close to Adolph Hitler, and his minions.<br />The overall work takes us through Hitler's full life in astonishing and carefully researched detail, clarifying and confirming what we knew, but more importantly debunking myths and leaving open to speculation events still without a definitive resolution. Where the author doesn't know and is forced to guess based upon what he does know, the reader is clearly informed. This is not often the case in many biographies and is a credit to this work.<br />Throughout, the reader will come away with a sense of the \\"history as close-call,\\" as Hitler approaches total failure and obscurity several times only to move on to what will become his fateful destiny for both himself and the world. Like a good novel the author allows us to speculate on our own on what might have been if for example, Hitler had been admitted to the school of architecture in Vienna. The author builds suspense and drama throughout.<br />The second longer volume is a quicker and easier read, despite the occasionally gruesome subject matter. Nemesis takes us methodically through World War II. We are there for every decision, every triumph, and every failure. The slow unfolding of the war and the eventual turn of the tide against Germany is developed again with a keen sense of drama. The author develops the narrative as if we don't know what's going to happen next or how it will all end and does a fine job of it.<br />As one might expect, both volumes require a large emotional investment. But it is worth it if you are to understand much about where we are today and how we got here. If you were to ask yourself before you read these works and after, what shaped the twentieth century, you might very well arrive at two very different answers. It is often interesting to speculate on how the world would look today if there had been no Hitler. Fortunately the author spares us that speculation.<br />Many biographies to detriment stray from the subject matter to dwell on the peripheral matters with only remote ties to the subject matter. Not so here, the author rarely cuts way from his Hitler himself and even then only briefly. Very quickly we are back at Hitler's side watching over his shoulder or through the eyes of those around him. The author binds us to Hitler throughout making it clear that it is not always comfortable or safe to be in the room when Hitler loses his temper.<br />The Kershaw freely admits it was never his intent to write a biography of Hitler, and he is not enamoured of his subject. He takes an odious subject and brings it to life. This makes for an interesting well written, but ultimately disturbing biography of the man of the century.	2002-03-07
US	52689126	R1R8QLSPYXBNOB	0393046710	46961500	Hitler: 1889-1936 Hubris	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Springtime for Hitler 1	The two part Ian Kershaw's biography of Adolph Hitler are separate but equal portions of the life of Adolph Hitler, not the most popular, attractive or marketable of personages to dedicate a two volume biography. Though each volume is capable of standing on its own, both should be read in sequence.<br />The first volume, Hubris 1889-1936, deals with Hitler's origins, various incarnations, and initial rise to power in 1936. This volume ends with Hitler's controversial invasion of the Rhineland. The second volume, Nemesis: 1936-1945, immediately picks up where the first leaves off, and takes us through the escalating war to its inevitable conclusion just outside a bunker in Berlin within range of the Soviet's artillery. Throughout both, we walk uncomfortably close to Adolph Hitler, and his minions.<br />The overall work takes us through Hitler's full life in astonishing and carefully researched detail, clarifying and confirming what we knew, but more importantly debunking myths and leaving open to speculation events still without a definitive resolution. Where the author doesn't know and is forced to guess based upon what he does know, the reader is clearly informed. This is not often the case in many biographies and is a credit to this work.<br />Throughout, the reader will come away with a sense of the \\"history as close-call,\\" as Hitler approaches total failure and obscurity several times only to move on to what will become his fateful destiny for both himself and the world. Like a good novel the author allows us to speculate on our own on what might have been if for example, Hitler had been admitted to the school of architecture in Vienna. The author builds suspense and drama throughout.<br />The second longer volume is a quicker and easier read, despite the occasionally gruesome subject matter. Nemesis takes us methodically through World War II. We are there for every decision, every triumph, and every failure. The slow unfolding of the war and the eventual turn of the tide against Germany is developed again with a keen sense of drama. The author develops the narrative as if we don't know what's going to happen next or how it will all end and does a fine job of it.<br />As one might expect, both volumes require a large emotional investment. But it is worth it if you are to understand much about where we are today and how we got here. If you were to ask yourself before you read these works and after, what shaped the twentieth century, you might very well arrive at two very different answers. It is often interesting to speculate on how the world would look today if there had been no Hitler. Fortunately the author spares us that speculation.<br />Many biographies to detriment stray from the subject matter to dwell on the peripheral matters with only remote ties to the subject matter. Not so here, the author rarely cuts way from his Hitler himself and even then only briefly. Very quickly we are back at Hitler's side watching over his shoulder or through the eyes of those around him. The author binds us to Hitler throughout making it clear that it is not always comfortable or safe to be in the room when Hitler loses his temper.<br />The Kershaw freely admits it was never his intent to write a biography of Hitler, and he is not enamoured of his subject. He takes an odious subject and brings it to life. This makes for an interesting well written, but ultimately disturbing biography of the man of the century.	2002-03-07
US	52689126	R12U2BB9OM2FC	0684849445	28979746	The Longest Night: A Military History of the Civil War	Books	3	52	59	N	N	The Longest Read	David J. Eicher's \\"The Longest Night: A Military History of the Civil War\\" is more than a military history of the civil war, but unfortunately it is also less. The facts may all be there, the details meticulously researched, developed and reported for the reader, but from the very beginning he has a \\"my book is more accurate than their book\\" attitude about those who have come before him and this undoes the work. He seems to revel in being right, and repeatedly corrects the prior record with snide remarks and asides, which if left unsaid would have made this a much better book.<br />James McPherson who arguably wrote the best single volume on the Civil War, \\"Battle Cry of Freedom,\\" says in the foreword that this work is an \\"essential starting point\\" on Civil War history. With the utmost respect I completely disagree and refer Mr. McPherson to his own work as more than worthy of that description. Eicher's book is for those who have read just about everything else on the subject and are looking for more battle detail, which the author does provide. This is not by any measure a linear narrative of the war; events aren't always smoothly tied together, and there is a lot of social and political history, which has been omitted, as it should be in a strict military history.<br />The maps are ample, clear and well detailed, though the author or the editors must have an orientation bias. All maps have north pointing to the top of the book; as a result there is never a need to turn the book to review a map. For battles/events with a north/south orientation this is fine, these maps cover the entire page. The maps which have an east/west orientation suffer however as they are reduced in size to about a third of the page to maintain their orientation with the top of the book. Lastly, the maps often make the armies difficult to differentiate, as the gray representing the south is often very dark.<br />What the author does in his introduction however is completely unforgivable. Hecritiques both Bruce Catton and Shelby Foote's excellent multi-volume works. He complains that both are biased in the reportage, Catton for the North, Foote for the South and goes so far as to apparently blame Catton for the lack of research materials which has surfaced since he wrote his two trilogies decades ago. He takes Foote to task for other biases, as well and each are wholly inappropriate and uncalled for. There is no place for such personal editorial material in a purportedly objective historical work.<br />In addition to this error of judgment, throughout the text he makes want one can only call catty references to what he refers to at one point \\"dusty histories of the Civil War...\\" (pg. 365). He feels compelled to correct the written record by stating that in previous written histories such and such was reported, but it really was not that way at all. Occasionally he offers no further proof as when he relates on page 473 that \\"the term for `hooker' as slang for prostitute most certainly existed long before Joe [Hooker] came onto the scene.\\" The statement \\"most certainly\\" is proof of nothing. Lastly, his attempts to set the record straight becomes extreme and laughable when in retelling the rainy battle of Tullahoma he relates \\"The soldier's legend that Tullahoma was derived from the Greek tulla, meaning `mud' and homa, meaning `more mud,' was untrue.\\" Eicher seems to miss the point that the soldiers were making a joke.<br />Finally because much of events in the Civil War overlap, the author occasionally gets his sequencing wrong. Most notably he relates Lincoln's assassination before he resolves Sherman's final triumph over Johnson. So Lincoln dies in mid-April and then we go back in time to March to Sherman's final pursuit.<br />If you have a driving need to read a book on the Civil War and have read everything else at least once (including McPherson, Foote and Catton) then if you must, read this. But it will be The Longest Read.	2002-03-07
US	52689126	R1PPW5NTCT8LL6	0060187239	630454514	April 1865: The Month That Saved America	Books	2	5	13	N	N	April Fool	Whenever an author focuses on a thin slice of time or single event from a lager historical context there is always a risk that the narrative will appear as if in a vacuum. Therefore there must be some background material developed in order to get the readers where they need to be in an effort to begin the story at hand. Having said that, we can also assume that the author is attempting to appeal to those who already have a better than average understanding of the larger material, mitigating contextual risk. Restraining the urge to get too lost in the background makes the best of these efforts worth reading This is a temptation the author, Jay Winik, of &quot;April 1865: The Month That Saved America&quot; doesn't resist very well, if really at all.<br />A full two thirds of his book is background histories, extended biographies and filler of the type readily known by those who would be drawn to the material in the first place, or worse, wholly irrelevant to the subject at hand as is occasionally the case.<br />As for the actual month that is dramatically described by the title, the author does get most of it in. The two major events are told in great detail, others given a cursory glance and some are omitted altogether. For example we know more of John Wilkes Boothe's outcome than we do Jefferson Davis'.<br />Winik gives careful attention to the detail of Lee's last weeks as he leads his army through its final days and to the events leading up to and after Lincoln's assassination. This is as it should be for to the two key events of the month, but he ruins these narratives with aimless speculation and an ill-advised attempt to build outcome-suspense into these well-known events.<br />For example, the author stops in the middle of the narrative on Lee's final retreat, to speculate as to whether Lee would encourage his men to continue the war effort as guerillas; melting into the hills to fight a prolonged war of attrition. Using this speculation as a foundation, Winikthen detours into a history of this type of warfare for twenty pages or so, including some seriously out-of-context paragraphs about 20th century guerrilla warfare before returning to Lee and April 1865.<br />While focusing on an option which even Winik early on admits was remote, the author neglects to explore any of Lee's other possible choices or inner struggles stating simply, &quot;Lee had been vacillating among ending the hostilities, waging last-ditch attempts at escaping and dying at his post.&quot; Once the subject has been dismissed the author is reluctant to let go of it. Sadly, Winik returns to whether the Confederacy would fight a guerrilla war several more times throughout the remainder of the book.<BR> <BR>The attempt to build suspense is repeated again, in occasionally awkward passages, in the pages leading up to Lincoln's assassination. For example, \\"The comedy [Our American Friend] is playing at the Tenth Street theater between E and F streets. At Ford's.\\" The author proves beyond a doubt how nearly impossible it is to build tension when dealing with such well-known events.<br />Finally in slice of time histories there is the need to reveal the &quot;what happened next?&quot; part of the narrative. Here again, one final time Winik has his way with the reader revealing only those events the author is interested in, not surprisingly beginning with a paragraph on \\"guerrilla Jesse James.\\" Though there are additional paragraphs on Twain, Barnum, Ford, Woolworth, Bell and Edison among others, notably absent is any real coda on Jefferson Davis and his fate, and no further mention whatsoever of Grant, Lee or Johnson.<br />Unfortunately, there is nothing new here and the author lets the opportunity slip through his hands. His reliance on inappropriate material as filler wastes the readers' time and energy and in some instances insults their intelligence. The text starts out promising, but soon loses its focus.	2001-09-24
US	52689126	R309NPDA94KA3B	0864427689	735284703	The Last Grain Race	Books	4	18	18	N	N	If You Read Only One Book This Year: Get Them Both	Unfortunately the unappealingly named \\"The Last Great Grain Race\\" might be left on the bookshelf if it were not for its companion volume of photographs more appropriately titled \\"Learning The Ropes; An Apprentice on the Last of the Windjammers,\\" both by Eric Newby. Oddly these volumes were issued over forty years apart, Grain Race in 1956 and Ropes in 1999. (A recent volume of Grain Race was reissued in 1999, possibly to take advantage of the pictorial release.)<br />After a brief stint as an office clerk, Newby at eighteen signed on as an apprentice seaman for an around the world cargo voyage, with no nautical experience or skills other than a careful eye and superb memory for detail. \\"The Last Great Grain Race&quot; is the story of one of the last four-masted barques, which in 1938 sailed from Ireland to Australia to pick up a cargo of grain and return to Ireland, a voyage which would take nine months. Ultimately it was to become the last voyage in such a vessel, as the impending war would change the world forever. We are fortunate that Newby was along to document the voyage. We are equally appreciative of his thoughtfulness in bringing his camera, as \\"Learning the Ropes\\" is the superb photo essay of this journey.<br />Newby apparently was a very skilled photographer. Oddly, he only briefly mentions his possession of a camera in \\"The Last Great Grain Race.\\" He never lets on that his is so actively chronicling events and shipmates throughout the voyage. Though Newby does an excellent job describing what is like to climb aloft in all kinds of weather, the black and white photographs take the reader aloft as well and provide the narrative even with more impact and grace.<br />The crew is as varied and colorful as one might expect the conditions are harsh and oftentimes dangerous; the work is unrelenting, demanding and dangerous in its own right. Newby works alongside seasoned veterans and never shirks.<br />Grain Race however does have its limitations. There is a tremendous amount of technical detail that can often leave the reader literally at sea. For example \\"There were still the sheets of the topmast staysails to be shifted over the stays and sheeted home, the main and mizzen courses to be reset, and the yards trimmed to the Mate's satisfaction with the brace whips.\\" Newby does provide a graphic of the sail plan and running rigging (79 reference points), but these are only of marginal assistance.<br />Another shortcoming is the language barrier Newby faces. This is a Finnish crew and commands are rarely given in English. Newby and the reader often have to work out the language; if the reader misses the first context or explanation then subsequent uses of the terminology will be lost, a glossary might have helped here. Newby does faithfully record dialects especially when he is being spoken to in occasionally recognizable English and these dialogues are often amusingly recounted.<br />Eric Newby should seriously consider issuing both in a single volume and one has to wonder why this wasn't done when Grain Race was first issued or at least when \\"Learning the Ropes\\" was released a couple of years ago. It is interesting to speculate on the length of time between the original release of Grain Race and the very vivid and informative photographs. Regardless it was worth the wait.<br />Grain Race the narrative and Grain Race the photographs make for an enjoyable double read.	2001-09-24
US	52689126	R2YTR900FN95MK	0060187239	630454514	April 1865: The Month That Saved America	Books	2	6	6	N	N	April Fool	Whenever an author focuses on a thin slice of time or single event from a lager historical context there is always a risk that the narrative will appear as if in a vacuum. Therefore there must be some background material developed in order to get the readers where they need to be in an effort to begin the story at hand. Having said that, we can also assume that the author is attempting to appeal to those who already have a better than average understanding of the larger material, mitigating contextual risk. Restraining the urge to get too lost in the background makes the best of these efforts worth reading This is a temptation the author, Jay Winik, of &quot;April 1865: The Month That Saved America&quot; doesn't resist very well, if really at all.<BR>A full two thirds of his book is background histories, extended biographies and filler of the type readily known by those who would be drawn to the material in the first place, or worse, wholly irrelevant to the subject at hand as is occasionally the case.<BR>As for the actual month that is dramatically described by the title, the author does get most of it in. The two major events are told in great detail, others given a cursory glance and some are omitted altogether. For example we know more of John Wilkes Boothe's outcome than we do Jefferson Davis'.<BR>Winik gives careful attention to the detail of Lee's last weeks as he leads his army through its final days and to the events leading up to and after Lincoln's assassination. This is as it should be for to the two key events of the month, but he ruins these narratives with aimless speculation and an ill-advised attempt to build outcome-suspense into these well-known events.<BR>For example, the author stops in the middle of the narrative on Lee's final retreat, to speculate as to whether Lee would encourage his men to continue the war effort as guerillas; melting into the hills to fight a prolonged war of attrition. Using this speculation as a foundation, Winik then detours into a history of this type of warfare for twenty pages or so, including some seriously out-of-context paragraphs about 20th century guerrilla warfare before returning to Lee and April 1865.<BR>While focusing on an option which even Winik early on admits was remote, the author neglects to explore any of Lee's other possible choices or inner struggles stating simply, &quot;Lee had been vacillating among ending the hostilities, waging last-ditch attempts at escaping and dying at his post.&quot; Once the subject has been dismissed the author is reluctant to let go of it. Sadly, Winik returns to whether the Confederacy would fight a guerrilla war several more times throughout the remainder of the book.<BR>The attempt to build suspense is repeated again, in occasionally awkward passages, in the pages leading up to Lincoln's assassination. For example, \\"The comedy is playing at the Tenth Street theater between E and F streets. At Ford's.\\" The author proves beyond a doubt how nearly impossible it is to build tension when dealing with such well-known events.<BR>Finally in slice of time histories there is the need to reveal the &quot;what happened next?&quot; part of the narrative. Here again, one final time Winik has his way with the reader revealing only those events the author is interested in, not surprisingly beginning with a paragraph on \\"guerrilla Jesse James.\\" Though there are additional paragraphs on Twain, Barnum, Ford, Woolworth, Bell and Edison among others, notably absent is any real coda on Jefferson Davis and his fate, and no further mention whatsoever of Grant, Lee or Johnson.<BR>Unfortunately, there is nothing new here and the author lets the opportunity slip through his hands. His reliance on inappropriate material as filler wastes the readers' time and energy and in some instances insults their intelligence. The text starts out promising, but soon loses its focus.	2001-09-24
US	52689126	RWSBBN5YRRAR6	0812932528	149580218	Learning the Ropes: An Apprentice on the Last of the Windjammers	Books	5	8	9	N	N	If You Read Only One Book This Year: Get Them Both	Unfortunately the unappealingly named \\"The Last Great Grain Race\\" might be left on the bookshelf if it were not for its companion volume of photographs more appropriately titled \\"Learning The Ropes; An Apprentice on the Last of the Windjammers,\\" both by Eric Newby. Oddly these volumes were issued over forty years apart, Grain Race in 1956 and Ropes in 1999. (A recent volume of Grain Race was reissued in 1999, possibly to take advantage of the pictorial release.)<br />After a brief stint as an office clerk, Newby at eighteen signed on as an apprentice seaman for an around the world cargo voyage, with no nautical experience or skills other than a careful eye and superb memory for detail. \\"The Last Great Grain Race\\" is the story of one of the last four-masted barques, which in 1938 sailed from Ireland to Australia to pick up a cargo of grain and return to Ireland, a voyage which would take nine months. Ultimately it was to become the last voyage in such a vessel, as the impending war would change the world forever. We are fortunate that Newby was along to document the voyage. We are equally appreciative of his thoughtfulness in bringing his camera, as \\"Learning the Ropes\\" is the superb photo essay of this journey.<br />Newby apparently was a very skilled photographer. Oddly, he only briefly mentions his possession of a camera in \\"The Last Great Grain Race.\\" He never lets on that his is so actively chronicling events and shipmates throughout the voyage. Though Newby does an excellent job describing what is like to climb aloft in all kinds of weather, the black and white photographs take the reader aloft as well and provide the narrative even with more impact and grace.<br />The crew is as varied and colorful as one might expect the conditions are harsh and oftentimes dangerous; the work is unrelenting, demanding and dangerous in its own right. Newby works alongside seasoned veterans and never shirks.<br />Grain Race however does have its limitations. There is a tremendous amount of technical detail that can often leave the reader literally at sea. For example \\"There were still the sheets of the topmast staysails to be shifted over the stays and sheeted home, the main and mizzen courses to be reset, and the yards trimmed to the Mate's satisfaction with the brace whips.\\" Newby does provide a graphic of the sail plan and running rigging (79 reference points), but these are only of marginal assistance.<br />Another shortcoming is the language barrier Newby faces. This is a Finnish crew and commands are rarely given in English. Newby and the reader often have to work out the language; if the reader misses the first context or explanation then subsequent uses of the terminology will be lost, a glossary might have helped here. Newby does faithfully record dialects especially when he is being spoken to in occasionally recognizable English and these dialogues are often amusingly recounted.<br />Eric Newby should seriously consider issuing both in a single volume and one has to wonder why this wasn't done when Grain Race was first issued or at least when \\"Learning the Ropes\\" was released a couple of years ago. It is interesting to speculate on the length of time between the original release of Grain Race and the very vivid and informative photographs. Regardless it was worth the wait.<br />Grain Race the narrative and Grain Race the photographs make for an enjoyable double read.	2001-09-24
US	52689126	R3C8VSCL6CPBJY	0393320278	699211673	Embracing Defeat: Japan in the Wake of World War II	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Made in Japan	John W Dowers Pulitzer Prize winning Embracing Defeat: Japan in the Wake of World War II is an engrossing and well written history of the seven plus years of the occupation, recovery and rebuilding of Japan in the wake of their defeat in World War II. It is a non-linear social, political and economic history covering a range of topics, the sum of which effectively tell the story of how Japan got back on its feet under the carefully crafted guidance of General Douglas MacArthur, the supreme commander. To a large degree, and possibly to his dismay if he knew, MacArthur is not the focal point, rather he is the invisible hand guiding and shaping the new Japan. This is more a book about a vanquished Japan than an American victor.<br />The postwar Japanese perspective and experience are the focal points of the text. We rarely go behind the scenes of Allied thinking or machinations; we get little sense of how all of this is being orchestrated by the Americans occupying Japan. We rarely encounter GIs, and know little if anything of their day to day life in this far away land. The occupation forces here are shadow players. We know not if they are former combatants or late draftees with no real grudge to bear, or some combination. This is really the only shortcoming of the book; we are left to wonder and speculate at the composition and origins of the mercy of the occupation forces.<br />Rather we get the full measure of the Japanese experience. The state of the country immediately preceding surrender and after, as occupation begins in earnest. The social, economic and political turmoil facing the country; the grief for those who died and guilt of those who lived. The narrative is compelling in every way as the Japanese face a future whose only certainty is that it is uncertain.<br />Dower describes in detail the impact the surrender and the recorded announcement of that fact by the emperor had on the populace at home. He describes a country on the verge of collapse prior to Hiroshima; far worse off than the allies had anticipated. He details economic chaos, shattered lives, and the hopeless living conditions of a country to whom war had been brought home in the most terrible ways imaginable by both their own soldiers in the field and the allies in the air. The horror, humiliation and uncertainty facing those who were repatriated at the wars end some, several years later is chillingly recounted.<br />Dower spends a significant amount of time detailing and revisiting Hirohitos exoneration and the reasons behind it, from any responsibility for the war. It is a fascinating study in the political mechanics of the time as the victors attempt to rewrite history for their purposes.<br />Dower takes us through the oftentimes-problematic issues of designing a new and revolutionary charter for the country, which remains effectively, unaltered to this day. He gives us a good view of post-war black-market activities, war destruction and a peek-a-boo look at some of the decadence which arose in Japan after the war.<br />He shows us where the thinking behind the occupation went wrong as well. The chapter on censorship is almost amusing in its applied inconsistencies. The chapter on the development of a constitutional charter, which includes the most detailed view of American involvement in the reconstruction, is an interesting lesson on force-fed civics, as the Americans second guess all things Japanese. The section on the war crimes trials is difficult to read as some go scot-free while others are sentenced to death. The punishments are disturbingly meted out in a very irregular fashion. The author for some reason, doesnt spend enough time detailing why some criminals went off free (including a groups who were responsible for performing medical experiments on prisoners) including one who eventually went on to become Prime Minister after the occupation. Which begs the question as to why Dower seems to feel this individual should have been hanged.<br />The overall effect on the waning occupation of the impending Korean War is fascinating. Our sudden need for this new and very strategically located ally in the face of losing former allies is carefully told as the world changes once again.<br />The many photographs in the text are included as a part of each chapter, so their reference is close at hand. However, there were several instances later in the book where photographs are mentioned but not present in the accompanying text, as was the case earlier in the text. Finally there is no formal bibliography, which would have been useful.	2001-08-16
US	52689126	R2DFSOGQ7UCKF6	0824803248	905565735	Shoal of Time: A History of the Hawaiian Islands	Books	5	97	107	N	N	Trouble In Paradise	Anyone who has read James Mitchner's Hawaii, which includes just about anyone who has visited the islands, and is in need of a historical fix (as in correction) ought to read Gavan Daws excellent Shoal of Time: A History of the Hawaiian Islands. Daws has done what Mitchner could not with his admirably popular, historically inadequate, sprawling epic, told the whole story.<br />Through no fault of the author in any historical fiction the emphasis is on the fiction, as it should be; as a result the history is bound to suffer in some form. This is a disservice to both history and the authors who choose to write about it, especially if people then believe \\"this is what happened, and how.\\"<br />Daws' book should be the book everyone who visits Hawaii should read at some point, especially if they have read Mitchner. Unlike Mitchner, the history Daws tells begins not with pre-history which to a certain degree can be sketchy and speculative at best (native Hawaiians had no written language, rather their stories/legends/beliefs/accomplishments were told and passed on orally from generation to generation via complex and myth laden chants). Rather Daws chooses to begin his story with the \\"discovery\\" of Europeans by the Hawaiians to turn a phrase. The history begins with the arrival of the ill-fated, but well intentioned, Captain Cook, as he stumbles into the Hawaiian islands in the late eighteenth century while looking for something else.<br />As in Alan Moorehead's The Fatal Impact, this is where the real story begins, as this cultural collision portends ill for the Hawaiians as they then become even more belligerent eventually uniting under a single king with the help of a few well intentioned outsiders along.<br />Again as in Moorehead the act of discovery becomes an act of destruction. Whalers, missionaries, planters, immigrants (Japan, China, Portugal, Philippines etc.), politicians, and various and sundry hangers on descend on the island to carve and shape what was onceperfect into something much different. Something much changed and still evolving, like the islands themselves.<br />All of this ultimately results in the overturning of the monarchy in the interests of what's best for Hawaii, but not necessarily the native Hawaiians.<br />Shoal of Time is a compelling read. The full story is fascinating, disturbing, enlightening and sad as the Hawaiians are pushed out of their own history into some shadow existence where they tentatively remain today.<br />Mitchner got some of it right. Daws gets it all right.	2001-08-16
US	52689126	R270AXIL1MWPIH	0316779237	383741816	Holidays on Ice: Stories	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Christmas Jeer	You may recognize someone you know in at least one of the six, occasionally dark, often amusing short stories in David Sedaris' Holidays On Ice. Stories which have been brought together like wandering members of the same family at Christmastime. <br />There is the first person account of one of Macys elf-hirelings. There is the newsletter writer; a woman who puts a thinly veiled cheery holiday spin on her family's life of tragedy, horror, and despair. There is Dinah, who happens to be a whore. There is the children's' holiday pageant reviewer who brings us front and center with all of the effrontery and mercilessness of a Broadway reviewer. A Hollywood television producer delivers the sermon for a Christmas Eve service at a very rural church. Finally, there are the competitive neighbors who sacrifice more and more every season in the true holiday spirit of one-ups-man-ship.<br />You know some of these people. They scare you, they should. They also amuse you. They may even be you. The identity connections and the feeling that these tales aren't as made-up as they seem are what makes these stories so funny, and at the same time so frighteningly real.	2001-07-19
US	52689126	RQZLJC4BGH1PK	0684868857	366534072	Roads : Driving America's Great Highways	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Road Skill	It appears that all roads lead to Archer City, Texas. At least if you happen to be along for the ride with Larry McMurtry in his book Roads: Driving America's Great Highways; his tales of recently taken long rides, as he leaves home to head back for it.<br />Eschewing all things touristy, though occasionally treating us to lesser known road fare, McMurtry shares with us what he admires and dislikes about car travel, travel writers, the highways he uses and avoids, and the places he passes through, oftentimes at eighty miles an hour. He drives from dawn to dusk; if he stops, he stops for gas and the occasional bowl of soup or roadside burrito.<br />In all ways the trip is informative, insightful, and often amusing as McMurtry relates both past and present recollections and observations. He shares personal remembrances of people and places he's known and been; he is generous with his family histories, and some personal pains. He seems more the travelling book scout than the novelist he is as he talks about travel writers and their works and connects them to the places he is passing through.<br />It is a pleasure to just sit in the passenger's seat and listen, you want the trip to last forever and you will never ask, \\"are we there yet?\\"	2001-06-26
US	52689126	R2CCIHCHV000YW	0684868865	192819313	Boone's Lick	Books	4	12	14	N	N	First Person Accounts from Larry McMurtry	Though few know it for a fact, many have come to suspect that Larry McMurtry has lived for almost one hundred fifty years. Despite his age, he has retained a clear memory of the people and places he has seen throughout his travels in the west. To our benefit he continues to share his observations and personal acquaintances with us.<br />His latest trip down a rather dusty memory lane takes us from Boone's Lick, Missouri to point's west. This is a fine example of first person storytelling, and though he must have been a child just after the civil war ended, when this story begins, his memory and attention to detail, especially dialogue is astounding. He has made these people as real for his readers as they were for him as a youngster. Once again as he did most successfully with Lonesome Dove, (and their ill advised pre- and sequels), Zeke and Ned, Anything for Billy, Buffalo Girls, and Pretty Boy Floyd he has shared with us his eclectic past.<br />This latest McMurtry memory is a quick, fun read as the characters tangle with each other and various forms of wild-west wild-life. The characters use all the tools at hand, guns, knives, but most often just words. The dialogue is real and amusing. The interaction between the principals is as true and alive today as when McMurtry must have first heard it spoken.<br />The story itself is light on its feet, not much really happens, its pace is as slow as the mules pulling the wagons west, but it's a fun ride anyway.	2001-05-16
US	52689126	R1X33S2XUM56IE	0786866586	574463302	Shopgirl: A Novella	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Attention Shoppers: A Special in Our Book Department	Steve Martin has written a superbly efficient novella, and the reading experience is like finding something of great value, belying its appearance. Shopgirl: A Novella is a story with more passion, heart, and depth of feeling than novels of greater heft.<br />That a book by Steve Martin would be amusing is a given, but the humor here is honest and well thought out; in its inherent economical manner few words are wasted and the joke is by no means the point. Mr. Martin never wanders without purpose, we are taken along and given what we need to know so we can reflect on what we don't. Without resorting to stereotypes, the few characters are easily recognizable and accessible, but more importantly real.	2001-05-03
US	52689126	R3T7VBXB3OFCMW	0375700455	841119426	The First World War	Books	3	7	7	N	N	The Last War of the Nineteenth Century	The author rightly lays the ensuing events of twentieth century at the feet of the First World War. The subject matter, condensed into a single, short (by history writing standards) volume includes just about everything a person, interested but not obsessed, needs to become conversant.<br />The author is generous with his details of commanders their strengths and weaknesses on both sides. His narratives of the major and minor battles on all fronts are both impressive and terrifying as he reconstructs the body counts from each action.<br />The author places the war on a technological cusp between the nineteenth and the twentieth centuries with changes imminent in transportation, communication, and tactics, which were unfortunately unavailable during the conflict. In effect making this the last war of the nineteenth century.<br />That's the good news.<br />The bad news is the same as with many single volume works, the author is forced to leave things out or gloss over them. Conspicuous by its absence are the complex political underpinnings leading up to the war. During the conflict the behind the battlefront politics are also AWOL. If you are looking for information on Churchill or more importantly Kaiser Wilhlem II you will have to look elsewhere. The author primarily keeps to the battlefields, even when there is little happening.<br />Another shortcoming of the book is either a complete lack of a relevant map or inconsistency in the maps that are presented. Some maps are perfectly detailed to the book's credit, some however appear to be throwaways. For example the sea battle of Jutland is told in great detail, but the map on page 271 shows the North Sea with a couple of crossed swords where the battle took place, very dissatisfying. Other maps leave out very pertinent detail, for example the map on pg. 280 details the battle of Verdun much of which the author describes occurring in the vicinity of the Bois des Caures, but this landmark is not shown on the referencing map. All in all this is carelessness on the part of the author, editor and publisher.<br />These issues aside, this is a good book for those interested in the subject. Questions left unanswered or under-explored can be found in other more comprehensive editions that cover either some aspect of the climate leading up to the war or specific parts of the war itself. For example, Robert Massie's Dreadnought: Britain, Germany, and the Coming of the Great War, Barbara Tuchman's The Guns of August and John Toland's Men at War No Mans Land [currently out of print]).	2000-12-19
US	52689126	R15TG2V3H7YZNM	0684846098	975528807	Nothing Like It in the World: The Men Who Built the Transcontinental Railroad, 1863-1869	Books	2	15	17	N	N	Nothing like it, hopefully something better.	The author admits in the introductory pages that there are numerous books dedicated to the development, construction, and impact of the transcontinental railroad. Therefore, there must be numerous books which have dealt with this subject matter better.<br />This book has all the narrative structure of a high school senior project. In some places the author repeats himself almost word for word (for instance, he uses the example of the Civil War uniting North and South and the transcontinental RR uniting East and West at least five times). In other areas he contradicts himself (i.e. see pages 42 and 357 for his before and after travel time comparisons).<br />With any history book you cannot have enough maps, the more detailed the better. Maps here are too few and not detailed enough, occasionally omitting locations discussed at length in the text (for example, find Fort Kearney on any of the maps). In one egregious example the map is in the wrong place in the book entirely. The map for the Central Pacific's transit over the summit of the Sierras is in Chapter 16, and the narrative for this is in Chapters 7, 9, and 11, which have no maps whatsoever.<br />The author also refers to photographs taken at the time of certain events, many of these photographs are not to be found in the section of photographs in the book.<br />The overall work seems a rush job. Rather than enhance the narrative, he shortcuts the process by liberally quoting daily diaries which comes off flat, often out of context, and appear as filler.<br />Again in the first few pages of the text, the author admits this wasn't his idea in the first place, and this shows throughout.	2000-11-13
US	52689126	R1MV8G0IAU51HJ	0380899345	752277523	Killer on the Road / Silent Terror (original title)	Books	1	5	13	N	N	Road kill.	The first person serial killer confessional has been done better. This attempt is not the best of the genre, nor is it the best Ellroy has to offer.<br />Ellroy is at his best when he is weaving his fictional characters  within and around real events and people with his intricate narrative noir  styling. He briefly attempts this here, but to lesser and possible only  token effect, it is the only recognizable Ellroy trait in the  story.<br />Ellroy is again at his best when he connects the dots of his  narrative to reveal the true intricacies of the story at hand; unleashing  the larger secret, revealing the final mystery.<br />There is no secret here,  no mystery; the picture is clear, the outcome known from the first. As a  result the filler to get us from here to there becomes pedestrian, when  it's not tedious and uninteresting.	2000-05-17
US	52689126	R2FZCBDW1UN7R1	0684853515	692650386	Hearts In Atlantis	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Sunk, just like its namesake.	If it is possible for a novel to suffer from multiple personality disorder, Hearts in Atlantis is so diagnosed. It appears to be many things, but never really coalesces into any of them.<br />For the most part the stories here can be read separately, and in many ways have the ability to  stand on their own, some better than others. Having said this, you should  at all costs avoid the second, eponymous Hearts in Atlantis installment as  one of the most tiresome narratives ever. If you are looking for a good  scare then this story will frighten you only in its ability to illustrate  how absolutely boring and ultimately pointless a story can be. With that  sole exception the individual stories show some faint promise, but taken as  a whole work, which appears to be the intention, the effort finally falls  flat.<br />If you do take a shot at this, stay away from reading the dust  jacket (hardcover) as it gives away a final chapter element you may wonder  about as you read through the preceding stories.<br />(Yes, bachman is really  my name)	2000-05-03
US	52689126	RCL06O5CW6V6T	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	1	11	29	N	N	Why we have come to hate history and science.	The winner of a Pulitzer Prize usually recommends a book all by itself. Sadly however, this is not the case with Guns, Germs, and Steel. Making no effort to lure the casual or lay reader to the history and anthropology within, this scholarly work is inaccessible to anyone not already  intimately interested in the subject matter. Where it is not inaccessible,  it suffers an even worse fate, it is uninterestingly told.<br />The author  compounds these problems by restating his points once they have been firmly  made. For example, he builds the case that the domestication of large  animals was responsible to a large degree for the propagation of disease  (the \\"germs\\" of the title). He then makes a connection to the devastating  effect these diseases had on unsuspecting Native Americans, who by the way,  had not domesticated animals, and therefore had not developed any diseases  of their own. Okay so far, but he retells these causal points every way  imaginable, and misses no opportunity to do so. None of what he refers to  as proximate or ultimate causes is exempt; plant propagation, population  density, political organization, continental axis orientation, writing,  language, and technology escape all suffer this fate.<br />With books like  this it is no wonder we are losing interest in science.	2000-05-02
US	52689126	R1SXZ1HXZENS48	0440226104	337409677	Black and Blue: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	41	50	N	N	You can run, but can you hide?	[Warning: a review below by \\"Drea248\\" unwittingly divulges a crucial element in the story line. Though a positive review, if you plan on reading this book, avoid the review.]<br />Anna Quindlan's latest work of fiction  \\"Black and Blue\\" has the potential to do what few so called \\"women's books\\"  are able to accomplish, have an intrinsic appeal which serves both genders.  This is a story with the ability to be accessible on many levels and that  is one of its strengths.<br />This is a book about women, about children,  about men, about the building up and breaking down of relationships, about  strength and weakness, about truth, about secrets, about courage, and about  trust. It is enlightening, entertaining, and exciting; once started it will  be difficult to put down. This is not an easy book to read or forget.<br />The  issues raised, some resolved some not, remind us of the frailties and  shortcomings we experience in our own lives. Hopefully the main topic is  one with which many are personally unfamiliar. The description of the  effort involved to achieve escape velocity from the gravitational pull of  an old life is simultaneously interesting and frightening. But can you  really escape?<br />This is the focal point of the story. The day-to-day  events of the principal characters as they establish their new lives is  beautifully and touchingly developed in every way, you almost forget how  the main characters arrived where they are. Present experiences are  cleverly woven with past memories throughout the narrative. However, this  is a story that also has all of the underlying tension and menace of a good  suspense novel, neither of which are ever very far from the surface.	2000-04-18
US	52689126	R84DGNMDW4R9I	0425170411	281434626	Lindbergh	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An American first.	It seems that everyone knows at least one thing about most famous people,  Charles Lindbergh is no exception. First to fly the Atlantic solo, victim of the tragic kidnapping and loss of his firstborn, outspoken isolationist and possible anti-Semite, environmentalist. This fine biography carefully  and fully fills in the blanks between these often conflicting heroic and  tragic personas. With seemingly unprecedented and unlimited access to  family materials, the author has given life to the man the world felt they  knew intimately. This is a very readable biography of a complex and  ultimately unknowable man.<br />Simultaneously, the author gives us the  personal perspective in the life of an individual and his family who became  the earliest victims of an, at times, out of control media. From the moment  of his touchdown in Paris in 1927 and throughout the remainder of his life  the world demand more, as though he were a commodity of which they couldn't  get enough. The intrusions in his life as a result, run the gamut from the  amusing to the shocking. In many ways the text is often as much about the  national attention Lindbergh garnered both on purpose, and by accident, as  it is about the man himself. The narrative is a veritable who's who of the  twentieth century, Lindbergh crossed the paths of the great, near great,  and often to unfortunate consequences the infamous. The world sought out  this intensely private man.<br />The family man behind the heroics depicted  here is of another age and time. Overly strict, critical and controlling,  often absent for extended periods of time the parallel story of Anne Morrow  Lindbergh's life with her famous husband is revealed in heartbreaking  detail as well.<br />Of special note, the story is never more tragic or  suspenseful than during the chapters that revolve around the kidnapping and  original \\"trial of the century.\\" The author does not leave the reader  speculating as to the author's opinion on the ultimate outcome; no fact or  detail is left undiagnosed.<br />Though of minor significance, but worth  mentioning, the author often fails to resist the urge to insert a cheap pun  with usually aeronautical references, used in non-aeronautical ways; say  along the lines of \\"Lindbergh's interest in flying took off.\\" Though few,  these are all too obvious and not up to the intelligence and strength of  the overall work.	2000-04-11
US	52689126	REZRERGXS9LUK	0440226104	337409677	Black and Blue: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	You can run. But can you hide?	[Warning: a review below by \\"Drea248\\" unwittingly divulges a crucial element in the story line. Though a positive review, if you plan on reading this book, avoid the review.]<br />Anna Quindlan's latest work of fiction  \\"Black and Blue\\" has the potential to do what few so called \\"women's books\\"  are able to accomplish, have an intrinsic appeal which serves both genders.  This is a story with the ability to be accessible on many levels and that  is one of its strengths.<br />This is a book about women, about children,  about men, about the building up and breaking down of relationships, about  strength and weakness, about truth, about secrets, about courage, and about  trust. It is enlightening, entertaining, and exciting; once started it will  be difficult to put down. This is not an easy book to read or forget.<br />The  issues raised, some resolved some not, remind us of the frailties and  shortcomings we experience in our own lives. Hopefully the main topic is  one with which many are personally unfamiliar. The description of the  effort involved to achieve escape velocity from the gravitational pull of  an old life is simultaneously interesting and frightening. But can you  really escape?<br />This is the focal point of the story. The day-to-day  events of the principal characters as they establish their new lives is  beautifully and touchingly developed in every way, you almost forget how  the main characters arrived where they are. Present experiences are  cleverly woven with past memories throughout the narrative. However, this  is a story that also has all of the underlying tension and menace of a good  suspense novel, neither of which are ever very far from the surface.	2000-03-29
US	52689126	R21NUBOCTJGDTG	0380973464	555229230	Cryptonomicon	Books	4	28	33	N	N	How to spend your summer vacation.	Cryptonomicon's compelling mix of history (World War II), developing and current technology, real and imaginary characters, and cryptography made for a very enjoyable read. Though packed with science and technology the  text is always accessible to the neophyte as well as the more technically  inclined. (From both a historical and cryptographic standpoint it helps if  you have also read Simon Singh's excellent The Code Book.)<br />At over  nine-hundred pages the length may deter some who are normally prone to  tackle lesser efforts, but it is a worthwhile read and you will not get  bored as the narrative ping-pongs back and forth between time and  perspective. If you happen to have a copy in hand, and are undecided, read  the brief chapter \\"Yamamoto\\" beginning on page 334, and you will be  hooked.<br />Shortcomings were few. One was the author's endless use of  analogies, which tend to become tedious until you learn to ignore the  quantity and judge them solely on their cleverness. Many work well, some do  not. On a couple of occasions the use of coincidence can be overwhelming,  and may challenge the suspension of disbelief. I would like to give an  example or two, but by doing so may jeopardize some of the narrative. You  will recognize them when they occur.<br />Finally, for a book that develops  carefully and paces itself to match that approach, the ending comes too  suddenly and quickly. Readers may find themselves puzzled at the quick and  dirty wrap-up. It is as though the author needs to get this to his  publisher NOW! and submits to the impulse.<br />On the plus side the story  stays coherent and mysterious throughout and humor is used to great effect.  This book is thoroughly recommended and will make for a good beach read.	2000-03-21
US	52689126	R3NI4CBH739GX4	0385495315	440237161	The Code Book: The Evolution of Secrecy from Mary, Queen of Scots to Quantum Cryptography	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Remedies for the common code	This is a book that should have tremendous appeal to everyone with an interest in history, technology, basic human endeavor, or all three. On the surface it would appear to have limited appeal, but this book is well  researched, well written, and accessible on every level to novices with  little background in cryptography or the complex mathematics upon which  much of it is based.<br />The author in a concise manner, though never at the  expense of relevance, brings the reader through the evolution of  cryptography from its earliest uses to the present and beyond. He mixes the  science of discovery and un-covery (to coin a phrase) with very relevant,  interesting and oftentimes suspenseful historical vignettes.<br />The  evolution of cryptography described is of iterative one-ups man-ship.  \\"Codes\\" created to conceal, codes broken to reveal, again and again. The  author makes many \\"history in the balance\\" points throughout the text,  occasionally overemphasizing the importance of the code-breakers at the  expense of other contributors to successful operations.<br />This is an  excellent text for anyone with even a passing interest in the subject of  cryptography.	2000-03-21
US	52689126	R1MZ1AXRN6F9XU	1565926536	719579285	Database Nation: The Death of Privacy in the 21st Century	Books	1	19	27	N	N	Database Notion: The death of journalism right now	\\"Database Nation: The Death of Privacy in the 21st Century\\" does not live up to either its promise or potential. I was gravely disappointed.<br />There is no need to revisit at length the issues raised in an earlier review, which point out that there are no methods presented for individuals to  check or correct erroneous information in their various errant files. It's  as though the author is yelling \\"fire\\" and then not telling us how to get  out of the building, forcing readers to find their way out through the  smoke. And there is a lot of smoke indeed.<br />Though making many good and  instructive points the author often contradicts himself. For example, the  government goes through a mutually exclusive, full-cycle, role  metamorphosis. In the beginning legislators could have protected us, but  fell short through dropped or ignored legislation. For much of the  remainder of the text the government is identified as the greatest threat  to personal privacy. By the end, the author is back to a benign government  that can protect and look out for what is best for us after all. Which is  it?<br />The author, to lay some blame, claims that technology is not neutral,  anthropomorphizing it with the apparent ability initiate evil, privacy  threatening deeds. This is patent nonsense. Technology's use is certainly  not neutral, but by itself it is beached, waiting for the next tide to  either wash it further up on the sand or out to sea. His example of an  inadequately designed high-tech phone system (pg. 258-260) appears to blame  the phone system itself because it has the potential to be misused. Who  buys that? Raise your hand.<br />The use of statistics throughout is both  unscientific and unprofessional. The author strategically reports only the  component of the statistic that supports his point, without ever allowing  readers the opportunity to arrive at similar conclusions with all the facts  at hand. A fair example is on page 134, \\"15% of those who had their medical  confidentiality violated...said that it had been violated by insurance  companies.\\" Okay, but that's not enough. Where are the others whose medical  confidentiality was violated? Is 15% the largest single component of the  whole? Or is the 15% all he needed and we are left to wonder where the  other 85% falls (not an insignificant portion of the population I might  add). The book is redolent with this verbal slight of hand.<br />When he  cannot make a point using facts or actual examples the author simply makes  up a story. However, once the story is told, and he has admitted to its  source, he often doubles back on himself to the belief that this is a real  issue. It usually goes something like this: if you put your foot on the  floor monsters under the bed will eat you, not really there are no  monsters, but putting your foot on the floor is still bad because the  monsters will get you when someone finally gets around to building them and  figures a way to squeeze them under your bed, so be afraid. See: Simulated  Humans Can't Be Trusted (pg. 241-242).<br />A section titled Brain Wiretapping  (pg. 234-235) operates in a similar vein. In the opening paragraph he  states, \\"Catching these [terrorists] will require an even more invasive  monitoring technique: brain wiretapping.\\" Invasive is the word. Without  missing a beat he goes from mind reading, which he dismisses as not all  that reliable, to the possibility of running these suspected terrorists  through functional MRIs (which may include sawing the skull open to get at  their works). All of this in an effort to find out what nefarious deeds  these terrorists may be up to. Imagine the court order requesting this  procedure.<br />As illustrated both above and below, unintentional humor  abound. In another example described on page 225, an FBI initiated Internet  wiretap led to a student in Argentina, \\"the investigation ended there,  because Argentina would not extradite...his actions were not a crime in  [Argentina].\\" In an aside immediately following, the author reveals the  student \\"waived extradition and plead guilty; he was fined...and received  three years probation.\\" What? His footnote indicates if you want to know  more, you can look it up yourself. Thanks, but no thanks.<br />Finally, his  chapter on medical privacy, which has more to do with medical ethics than  personal privacy, contains his most egregious and unforgivable error. He  divulges, not once but several times, the names of individuals whose very  personal medical conditions were released in flagrant and inexcusable  violations of their privacy, often to unfortunate results. By giving up the  names of the individuals involved isn't the author a virtual accessory  after the fact to the initial privacy violation? Maybe these events and  names are a matter of public record, but so what, why compound the  wrong?<br />There are many factual anecdotal stories throughout the text; some  include names some do not. Why, in a book whose intent is to highlight the  increasing threats to personal privacy, did any real names get used at all?  I could find no statement to the effect that identities were changed to  protect individuals' privacy. One would think this would be the minimum  ethical standard of a book on privacy, point that ironically seems to have  escaped the author, editor, and publisher.	2000-03-16
