US	52691468	R3356K2IL14X6F	1591252083	471322863	French: The Complete Language Course (Learn in Your Car) (French Edition)	Books	4	155	157	N	Y	French one phrase at a time	This program consists of 9 CDs containing a total of 106 lessons divided into three levels.  Each lesson consists of between 15 and 30 words or phrases grouped together to illustrate a particular aspect of the language.  Each phrase is spoken in English first followed by a brief pause, followed by the French translation and another pause.  The first pause is for you to repeat the phrase if you already know it; the second pause is for you to repeat the phrase if you don't.  As you repeat each lesson over and over, the number of instances where you can say a phrase before the French translation increases to the point where you ultimately know them all.  The number of repetitions it takes depends on your particular aptitude for the language.   <br /> <br />If you are a daily prisoner in a car like I am, the approach is nearly ideal.  My particular method was to cover 6-8 lessons in a half hour period during my morning commute and then repeat the same lessons during my afternoon commute.  Each day I would add one lesson to the end and subtract one from the beginning.  Hence, the first day might be lessons 1-6, the second 2-7, the third 3-8, and so on.  Eventually, you get to the end and start over.  In my case, I never waited to achieve 100% comprehension before moving on.  That may have been an mistake; I don't know.  If you follow my method, it takes about 6 months of commuting to get thru the entire package once. <br /> <br />Three booklets are contained in the package, and each booklet lists the phrases covered on the CD and offers both the French translation as well as a brief explanation of the grammatical point being made.  The grammar discussions are *very* brief and only serve to assist the learning process.  This is by no means a French textbook.  The material moves much faster than the Pimsleur CD set, but there are no dialogs, so it's a little less cohesive.  This package also doesn't use the circular reinforcement that is characteristic of the Pimsleur method. <br /> <br />The course itself is quite thorough, going thru several tenses (present, past, compound past, immediate past, and future), conjugations, and situations (hotel, restaurant, shopping, time, money, etc), as well as some advanced concepts (present and past subjunctive).  Everything is offered in the form of useful expressions, so you never feel you're being 'drilled'.  Still, it's a full meal, not a brief traveler's introduction.  My sense is that you probably get a little further into the language with this package than with the Pimsleur method, but I can't prove it. <br /> <br />In fact, the speed of the material is a bit of a problem.  I got bogged down in the fourth CD, when the phrases got complicated to the point where I couldn't keep up with the pace.  The further I went, the less of each lesson I understood.  I think it's probably necessary to study the books about as much as you use the CDs, and that wasn't an investment I was willing to make.  That's a shortcoming on my part, not the course's. <br /> <br />The other observation I would make is that all of the French is spoken a little too clearly and perfectly.  I know that probably doesn't sound like a fault, but my experience is that I have a much, much harder time understanding a French speaker than I do speaking French.  Within reason, I can say what I want, but I have a very difficult time understanding the response.  If you are going to use this course, I recommend that you find an additional source of commonly spoken French, because the colloquial version is quite different from the American 'taught' version.  In this regard, the \\"French In Action\\" videos are now available on the web, and you can view them for free.  I find them an ideal companion to audio work. <br />	2005-09-28
US	52691468	RSNRV69FF7MDS	0060193395	744363528	Body for Life: 12 Weeks to Mental and Physical Strength	Books	3	41	43	N	N	A bit over the top	The Body-for-Life program consists of a low fat, low simple carbohydrate diet coupled with intense aerobic and strength training.  The program surely works, but only a few people are likely to have the discipline to follow it, at least for very long.  At a superficial level there is nothing overtly wrong, or even controversial, about the program.  Hardly anyone would argue against a diet composed of adequate protein, little saturated fat and few sugars.  Few would argue against the need for a complementary exercise program that combines aerobics with strength training.  But look a little closer, and you'll begin to realize that a few features make the program extraordinarily difficult.   <br /> <br />First, fat reduction is the early goal, so the exercise is intended to be performed on an empty stomach.  The idea is to tax the body when blood sugar is low, so there is no recourse but for the body to burn fat for energy.  The problem is that empty stomach training takes more discipline than most people have.  It's made even more difficult by the recommendation to exercise first thing in the morning.  Few people have the desire to roll out of bed and pump iron.  The second difficulty is that the aerobic exercise is done in `wind sprint' fashion, which anyone with any exercise experience will tell you is absolutely the hardest way to train.  The author refers to it as his \\"high point\\" technique, but most of the rest of the world knows it as interval training.  It's the heart and soul of the program, so there's no getting around it.  If you're not using the high point technique, you're not doing the program. <br /> <br />Third, the weight training involves multiple sets of increasing weight and is done at an aerobic pace.  You do upwards of 35 sets in 46 minutes.  That's a brutal pace and, given the amount of weight changing that needs to be done, you'd better have multiple sets of weights.  The author prefers dumbbells, which other exercise specialists consider dangerous for beginners.  Finally, the whole exercise part of the program is done on a calorie restriction diet.  While you're supposed to eat six times a day, the three `meals' and three `snacks' add up to less than 2000 calories.  For the amount of exercise required, that's practically a starvation diet.  So, I'm sure the people in the photos must have gotten the observed result in the promised time, but at what cost?  The drop-out rate for this program must be astronomic. <br /> <br />Finally, a word about supplements.  It's true that while the author owns a supplement company, he does not spend a large number of pages talking about them.  But, what he does say would certainly encourage their use.  He says flat out that no one he knows has completed the 12-week program without using Myoflex.  Call me crazy, but that sounds like a pretty strong endorsement.  If you do use Myoflex, be forewarned that you are going to have a whopping protein intake.  In fact, if you use it three times a day as he recommends, you're going to take in 135 grams of protein from this source alone.  Along with other meals, there's a pretty good chance you'll exceed 200mg/day, which is pretty darn high. <br /> <br />In summary, I'll bet that only a select few will be able to complete this program, supplements or not.  The rest of us will have to fashion a lighter weight version.  The basic diet is fine, though you'll want to have a close look at supplements, since there is a bewildering myriad of possibilities.  It's the exercise program that's the killer, though.  It'll have to get watered down a bit for the masses. <br />	2004-10-22
US	52691468	R1DPQHSBFMIQNO	1592400515	797207313	Afternoons with Mr. Hogan: A Boy, A Golfing Legend and the Lessons of a Lifetime	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Pleasant but light	This is a pleasant little book of not much consequence.  Golfer's probably won't learn anything about Hogan that they didn't already know, but they'll have a few more stories to share.  Let's face it, he wasn't a bucket of laughs.  The famous \\"secret\\" isn't all that secret.  The cupped left wrist was revealed in Hogan's own book, and the action of the right knee isn't much of an addition.  Frankly, the most interesting parts of the book are the descriptions of Hogan's clubs and practice routine.  We learn here for the first time that Hogan's clubs were 4 degrees open and, hence, produced his famous power fade.  Unfortunately, we're not told how he hit a hook, a shot at which he was equally adept.  That would have been interesting.  We also learn that he practiced from the bottom up, i.e., he hit short clubs before long clubs, and that he alternated fades and draws in succession.  His command of his shotmaking is emphasized over and over, but we already knew that.  So, if you're a Hogan aficionado, here's nice book to read.  If you're not, there are better choices.	2004-06-09
US	52691468	R2OYRSLR1VKJIL	0761125663	552568714	Heal Your Headache	Books	5	364	375	N	N	It worked for me	Add my name to the long list of reviewers for whom this book offered welcome relief.  I have suffered migraines for over 50 years and am now virtually free [see note below].  The method was not easy.  First, you have to stop taking all pain medications that cause rebound headaches.  That includes just about everything that you would have ever found useful.  Once free of those, you then start working on your personal dietary triggers.  For me, it turned out to be a lot of stuff I love.  Finally, you find a medicine that raises your headache threshold.  For me, it was a moderate dose of nortripaline.  The process took four months and included a lot of pain, particularly as I went thru headaches without pain relievers.  But it was worth it.<br /><br />Added July 6, 2004 -- Unfortunately, the relief offered by the book did not last long.  Within six months of starting the program I had a major relapse with a migraine that gripped for more than two weeks and left me with tinnitus.  I have followed the book's prescription to the letter, but to no avail.<br /><br />Added October 22, 2004 -- Turns out I missed something.  I discovered that a topical hair treatment I was using was a vasodialator and, hence, a headache inducer.  I stopped using the product, and my headaches stopped the next day.  I haven't had a problem since.<br /><br />Added January 6, 2013 -- I get a lot of feedback on this review, so I thought I'd provide an update. I remain virtually migraine-free. I get modest seasonal transition headaches, but I haven't needed any migraine medicine for as long as I can remember. There are two thing I have to watch out for. First, I am overly fond of Diet Coke, and drinking too much leads to caffeine withdrawal headaches. I have to limit my intake. Second, significant dietary carbohydrate restriction of the kind that's so popular these days will bring on a significant headache. It's a qualitatively different type of headache than a classic migraine, but profound just the same. I find that I have to temper my enthusiasm for carbs, so that I'm never in a position to have to implement any significant dietary restriction. I keep my weight under control with a balanced diet and a fair amount of exercise...but that's another topic altogether.	2004-04-27
US	52691468	R2GBOQ1JHADPT4	0609601369	276992305	All-Audio Spanish Cassette (LL(R) All-Audio Courses)	Books	2	10	11	N	N	no pause for refreshment	I have no natural talent for foreign languages.  None.  I learn them by playing audio tapes over and over in my car during my daily 2 hour commute.  Learning this way is less like memorization and more like osmosis.  I learn the language the same way I used to learn the lyrics to songs that got played repeatedly on the radio.  With a two hour daily immersion, it's impossible not to soak up the material.<br />In my experience, most audio language programs suffer from a single critical fault - there is no pause between the English speaker and the foreign language translation.  The absence of this seemingly insignificant nuance prevents the student from being able to say the phrase before the foreign speaker, if he has learned it.  The result is that the student never builds the proper recall memory necessary to become really fascicle with the language.  All that's ever built is recognition memory.  Students learn to recognize the foreign language, but they never learn to create it. <br />The Living Language all audio program is very thorough and would be a wonderful way to learn Spanish but for this critical fault.  It's targeted at the language student, not the impending traveler.  The material is nicely balanced between explanation, grammar, vocabulary, and phrases, and is probably more thorough than the Penton version of the same product (\\"Learn in Your Car Spanish\\").  The grammar explanations in particular are very helpful.  But, I don't believe that a student can develop the same facility with the language that they can with the Penton product simply because the student is rarely given the opportunity to perform.  <br />To its credit, The Living Language program does offer dialogs, during which the student can supply one side of the conversation.  But they are very short and don't begin to reinforce the entirety of the material.  So, while it pains me to do so, I can't recommend this series except, perhaps, for the student who is already very familiar with the Spanish language and merely wants to expand that knowledge.	2004-03-17
US	52691468	R2DK44RCY2ALRZ	1591252075	967442712	Spanish Complete: The Complete Language Course : 3 Level Set (Learn in Your Car) (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	191	194	N	N	For the language student, not the traveler	This series is formatted differently from other beginning language courses, such as those from Living Language and Berlitz.  It's not a series of phrases designed for the traveler, but a more complete course for people who have aspirations of fluency.  Hence, I'd recommend this course to anyone who was serious about learning the Spanish language, but not to the occasional traveler.  Plan on spending several months going over the material.<br />The early part of the course involves a considerable amount of basic vocabulary.  Sentences and phrases come later.  Once they do, they build upon each other quickly, so you'll be glad you learned the vocabulary.  The advantage of this approach is that when the sentences come, you have a better chance of understanding and remembering them.  The downside is that you really have to force yourself thru the early part of the course without any sense that you're getting anywhere.<br />The material is perfectly suited to anyone with a long commute.  What's needed is about 45 minutes per day of uninterrupted listening -- over and over and over and over.  You don't even need to listen that hard.  It's more like singing along with the radio.  Just the constant repetition, with you repeating the words and phrases, is enough to implant the material in your brain.  After a while, you'll know the language and not know how you know it.<br />One great advantage of the presentation over other similar courses is that there is a slight pause between the English speaker and the Spanish translation.  This pause allows you to say the Spanish word or phrase before the Spanish speaker, if you know it.  This seemingly insignificant detail is actually critical for learning.  Other courses put the Spanish translation immediately after the English speaker, without a pause, and you never really build the kind of recall that you need.  Another advantage of the course is that it presents both Spanish and Latin American versions of words and phrases, when there is a difference.	2004-03-16
US	52691468	R3FG58BOPN7NRT	096800640X	511809626	The Feeling of Greatness	Books	4	27	28	N	Y	At Home on the Range	As recently as 10 years ago, Moe's Norman's very existence was considered apocryphal.  A few American golf pros, Paul Azinger and Lee Trevino come to mind, told stories about an eccentric Canadian with a strange swing so accurate he could stand on a driving range and hit the 250 yard sign repeatedly with his driver.  Or they told of the time he hit three balls off the tee that were later found huddled together like mushrooms in the middle of the fairway.  Then there's the time that, upon hearing someone in the gallery say he was a poor putter, he proceeded to hit a hole-in-one, boasting \\"I guess I won't be putting today.\\"  They said he was so good that if a hole called for a 3-wood and an 8- iron, he'd play it 8-iron/3-wood just to keep it interesting.  The stories always held the not-so- subtle claim that if Norman had played the US tour, no one would have ever heard of Jack Nicklaus.  <br />But nobody had seen him recently.  He was a ghost.  Finally, in 1995, Golf Digest ran a cover story that brought Moe and his strange swing back to life.  By that time he had become the poster boy for a new golf movement called Natural Golf, and the leaders of that company were splashing Moe's image around as much as they could.  This biography soon followed.  <br />Fortunately, readers of \\"The Feeling of Greatness\\" will discover not an advertising piece, but a balanced look at a complicated man.  Because of a childhood head injury, or perhaps just because genetics occasionally breeds the strange and unusual, Moe Norman represents obsessive-compulsion applied to golf.  He is described as golf's \\"Rain Man\\", a savant-like creature of habit who found solace in striking golf balls -- hundreds a day for thousands of days -- but who was so shy, he wouldn't appear at awards ceremonies.   He muttered a continuous stream-of-consciousness monologue and played so quickly that he often struck his shot before his partner had pulled his tee out of the ground.  He never paused over putts, butrather hit them in full stride.  He was not your typical golf pro.  <br />However, while he was very successful on the Canadian tours of the 50s and 60s, he was a flop on the US PGA tour and, in fact, was reprimanded by fellow pros for boorish behavior.  The book is honest enough to make it clear that any notion of his tearing up the US tour if only given a fair chance is just false.  While he is generally regarded as one of the finest ball strikers of all time, he never came to terms with the real scoring clubs in his bag - his wedge and putter.  In the end, Moe Norman was most at home on the driving range, where he gives impressive demonstrations to this day.	2003-06-25
US	52691468	R45DBXSFKZBGD	0385500246	600331387	Dave Pelz's Putting Bible: The Complete Guide to Mastering the Green (Dave Pelz Scoring Game Series)	Books	1	65	86	N	N	More advise that is impossible to implement	Dave Pelz is starting to tick me off.  If you thought his \\"Short Game Bible\\" was demanding, wait until you see this book.  In it he insists that the only route to improvement is to practice his \\"pils\\" stroke until you've done 20,000 repetitions.  And that's just for starters.  Call me wacky, but I find that downright discouraging.  I'm as dedicated to improving my golf game as the next guy, but jeez I've got a job.  I don't have all day every day to wire myself up with all of his feedback gadgets in order to have \\"meaningful\\" practice.  In fact, by his standards my feeble practice sessions are only guaranteeing my mediocrity.  He'd have me just quit.  Interesting and illuminating scientific discoveries aside, no non-professional golfer could possibly follow his 15-point/47-rule improvement program.  Hence, while I predict that every golfer on earth will buy Pelz's book (and most will give it a positive review), I also predict that no one will follow his advice.	2002-09-17
US	52691468	R9HYHQ881LZSQ	0767903447	550853806	Dave Pelz's Short Game Bible: Master the Finesse Swing and Lower Your Score (Dave Pelz Scoring Game Series)	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Concepts difficult to put into action	It's difficult to imagine a more clearly written book than \\"Dave Pelz's Short Game Bible\\".  It has the look and feel of a college textbook, complete with scientific-style decimal section headings, but it has been written by someone with a genuine interest in your comprehension.  One almost expects review questions at the end of each chapter to check your retention.  But, it is not a book for the faint of heart.  Rather than a collection of short game tips and tricks, Pelz offers an integrated system for hitting short shots precise distances.  He directs his narrative toward serious golfers who know and love the value of practice.  Others need not apply.<br />Pelz defines the short game as shots hit from 100 yards out to the edge of the green.  He does not include putting (covered in a subsequent book).  His method involves learning a \\"finesse swing\\", which is different from the power swing, and calibrating it to produce repeatable yardages.  His goal is to have you hit your shots inside of 10 feet from the pin, because his research indicates that at that distance the chance of holing your next shot increases drammatically.  His methods are based on years of the sort of research one would expect from a scientist, which he is.  Many of his conclusions are surprising, but they take as much of the guesswork out of the short game as is humanly possible.  With doubt removed, all that is left for the reader to do is practice, practice, practice...<br />And therein lies the problem, for unless you have a football field-sized back yard, there is nearly nowhere on earth where you can do the kind of practice Pelz recommends.  Pelz wants you to learn three variants of his basic wedge swing and use them with four different wedges to produce 12 reliable ball flight distances.  To calibrate this system, you have to measure the distance of *every* practice shot.  Unfortunately, diving ranges won't let you walk out and measure your shots, and golf courses won't like you peppering their greens with the thousands of practice shots required to master this system.  So, buy the book if you'd like the clearest description of the short game imaginable, but don't be surprised if you won't be able to put any of it to work.	2002-09-05
US	52691468	R15M3QW88CYXW	006270236X	43930725	The Hogan Way: How to Apply Ben Hogan's Exceptional Swing and Shotmaking Genius to Your Own Game	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Refines our understanding of  Hogan's swing	There are a number of differences between the way Ben Hogan said to swing the golf club and the way he actually swung it.  This book nicely nicely dissects these differences.  It also outlines a number of 'lost fundamentals' -- important aspects of Hogan's swing that were never discussed in either of his books.  Finally, there is an extensive discussion of Hogan's &quot;secret&quot;, the move that allowed him to be one of the most accurate ball strikers of all time.  Of particular value in this regard are a series of rare down the line photos that clearly illustrate to the keen eye how Hogan kept the orientation of his clubhead consistent thru contact.	2002-07-31
US	52691468	R3G5KV20A9RW2M	0679457607	893924769	The Inner Game of Golf	Books	5	73	76	N	N	More than just a golf book	\\"The Inner Game of Golf\\" has been on bookstore shelves for 20 years because it appeals to a segment of the golfing public that eschews traditional instruction.  It is not a book about how to play golf; it is a book about how to learn golf.  The author's approach is a straightforward application of Eastern psychology and targets the subconscious mind of the golfer as the primary player of the game.  Most of the methods described in the book are directed toward quieting the conscious (verbal) mind so that the subconscious (non-verbal) mind can learn from experience.  <br />Here's an example.  In the traditional approach to playing the game, the golfer watches the flight of the ball after contact and deduces from it how he must have swung.  From that information he makes mechanical corrections that are applied to the next swing.  In the Inner Game approach, the golfer does not watch, but feels the flight of the ball after contact.  From this feedback the subconscious mind automatically makes corrections that are applied to subsequent shots.  For me, the former approach has always led to frustration.  Driving range corrections always fall apart after 3 holes on the course, and mechanical analyses lead to doubt.  But with the Inner Game approach, my swing gets stronger thru the round, and I hit with greater and greater confidence as the round progresses.  It is often a confident feeling that I carry with me for many hours after leaving the course.  In that respect, a round of golf early in the morning is, like meditation, a conditioner for the daily activities that follow.<br />This updated version of \\"The Inner Game of Golf\\" is a substantial revision of the original, and owners of the 1981 edition may well want to consider buying the update.  While several sections remain untouched, there is fresh material inserted throughout as well as a couple of completely new chapters.  But the most significant revision is one of tone.  Gone is the enthusiastic arrogance of the original which aggressively promoted the Inner Game approach as superior to traditional teaching methods.  Indeed, the 1981 version flatly stated that Inner Game techniques should not be used in conjunction with traditional methods.  While this tone may have helped elevate the book to its cult status, it ultimately turned off the serious golfing community to the point where the author's name is rarely mentioned by traditional golf instructors.  In the revision, the author changes direction completely and now says that the inner game approach should be merged with traditional instruction to create a new, synthesized approach to learning.  He even offers a few techniques for achieving such a synthesis.<br />But, what hasn't changed is the author's central thesis that it is the golfer's understanding of why he plays the game that leads to both success with the sport and contentment as a result of it.  The reader who understands and accepts this fundamental concept will find himself transformed in a way he would never have predicted from a mere golf book.	2002-07-10
US	52691468	R2IX0P1HSQQROF	0966352408	105870671	Natural Golf: A Lifetime of Better Golf	Books	3	25	25	N	Y	A Radical Fix	Books of this type need to be assessed from two entirely different perspectives.  The first concerns whether they relay their information in a manner sufficient for the reader to successfully employ it.  The second concerns whether the information described (in this case, golf technique) has any merit<br />I have read both Natural Golf: Get a Grip on Your Game and Natural Golf: A Lifetime of Better Golf.  Of the two, I vastly prefer the technical presentation in the latter.  Grip is the older of the two books and seems overly concerned with selling the Natural Golf concept at the expense of actually describing it.  It is a fairly aggressive sales manual, rendered entirely in black and white with actions shown in line drawings.  Lots of scientific justification is claimed, but none is actually offered.  <br />In contrast, Lifetime was cycled thru Golf Digests publication machinery and is better for it.  Its emphasis is on instruction, not sales, and to that end it presents a wealth of color photographs as well as a couple of useful drills absent from Grip.  The technical material presented in the two books is, of course, very similar, but there are key differences.  For example, Grip describes the downswing as a hammering action dominated by the golfers right side, while Lifetime suggests that it is a pulling action of the left arm on the right elbow.  Also, the stances described in the two books are somewhat different, with the stance advocated in Lifetime being a little more conventional.  Readers should note, however, that there have been recent changes to the Natural Golf method that supercede the teaching in both books.<br />The second issue, whether the method has any merit, is difficult to assess.  Natural Golf is an implementation of the single axis swing employed by the eccentric Canadian champion, Moe Norman.  The swing mechanics are strange to say the least.  I am a lifetime middle handicapper, who is naturally athletic and frustrated to death that no amount of effort applied to the game seems to lead to improvement.  That probably makes me a sucker for radical approaches and quick fixes, of which Natural Golf is both.  My first swings using the method felt strange and awkward, because the essential components of the single axis swing are nearly the opposite of everything I have ever been taught.  On those occasions when everything clicked, however, the ball took off just like the books said it should  laser straight and surprisingly long.  <br />But they werent always straight and long, and that was the crux of the problem.  In my hands, at least, the single axis swing was no more reliable than a conventional swing.  After a short period of time I developed a periodic pull-hook that would not be denied.  It made no difference if many of my shots were good if even a small proportion ended up out-of-bounds.  Golf is more a game of limiting bad shots than cultivating good ones.  But, to be fair, I have talked to other golfers who are deliriously happy with Natural Golf.  Perhaps I have too many conventional golf habits that arent compatible with the single-axis swing.<br />If you decide to read the books and try the method, be prepared for the necessity of a few equipment modifications.   Because of the palm grip, youll need oversized, non-tapered grips.  Even instructors of the method indicate that these are essential.  Also, because of the strange stance, youre going to want a longer club and one with a more upright lie angle.  In order to accommodate these needs, I ordered a demo club from the company, and Id recommend that anyone serious about the method do the same.	2002-07-10
US	52691468	R25B2LXFLQMNIC	0201710161	478299791	Adobe Photoshop 6.0 Classroom in a Book	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Solid roadmap thru the confusion	Computer instruction books come in three varieties -- 1) those that describe every menu function, 2) those that tout a variety of golly-gee-whiz tricks, and 3) those that attempt to teach how to get something done.  Photoshop Classroom in a Book is a pretty good example of the latter.  Seventeen 1 hour lessons take the disciplined reader thru the bulk of Photoshop's capabilities.  It's not an easy read, but then Photoshop is not an easy program.  There seem to be a million functions and at least ten different ways to do the same thing.   Yet, the book provides a pretty good roadmap thru the confusion.  With this one under your belt, you'll be able to go on to one of the many Photoshop Golly-Gee-Whiz books that will amplify your understanding.	2002-01-04
US	52691468	R3OC5LGSAU1DRH	0684813483	911059235	The Pie and Pastry Bible	Books	4	28	29	N	Y	Complete and authoritative	While I have found Rose Levy Beranbaum's other major tome &quot;The Cake Bible&quot; a source of nearly unending frustration, &quot;The Pie and Pastry Bible&quot; is a triumph.  I can think of no other pastry book that comes close in either breadth or depth. Every pastry topic is covered in detail, and most recipes work as advertised, at least in experienced hands.  Like the author's other books, everything is spelled out in glorious detail, and ingredient measures are given in both weight and volume.  Most important, the formulations seem battle-tested, and I approach them with far more confidence than the recipes in &quot;The Cake Bible.&quot;<br />The pie crust recipes are outstanding, and I like the fact that the finished pies are designed to slip out of the pan so you can serve them from a cutting board.  The fruit pies are innovative and an extensive table takes the guesswork out of adding starch thickeners.  The puff pastry, croissant, and Danish formulas work as advertised, and they produce a final product that simply cannot be bought.  [Note: The King Arthur Green Mountain Gold flour recommended for the croissants is no longer available.]  The food processor-based cream puff pastry is a wonderful improvement on the classic.  Of course, there are a couple of clinkers (I wouldn't make the Buttermilk Chess Pie again), but my batting average with these recipes is higher than usual.<br />As other reviewers have noted, potential buyers should be aware that this is not a book for beginners.  Pastries are among the most demanding of kitchen products to begin with, and the recipes in this book are often complex.  As the author herself points out, pastry is a matter of technique.  It's far easier for someone to show you how to make puff pastry than it is for a book to adequately describe it to you. In addition, yeast pastries, like croissants and Danish, take a more advanced kitchen than that required for other baked goods.  Heat and humidity are principle players -- not just the ambient weather, but the fact that one moment you need a cool spot with low humidity to roll dough, and the next you need a warm spot with high humidity to rise it.  That's not an easy combination to achieve in the average home kitchen.<br />Add to these inherent difficulties the author's willingness to espouse any technique and ingredient that will enhance the product, and the result is a collection of recipes that are often challenging, even to the well initiated.  Simpler pastry recipes can certainly be found, but my experience is that something is usually lost in the process.  Therefore, I recommend this book highly, but with qualifications.  Experienced bakers will profit, but beginners could well find these recipes, and the kitchen requirements for following them, maddeningly complex.-- not just the ambient weather, but the fact that one moment you need a cool spot with low humidity to roll dough, and the next you need a warm spot with high humidity to rise it.  That's not an easy combination to achieve in the average home kitchen.  <br />Add to these inherent difficulties the author's willingness to espouse any technique and ingredient that will enhance the product, and the result is a collection of recipes that are often challenging, even to the well initiated.  Simpler pastry recipes can certainly be found, but my experience is that something is usually lost in the process.  Therefore, I recommend this book highly, but with qualifications.  Experienced bakers will profit, but beginners could well find these recipes, and the kitchen requirements for following them, maddeningly complex.	2001-05-04
US	52691468	RTY0TV66AW34B	0688044026	857459596	The Cake Bible	Books	4	826	854	N	Y	A Challenge	While it's difficult to add much to the other reviews of \\"The Cake Bible\\", I do have a couple of thoughts that might help resolve some of the conflicting reports.  Like a few of the other reviewers, I have found this to be a frustrating book, even for someone with culinary training.  Let me make one thing clear -- I really want to like it.  The book is comprehensive and authoritative, and the author, Rose Levy Beranbaum, tries very hard to communicate.  What isn't covered in the text is usually addressed in the extensive margin notes or footnotes.  With strengths like that, it would seem impossible for any recipe to fail.<br /><br />But, many recipes do fail, sometimes spectacularly.  How is that possible?  The reasons are many and varied.  First, my sense is that the recipes themselves are fragile.  While ingredient measures are expressed in precise units (you'd better own a scale), the instructions must be executed to the letter.  No step can be compromised; no corner can be cut.  Exact pan sizes and oven temperatures must be used.  The ingredients are carefully balanced.  If you're off by just a little, the cake will fail.  Hence, I don't approach the recipes in this book with the sort of unhesitating confidence I would like.  It often takes several tries to get a cake right.<br /><br />Second, the recipes don't take kindly to substitutions.  Once, I came up a little short on sour cream and tried to substitute some plain yogurt in the Sour Cream Coffee Cake.  The recipe wasn't robust enough to accommodate the additional water provided by the yogurt, and the cake fell.  To make these cakes, you need to triple-check the ingredients list before you start.<br /><br />Third, only the highest quality ingredients can be used.  The Mousseline Buttercream is a good example.  Since it uses only egg whites instead of yolks or whole eggs, and since there isn't much sugar, the only flavor notes come from the butter.  Anything less that the highest quality will result in a final product that is greasy and horrible.  And the additional liquor flavoring in many recipes is not optional.  It is often required to compensate for the relative lack sugar.<br /><br />Finally, the author's encouragement notwithstanding, the Showcase Cakes are legitimately complicated.  Each of them has a number of components, some with multiple sub-components, and each cake takes several days to construct.  The Blueberry Swan Lake, for example, calls for 2 meringue swans with piped whipped cream feathers.  The White Lilac Nostalgia cake requires dozens of crystallized lilac blossoms, each prepared carefully by hand.  And I'd love to see  anyone's first crack at the red chocolate roses and 20 chocolate rose leaves required for the Bittersweet Royale Torte.<br /><br />In fairness, however, it should be noted that some of the fundamental recipes are real breakthroughs (or at least they were when the book was written in 1988).  The Moist Chocolate Genoise, for example, uses bar chocolate instead of the cocoa.  The cocoa butter in the chocolate replaces the clarified butter that would normally be added to a cake of this type.  The result is a chocolate genoise unlike any other I've ever tasted.  While many are stiff and dry, this cake is tender and moist.  In addition, the Neo-Classic Buttercream offers a worthwhile shortcut to the preparation of the sugar syrup.<br /><br />A special bonus is the wedding cake section.  These pages thoroughly describe the construction of a 'standard' wedding cake, right down to the amount of buttercream required for each layer.  Recipes are offered for yellow and chocolate butter cake, yellow and chocolate genoise, and cheesecake.  Every step along the way is described in detail, and the designs, while challenging, are generally more accessible that those from, say, Colette Peters or Dede Wilson.<br /><br />In sum, while it's easy to make a decent cake, it's a big step to the next level.  What this book underscores is the amount of preparation, concentration, and effort it takes to make an exceptional cake.  If that is your goal, then this book could well offer the road map you're looking for.<br /><br />Note added 4/12/2012 -- I am suddenly receiving a fair number of private emails about this 11-year-old review, almost all critical of my comment that the recipes don't take kindly to substitutions.  At the time this book was written, modifying basic cakes was standard practice.  In fact, books were written on how to add this, that, and the other thing to a standard cake recipe to achieve new and interesting results.  My review was intended to point out the the recipes in \\"The Cake Bible\\" are not those kind of recipes.  If you'd like to make the cakes in this book, you'd better have the right pans, a stand mixer, a gram scale and a calibrated oven.  In particular, the mixing procedure when executed correctly produces a cake that can be wonderfully light.  But the structure is less robust than the standard procedure offered in most books.  It's worth noting that that this procedure has not become the culinary standard in the decade since it was introduced.	2001-04-11
US	52691468	R374AH3QNWAXEN	0471284572	275181554	Understanding Baking, 2nd Edition	Books	2	22	32	N	N	Dry and overpriced	&quot;Understanding Baking&quot; is a dry-as-toast recitation of the principles underlying the preparation of baked goods.  The book would appear to be intended for the culinary student, since the authors apparently didn't feel burdened with need to make the subject matter interesting to a wider audience.  It a 'just the facts, madam' kind of book with nary a single recipe to be found.  (See &quot;Cookwise&quot; by Shirley Corriher for an example of the complete opposite.)  The chapters are curiously organized -- some are done in straight narrative with review questions at the end, while others are written in a programmed-learning, question-and-answer style.  Some chapters are a mix of both.  The editing is sloppy in spots, and I would swear there are at least two instances where the author's insertion notes were carried right on into the final printing (pgs. 16-17, and 46-47).   All that being said, however, the book is indeed crammed with information essential to the professional baker, and there are several very useful charts showing cake/cookie/bread/pie faults and their causes.  Home cooks will benefit if they can stay awake, but the book is clearly targeted toward the professional and professional wannabe.	2000-11-02
US	52691468	R2ZZVYMI24D42G	0316496987	450614938	The Dessert Bible	Books	2	56	77	N	N	Fundamentally flawed	Much fine work goes wasted in &quot;The Dessert Bible&quot; because author Christopher Kimball, the current Dean of American home cooking and a self-described slave to experimentation, refuses to precisely quantify his flour measures.  Kimball acknowledges that &quot;any sort of baking can be difficult, since small changes in ingredients...can affect the outcome.&quot;  This is true, and flour is the most difficult ingredient to measure repeatably.  You cannot expect reliable results from carefully crafted recipes until you get this variable under control.  He even demonstrates on page 14 how two people given the same instruction -- measure a cup of flour using the dip and sweep method -- could get radically different results.  (BTW - &quot;Case 2 - Sifting, Spooning, and Sweeping&quot; must have involved cake flour, because the only way he could have measured 3.85 oz. from a cup of all-purpose flour is if he conducted the test on a planet with a lower gravitational constant.)  Yet in spite of his own data, he still refused to express flour in units that can be repeated.  It is an inexcusable error and one that affects nearly every recipe in the book.  His excuse is that most home cooks don't have a scale.  OK, then tell the reader to get one.  A decent digital scale costs under $40, far less than the Kitchaid mixer he suggests people own if they ever expect to make brioche.  So, as much as I love Kimaball's approach (I swear we were separated at birth), I cannot wholeheartedly recommend his book.  If you measure your ingredients, particularly flour, differently than he does, his recipes won't work as he intended.	2000-10-03
US	52691468	R3DA5FNC36U7EO	158234082X	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	4	50	58	N	N	An irreverent look inside the professional kitchen	The first 253 pages of &quot;Kitchen Confidential&quot; would certainly give one pause before ever choosing to dine out again.  Author-Chef Anthony Bourdain describes the professional kitchen as a collection of drunks,  derelicts and drug addicts the likes with which you would never want to  have a close encounter.  And as chef de cuisine of Brasserie Les Halles in  New York, you'd certainly think he'd know.  But on page 254, Bourdain  begins to show the other side of the street by describing the kitchen of  chef Scott Bryan at Veritas, an upscale restaurant down the street from Les  Halles.  In this comparison the ultimate lessons are revealed, and what had  been up to that point just an amusing 'tell all' book, becomes something  considerably more.  We learn that Bourdain's world is one of his own  choosing, and other chefs at other restaurants can be very different.   While Bourdain was propelled thru his early years by drugs and alcohol,  Bryan was more serious.  While Bourdain reached for the top right out of  school and ultimately fell on his face, Bryan carefully refined his craft  by working in the kitchens of one expert chef after another.  For Bourdain  it's about the pace of life leading a hectic restaurant kitchen; for Bryan  it's all about the food.  The lessons come together in the penultimate  chapter entitled &quot;So You Want to Be a Chef?&quot;, which spells out  the rules for kitchen success as clearly and as vividly and any would-be  chef would want.  This chapter along with Michael Ruhlman's &quot;The  Making of a Chef&quot; (ISPN 0805061738) should be required reading before  any student begins Day 1 at culinary school.  The rest of us might just  want to chose our restaurants more carefully.  Oh, yes...and avoid the fish  on a Monday.	2000-07-13
US	52691468	R32GQUGABCGQY0	1579651208	619545678	Essentials of Cooking	Books	4	83	84	N	N	Freedom from recipe bondage	&quot;Essentials of Cooking&quot; is one of a couple books that have appeared recently (Pam Anderson's &quot;How to Cook Without a Book&quot; is another) that are designed to help home chefs wean themselves from  over-reliance on recipes.  James Peterson uses a visual approach by  presenting well-over 1000 photographs (taken by Peterson himself) that show  how various basic culinary techniques are performed and fundamental dishes  prepared.  Everything from dicing apple to trimming a saddle of lamb is  included, with just enough narrative to keep the reader on track.  A lot of  cross referencing gives the book a 'hypertext' quality.  Your can read it  from beginning to end, or you can just bounce around.  I would not think  that this would be a very good book for beginners, though.  The general  thrust is toward cooks with enough experience to want to loosen up and  generalize their knowledge rather than newcomers just trying to find their  way around the kitchen.  And the &quot;recipes&quot; aren't really recipes  in the way most readers will be familiar.  They're more in the nature of  general models to which you can add or subtract individual ingredients to  your own liking.	2000-06-01
US	52691468	R21Y9X2PXLXO6G	0767902793	390607195	How to Cook Without a Book: Recipes and Techniques Every Cook Should Know by Heart	Books	4	45	49	N	N	A solid method for getting dinner on the table	&quot;How to Cook Without a Book&quot; is directed at a specific target audience -- the home chef who is charged with the task of getting dinner on the table every day...after working all day, every day.  For this person a  strategy is needed, and Pam Anderson's book offers that strategy.  This is  not a collection of fancy &quot;30 Minute Gourmet&quot; recipes; it is  exactly the opposite.  Anderson suggests that the home chef de cuisine  learn a few core recipes that can be executed quickly and build off these  with whatever ingredients happen to be on hand.  It's an ambitious  undertaking and one that requires the reader to have both good equipment  and a solid base of culinary fundamentals.  After all, if you don't know  how to properly saut, and don't have a good pan to do it in, you're not  going to do real well with the saut recipes.  And if there's a weakness to  the approach, that's it.  Simplified core recipes put a lot of emphasis on  both fundamental culinary technique and a well equipped and organized  kitchen.  Absent either of these, this method will not work for you.  But  if you really want to put the effort into moving away from someone else's  recipes and unleash your own culinary creativity, this book is an excellent  starting point.	2000-06-01
US	52691468	R1KFJ9JRYBJTHL	0471288039	446660402	Auguste Escoffier: Memories of My Life	Books	3	8	15	N	N	A light snack	In \\"Memories of My Life\\" Auguste Escoffier reveals essentially nothing memorable about his life other than his opinion that French ingredients are good and war with Germany is bad (who knew?).  The book reads like a  Reader's Digest condensation, reduced to little more than \\"I went here\\" and  \\"I went there.\\"  Yet the book is an important read for culinarians if only  because it comes from the Master's own hand.  Reading between the lines, we  get the impression that Escoffier had a way with people, a way with food,  and an extraordinary ability to match one to the other.  Hardly the rigid  systemizer he is often portrayed, he emphasizes over and over the  importance of adapting cuisine to the changing times and targeting the  desires of the customer.   On this latter point he may have been the  unrivaled master.  Menus inserted at various points in the narrative reveal  that Escoffier was flamboyant in the description of his culinary creations,  often shamelessly naming them after the prospective guest of honor.   Reveared in his own time by patrons and colleagues, his single-minded  dedication to both quality and service should be a lesson to restauranteurs  today.  As translated from French into English, the prose is at about  Junior High level, but this is appropriate since Escoffier had only about  an 8th grade education.  The narrative is amplified considerably by margin  notes that provide background and details probably unknown to the modern  reader.  Unfortunately, the Glossary is woefully inadequate to the task of  translating the menus, which are probably the book's most important  feature.  In addition, two letters to Escoffier are included near the end  of the book that have no obvious purpose, one of them going so far as to  suggest that Escoffier's rosy description of the success of the New York  Knickerbocker Hotel was not universally shared.  Nonetheless, the book is  an interesting read and serves as a light companion to Escoffier's more  ponderousLe Guide Culinaire.	2000-05-17
US	52691468	R2LSZ5FWWZOHZW	0876543565	959181449	It Rains Fishes: Legends, Traditions and the Joys of Thai Cooking	Books	4	30	33	N	N	Cultural Cuisine	&quot;It Rains Fishes&quot; is a wonderful example of a cookbook that relates a nation's cuisine in terms of the culture that creates it.  The book is as much a testament to the author's love of Thailand as it is a presentation of Thai recipes.  You can enjoy reading it even if you never  cook a single dish.  But if you do choose to take it into the kitchen, you  will find the recipes straightforward and obviously refined by many years  of implementation by students.  Perhaps the most valuable lesson is the  author's description of how Thai dishes are put together, less by recipe  than by balancing the five dimensions of taste (sweet, salt, bitter, sour,  hot).  One cannot recreate Thai dishes with a quarter teaspoon of this and  an ounce of that.  It must be done in the moment by taste.  That very  philosophy, along with the use of fresh local ingredients, underlies much  of New American cooking.  The book's downfall, then, is obvious -- the  availability of ingredients local to Thailand.  If you live in an area with  a good collection of Asian markets, you might have some luck.  But if you  rely on the &quot;Asian&quot; section of your local supermarket, you won't.    It's pretty much that simple.	2000-05-03
US	52691468	R183Z8PS3SVJZM	0936184388	360661070	The Best Recipe	Books	5	23	25	N	Y	A Seminal Work	If ever there was a book that deserved six stars, this is the one.  &quot;The Best Recipe&quot; is for people who love cooking enough to want to do it well.  Readers of &quot;Cooks Illustrated&quot; magazine will  recognize the method.  Each recipe is the result of an extensive comparison  of various versions, an investigation into the component ingredients to  determine those most fundamental to the final result, and the careful  assembly of a final version that is optimized for both flavor and ease of  preparation.  Along the way lessons are learned (and myths dispelled) about  food science, cooking tools, techniques, and ingredients.  Be advised,  however, that the book is directed at the middle American palate.  Though  there are versions of more exotic dishes, they have been 'Americanized' to  take advantage of ingredients most likely to be found at the local  supermarket.  An occasional trip to the spice boutique might be desired,  but it won't be required.  Nor will the stocking of 17 different types of  flour or any other staple.  The editors frequently compare products and end  up recommending one that has been on the shelf, right next to the one  you've been using for a long time.   I really can offer only one criticism,  but it's an important one -- flour measures are expressed in terms of  volume, not weight.  There is a big difference between one person's version  of a cup of flour and another's, but an ounce is an ounce in anybody's  hands.  There really is no excuse for a book that attempts to find the best  way to do things not to express flour in ounces or grams.  Admittedly,  there are casual text references to their version of a cup of bread flour  being &quot;about&quot; 130 grams and a cup of cake flour being  &quot;about&quot; three ounces.  But, if these are the true equivalents  used throughout the book, they are much less than the values quoted by  others, and the difference would greatly affect the outcome of a recipe.	2000-02-23
US	52691468	R1ILLHM69VPX6D	0231104596	559823357	Hystories	Books	4	14	31	N	N	A valuable and well stated hypothesis	In &quot;Hystories: Hysterical Epidemics and Modern Media&quot; author Elaine Showalter argues that Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, Gulf War Syndrome, Recovered Memory, Multiple Personality Disorder, Satanic Ritual Abuse, and  claims of alien abduction are psychosomatic conditions raised to hysterical  proportions by a confluence of ambitious doctors, desperate patients, and a  supportive culture. She does not discount in the slightest the physical  reality of the often disabling symptoms experience by sufferers of these  conditions.  In the case of CFS, she says that there can be little doubt  that the afflicted feel the pain, fatigue, and other symptoms they claim to  feel.  What is in dispute is the cause.  Showalter agues that there is so  little respect for psychosomatic illness in the Western world, that  patients are forced to insist upon a medical cause in order to get the  respect they feel they are due.  Modern culture doesn't regard  psychosomatic illness as a 'proper' illness, but sees it as a moral  weakness.  She regards hysteria not as a weakness, or act of deceitfulness  or irresponsibility, but rather as a cultural symptom of anxiety and  stress. The symptoms of hysterical diseases are the culturally acceptable  responses to the real and imagined demands of daily living Much has been  made of the fact that Elaine Showalter is a professor of English.   &quot;What's her expertise in medicine?&quot; critics ask.  The answer is  that Showalter is a feminist and approaches the topic at hand as an  exercise in feminist criticism.  Hysteria, she notes, is inevitably a  feminist issue, because for centuries doctors regarded it as a female  reproductive disease.  The name itself derives from hystera, the Greek word  for uterus.  Classical healers believed the uterus traveled hungrily around  the body, producing a myriad of medical symptoms in its wake.  She notes  that hysterical phenomena have a large female component.  A recent study at  Harvard Medical School found that 80 percent of those afflicted with CFS  are women.  Similar data are cited for the other syndromes she discusses.  Regrettably, the book is a little short on effective treatment.  She notes  that the reaction of authorities to incidents and rumors is critical.  If  scare headlines ensue and if a search for causes takes precedence over  calming fears, the situation can get rapidly out of control.  Things go  wrong when the actual nature of the outbreak is not recognized and a  fruitless search for biological bases begins.  Anxiety, far from being  reduced, increases.  It is only then that long-term psychological problems  may develop.  I suspect that she wouldn't disagree that the most effective  treatment is to deal with the emotional causes - the stresses and  unrealistic demands of daily living.  In the end, the book is a well-stated  hypothesis, one no more or less true than any other hypothesis.  Such  hypotheses become valuable only when they promote validating research.   Showalter would probably argue that this research should be pursued as  vigorously as current research into the biological causes of the  afflictions she discusses.	1999-03-26
US	52691468	R1ZSTER0BWG4P6	0875964400	185338954	The French Culinary Institute's Salute to Healthy Cooking, From America's Foremost French Chefs	Books	2	74	83	N	N	Great promise; poor delivery	Here's an original thought - you can't judge a book by its cover.  On the surface, &quot;The French Culinary Institute's Salute to Healthy Cooking&quot; would appear to be just what the doctor ordered - a beautiful  book of health conscious recipes compiled by perhaps the four most  prominent French chefs living in the US.  With glossy photographs of many  it's 150 recipes and a layout that emphasizes seasonal menu planning over  individual dishes, the book gives a wonderful first impression. But things  grind to a halt quickly when you start to cook.  I'm sure there are many  wonderful creations contained in these pages (and low fat versions of all  the big hitters in the French lineup are here).  And, honest, I promise to  keep trying.  But even in experienced hands, so many are outright clinkers  that one rapidly looses faith in the entire collection.   The recipe for  asparagus soup (pg.60) illustrates the book's underlying central theme: if  you're going to reduce the fat, you'd better concentrate the flavors.   The  recipe calls for 5 cups of white chicken stock -- not unusual until you  look at the book's recipe for white chicken stock (pg.37).  Eight pounds of  chicken bones plus mirepoix and herbs yields just 4 cups (yes, cups, not  quarts) of stock.  At that concentration, the soup would require the 10  lbs. of bones just to made the base.  That's one concentrated stock. OK,  then skip the recipes that call for chicken stock.  Unfortunately, in true  French style white chicken stock is required for fully 22 recipes.   Fortunately, brown stock is required for only four, and the formulation is  a little more reasonable.  But even this recipe requires hard-to-find veal  bones and yields a demi-glace strength stock.  Best to own a butcher shop.  I won't comment on the health claims except to ask a question.  If French  cuisine is so inherently healthy, why have all the recipes been changed  from their classic origins?  Frankly, if it's healthy high cuisine you're  looking for, I'd suggest either of Graham Kerr's first two Mini-Max  cookbooks before this one.  Kerr's recipes are at least executable and  often produce astonishing results.  If you insist on traditional French,  it's difficult to beat Richard Grausman's &quot;At Home with the French  Classics.&quot;	1999-03-19
US	52691468	R3PEFOHPXNDTIW	0894806335	563008665	At Home with the French Classics	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Comprehensive and accessible	Note to the beginning French chef:  begin here, not with Julia Child.  In &quot;At Home with the French Classics&quot; author Richard Grausman presents a tutorial on French cooking that is both unified and accessible.   It is unified in that the recipes all work together and make use of the  same types of ingredients. It is accessible in that both the recipes and  the techniques used to create them are described in an easy-to-follow  manner that takes all the mystery out of French cooking.  The book provides  such a solid foundation to an everyday cuisine, that it could quite easily  be the only cookbook you'd ever need. It will come as a relief to many  readers of French cooking texts that there aren't any 'eye of newt' recipes  - recipes that require you to search far and wide for some exotic  ingredient.   Grausman takes great pains to ensure that virtually  everything you will ever need is available at your local supermarket.  No  trips to the gourmet store are required (though some might be desired!).   For example, the brown stock essential for many red meat dishes is made  from easy-to-find beef bones rather than the more traditional and exotic  veal bones.   And if you don't have time to make stock, Grausman presents  canned equivalents along with the dilutions required for various name  brands. Along with the recipes, the margins are filled with notes  presenting a wealth of background information on tools and techniques.   Grausman discusses which techniques are necessary and which are outdated  holdovers from a different era.   He frequently presents modern refinements  to classic techniques that often make the recipes much easier to execute.   He also respects modern dietary sensibilities by reducing or eliminating  excessive butter, eggs, and cream whenever it is possible to do so without  sacrificing essential flavors.	1999-03-16
US	52691468	R1E5HKZBFERSVG	0471292753	830432950	Sauces: Classical and Contemporary Sauce Making, 2nd Edition	Books	5	119	121	N	N	Breathtakingly thorough	&quot;Sauces&quot; is a book for professionals and serious home chefs and is the first book I've seen that compares and contrasts both classical and modern sauce-making methods.  The author emphasizes the importance of  quality stocks in sauce-making and points out that a stock appropriate for  older, roux-based techniques is often inappropriate for more modern,  reduction techniques.  This explains why the stocks formulated in, say, the  French Culinary Institute's &quot;Salute to Healthy Cooking&quot; are so  much more concentrated than those in Julia Child's &quot;Mastering the Art  of French Cooking&quot; and other classic French cooking texts.  Peterson  also includes methods for pan-prepared (integral) sauces that offer the  professional and home cook alike a rapid way to prepare an impressive array  of fine foods.	1999-02-24
