US	52697971	R1HB7RWE99H5K4	1841956422	95543909	Adios, Hemingway	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Aged Hemingway in Pre-Revolution Cuba Sets Murder Mystery in Motion	Murder mysteries are generally not my cup of tea, but this strong, evocative novel by Leonardo Padura Fuentes is a wonderful find. An honestly rendered story set in the last days of the Batista era in Cuba, the relatively short book - just 240 pages - has a genuinely timeless quality simply because Fuentes does not try to recreate a country on the brink of revolution. Instead he re-imagines a larger-than-life literary figure, Ernest Hemingway, within the context of a complex murder case that my implicate the author.<br /><br />The protagonist is former policeman Mario Conde, who has become a private detective where there is ironically no privacy. There is a skeleton found entwined in the root structure of an ancient mango tree that is of course, on the writer's former property outside Havana. Hemingway's connections with Cuba are well known, so Fuentes takes full advantage of this historical reality within the narrative and adds some political intrigue showing that the skeleton is that of a vanished FBI agent. This dimension brings an almost-\\"Chinatown\\" like sense of duplicity and identity crisis that brings Conde to task by his own government.<br /><br />Fuentes dexterously interweaves chapters about the murder investigation with others narrated from Hemingway's perspective. He accurately mimics the legend's testosterone-heavy writing style just short of parody, as the details of the fateful night in October 1958 unfold. Throughout, Hemingway is portrayed as arrogant, alcoholic, and self-centered to the point of paranoia and driven by a need to violate all moral codes at first encounter. Implicating the master author in the murder provides fascinating albeit fictionalized insight into what led the author to suicide shortly thereafter.<br /><br />This is a sharp, thoughtful and sometimes funny thriller that maintains its suspense consistently but never at the expense of character development or its specific historical setting at least until the lyrical ending. John King has done a mostly admirable job in translating Fuentes' original Spanish text by ensuring the gently evocative and subtly ironic tone remains intact.dmirable job in translating Fuentes' original Spanish text by ensuring the gently evocative and subtly ironic tone remains intact.	2005-09-20
US	52697971	R1ZSARM0YUE655	0131439871	527607379	Capitalism at the Crossroads: The Unlimited Business Opportunities in Solving the World's Most Difficult Problems	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Sustaining Economic Growth in a World of Depleting Resources and Rampant Terrorism	Professor Stuart Hart's thoughtful treatise on sustainable and accessible economic growth provides a nice complement to his mentor's similarly themed study, C. K. Prahalad's \\"The Fortune at the Bottom of the Pyramid\\", which I read myself last month. Both tackle an intriguing premise, though I think Hart is more successful in developing more realistic solutions to the world's economic ills. From Cornell's Johnson School of Management, the author goes beyond standard globalization theories by recognizing the need for companies to move beyond transparency towards \\"radical transactiveness\\", i.e., a willingness to engage and learn from people who hold fundamentally different world views.<br /><br />He adeptly describes how the macroeconomic shift that brings capitalism and environmentalism together mirrors his personal and not uncommon shift from distrusting capitalism to respecting its power to leverage positive social change. The \\"greening\\" revolution of the 1980s demonstrated that companies could profit by employing more environmentally benign processes, such as recycling or waste reduction. But greening, we learn, continues to be a myopic approach, and it became apparent in the last decade that reducing the environmental impact of existing business models would prove insufficient to address the imminent environmental and social crises.<br /><br />Hart was among those who promoted moving \\"beyond greening\\" through \\"creative destruction\\" of environmentally and economically wasteful processes, replacing them with environmentally (and economically) beneficial processes. The primary business strategy that promises to arise from the ashes of creative destruction is the BOP (\\"Bottom of the Pyramid\\") approach of serving the needs of the poor in ways that are culturally appropriate, environmentally sustainable, and profitable. One key to leveraging the BOP market strategy is for multinational corporations to become more indigenous to the culture and people they support locally.<br /><br />The example of Nike's World Shoe is instructive. The US sports shoe company saw clearly that China's consumers presented an enormous potential market for trainers priced at $10-$15 a pair. The company, however, made a fundamental mistake in choosing to use the same factories, business partners and channels used for its $150 Air Maxx. The result is that the bargain shoe never took off. At the same time, the fact that Nike made the attempt is laudable. With careful scrutiny and ample evidence, the author questions whether many multinationals have the skills to discern the unexpressed needs of consumers in distant, developing economies. Moreover, even if they have recognized the opportunity, these same companies need to transform their business models to be readily available to deliver the right products and services in these markets at an appropriate price.<br /><br />Hart's penetrating book touches upon its most controversial aspect in applying his reasoning to the problem of terrorism. He considers terrorism a symptom of the more primary underlying problem of unsustainable development culminating of course, with 9/11 when terrorists used violence to attack the symbolic epicenter of capitalism, the World Trade Center. Since violence begets violence, Hart emboldens himself to ask we look to the terrorists' target, not their tactics, to solve the problem. Reforming capitalism to create sustainable global enterprise may hold the key to eradicating the underlying problems of poverty and exploitation that breed terrorism while simultaneously reversing the looming environmental crises. It's a bold premise but one we cannot afford to ignore. This is smart, indispensable reading.ally. <br /> <br />The example of Nike's World Shoe is instructive. The US sports shoe company saw clearly that China's consumers presented an enormous potential market for trainers priced at $10-$15 a pair. The company, however, made a fundamental mistake in choosing to use the same factories, business partners and channels used for its $150 Air Maxx. The result is that the bargain shoe never took off. At the same time, the fact that Nike made the attempt is laudable. With careful scrutiny and ample evidence, the author questions whether many multinationals have the skills to discern the unexpressed needs of consumers in distant, developing economies. Moreover, even if they have recognized the opportunity, these same companies need to transform their business models to be readily available to deliver the right products and services in these markets at an appropriate price. <br /> <br />Hart's penetrating book touches upon its most controversial aspect in applying his reasoning to the problem of terrorism. He considers terrorism a symptom of the more primary underlying problem of unsustainable development culminating of course, with 9/11 when terrorists used violence to attack the symbolic epicenter of capitalism, the World Trade Center. Since violence begets violence, Hart emboldens himself to ask we look to the terrorists' target, not their tactics, to solve the problem. Reforming capitalism to create sustainable global enterprise may hold the key to eradicating the underlying problems of poverty and exploitation that breed terrorism while simultaneously reversing the looming environmental crises. It's a bold premise but one we cannot afford to ignore. This is smart, indispensable reading.	2005-09-17
US	52697971	R1WF4GC5BK043U	1594200521	351679934	Finding George Orwell in Burma	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Orwellian Inspiration Found in a Police State Known as Burma	I was completely unaware of author George Orwell's inextricable ties with Burma until I read this fascinating history by \\"Emma Larkin\\", a pseudonym for a female and Caucasian journalist based in Bangkok, who speaks Burmese and has been visiting the country for the past decade. She decided to make it her destiny to retrace all the steps Orwell took as a young police officer in the British colonial service there and expand upon her research to claim his experience gave birth to a trilogy of classic books, the first being \\"Burmese Days\\" followed by his classics, \\"Animal Farm\\" and \\"1984\\". Orwell, then known as Eric Blair, spent five years in the country in the 1920s before trading his Billy club for a pen. It is Larkin's contention that Burma today may be the most Orwellian place on earth.<br /><br />What the author manages to do extremely well is balance her obsession with Orwell with a skillful and often moving depiction of a militarized country in turmoil run by the ironically dubbed State Peace and Development Council. Her ability to interweave the past with what she sees in contemporary Burma makes both accounts resonate more especially as she wanders looking for dissidents or people who knew Orwell. In penetrating detail, she finds remnants of the Orwell legacy - his old home, a street named for his mother's family, and people with dim memories of \\"Uncle Eric.\\" Within this context, the author paints evocative pictures of a vibrant culture - Rangoon, Mandalay and the Irrawaddy River, nighttime markets twinkling with fairy lights and old, somewhat dilapidated colonial mansions.<br /><br />However, she also captures the dampened spirit of individuals. In one encounter, she talks to an impassive old woman who suddenly breaks down and tells Larkin she has no hope for the future. In another, the author joins in with a little group of Anglo-Burmese spinsters who meet for tea to talk about the current state of affairs. One can immediately see a place where the principles and practices of \\"1984\\" are not the unrepentant fantasies of the upper-middle-class in the UK but simply dictatorial business as usual. Almost every other person is a spy for the government -- or could be. The author is dexterous in conveying this pervasive sense of paranoia amid an unfulfilled country rich in resources that should be as wealthy as its neighbor Thailand. In a powerful, eminently readable style, Larkin draws back the bamboo curtain just far enough for show us the brutal tyranny behind it. Superb reading.f \\"1984\\" are not the unrepentant fantasies of the upper-middle-class in the UK but simply dictatorial business as usual. Almost every other person is a spy for the government -- or could be. The author is dexterous in conveying this pervasive sense of paranoia amid an unfulfilled country rich in resources that should be as wealthy as its neighbor Thailand. In a powerful, eminently readable style, Larkin draws back the bamboo curtain just far enough for show us the brutal tyranny behind it. Superb reading.	2005-09-15
US	52697971	R3MCKSY98NCMBW	0131497863	190458620	Making Innovation Work: How to Manage It, Measure It, and Profit from It	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Measurable Innovation From the Ground Up as the Key for Future Success	Many CEOs speak of the need for innovation in their companies, but few know how to sustain such a nebulous culture especially during economic downturns. There is a commonly held perception that allowing such creativity necessitates a laissez-faire atmosphere, but co-authors Mark Epstein, Robert Shelton and Tony Davila offer the counterintuitive belief that a culture of innovation requires focused leadership, creative but viable metrics, an emphasis on business models rather than individual products and an incentive program that rewards the high-stakes innovation that is lacking within a company. It's a relatively daring concept but a vital one well researched and succinctly presented by this trio - Epstein and Davila are academics teaching at Stanford and Harvard and Shelton is a managing director of Navigant Consulting's Innovation practice.<br /><br />What becomes clear from this treatise is that innovation is a process that only starts with creativity, which includes idea generation, prototyping, experimentation and idea selection. But it needs to end with value capture, which encompasses project management, market planning, manufacturing, and commercial rollout. Often a company is good at either end of this spectrum - creativity or value capture - but not both. Epstein, Shelton and Davila assert that it is not an either-or proposition that companies need to pay attention to both to succeed in the long term.<br /><br />The co-authors credibly attribute one of the failures to sustaining innovation to what they call \\"rampant incrementalism\\". How they define this concept is the idea that people get so focused on incremental innovation that they cut off the bigger, more revolutionary ideas that could reap bigger rewards. The key is to have the right balance in the product portfolio - enough small projects to bring in steady revenue in order to support riskier projects that have the potential to produce the huge profits if they succeed. The fulcrum will be how much risk a company is willing to take and for someone to push the envelope to realize that optimal balance.<br /><br />The co-authors go as far as anointing a chief innovation officer, whose role is to stimulate the desired behavior companywide and eliminate constraints by integrating the technology and the business-model thinking. The new \\"CIO\\" can help the company focus on three particular aspects of the innovation rules:<br /><br />-- Networks that link the internal and external partners in the collaborative activities required to bring about innovation<br /><br />-- Balance in the processes that deliver creativity and capture value, from idea generation to commercialization<br /><br />-- Metrics that provide feedback and guidance to management<br /><br />The third element is the most intriguing component as it is essential in ensuring innovation thrives given that true innovators must be rewarded. Deciding what to measure is the most critical step. For example, many companies only measure whether projects are on time and on budget. But proper measurement has to occur at the company-wide level. The co-authors stress that heretofore nebulous factors need to be quantified, for example, measures around questions such as \\"Am I having the right type of ideas, selecting the right portfolio of products, and delivering on the innovations and the ideas that the organization is coming up with?\\"<br /><br />Many companies measure results in the traditional sense by using finance-based metrics. But Epstein et al state convincingly that non-financial measures are preferable because they give better real-time, granular evaluations of progress and likelihood of success. Creating the right innovation model and measuring its performance are crucial.<br /><br />The best advice in the book is reserved for the CEO, who has to take a good, hard look at the company and assess the innovation inputs, processes, outputs, and outcomes needed to meet business objectives. The CEO then needs to populate those four categories with measures that make sense for the company's innovation portfolio, at which point the creativity and value capture, culture, and overall business strategy will follow suit. Epstein, Shelton and Davila have convinced me that innovation has to start at that fundamental level to succeed.te those four categories with measures that make sense for the company's innovation portfolio, at which point the creativity and value capture, culture, and overall business strategy will follow suit. Epstein, Shelton and Davila have convinced me that innovation has to start at that fundamental level to succeed.	2005-09-03
US	52697971	R5ZOKQ0J9M7SK	0131855174	664032382	In the Line of Fire: How to Handle Tough Questions...When It Counts	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Martial Arts Techniques Behind Effective Q&A Smartly Rendered	For those like me who fear a case of flop sweat when facing an inquisitive audience after a speech, this book is a helpful primer mainly for the recognizable examples author Jerry Weissman brings up to illustrate his valid points. At a brisk pace with great observational detail, Weissman covers his methodology in a clear, concise manner that makes one realize that some specific guiding principles can greatly impact the effectiveness of a speaker.<br /><br />He uses legendary moments, mostly from televised debates, where the speaker did well and also those infamous situations where the speaker missed an opportunity to shine or even just to recover from an unexpected volley. The former is well illustrated by Bill Clinton's response during one of the 1992 Presidential debates to a woman who asked how the national recession affected him personally, and the latter by the senior Bush's fumbling response to the same inquiry. Weissman makes an intriguing and credible analogy between his methodology and techniques taken from the martial arts, where it becomes an almost spiritual exercise that evolves into an art. For example, he states that a speaker needs to set a time limit (or make an excuse to end the session after only a few questions); control the traffic (by raising one's own hand to ask for questions); and never personalize unless one knows every single name of that audience.<br /><br />Some pointers seem so sensible that they often escape our consciousness while we are preoccupied with how we are perceived - for example, making questioners feel like you heard them, resisting the constant urge to think of the answer while the questioner is still talking (Bush's fundamental mistake in the above example), and creating a buffer between the question and how one expresses an answer, again to avoid the personalization that will ultimately alienate the questioner. Moreover, the author shows how responding cleanly to violations of these principles can be effective counter moves as well. The use of the \\"topspin\\" is a perfect illustration, and none better exemplified than Lloyd Bentsen's classic topspin using Dan Quayle's own personal comparison with John Kennedy against him by stating the classic line...\\"Senator, I served with Jack Kennedy, I knew Jack Kennedy, Jack Kennedy was a friend of mine. Senator, you are no Jack Kennedy.\\"<br /><br />Make no mistake that Weissman is not writing a pro-Democrat political treatise - Reagan is praised understandably as a master of this art, just as much as Clinton. Weismann also points out Gore, both Bush Sr. and Jr. and even Quayle as men who improved their debating skills considerably after exposing earlier shortcomings. The author reserves his greatest praise in the last chapter to General Schwarzkopf in his handling of military tactics during the highly controversial Desert Storm conflict in 1991.<br /><br />Nonetheless, I have to admit what I enjoyed most was reliving the classic \\"Bob Newhart Show\\" episode where the meek psychologist, Dr. Hartley, was grilled mercilessly by a sadistic talk show host in sheep's clothing, the infamous Ruth Corley. The entire dialogue is reprinted here in hilarious detail, yet Weismann is smart enough to illustrate how exactly Hartley tied the noose around his own neck. A sharp, easy-to-read and entertaining book well worth studying.use of the \\"topspin\\" is a perfect illustration, and none better exemplified than Lloyd Bentsen's classic topspin using Dan Quayle's own personal comparison with John Kennedy against him by stating the classic line...\\"Senator, I served with Jack Kennedy, I knew Jack Kennedy, Jack Kennedy was a friend of mine. Senator, you are no Jack Kennedy.\\"    Make no mistake that Weissman is not writing a pro-Democrat political treatise - Reagan is praised understandably as a master of this art, just as much as Clinton. Weismann also points out Gore, both Bush Sr. and Jr. and even Quayle as men who improved their debating skills considerably after exposing earlier shortcomings. The author reserves his greatest praise in the last chapter to General Schwarzkopf in his handling of military tactics during the highly controversial Desert Storm conflict in 1991.    Nonetheless, I have to admit what I enjoyed most was reliving the classic \\"Bob Newhart Show\\" episode where the meek psychologist, Dr. Hartley, was grilled mercilessly by a sadistic talk show host in sheep's clothing, the infamous Ruth Corley. The entire dialogue is reprinted here in hilarious detail, yet Weismann is smart enough to illustrate how exactly Hartley tied the noose around his own neck. A sharp, easy-to-read and entertaining book well worth studying.	2005-09-03
US	52697971	R310P7WHL8UXGK	0375507833	365114687	The Lady and the Panda: The True Adventures of the First American Explorer to Bring Back China's Most Exotic Animal	Books	4	7	8	N	N	High Adventure, Forbidden Love and a Panda Thrown in for Good Measure	What a grand, old-fashioned story that author Vicki Constantine Croke tells of widowed socialite Ruth Harkness, who threw caution to the wind in 1936 and came back from the wilds of Tibet with a baby panda she dubbed Su-Lin. In what can be described as a hybrid of \\"Gorillas in the Mist\\" and \\"Lost Horizon\\", this would indeed make a great movie as Croke describes Harkness as quite the non-conformist, an environmentalist well ahead of her time. Her husband Bill set out to find a panda in the fall of 1934 only two weeks after they were married. He was gone for eighteen months and died in Shanghai. Harkness decides to carry on for her husband, teaming not with her husband's intrepid partner but with a 22-year old Chinese explorer named Quentin Young.<br /><br />In romance novel fashion, they fall in love despite their age difference amid daunting mountain passes and dense bamboo forests, but their interracial relationship causes a scandal. Together they find the elusive panda, and Harkness focuses all her attention in getting the panda out of the country despite virulent opposition from the Chinese government and jealousy from Smith who later claims that Harkness had stolen it from him. However, she persevered and ultimately transformed the way wild animals were perceived around the world by presenting Su-Lin to Chicago's Brookfield Zoo and subsequently bringing record attendance numbers there. Croke tells Harkness' story with real flourish, especially in her vital descriptions of Shanghai and the Chinese wilderness, but also with an abiding respect for her now-forgotten subject. This is probably best reflected in the way she compassionately shows Harkness' post-expedition problems, primarily her increasing alcoholism and an inability to fit back into American society once she fulfilled her destiny. With a touch of Barbara Cartland and a heavy Hemingway sensibility, Croke's book provides a penetrating portrait of a fascinating woman, and it is also rather simply - one fun read.fun read.	2005-08-16
US	52697971	R31P1QCSRFSS52	0802170064	701439961	Bitter Fruit: A Novel	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Searing Account of Racially Driven Conflicts Within a Post-Apartheid Family	Author Achmat Dangor has given me a penetrating look at post-apartheid South Africa that I could not possibly get from a newscast. His superb novel resonates deeply with the legacy of racism that lingers well after official policies have supposedly liberated all of the country's residents. Dangor is intimate with the subject of apartheid as he worked to defeat it there and then participated in the slow process of rebuilding after the African National Congress came to power. He divides the book into three parts - Memory, Confession and Retribution - which suggests what direction the book will go, but it's a surprising and involving journey every step of the way.<br /><br />The focal point of the novel is Silas Ali, a former political activist who has joined the new government as a lawyer working with the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. He lives with his wife, Lydia, a nurse, and their grown son, Mikey, in a township near Johannesburg. There is an inherent irony to their existence - Silas works with the government agency that grants amnesty to those who committed crimes under the old regime, but he and his family remain traumatized by the one hate crime that happened to them. It involves a twenty-year old rape and the sudden reappearance of the perpetrator, a white policeman named François du Boise. Much like Andre Dubus circles the dramatic wagons in his short story collection of revenge and retribution, \\"In the Bedroom\\", Dangor does a masterful job in building the tension within the family. Silas doesn't confront du Boise, so the much needed cathartic release is instead directed at the family, triggering a chain of events that leads to its disintegration.<br /><br />The sharply observed narrative carefully interweaves the differing perspectives of Silas and Lydia. Whereas Silas is deadened by his own stoic resignation of what occurred so long ago in the past, Lydia's suffering is far more intense as she irrevocably retreats into herself. The irony is that there is no truth and reconciliation at home as Silas continues to fulfill the concept at a national level. The unfinished business between Silas and Lydia is palpable and ultimately shattering in bearing the \\"bitter fruit\\" of the title. Caught in the middle literally is their psychologically conflicted son Mikey, who has internalized his parents' pain. As he relives the past through his mother's diary, he finds out revelations which make him feel more emotionally detached than he is but subsequently lead him to take matters into his own hands. Dangor provides such vivid detail in his account that it's hard to put down.e is no truth and reconciliation at home as Silas continues to fulfill the concept at a national level. The unfinished business between Silas and Lydia is palpable and ultimately shattering in bearing the \\"bitter fruit\\" of the title. Caught in the middle literally is their psychologically conflicted son Mikey, who has internalized his parents' pain. As he relives the past through his mother's diary, he finds out revelations which make him feel more emotionally detached than he is but subsequently lead him to take matters into his own hands. Dangor provides such vivid detail in his account that it's hard to put down.	2005-08-10
US	52697971	RSGFMY8Z0TN6R	1586482149	199148274	The Asian Mystique: Dragon Ladies, Geisha Girls, and Our Fantasies of the Exotic Orient	Books	4	32	34	N	N	Timely, Fascinating Though Somewhat Myopic Book on Asian Stereotypes	As the Asia editor for Business Week with fifteen years of experience on that continent, author Sheridan Prasso has a wellspring of observations to contribute to Western misconceptions about Asia, most of which are routinely based on fantasy, positive or negative. As a Japanese-American myself, I am quite familiar with many of them, as even transplanted Asians experience the same stereotyping. The impact can be felt on the diplomatic and business fronts, but the most common application of these myths is the area of personal relations, in particular, the \\"yellow fever\\" that some Western men have in idealizing Asian women as feminine, attentive and seductive.<br /><br />Prasso seizes on \\"Madame Butterfly\\" as the archetypal story of Western notions about the Asian mystique: a delicate Japanese woman with undying love for a dashing American naval officer. It is the loyal, self-sacrificing Asian beauty who is betrayed by a fickle Westerner. The fable continues to regenerate in various iterations such as \\"South Pacific\\" and \\"Miss Saigon\\". In fact, women are either passive and sexually obtainable geishas, or cruel, domineering \\"dragon ladies\\" like Tsu Hsi, the empress dowager of China, who was falsely rumored to be bedding men forty years her junior. Asian men don't get off any easier, as they have been branded vulnerable and emasculated when they aren't considered sneaky and inscrutable.<br /><br />Prasso divides her book into two halves. The first part analyzes the mistaken notions that Westerners have about Asia and how Asians often reciprocate by catering to such stereotypes. For instance, at a nightclub in Bangkok, Prasso surveys white male customers who are greeted with the available flesh of delicate Asian bodies and drawn by a cultural dynamic akin to a candy store. She astutely sees this experience of Asia as not only fantasy-inducing but also \\"remasculating\\", i.e., engendering feelings of masculinity or dominance which these Western men may have found diminished in their own cultures. The author delves quite a bit into Hollywood images of Asians. She recounts the tribulations of Margaret Cho, a caustic, gay-friendly Korean-American comedian who was told by ABC executives to act ''more Asian\\" on her short-lived sitcom.<br /><br />However, Prasso's more blanket statements about racist stereotyping seem rather myopic when it comes to Hollywood's historic treatment of Asians. By documenting Asian film roles through the decades, she says flatly that Hollywood has been the \\"incubator and firing kiln\\" for misreadings of Asia, but I feel she may be mistaking cause for effect as producers were more likely to capitalize on prejudices that already existed due to more pervasive influences like WWII.  She makes another shaky broadstroke in the political arena when she states that US officials have underestimated the military might of Asian leaders and nations, but I don't feel it's directed to Asia as much as any developing nation with a tendency toward nuclear armament as we have witnessed the ongoing bloody insurgency in Iraq.<br /><br />Perhaps because she lets her observations speak for themselves, the second half is more intriguing as it offers conversations with contemporary Asian women without mystique, whether they are housewives in Japan, bar girls in the Philippines, flight attendants on Cathay Pacific Airways or college students in China. This is where Prasso's interviewing skills shine as she gets women to talk about deeply personal issues. By the end of the book, the author reveals them as human beings, prone to the same frailties, resilience and misconceptions as people anywhere. One interesting subject is Mineko Iwasaki, who inspired Arthur Golden's wildly popular bestseller ''Memoirs of a Geisha.\\" She talks about her life as a geisha and contrary to the subservience one associates with that profession, she also talks about the lawsuit she filed against Golden for defamation of character.<br /><br />I am somewhat disappointed that Prasso separates herself so completely from her subjects, not expressing a sense of commonality with the women she interviews. Having lived in Cambodia, Hong Kong and Japan as a single white female, Prasso acknowledges being part of a group sometimes \\"guilty of racist sour-grapeism,\\" of feeling overlooked and betrayed by Western men who are chasing Asian women. Yet, you are not left with an understanding of why she is so intrigued by the Asian mystique herself. Regardless, this is a fascinating book well worth the time to read and absorb. Prasso achieves her primary goal and that is to make clear the destructive nature of stereotypes about Asia and how they shape social, cultural, and political perceptions that are ultimately detrimental.ompletely from her subjects, not expressing a sense of commonality with the women she interviews. Having lived in Cambodia, Hong Kong and Japan as a single white female, Prasso acknowledges being part of a group sometimes \\"guilty of racist sour-grapeism,\\" of feeling overlooked and betrayed by Western men who are chasing Asian women. Yet, you are not left with an understanding of why she is so intrigued by the Asian mystique herself. Regardless, this is a fascinating book well worth the time to read and absorb. Prasso achieves her primary goal and that is to make clear the destructive nature of stereotypes about Asia and how they shape social, cultural, and political perceptions that are ultimately detrimental.	2005-08-08
US	52697971	R37D4QB6MOW81X	0871138905	562386813	Mozart in the Jungle: Sex, Drugs, and Classical Music	Books	4	19	33	N	N	Personal Demons Make Way for Sharp Insights into the Classical Music Business	In an odd way, this is the flip side of soprano Ren&eacute;e Fleming's 2004 autobiography, \\"The Inner Voice: The Making of a Singer\\". Whereas Fleming takes the high road in showing the business side of the opera world, oboist-turned-journalist Blair Tindall goes the more explicit route providing lurid details of her sex life and drug abuse.  With its provocative title, her tell-all narrative also reflects a crisp, frank writing style, as she discusses with some bitterness her childhood in an intellectual home and life as a high school student at North Carolina School of the Arts in the mid-1970's. From there, Tindall describes her obsession with securing classical gigs once she arrives in New York, rushing from rehearsal to performance to tour and back again.<br /><br />This portion of the book takes on a bit of a Jacqueline Susann flavor as Tindall displays pinball machine dexterity between her unbridled ambition and her somewhat indiscriminate social behavior. She takes freelance jobs, frequently falling in love and lust as she hustles jobs and plays with such prestigious ensembles as the Orpheus Chamber Orchestra and the St. Luke's Orchestra. Tindall relays a lot of scenes that point out the irony of her life versus her art, for example, when she describes a visit to a seedy apartment where students are snorting cocaine while listening to Wagner's Ring Cycle. Gradually, she realizes that the big break is not coming her way. In fact, by 1990, she compromises her own artistic aspirations by playing more stable jobs in the orchestra pit of long-running Broadway musicals like \\"Phantom of the Opera\\" and \\"Les Miserables\\". For such a personally revealing book, I would have appreciated a greater acknowledgement from Tindall on what her own  limitations were as a musician. For instance, she discusses almost too objectively how she played a wrong note three times during an audition - even after a member of the audition committee suggested she look hard at the music. It is at these moments that I would have expected a greater sense of self-indignation over the audition, as Fleming does in her book as she discusses her approach to discipline and technique in singing.<br /><br />By 1999, deeply unhappy about her career, she leaves New York to study journalism at Stanford University. This is where Tindall's book becomes truly revelatory for a greater audience discussing the  many real ills in the classical music business. The resulting insights are fascinating. For example, her discourse on arts funding is engrossing, and people who were previously just names on buildings or CD covers become characters. Tindall details music's place in American lives with great respect and a clear understanding of the world outside the classical bubble. On a more personal level, many of her shrewdest observations revolve around the balance of power in the one-on-one relationships fundamental to learning and working in music. At the mercy of teachers, freelance musicians rely heavily on personal connections for jobs and recommendations. Consequently, Tindall provides a refreshing look at a segment of the arts world that has been historically beyond reproach. The world of classical music has heretofore been seen from the outside as a rarefied temple of self-importance, but the reality varies little from other businesses. She points out how the more renowned conductors are pulling down sizable six-figure salaries, as well as the huge pay disparities between management and the rank-and-file talent. If you can get past the cathartic accounts of her personal hedonism, you can get a glimpse into the classical music business like no other.s that I would have expected a greater sense of self-indignation over the audition, as Fleming does in her book as she discusses her approach to discipline and technique in singing.    By 1999, deeply unhappy about her career, she leaves New York to study journalism at Stanford University. This is where Tindall's book becomes truly revelatory for a greater audience discussing the  many real ills in the classical music business. The resulting insights are fascinating. For example, her discourse on arts funding is engrossing, and people who were previously just names on buildings or CD covers become characters. Tindall details music's place in American lives with great respect and a clear understanding of the world outside the classical bubble. On a more personal level, many of her shrewdest observations revolve around the balance of power in the one-on-one relationships fundamental to learning and working in music. At the mercy of teachers, freelance musicians rely heavily on personal connections for jobs and recommendations. Consequently, Tindall provides a refreshing look at a segment of the arts world that has been historically beyond reproach. The world of classical music has heretofore been seen from the outside as a rarefied temple of self-importance, but the reality varies little from other businesses. She points out how the more renowned conductors are pulling down sizable six-figure salaries, as well as the huge pay disparities between management and the rank-and-file talent. If you can get past the cathartic accounts of her personal hedonism, you can get a glimpse into the classical music business like no other.	2005-08-03
US	52697971	R1W8DUZAMNCRPM	013145501X	782520142	The Secrets of Economic Indicators: Hidden Clues to Future Economic Trends and Investment Opportunities	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Economic Indicators Make for Surprisingly Compelling Reading	Who would have thought there could be an entertaining book on economic indicators? As the Director of The Economic Outlook Group, a renowned consulting firm that evaluates global economic trends and risks, Bernard Baumohl is well qualified to write a tome about economic indicators no matter how dry the subject matter may seem to be. Luckily for us, he has instead written an excellent primer for understanding them and showing how to apply them to predicting future stock and bond market activity, as well as how the currency market will respond. Baumohl is an informative writer not caught up in details or equations that would alienate all but the most academic. With an easy-to-read writing style, he focuses on the indicators which have the greatest influence in the markets, selectively analyzing the ones that do the best job in predicting where the economy is heading. Moreover, he seeks out the indicators where the data are found most easily and in turn, how we can best interpret them. The author smartly presents his findings in an encyclopedic fashion to provide a run-down on 47 U.S. economic indicators, plus a few essential international indicators.<br /><br />The book starts with \\"the lock-up,\\" which he describes as the U.S. government's process to assure simultaneous availability to everyone of economic data when they are released. Such are the safeguards necessary to avoid leaks which would give anyone advance information that could be used improperly. The next section highlights a pivotal chart that takes the components of real gross domestic product - consumption, investment, inventory change, government spending, and net exports - and signs of price pressures, consequently matching each segment up with the key economic indicators for that segment. Subsequent tables list the economic indicators most sensitive to stocks, bonds, and the dollar, as well as the top ten international economic indicators. Suddenly, heretofore foreboding statistics become clear. Baumohl also provides valuable insight into the unpredictable housing market - with several chapters devoted to how to interpret the real estate-related indicators. Quite thorough in his treatment, he also provides a helpful guide to the economic jargon encountered in using the data, such as annual rates, real and nominal dollars, moving averages, revisions and benchmarks, and seasonal adjustments. Perhaps to the chagrin of registered investment advisors, he explains several important indicators that can be used for privately forecasting economic growth ignored by the mainstream press and goes as far as explaining how you can easily find these updated indicators (or compute them yourself) in most cases free of charge.<br /><br />With this background, the book then turns to a description of individual economic indicators. Each entry for the economic indicators listed explains not only the what, why and how behind it but also what impact it can have on stocks, bonds and the dollar. Baumohl goes into the market sensitivity of each indicator (very high, high, medium, low), its availability on the Internet, release time, frequency, source, and revisions.  I also find it interesting how he can lucidly explain how each indicator is computed. The author also goes into a relatively cursory discussion of international economic indicators and why they are important. In the same format as that provided for U.S. indicators, he also lists ten most important international indicators that include data for Germany, France, the Euro zone, the OECD, China, and Brazil. The last sections discuss the best Web sites for U.S and international economic indicators. This is a smart, informative read for anyone curious about the intricacies behind economic forecasting and the effect it has on our lives.ohl also provides valuable insight into the unpredictable housing market - with several chapters devoted to how to interpret the real estate-related indicators. Quite thorough in his treatment, he also provides a helpful guide to the economic jargon encountered in using the data, such as annual rates, real and nominal dollars, moving averages, revisions and benchmarks, and seasonal adjustments. Perhaps to the chagrin of registered investment advisors, he explains several important indicators that can be used for privately forecasting economic growth ignored by the mainstream press and goes as far as explaining how you can easily find these updated indicators (or compute them yourself) in most cases free of charge. <br /> <br />With this background, the book then turns to a description of individual economic indicators. Each entry for the economic indicators listed explains not only the what, why and how behind it but also what impact it can have on stocks, bonds and the dollar. Baumohl goes into the market sensitivity of each indicator (very high, high, medium, low), its availability on the Internet, release time, frequency, source, and revisions.  I also find it interesting how he can lucidly explain how each indicator is computed. The author also goes into a relatively cursory discussion of international economic indicators and why they are important. In the same format as that provided for U.S. indicators, he also lists ten most important international indicators that include data for Germany, France, the Euro zone, the OECD, China, and Brazil. The last sections discuss the best Web sites for U.S and international economic indicators. This is a smart, informative read for anyone curious about the intricacies behind economic forecasting and the effect it has on our lives.	2005-08-01
US	52697971	R1NZFOTDMQOLX6	0312317611	965018086	Praying for Gil Hodges: A Memoir of the 1955 World Series and One Family's Love of the Brooklyn Dodgers	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Dem Lovely Bums - A Loving, Nostalgic Remembrance	There's something classically mythic about baseball, and probably no team has been mythologized as much as the Brooklyn Dodgers, a team that reached its pinnacle with its only World Series win in 1955 and its ebb when the franchise moved to Los Angeles two years later. Longtime Boston Globe reporter Thomas Oliphant has written a nostalgic memoir along the lines of one of David Halberstam's baseball remembrances, \\"Summer of `49\\" about the Yankees. He focuses on the defining seventh game of the 1955 World Series with meticulous conviction and of course, his favorite player, Gil Hodges, for good reason. Originally signed by the Brooklyn Dodgers as a third baseman, Hodges held the National League record for grand slams for several years (14), and he is a member of the exclusive club of players that have hit four home runs in a single game. With 1,001, he also had more RBIs during the 1950's than any other player, and he was an eight-time All-Star. Statistics like these are trivial to many but pure gold to any true fan.<br /><br />Consequently there is no more fitting legend than Hodges for Oliphant to praise with such worshipful awe. At the same time, the author touches upon the issue of race, as baseball was still in the throes of Jackie Robinson's breakthrough, and describes how much the Dodgers meant to their African-American fans. The book is a great read for anyone who wants to understand the degree of passion behind the \\"Boys of Summer\\" at Ebbets Field, as Oliphant traces his childhood within the context of the team's winning season. He goes into vivid detail about the borough and its inhabitants and why the team became so important to them even when owner Walter O'Malley left Kings County for the greener pastures of LA. Oliphant makes the book resonate by personalizing the role of baseball in the American fabric without getting didactic with obscure statistics. This is ideal summer reading even for those with a passing interest in the game.	2005-07-29
US	52697971	R27Z7947JYYIJT	1594480001	659516630	The Kite Runner	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Powerfully Personal Journey Amid Political Upheavals in Afghanistan	Just as Iranian-American author Azar Nafisi does with her memoir of life in war-torn Iran, \\"Reading Lolita in Tehran\\", Afghan-American author Khaled Hosseini paints a vivid portrait of his native country covering the period from before the 1979 Soviet invasion until the reconstruction following the fall of the odious Taliban. But unlike non-fiction and the inherent accountability of accuracy in reportage, the novel form frees Hosseini to use the volatile political landscape as a backdrop for the local everyday survival of those caught up in horrendous upheavals and the destruction of their country, livelihoods and families.<br /><br />The protagonist is a novelist named Amir, who receives a fateful telephone call from a man he hasn't seen in decades, which prompts him to board a plane to the Middle East. Before he leaves American soil, Amir recounts his childhood in Kabul during the 1960s, leading inevitably to the horrific crime he witnesses. Hosseini's absorbing evocation of Kabul lifts the story above the typical coming-of-age story into something quite moving and transcendent. The political events weave seamlessly throughout the narrative so that we get an idea of the effects wrought by historical milestones such as the Russian invasion, the Mujaheddin and the Taliban. Hosseini's most potent strength as a writer is that he is capable of writing very moving prose free of unnecessary sentiment, particularly about people struggling to make a life despite gross adversity. The book is particularly compelling in the middle portion when Amir and his father make an arduous and surprisingly suspenseful escape from Kabul into Pakistan in the midst of the Russian invasion. They immigrate to America, settling finally in San Francisco. In sharply rendered detail, Hosseini creates a great deal of tension and emotion from their adjustment to their new environment and its dramatically different culture, and as a result, the relationship between father and son grows increasingly dynamic and intricate.<br /><br />The novel derives its name from the Afghan custom of doing battle with kites. The kite flying contests were a big annual event for Amir when he was a child, and there is one in particular which forms the turning point of the novel. Set in 1975 when Amir is thirteen, the episode is told in thrilling detail which not only advances the story but provides color and texture to the images one forms of the characters and the world in which they live. Hosseini is not afraid to paint a picture of Amir as deeply flawed and lacking in the fundamental courage that marked his father. At the same time, the author makes Amir empathetic in a truly unforced manner. Although the book can sometimes get melodramatic, it provides an extraordinary perspective on the struggles of a country that has been long ignored and misunderstood. Strongly recommended.ly dynamic and intricate. <br /> <br />The novel derives its name from the Afghan custom of doing battle with kites. The kite flying contests were a big annual event for Amir when he was a child, and there is one in particular which forms the turning point of the novel. Set in 1975 when Amir is thirteen, the episode is told in thrilling detail which not only advances the story but provides color and texture to the images one forms of the characters and the world in which they live. Hosseini is not afraid to paint a picture of Amir as deeply flawed and lacking in the fundamental courage that marked his father. At the same time, the author makes Amir empathetic in a truly unforced manner. Although the book can sometimes get melodramatic, it provides an extraordinary perspective on the struggles of a country that has been long ignored and misunderstood. Strongly recommended.	2005-07-25
US	52697971	R3DOGQ2FDMNVKU	0131454390	599268653	Why Great Leaders Don't Take Yes for an Answer: Managing for Conflict and Consensus	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Extremely Sharp Look Into Conflict as the Basis of  Effective Leadership	The value placed on conformity within companies has been the traditional norm, though it is almost subliminally stated in passive language that emphasizes adhering to a certain set of corporate values. Take a look at a film like Billy Wilder's \\"The Apartment\\" if you want historical validation of this perspective or even this year's piercing documentary, \\"Enron: The Smartest Guys in the Room\\", if you want a more current example. In direct contrast and in a most refreshing manner, Michael A. Roberto, a Harvard Business School professor, describes the toll on organizations when leaders fail to create an atmosphere that invites dissent. In compelling examples ranging from the Cuban missile crisis to the Columbia space shuttle tragedy, he clearly outlines concrete steps that managers at all levels can take to spark positive conflict and make sure that all views get a fair hearing. Moreover, Roberto outlines a fair and open process for making more effective decisions.<br /><br />It is not too surprising how pervasive a \\"no\\" organization exists in today's economy given the conservative measures taken by leadership to maintain their power base and wealth. Such companies do not employ dissenting voices as a means of encouraging divergent thinking. Instead, they enable those who disagree with a proposal to shut off dialogue and discourage interesting avenues of inquiry. Such cultures do not provide an incentive for dissenters to defend their views with data and logic or even more importantly, explain how their objections are consistent with organization-wide goals as opposed to the interests of their more immediate divisions. As Enron proved, a culture of \\"no\\" enables those with the most power or the loudest voice to impose their will. Roberto points out that the first barrier leaders need to recognize is that expressing dissent can be very difficult and uncomfortable for lower-level managers and employees. Consequently, rather than waiting for dissent to come to them, leaders need to actively seek it out in their organizations. Searching for constructive dissidents remains at odds with the existence of passive leadership since by its nature, it constitutes a substantial barrier to candid dialogue and debate within organizations.<br /><br />Analysis paralysis can fossilize a company more focused on improving quarterly results. Nearly all decisions made by an organization are analyzed by whether they worked or not, which redirects the focus to one of trying to choose the \\"right outcome\\".  As an alternative, Roberto focuses on how to form the right environment to allow good decisions to be made.  For example, the role of Morton Thiokol in the Columbia space shuttle accident shows how the environment surrounding key decisions led to outcomes that varied greatly in their effectiveness.  Roberto advocates a consensus style of decision making where all issues are openly discussed and debated without worry of political ramifications. As most of us know who have struggled in a corporate environment, implementation of such practices can be onerous. Whether through either forceful personality or complete abdication of responsibility, too many important decisions are hamstrung by lack of input due to fear or intimidation.<br /><br />Roberto's techniques really show how a leader can learn to structure an organization to get the type of free-flowing information exchange that ensures all information is available prior to a choice being made. Leaders can and should take concrete steps to build conflict into their decision-making processes. Roberto has some excellent tips for moving in this direction, for example, asking a set of managers to role-play the firm's competitors in a series of meetings so as to surface and test a set of core strategic assumptions. Another good one is assigning someone to play the devil's advocate so as to ensure that a thorough critique and risk assessment of a proposal has been conducted before moving forward. By inducingvigorous and open debate, leaders avoid the guessing game of trying to discern whether or not people truly agree with a choice that has been made.<br /><br />The author also realizes and accurately points out that there are different types of leadership techniques that have to be employed at different times with various groups. It's a fine line for leaders to gauge their participation effectively but one in which the resulting decisions will be of a much higher quality and outcome. When leaders are successful in establishing a climate of openness, and they make constructive conflict a habit in the organization, such behaviors will need to be sustained over time. Conflict becomes a fundamental element of a firm's strategic planning process, and the process continues to retain the same atmosphere of vigorous debate. Roberto illuminates how the most effective leaders have to teach the attributes of good process, model those attributes, and coach future leaders in their implementation., leaders avoid the guessing game of trying to discern whether or not people truly agree with a choice that has been made.    The author also realizes and accurately points out that there are different types of leadership techniques that have to be employed at different times with various groups. It's a fine line for leaders to gauge their participation effectively but one in which the resulting decisions will be of a much higher quality and outcome. When leaders are successful in establishing a climate of openness, and they make constructive conflict a habit in the organization, such behaviors will need to be sustained over time. Conflict becomes a fundamental element of a firm's strategic planning process, and the process continues to retain the same atmosphere of vigorous debate. Roberto illuminates how the most effective leaders have to teach the attributes of good process, model those attributes, and coach future leaders in their implementation.	2005-07-25
US	52697971	RH59IYH8YP0CJ	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	4	2	7	N	N	A Darker Shade of Pale Pervades Admirable Epic-Length Addition	Similar to the anticipation that greeted \\"The Empire Strikes Back\\" or \\"The Two Towers\\", it seems unenviable to write a book that really provides the set-up for the much-awaited finale of the Harry Potter series. There is a no-win aspect to a penultimate contribution to a stratospherically popular series because you know much of the book will be devoted to whetting your appetite for the conclusion. At the same time, J.K. Rowling is savvy enough to write an epic-length story that stands on its own and exhibits her considerable narrative powers. Thankfully, she limits all the catching up to the first chapter and then goes on flights of fancy that revolve quite a bit around potions and liquids - a dark lake, the liquid mists of memories in Dumbledore's Pensieve and of course, blood and poisons. But she still spends plenty of time showing how Harry and his friends have grown up since the last book.<br /><br />Personally, I like the extensive back-story behind the evil Lord Voldemort and his poor mother, even though it takes about 200 pages before Harry meets the Half-Blood Prince of the title. The wait is worth it, as Rowling fully embodies her magical world like no other except Tolkien. This time, she brings a darker tone to the proceedings, not surprising as the previous books have given inklings of this trend for some time. Where Rowling succeeds is not letting the atmosphere dampen the action. Much of the plot has to do with Harry's efforts in convincing Ron and Hermione, as well as the adult wizards, that Harry's primary nemesis Draco Malfoy and Professor Snape, Hogwarts' Potions Master and Head of Slytherin house, are not what they appear. Sharing any more than that would be criminal to die-hard fans of the series. It's enough to say that a truly spectacular conclusion awaits you at the end and of course, inevitable tragedy, and more importantly, a dramatically effective transitional point to the final book. Enjoy.	2005-07-17
US	52697971	R2DCGV3XZA0SJS	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	5	17	22	N	N	Fluent Explanations on Societal Differences Makes for Fascinating Reading	Having read his impressive treatise on societal self-preservation, \\"Collapse: How Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed\\", I was immediately drawn to Jared Diamond's earlier book, which has an even more ambitious scope in excavating the roots of civilization and how distinct priorities have defined the differences in societies. Beginning with a survey of human pre-history, covering the spread of humans around the world circa 11,000 B.C., he tries to ascertain which populations would develop dominant high-tech societies and which would continue at a stone-age level indefinitely. It's a fascinating premise that the UCLA evolutionary biologist and molecular physiologist carries off with credibility and aplomb. He effortlessly synthesizes history, archaeology, agriculture, linguistics, medicine and many other fields into an overall thesis that seems persuasive at its core, even if there are several observations that would be difficult to evaluate as completely true.<br /><br />The book's title reflects the three primary factors Diamond identifies as the key differentiators: the military technology to dominate one's neighbors, the infectious diseases that weaken societies not already exposed to them, and the industrial and political technology in areas that include literacy, economic and political structures, and manufacturing. Each chapter would make an intriguing book on its own. In one section, Diamond convincingly argues why domestication spreads more easily in areas with an east-west axis, where latitude remains the same, than in areas such as the Americas where a north-south axis requires domesticated species to adjust to different lengths of day and drastic climate changes. As an example, he states that corn from Mexico requires a longer growing season than the climate of Minnesota provides, and llamas did poorly in the Central American jungles and thus never reached more hospitable regions in North America. In contrast, goats were domesticated early in the Middle East and spread quickly from Spain to China.<br /><br />I was particularly drawn to his theories on social technology, in which Diamond suggests that denser populations required more complex methods of conflict resolution and more efficient means to distribute food. Better distribution and reduced conflict subsequently supported the elite class, who could then develop writing, accounting, and military strategies, consequently passing the learning of one generation efficiently to the next. Probably Diamond's most compelling thinking is focused on innovation, i.e., on how new technologies are put to new uses in a domino fashion. Examples he cites include the fact that the alphabet was streamlined from hieroglyphs and how Gutenberg's printing press was adapted from presses used to make wine. He shows how innovations can be spread through trade, copied by inventive observers, or acquired by conquest. For example, Chinese papermaking came to the Islamic world when an Arab army defeated a Chinese army at the battle of Talas River in 751 A.D. and found several papermakers among the prisoners of war. Obscure historical facts suddenly expose themselves as part of a larger social fabric.<br /><br />What I find most interesting is how Diamond shows how technology did not provide a global sense of manifest destiny, that in fact technology is sometimes abandoned or rejected by certain societies. Japan rejected firearms because they violated the samurai code.  Polynesian settlers lost the ability to make pottery as they scattered across the Pacific islands. Many factors contributed to this loss, including lack of materials on many islands and reduced population densities that presumably made it difficult to train specialized workers. Between this book and \\"Collapse\\", it's impressive how Diamond moves confidently among so many disciplines. However, he does shortchange religion perhaps because the topic does not interest him. He simply objectifies religion as a justification for conquest and a method of inspiring personal sacrifice for the collective good. I just feel he underestimates the impact. But amazingly, this omission is trivial given the breadth of what Diamond presents here as he presents the ultimate differences in levels of development between societies. In his view, the reasons trace all the way back to how the world was built. Strongly recommended.spiring personal sacrifice for the collective good. I just feel he underestimates the impact. But amazingly, this omission is trivial given the breadth of what Diamond presents here as he presents the ultimate differences in levels of development between societies. In his view, the reasons trace all the way back to how the world was built. Strongly recommended.	2005-07-17
US	52697971	R21GU3KT520RTE	1400053684	336770599	Countdown to Crisis: The Coming Nuclear Showdown with Iran	Books	5	17	24	N	N	Alarming and Indispensable Look at Iran's Growing Nuclear Arsenal	For those who think the ambush of Osama bin Laden is imminent, this searing book will provide a deflating look at his speculated whereabouts and how he and the top al-Qaeda operatives have been sheltered by the Iranian government. Author Kenneth R. Timmerman relies on a top defector who held a top position in Iranian intelligence. Of course, the CIA denounces the informant in light of the fact that he warned them of the 9/11 attacks two months in advance. There are some shocking revelations but not so shocking when one considers how poorly informed the CIA has been and what a burgeoning power Iran is becoming in the Middle East. Just how the Bush administration deals with Iran will be a real test of the global leadership to which the U.S. aspires and needs to define if there is going to be any inroads in thwarting the ongoing terrorist threat. Timmerman conducted extensive face-to-face debriefings with the defector in Europe and at an undisclosed location in the Middle East, and in return, the defector provided documents and other material evidence for the assertions in the book.<br /><br />Among other eye-openers, he shares that Osama bin Laden met with top Iranian leaders in a regime safe-house in northern Iran in late 2004 to discuss future terror attacks against the United States and its allies. The author states that the Iranian regime is also sheltering other top al-Qaeda leaders, including bin Laden's deputy Ayman al-Zawahri and his top military planner, Saif al-Adil. Moreover, a succession plan is in place with bin Laden's eldest son, Saad bin Laden, living in Iran since May 2001, preparing himself as the \\"future leader\\" of al-Qaeda in the event his father was killed during U.S. retaliatory attacks for the 9/11 attack.  But the most devastating news - and the subject which Timmerman painstakingly uncovers here - comes directly from Iran, whose build-up of nuclear weaponry increasingly threatens the US and Israel. This is an alarming book and an indispensable one if Timmerman has all his facts straight. And judging from other investigative news reports, he eerily does. This book makes a strong companion volume to Kenneth Pollack's \\"The Persian Puzzle: The Conflict Between Iran and America\\" released last year.Timmerman has all his facts straight. And judging from other investigative news reports, he eerily does. This book makes a strong companion volume to Kenneth Pollack's \\"The Persian Puzzle: The Conflict Between Iran and America\\" released last year.	2005-07-11
US	52697971	RKOYYPD7OYQPT	1858287499	675163558	The Rough Guide to Opera (3rd Edition)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Opera Not Quite for Dummies...Good Guide Covers the Bases	There is no way one can satisfy the whole of opera aficionados with a single volume, but as a primer, Matthew Boyden has done a solid job of compiling the most critical information about the history of opera. I have been familiar with the Rough Guide series for years as I have purchased their country guides but never tried any of their music guides. What I discovered is the same easy-to-read layout and slick, often informative writing as their travel series. Chronologically ordered, the hefty but digestible volume book is divided into eight chapters covering 132 composers, a few quite obscure at least to me. Each chapter introduces a musical style, and each composer has been slotted into his artistic and historical milieu. Each composer's major works are described in sometimes painstaking detail, including dates of composition and premiere, the name of the librettist and a plot synopsis. The inevitable drawback is that some important works have been omitted rather arbitrarily, a fact that comes to light in the sections on Handel and Vivaldi. At the same time, the section on operas since WWII is surprisingly robust and quite informed.<br /><br />The net result is not as contrived as it could be and in fact, given the gargantuan scope of the subject, the book makes it easier to recognize the historical significance of the music. Boyden includes his recommended recordings of each of the works described, usually 2-3 per entry, but again, there is no way he can provide an exhaustive list to make everyone happy. To his credit, he does seem to recognize the most honored commercial recordings, and the third edition (published in August 2002) provides some more up-to-date references such as the 2000 Christopher Hogwood production of Handel's \\"Rinaldo\\". There is a brief and useful glossary of opera terms (helpful when you read the more comprehensive opera reviews elsewhere), a directory of opera houses and thumbnail biography entries for a select group of stellar singers and conductors, historical and contemporary. This is quite a useful reference guide for anyone interested in understanding opera at a basic to intermediate level without the condescending tone provided by other volumes out in the market.d conductors, historical and contemporary. This is quite a useful reference guide for anyone interested in understanding opera at a basic to intermediate level without the condescending tone provided by other volumes out in the market.	2005-07-11
US	52697971	R3FUE5T6R93Y0P	0131467506	389837219	The Fortune at the Bottom of the Pyramid: Eradicating Poverty Through Profits	Books	4	4	4	N	N	One Step at a Time Approach in Connecting Profitability with the Poor	The power of University of Michigan Professor C.K. Prahalad's fine treatise lies in the wealth of valid case studies he provides to prove his point that poverty can be overcome through corporate profitability, a seemingly ironic cause-and-effect that he argues with conviction. Since 1997, with the exception of a brief and unsuccessful stint within the dot com bubble, he has been evolving his ideas about how firms should focus on the bottom of the pyramid, which he euphemistically calls the BOP versus the wealthy at the TOP. He wholeheartedly believes there can be a win-win relationship between business and the poor, and he's done his homework to support his claim. According to his statistics, there are 4-5 billion people living on under $2 a day, which in aggregate, represents an economic opportunity he values globally at $13 trillion a year. The win for the poor seems obvious, being empowered by choice and being freed from having to pay a \\"poverty penalty\\", a practice that appears widespread in certain developing countries like India. There, the poor pay a premium on everything from rice to credit-often five to 25 times what the rich pay for the same services. He argues that driving down these premiums can make serving the BOP more profitable than serving the top, but the challenges inherent in implementing BOP economics are daunting.<br /><br />Prahalad divides his book into three main sections. The first spells out his BOP theories; the second provides twelve case studies; and the third presents specifics from these case studies via video clips contained on an accompanying compact disc. This last section is particularly valuable in recording how the poor themselves feel about the impact of BOP economics. Otherwise, Prahalad can sound somewhat pedantic in expressing his abstract thinking, even though he makes a lot of valid points along the way. For instance, he strongly feels the traditional top-down thinking on aid by management in both public and private sectors is vehemently wrong-headed because there is an inevitable attitude of charitable giving. The poor are seen as victims who need help, not as people who can be part of the solution, so their help often creates an unwarranted dependency. Prahalad also does not have much confidence in corporate social responsibility (CSR) programs of many corporations, which he views as more a public relations ploy. Philanthropy, he asserts, cannot be at the root of helping to eradiate poverty, and the BOP markets must become integral to the success of the firm in order to command senior management attention and sustained resource allocation.<br /><br />Simple applications of TOP marketing and distributing strategies will not work, so Prahalad outlines new tactics to reach the BOP through his case studies. There will be a more diverse set of stakeholders involved - governments, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and BOP consumers themselves. Engaging the BOP consumers directly will be essential by means of the products produced there. The accompanying CD is a huge plus here, as it effectively shows the individual cases that fortify Prahalad's argument. There is a three to four-minute video clip of each study, each one a mini-documentary filmed in various locations in India, Peru, Mexico, Brazil and Venezuela.  Once I digested all the facts presented, I still feel Prahalad does not quite recognize the full extent of involvement it will take corporate leaders to buck current traditions to establish the right positioning and right fulcrum toward change. Moreover, there is a need to allocate resources to more fully-developed solutions toward the attendant environmental problems that BOP economics will inevitably create. Realistically, it will take the optimal mix of BOP and TOP to eradicate poverty through profit and that the real benefit is in understanding fruition is actually superior to profit. However, Prahalad raises strong points here well worth continued investment, and I lookforward to more of this thinking in the next chapter of Prahalad's studies.of this thinking in the next chapter of Prahalad's studies.	2005-07-06
US	52697971	R32H02LHX1DKC8	0131425021	287942128	The Power of Impossible Thinking: Transform the Business of Your Life and the Life of Your Business	Books	4	5	5	N	N	How Others' Own Perceptions Pre-Determined Their Success	An effective synthesis of the Steven Covey's self-help euphemisms and Malcolm Gladwell's real-world illustrations of psychological insights, this is a smartly written, often fascinating book that delves into the power and limits of mental models in order to transform one's world. It is not so much valuable as a treatise for defining one's own personal success as it is of illustrating how key individuals recognized \\"strategic inflection points\\" to change the way the rest of us think and consequently yield a handsome profit from building unprecedented business models to support their individualism. There are many examples cited, predictable ones actually -  Howard Schultz's reinvention of coffee consumerism with the creation of Starbucks, Oprah Winfrey's transformation of the talk show, Apple Computer's evolutionary push toward the iPod and away from the traditional CD. But chronicling the reasons behind their success makes for interesting reading. What becomes clear is that it's not about the product but about the way people make sense of the way they do things in their lives. The product as it exists now is almost incidental. This inversion on common thought is what makes this book particularly insightful.<br /><br />Co-authors Yoram (Jerry) Wind and Colin Crook of the Wharton School define their concept of \\"impossible thinking\\" as a four-step transformation initiative:<br /><br />(1) Becoming much more explicitly aware of why we see the world the way we do and what that implies in terms of opportunities and threats.<br />(2) Testing the relevance and compatibility of our current mental models against the changing environment.<br />(3) Overcoming change inhibitors by reshaping the infrastructure that supports the old models and changing the thinking of others.<br />(4) Generating and acting upon new models by experimenting, using intuition and continuing to assess and strengthen our models.<br /><br />It all sounds easy in theory, but Wind and Crook are quick to recognize that we are living in a world of information overload and that isolating our perceptions can be daunting when competition for our attention can overwhelm us. One of the ways they feel we can deal with this is through a process of zooming in and zooming out. If one can alternate your focus between the detail and a broader view, one can see the detail and the context, the separation of the forest from the trees. By zooming in and out, there is an opportunity to benefit from the information that is out there but also put it into a broader context. It's a matter of using the information to test our own hypotheses.<br /><br />The book's most intriguing sections have to do with the dot-com bubble and bust. The co-authors astutely point out that many companies (Amazon and Schwab among them) transformed themselves in fundamental ways by harnessing the power of the Internet. On the other hand, the companies that got into the worst trouble during the bust were the ones that saw this as an either/or proposition. First, they were resistant to the Internet being a key part of their business model, and upon seeing the success of others and recognizing the pressures of their customer base all too late, they jumped in completely and often disastrously. The attitude of conducting small experiments and creating a portfolio of models can help to minimize the risks of switching models, especially if one tests the models before investing too much in them. It is not a great revolution but rather a series of small experiments that leads to larger investments. The co-authors emphasize the need to create a portfolio of models and selecting one that works best for a particular situation.<br /><br />At the end of the book, I have to admit I did not feel particularly empowered to change the world, but I do feel far more informed about the processes others have taken - perhaps unintentionally - to garner their transformative power. Truth be told, neither Wind nor Crook exhibit Gladwell'sparticularly shrewd observational skills, but Crook does provide the best line - \\"We think we see the real world, but we actually see what's already in our own minds.\\" I wholeheartedly agree that I am the one most responsible for limiting my potential for success and that I need to reevaluate my mental models. As with most of their books, Wharton School Publishing includes an audio CD that summarizes the main points of the book and an interview with the co-authors.does provide the best line - \\"We think we see the real world, but we actually see what's already in our own minds.\\" I wholeheartedly agree that I am the one most responsible for limiting my potential for success and that I need to reevaluate my mental models. As with most of their books, Wharton School Publishing includes an audio CD that summarizes the main points of the book and an interview with the co-authors.	2005-07-04
US	52697971	RMHCCZI586MK0	0345396936	183408691	Cry to Heaven	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Potent, Evocative Look Into the World of the Castrati	There are no vampires here but something equally intriguing. Even though this Anne Rice book was first published back in 1982, I must admit my interest peaked when the extraordinary countertenor David Daniels recently mentioned it would make the ideal subject for an opera that could showcase his rarefied voice type. He's right. In her inimitable way, she has recreated the artistic and musical world of 18th century Europe, in particular, Venice and Constantinople (present-day Istanbul) with vivid strokes and seeming historical accuracy. Her protagonist is Tonio, born into nobility who thanks to a cruel elder brother, is surgically altered to become a castrato so that his voice will never mature into a man's. His estranged brother returns after his father's sudden death and wants to usurp the position of heir. Disinherited and forced to join the ranks of the castrati, Tonio plans his revenge while striving to become the greatest of all singers. This portion of the book sounds very Baroque and melodramatic, and for the most part, it is but in a most irresistible way, similar to G&eacute;rard Corbiau's 1994 film, \\"Farinelli\\".<br /><br />The rest of the novel focuses on Tonio's success as a singer, and the nightmares that plague him for much of his life. He receives invaluable help from Guido, a eunuch who composes opera and dreams of the perfect male soprano voice to give it life. He discovers Tonio and becomes his teacher. This is exactly what truly sets this novel apart, Rice's acute ability to immerse the reader into the world of the castrati. It's clear she has done extensive research to provide the foundation and dramatic currents of her engrossing story. We are immersed into the daily life and work of the castrato student - the vocal exercises and technical lessons in composition and notation, even the castrato's uniform, a black tunic with a red sash and a black ribbon around the neck. Their soaring voices impressed courtiers and nobility, and the best ones achieved wealth and power, but as Rice illustrates with Tonio, it all comes at a significant price - living in constant fear, an unrelenting vengeance for his brother and an impossible struggle to become a \\"real\\" man. In the afterword, Rice mentions recordings of Monteverdi and Scarlatti as inspirations for several of the scenes in the book. I suggest you play some of David Daniels' stellar recordings, such as his Nerone in Monteverdi's \\"L'incoronazione di Poppea\\" or any of his versions of Handel's arias, to get you in the proper mood for this evocative novel.power, but as Rice illustrates with Tonio, it all comes at a significant price - living in constant fear, an unrelenting vengeance for his brother and an impossible struggle to become a \\"real\\" man. In the afterword, Rice mentions recordings of Monteverdi and Scarlatti as inspirations for several of the scenes in the book. I suggest you play some of David Daniels' stellar recordings, such as his Nerone in Monteverdi's \\"L'incoronazione di Poppea\\" or any of his versions of Handel's arias, to get you in the proper mood for this evocative novel.	2005-06-29
US	52697971	RZR9ROPE3ETLX	1400040957	821374449	Istanbul: Memories and the City	Books	4	170	173	N	N	Highly Individualistic View of Istanbul by a Native Son	Istanbul has been the designated intersection between East and West for centuries, and as a past tourist there, I have felt the resulting richness in culture and history as I visited the city's landmarks. However, author Orhan Pamuk takes a different view as a native of the city - a pervasive confusion over identity in reconciling the often conflicting sympathies of different cultures. In fact, he feels that there is an overwhelming sense of melancholy. As a Turk, Pamuk knows of which he speaks in this intriguing memoir as he grew up during the Atat&uuml;rk revolution. He is not caught up in the inherent exoticism of the city but rather what he sees as a critical juncture between past and present. The past is represented by the Ottoman Empire, a multilingual dynasty whose heart once beat in Istanbul, its once dazzling capital. But the empire no longer exists, except in the surviving imperial mansions and memorials, the marble fountains and clapboard waterside villas. Yet, all the remnants are deteriorating as developers take hold of the real estate.<br /><br />In Pamuk's view, the Ottoman past is a foreign country for the Turks. The present is the Turkish Republic, Atat&uuml;rk's secular, Western-oriented, homogenizing nation state now centered in Ankara, an outgrown Anatolian village. Pamuk spends much of the book understandably mourning the replacement of the Empire with the nondescript country that is Turkey now. Sometimes his disappointed tone can be wearing, but Pamuk's honesty is bracing. Politically and economically, Istanbul is no longer a city of consequence, let alone a world capital. It is an insular little place sinking in its own ruins, \\"so poor and confused that it can never again dream of rising to its former heights of wealth, power and culture\\". In brief, Turkey has become a country simply obsessed by its hopeful acceptance into the European Union.<br /><br />Where Pamuk's book takes flight is the chronicle of his own personal journey. He is a secular Turk who exhibits integrity by not seeking authenticity in so contrived a national mission -- which he finds exemplified in his parents' house, where the piano is untouched and the porcelain is simply for show. In fact, his recollection of his childhood and his parents' failed marriage within the context of the public desolation of a dying empire is what most informs his exploration of Istanbul in the mid 20th-century. In fascinating detail, he recounts the city's European visions through writers as diverse as Flaubert, Nerval and Gautier through Gide to Brodsky; and the work of native Istanbul residents like the novelist Tanpinar and poet Yahya Kemal. In particular, for Tanpinar, the poor neighborhoods of Istanbul were symbolic of Turkey's own impoverishment in the modern world. The text is accompanied by an abundance of illustrations, including the photographs of Ara G&uuml;ler from 1950 and the present, and photographs from the Pamuk family album.<br /><br />Pamuk's chief achievement in this book is to show the human damage done by Atat&uuml;rk's revolution without succumbing to the benighted nostalgia of many Turkish Islamists. Like many secular Turks, the author grapples with the most basic questions of existence -- love, compassion, religion, the meaning of life, jealousy, hatred -- in trembling confusion and painful solitude, but he cannot offer a solution. Mapping his own complexities, he turns to the streets of his hometown and to the last vestiges of a great culture. One of Pamuk's qualities is his constant striving to be worthy of that inheritance. This is a fascinating read by a native son.who exhibits integrity by not seeking authenticity in so contrived a national mission -- which he finds exemplified in his parents' house, where the piano is untouched and the porcelain is simply for show. In fact, his recollection of his childhood and his parents' failed marriage within the context of the public desolation of a dying empire is what most informs his exploration of Istanbul in the mid 20th-century. In fascinating detail, he recounts the city's European visions through writers as diverse as Flaubert, Nerval and Gautier through Gide to Brodsky; and the work of native Istanbul residents like the novelist Tanpinar and poet Yahya Kemal. In particular, for Tanpinar, the poor neighborhoods of Istanbul were symbolic of Turkey's own impoverishment in the modern world. The text is accompanied by an abundance of illustrations, including the photographs of Ara Güler from 1950 and the present, and photographs from the Pamuk family album.<br /><br />Pamuk's chief achievement in this book is to show the human damage done by Atatürk's revolution without succumbing to the benighted nostalgia of many Turkish Islamists. Like many secular Turks, the author grapples with the most basic questions of existence -- love, compassion, religion, the meaning of life, jealousy, hatred -- in trembling confusion and painful solitude, but he cannot offer a solution. Mapping his own complexities, he turns to the streets of his hometown and to the last vestiges of a great culture. One of Pamuk's qualities is his constant striving to be worthy of that inheritance. This is a fascinating read by a native son.	2005-06-27
US	52697971	R10ACP0PLSHT0H	0375508473	67444811	The Survivor: Bill Clinton in the White House	Books	4	12	18	N	N	A Seesaw Presidency Fairly Observed, Warts and All	Unlike the dynastic background of our current President, Bill Clinton was not raised with expectations to become the leader of the free world. His informative but rather epic autobiography, \\"My Life\\", is so much like him - high-minded, long-winded, effusive, non-linear, an obsession with the minutiae - and that's why Washington Post political reporter John F. Harris provides great value in writing the first balanced perspective on the Clinton presidency. What comes across most clearly here is Clinton's unsurpassable survival instinct no matter how dire the odds. Harris focuses almost exclusively on the White House years organized chronologically for the most part, interviewing many key players though apparently not the Clintons themselves.<br /><br />Beginning in 1993, Clinton's first two years are sheer chaos - the health-care failure (led by wife Hillary), followed by Newt Gingrich's rise in power in late 1994. However, Clinton rebounds in 1995, with successes in the Mexican currency spiral, in Bosnia and against Gingrich in the government shutdown. Clinton becomes steadily more popular with the American people and would eventually enjoy consistently higher poll ratings than even Reagan. Moreover, he glides easily to re-election in 1996 (despite not breaking the fifty-percent plurality threshold) and successfully imposes his own model of progressive centrism, \\"a mild but innovative brand of liberalism that favored economic growth over redistribution, and embraced free trade rather than taking refuge in protectionism.\\" There is a period of relative stability in 1996 and 1997, which comes to a crashing end thanks to Monica Lewinsky and Kenneth Starr. But again, Clinton survives this debacle, even though Gore suffers more of the repercussions in his own subsequent bid for the presidency.<br /><br />Throughout these tumultuous years, Harris sees the seesaw tension within Clinton between the realist and the romantic - a sharp-minded policy wonk with an intellectual sensibility and the \\"Bubba\\" persona that leads him to self-destructive behavior. The \\"Sunday Morning Clinton\\" is detail-oriented and conscientious if somewhat defensive as he uses Reagan-style positioning on budget balancing and welfare reform but ensuring progressive Democratic touches persist. For every negative perception of Clinton's administration - a sense of chaos is pervasive among his staff - the author shows a true leader who always has the most energy and passion in the room. His generosity of spirit often leads to excess in his behavior whether it is eating or sex.<br /><br />Harris also presents evidence to belie the notion that the President is purely a populist as he went against popular opinion on some key issues - deficit reduction, fortifying the weakening Mexican peso, intervention in the Kosovo crisis. The author shows Clinton to be the most nimble of politicians, his Teflon-like nature apparently due to a high pain threshold. Clinton knows to celebrate in the face of defeat and remain humble when victorious. These skills help him survive the Lewinsky scandal when he made Kenneth Starr one of America's most hated men. It's an amazing personal accomplishment when one stops to think about how he endures the most public of humiliations and concurrently juggles strategies until he rises phoenix-like yet again, appearing just a bit chastened after the Senate refused to convict him.<br /><br />The most compelling part of the book is Harris' analysis of the relationships and behind-the-scenes details that enlighten and sometimes contradict the news accounts. Hillary Clinton is a particular point of contention. Now a major Democratic figure in her own right and potential presidential candidate, she is portrayed unsurprisingly as peevish and imperious behind the scenes. Viewing all of the 1990s through a Clinton-oriented lens inevitably distorts, but Harris manages to be clear-eyed in his comprehensive account, sometimes giving Clinton the benefit of the doubt but with enough facts to let readers draw their own conclusions.<br /><br />Harris' bottom line on Clinton is a portrayal not of a corrupt public servant but rather a man caught, sometimes ham-strung by his self-proclaimed destiny. On matters ranging from Whitewater to fund-raising to Monica Lewinsky, he has followed, according to Harris, \\"a pattern of limited disclosure, evasive or false public explanations, and shabby personal contact that made suspicion far from unreasonable\\". Whether in public or private, Clinton reconciles this behavior with what Harris calls the survivor's \\"ethic of contingency and improvisation\\". This is about as revealing a portrait of Bill Clinton that we are likely to get.readers draw their own conclusions.    Harris' bottom line on Clinton is a portrayal not of a corrupt public servant but rather a man caught, sometimes ham-strung by his self-proclaimed destiny. On matters ranging from Whitewater to fund-raising to Monica Lewinsky, he has followed, according to Harris, \\"a pattern of limited disclosure, evasive or false public explanations, and shabby personal contact that made suspicion far from unreasonable\\". Whether in public or private, Clinton reconciles this behavior with what Harris calls the survivor's \\"ethic of contingency and improvisation\\". This is about as revealing a portrait of Bill Clinton that we are likely to get.	2005-06-26
US	52697971	R6O2SNY7OTJAH	1400043395	813354201	Never Let Me Go	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Ishiguro and the Question of Human Essence	I feel something of a kinship with author Kazuo Ishiguro, as I am also Japanese-born and was raised in a culture far removed from it. I sense about Ishiguro the same lingering Japanese sensibilities around contained emotions and delayed self-fulfillment in the way he develops his stories despite the fact that he has been raised in England since age five. In his latest novel set in late-1990's England, he continues to be a poet for the emotionally inarticulate. As with his masterful book, \\"The Remains of the Day\\", it takes a while to understand this self-realization gap and even longer for his protagonists to grasp it about themselves. Since it's the nature of Ishiguro narrators to postpone a full reckoning of their place in the world, all we know in the early going is that we don't quite know what's going on. The story focuses on Kathy H, a woman who recalls her strange childhood and how certain interconnected circumstances of her upbringing become foundational to her adult life.<br /><br />The premise sounds like a new millennium variation on Aldous Huxley's \\"Brave New World\\", but what grounds Ishiguro's book is how he details his characters' emotional situation in meticulous detail, that Kathy is struggling to achieve clarity and contentment in a confusing world that seems disinterested in her fate. Very much like what author Mark Haddon did in creating his autistic protagonist Christopher Boone in \\"The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time\\", Ishiguro uses Kathy's identity to work out intricate ways of showing the isolated world she has created. Through her naïvet&eacute; and laser-sharp deductive reasoning, it appears that Ishiguro is telling us that what makes us human makes us individuals and that the idea of human beings as products programmed to pick up \\"personhood skills\\" is a science fiction that may be closer at hand than we realize. Sometimes too clinical, sometimes utterly tedious in its detail, Ishiguro's flawed masterwork still resonates with the deeper questions of what makes us human. Provocative reading.ions of what makes us human. Provocative reading.	2005-06-15
US	52697971	R22RSS828WVAQP	0060797460	733354591	Bad News: The Decline of Reporting, the Business of News, and the Danger to Us All	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Didactic Tone Overshadows a Veteran's Insider Perspective	After 34 years as a roving reporter for CBS News, Tom Fenton has put his guard down and written a blistering book about how the three networks have failed to provide the American public with the news they deserve. It isn't exactly a groundbreaking topic, but his insider position lends credence to a valid perspective even if he is frequently didactic about it. Fenton justifiably states that the decision makers at the network news regularly kill or downplay unpleasant news from outside the United States, leaving Americans uninformed and consequently unprepared for global trends, such as those that led to our current war with radical fundamentalism. It's a worthy tenet to explore and illuminate, but Fenton just doesn't seem to go far enough to address his claims. He says the problem is a complicated mixture of profit motive, limited vision, skewed ideas about what is good for audiences, and kowtowing to those in political power. That is certainly believable, and the founders of the political watchdog Web site, Spinsanity.com, covered this last point more thoroughly in their enlightening treatise, \\"All the President's Spin: George W. Bush, the Media, and the Truth\\". But Fenton's argument seems rather narrow given the breadth of his argument. He believes that if only the profit-driven executives who control the TV networks would fund some serious reportage -- particularly overseas reportage -- they could revive the media and educate the public. Fenton recognizes the ties of extensive news coverage to the spread of democracy, but he falters in drawing realistic solutions that would appeal to the programming chiefs. Ideas such as extending the evening news to an hour are honestly half-baked in his narrative, so we are left with a valid opinion with no tangible call to action.<br /><br />There is nobility to Fenton's old-school ideas and certainly a passion in his attempt to galvanize America to receive the news they must have in order for our democracy to survive. Yet I am left to surmise that the problems with how citizens receive information in a democratic society are deeper than anything the media can be expected to solve on its own. Even if Fenton articulated that finding, there is little for the reader to think could be done to alleviate this increasingly dire situation. One would have hoped there was beacon of hope with the advent of the 24-hour news channel, but as Fenton rightly states, this has not turned out to be the case, as each network fills their schedule with programming targeted toward the bottom line. Fox News Channel is the most cited offender of throwing logic and balance to the wind, but MSNBC, CNN and all the rest are equally guilty of dropping their commitments to serious reporting. The real value of this book, though, lies not in Fenton's discussion of the lack of foreign correspondents, but rather in his revealing interviews with Dan Rather, Peter Jennings and Tom Brokaw, obviously due to his insider status. Their individual personalities come across vividly in their responses - Brokaw comes across as relatively distant from the topic; Rather is thoughtful but still defensive about the quality of reportage on terrorism pre-9/11; and Jennings is more forthright in his disappointment with the coverage during the same period, unsurprising given his fifteen years as an ABC News foreign correspondent. These perspectives, especially Jennings', provide a look at global news coverage that makes this a worthwhile read.am left to surmise that the problems with how citizens receive information in a democratic society are deeper than anything the media can be expected to solve on its own. Even if Fenton articulated that finding, there is little for the reader to think could be done to alleviate this increasingly dire situation. One would have hoped there was beacon of hope with the advent of the 24-hour news channel, but as Fenton rightly states, this has not turned out to be the case, as each network fills their schedule with programming targeted toward the bottom line. Fox News Channel is the most cited offender of throwing logic and balance to the wind, but MSNBC, CNN and all the rest are equally guilty of dropping their commitments to serious reporting. The real value of this book, though, lies not in Fenton's discussion of the lack of foreign correspondents, but rather in his revealing interviews with Dan Rather, Peter Jennings and Tom Brokaw, obviously due to his insider status. Their individual personalities come across vividly in their responses - Brokaw comes across as relatively distant from the topic; Rather is thoughtful but still defensive about the quality of reportage on terrorism pre-9/11; and Jennings is more forthright in his disappointment with the coverage during the same period, unsurprising given his fifteen years as an ABC News foreign correspondent. These perspectives, especially Jennings', provide a look at global news coverage that makes this a worthwhile read.	2005-06-14
US	52697971	RFG9G3D25PCCP	1594200335	844238166	The United States of Europe: The New Superpower and the End of American Supremacy	Books	5	10	15	N	N	Europe as a Superpower...Its Time Has Come	It seems a shame that this fascinating, eminently readable book came out the day after the national elections, as the subject has great pertinence to anyone who has questioned the bullying imperialism that the Bush administration condones in dealing with the rest of the world. Currently the Rocky Mountain bureau chief for the Washington Post, author T.R. Reid more relevantly was the paper's London bureau chief, and from this vantage point, he has been able to apply an obvious wellspring of knowledge about Europe's changing social, political and economic landscape. In lucid terms that result in some eye-opening observations, he spells out how the European Union (EU) has taken the road not taken by coming together as a burgeoning superpower that threatens to overtake the U.S. in many historically dominant areas in which we have become victim to our own nationalistic pride.<br /><br />A super-nation consisting of 25 separate nations and over 500 million inhabitants, the EU hopes to eclipse the U.S. to become the ideal welfare state, not a military giant. It's an audacious objective, somewhat in a vacuum and rather idealistic on many levels, but according to most Europeans, it's a goal definitely within reach. Reid provides plenty of evidence that the EU has a powerful value proposition that the U.S. is unable and currently unwilling to replicate here. Much of the EU's economic strategy is based on their goal of becoming the global center of anti-trust legislation. No longer willing to follow Washington's rules, the EU has been successful in forcing corporate heavyweights like Microsoft and General Electric to bend to their will. In the most intriguing example, Reid follows the journey of GE Chairman Jack Welch and his quest to buy Honeywell. His $45 billion deal was approved by all of the U.S. government agencies, but it could not pass the approval of the EU's distrusting anti-trust czar Mario Monti despite Welch having spent nearly $75 million on the buyout. According to Reid, much of the EU's clout comes from the fact that it can amass power as a single unit when it matters (e.g., sharing a single currency, eliminating border patrols) but capitalize on their individual sovereignties by having 25 separate votes within pivotal international organizations. In the most obvious recent case, the EU used their numbers to their advantage in voting overwhelmingly against Bush's second attempt to gain support for a U.N.-sanctioned war against Saddam Hussein. Even more interesting was their unified position within the World Trade Organization where together they issued sanctions against the U.S. in providing special benefits to U.S.-based corporations. This is a different kind of global power based not on guns but on a solid, intimidating front upon which the U.S. has had to yield time and time again. Moreover, the EU prides itself on being the \\"beloved welfare state\\" and is more than happy to allow the U.S. to increase its multi-billion dollar deficit to fund the military forces deemed necessary to protect the free world from terrorism. In fact, despite their fears of the al-Qaeda, the EU views military spending as anachronistic, much preferring to spend their budgets on free medical care, free college education, a rich pension system and helping mothers raise their newborn babies without economic hardship.<br /><br />The author is particularly merciless when it comes to the European view on President Bush, a deeply negative perception compared to his predecessors including his father. Although some of Reid's comments are quite conjectural (e.g., talking about Bush's posturing swagger and cowboy boots), one cannot argue with concrete evidence of reaction to Bush's imperialist and often self-righteous tendencies - voting against the Kyoto Accord, politically arm-wrestling the EU to allow Turkey membership, and perhaps most damaging, his support of the death penalty. In fact, Reid states that the European perception of the U.S. death penalty has driven a deeper wedge than one can imagine since such a stand reflects a zealous religious right completely alien to the European mindset. Providing a glimpse into the future of the EU and the evolving identity of its constituents, Reid also discusses the social implications with the emergence of \\"Generation E\\", the 18-40 year olds who travel Europe with no regard to borders and speak English as their language of choice. If you are looking to understand the shifting balance of global power, then this is the book to read as Reid has written one of the most insightful and frankly entertaining books on the global ramifications of current U.S. policy and how Europe has faced the challenge of overcoming the U.S. shadow. Strongly recommended for those who have the temerity to take a hard look across the Atlantic.penalty has driven a deeper wedge than one can imagine since such a stand reflects a zealous religious right completely alien to the European mindset. Providing a glimpse into the future of the EU and the evolving identity of its constituents, Reid also discusses the social implications with the emergence of \\"Generation E\\", the 18-40 year olds who travel Europe with no regard to borders and speak English as their language of choice. If you are looking to understand the shifting balance of global power, then this is the book to read as Reid has written one of the most insightful and frankly entertaining books on the global ramifications of current U.S. policy and how Europe has faced the challenge of overcoming the U.S. shadow. Strongly recommended for those who have the temerity to take a hard look across the Atlantic.	2005-06-14
US	52697971	R2BY8SXS1VSDOY	1573223026	929884077	A Long Way Down	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A Fellowship of Failed Suicides Humorously Rendered	I never read a Nick Hornby book before, and I was not prepared for the sharp satirical eye and keen observational skills he adroitly displays here. The title of his novel refers to a suicide jump from the roof of a building known as Topper's House, where four characters, three English and one American, come on New Year's Eve to commit suicide. They attempt to talk one another out of the fateful deed, but the lingering threat of suicide haunts their tenuous friendship throughout the story, as voiced by the alternating voices of the four disparate narrators. Predictably the plot focuses on the characters bonding and discovering, through connections with each other, reasons to go on living. The concept sounds trivial, almost like a fable, but the execution is quite plausible, sensitive and sometimes quite amusing thanks to Hornby's quicksilver writing style and consequently allows each character his or her fair share of humanity and humor.<br /><br />The four sound a bit like stereotypes in a mid-1970's disaster movie. Maureen is a meek, sanctimonious woman whose life has been devoted to caring for her profoundly disabled adult son, comatose since birth. She wants to jump off the building holding a copy of Richard Yates' novel \\"Revolutionary Road\\" as a means to boost sales for the author. Perhaps to enhance the melodramatic possibilities of his premise, Hornby has painted the remaining three as semi-famous celebrities at the beginning of the story. Martin is a familiar TV talk show host and tabloid columnist until an affair with a fifteen-year-old girl obliterates his career and family. He has been reduced to interviewing nobodies on an obscure cable-access channel, FeetUp!TV. JJ is a young American musician so rocked by the rapid collapse of his band and his love life that he resorts to delivering pizzas for a living. Foul-mouthed and drug-abusing Jess is the unstable daughter of a young politician, whose big sister has disappeared and may be dead.<br /><br />All four seem like soloists learning to become an ensemble who get past a lot of prejudices and not without incident, like flawed singers trading dissonant but heartfelt solos. Unsurprisingly, they all wind up some place quite different at the end of the book from where they expected. They eventually reunite even attempting a group intervention at a Starbucks when things go south for their burgeoning friendship. Such is Hornby's dry sense of humor. Despite the rich comedy, there is uneasiness in the subject matter. While Hornby's sensibility is perfectly matched to the quirkier elements here, he seems less comfortable with the subject of suicide itself. He generally opts for the comedy than dealing with the darker elements, and the novel simply tapers off in a pat manner with hints of reluctant affirmation among the characters. Hornby makes me care about these four failed suicides because he realistically illustrates how their lives improved almost imperceptibly. It's a subtle growth that signals a major writing talent.ists learning to become an ensemble who get past a lot of prejudices and not without incident, like flawed singers trading dissonant but heartfelt solos. Unsurprisingly, they all wind up some place quite different at the end of the book from where they expected. They eventually reunite even attempting a group intervention at a Starbucks when things go south for their burgeoning friendship. Such is Hornby's dry sense of humor. Despite the rich comedy, there is uneasiness in the subject matter. While Hornby's sensibility is perfectly matched to the quirkier elements here, he seems less comfortable with the subject of suicide itself. He generally opts for the comedy than dealing with the darker elements, and the novel simply tapers off in a pat manner with hints of reluctant affirmation among the characters. Hornby makes me care about these four failed suicides because he realistically illustrates how their lives improved almost imperceptibly. It's a subtle growth that signals a major writing talent.	2005-06-14
US	52697971	R10IME1TY71ERU	0060753943	64382191	Winning	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Welch Passes on His Success Tips at the Bottom of the 7th	Former GE CEO Jack Welch's forty-plus-year track record certainly speaks for itself, and he has already written a sharply insightful treatise on his own impressive accomplishments in 2001's \\"Jack: Straight from the Gut\\". Newly married to former Harvard Business Review editor Suzy Wetlaufer and no longer running a huge conglomerate, the 69-year old Welch does not seem to be mellowing with age, but he is understandably more interested in translating what he knows about business strategy into a succession plan. Welch lays out his leadership philosophy, that success is all about growing others, and outlines the characteristics of a leader who can teach. That's the focus of \\"Winning\\", and it has nuggets of his wizened perspective, including several rules per chapter which he backs up with examples from his passions, such as the 2004 World Series win of the Boston Red Sox being the result of constant upgrades to the team roster. The can-do attitude gets excessive at times, especially when he addresses topics outside his own personal experience such as the challenges faced by working mothers, but for the most part, he keeps it in check.<br /><br />Where Welch succeeds most in the book is his everyman approach, i.e., he speaks to people at every level of an organization in companies of any size. His target is anyone who craves success and his mission to help them get it. Consequently there are chapters on his famed system for rating employees as A's, B's and C's; the Six Sigma quality push; motivating people and firing them when they aren't performing; how to survive when your company is acquired; and creating a culture that thrives on change. More personally to the reader, he offers his advice on how to find the right job, along with considerations of how to get promoted. Of course, his guidance is sound but hardly unique. But perhaps due to the influence of his new wife, he also focuses quite a bit on work-life balance, which he convincingly argues is the reward for being a high performer, not an entitlement to everyone. You can also tell that several of the case studies in which Welch describes as something happening to \\"a friend\\" are drawn directly from his wife's career. At the same time, I can't help but feel this book is somewhat anticlimactic and some of the material covered seems tangential compared to his other book, especially his loose-ends bonus chapter. Regardless, Welch deserves to be respected for the constant reinvention he forced on GE, his consistency in maintaining a thriving put-up-or-shut-up philosophy and his ability to look back at it all with a new chapter in his life exciting him as much as his corporate career. A man who is more than willing to admit his mistakes, he is truly the anti-victim, and his attitude - more than his own specific learnings - is where the profundity of the book can be found.ing a high performer, not an entitlement to everyone. You can also tell that several of the case studies in which Welch describes as something happening to \\"a friend\\" are drawn directly from his wife's career. At the same time, I can't help but feel this book is somewhat anticlimactic and some of the material covered seems tangential compared to his other book, especially his loose-ends bonus chapter. Regardless, Welch deserves to be respected for the constant reinvention he forced on GE, his consistency in maintaining a thriving put-up-or-shut-up philosophy and his ability to look back at it all with a new chapter in his life exciting him as much as his corporate career. A man who is more than willing to admit his mistakes, he is truly the anti-victim, and his attitude - more than his own specific learnings - is where the profundity of the book can be found.	2005-06-07
US	52697971	R8L8JS3QXIIMC	0805066330	801514174	A Great Improvisation: Franklin, France, and the Birth of America	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Franklin the Fascinated Francophile	The most valuable insight author Stacy Schiff provides in her enlightening and entertaining historical treatise is that despite our own self-serving myths about emancipation, the American Revolution did not reflect the action of a single country coming of age. Rather, the revolution marked the debut of the United States onto the imperial stage where France and the rest of Europe had already been players. In fact, the foreign aid provided by France during the revolution was essential to the outcome of the uprising. Critical to getting these funds from the French monarchy was Benjamin Franklin, already 70 years old in 1776. The story of the 8 ½  years he spent in Paris, persuading the French to support the fledgling American army in concrete as well as symbolic ways, is the subject of Schiff's book. The story of how it was obtained is fascinating and messy, as diplomacy often is. That's because Franklin knew that he and his compatriots had roles in a much larger drama. As the title implies, he was open to spontaneous inventiveness when it came to fostering foreign relations. Schiff attributes Franklin's success to his laissez-faire attitude, an ability to be logical without being pedantic, and a single-minded approach both genial and ruthless.<br /><br />Franklin and his cause are always at the center of events in the book, but Schiff's in-depth and scholarly research, as well as a sharp gift for vivid period re-creation, makes us the labyrinth of personalities and complex issues involved. She effectively shows how the U.S. forged a rocky trans-Atlantic alliance with France, the ramifications of which are still being felt today. During those years, Franklin lived in houses teeming with French spies and British agents, having no secretary except his own adept grandson, and receiving from Congress new emissaries and contradictory or ineffectual directions. Adding to the challenge was the colorful French cast of characters with whom Franklin continually bargained. They ranged from Pierre-Augustin Caron de Beaumarchais, the flamboyant secret agent who became an important early arms dealer; to the young Marquis de Lafayette, who received the weapons and sailed recklessly to America against the king's order; to the stubborn British ambassador to Versailles, the Viscount Stormont. Perhaps the most intriguing and heretofore unknown character was the Chevalier d'Eon, a cross-dressing dragoon officer who became a notable supporter of the young republic's cause. The American cast of characters was no less of a challenge to Franklin. His American colleagues in Paris-some of whom were also supposed to be representing America in France, and some of whom stayed on the congressional payroll but simply never went to their postings in other countries-were full of complaints about Franklin. Schiff paints a vivid picture of the infighting among Adams, Jay, Richard Izard, Arthur and William Lee, Silas Deane, and the various other American representatives. Then there is John Adams, whom Schiff sees as a cantankerous politician who resented Franklin as he was deified by his French admirers. What irked Franklin's American colleagues was the difference between the man and the myth.<br /><br />Through all the back-biting treachery, Franklin managed to persuade the French government to support the war with its navy, gunpowder, thousands of soldiers, and provide contributions which would amount to thirteen billion in today's dollars. And, when the English finally admitted defeat, Franklin, along with John Jay and John Adams, negotiated a most beneficent peace. This is an impressive story providing yet another dimension to this familiar figure. Schiff has written a lively story with a cast of colorful characters and plot twists that could easily compare to a work of historical fiction. I recommend reading this book in tandem with John J. Miller's and Mark Molesky's polarizing \\"Our Oldest Enemy: A History of America's Disastrous Relationship with France\\" toget an even fuller context of the U.S. relationship with France through the years.er context of the U.S. relationship with France through the years.	2005-06-06
US	52697971	R234WHX4R127F3	0060778970	142631692	Zorro: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Allende's Fun and Provocative Take on a Mythic Character	Author Isabel Allende has re-imagined the childhood of Don Diego de la Vega, the man who would one day become Zorro, in an entertaining and ultimately provocative book. She takes an unlikely topic and imbues it with her signature style of \\"magical realism\\", the same approach that made her 1982 novel, \\"The House of the Spirits\\", so eminently readable. In fact, she has a unique gift of humanizing her mythic protagonist in a way that reminds me of the way the origins of Batman have been rethought for a contemporary audience. In Allende's hands, Zorro is a conscientious revolutionary whose sense of duty and justice comes from the accidental miscegenation of his birth. His father is a Spanish officer, his mother a Shoshone Indian woman. The combination gives Diego an increased consciousness of how California's native people were persecuted by the marauding Europeans.<br /><br />Allende expands her perspective to recount the region's growing pains as the native population is forced off their land and become Christians as mandated by the Spanish-ruled Catholic Church. During this horrific period, Diego decides to take on his vulpine identity-zorro is Spanish for \\"fox\\"-after a fox delivers him from danger. But interestingly, the most engrossing parts of the book take place in Spain where Diego learns the art of fencing at Maestro Manuel Escalante's Fencing Academy. It is here that Diego is invited to join \\"La Justicia\\", a vigilante group with a mission statement that has them seek justice, nourish the hungry, clothe the naked, protect widows and orphans - all the duties we have come to expect from all our darker heroes, whether it is Zorro, Robin Hood or Batman. Allende does not shortchange fans of the original Zorro as she brings back and adds dimension to Diego's beloved companion Bernardo, and Zorro's faithful Tornado. The author effectively details how Bernardo and Diego grew up together and how Bernardo became mute after a horrifying childhood trauma. But Allende does not get completely caught up in her protagonist's upbringing, as she conjures up an adventuresome and romantic spirit befitting the legend without stooping to clich&eacute;s.<br /><br />There are plot twists, prison rescues, and even the obligatory jealousy-inducing flirtations between Zorro's true love and a pirate. This may not be her most profound book, but Allende is entitled to write a picaresque novel, particularly one imbued with swashbuckling, swordplay, honor, hidden desire, unlikely coincidence and a good old-fashioned villain. The novel is not perfect, even as a beach read, as Allende engages in her interests such as a New Age Machisma through the Wise Woman With Herbs. Regardless, this is a fun read with even a surprising post-modern ending.completely caught up in her protagonist's upbringing, as she conjures up an adventuresome and romantic spirit befitting the legend without stooping to clichs.    There are plot twists, prison rescues, and even the obligatory jealousy-inducing flirtations between Zorro's true love and a pirate. This may not be her most profound book, but Allende is entitled to write a picaresque novel, particularly one imbued with swashbuckling, swordplay, honor, hidden desire, unlikely coincidence and a good old-fashioned villain. The novel is not perfect, even as a beach read, as Allende engages in her interests such as a New Age Machisma through the Wise Woman With Herbs. Regardless, this is a fun read with even a surprising post-modern ending.	2005-05-30
US	52697971	RVV51JJF33ULG	0743226712	53542661	1776	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Highlighting a Year in the Life of the Father of Our Country	I honestly have not read a David McCullough book since his masterful biography of Truman about a dozen years ago, and I just read Joseph Ellis' solid biography, \\"His Excellency: George Washington\\" last year. So I had some sense of McCullough's literary approach and subject matter before taking on this entertaining book. Although I was initially surprised that this was not more of a panorama of the American colonies during the year of the title, McCullough continues to be a remarkable historical writer simply by refusing to interject his speculation and keeping true to his subjects by allowing them to speak for themselves. Like few other authors, he realizes that the participants' original words back in 1776 convey a personal historical experience far more eloquently than contemporary voices pontificating on what they believe happened. Such explanations are not necessary here because McCullough has the temerity to take a back seat and let the documents he has meticulously researched speak for themselves.<br /><br />What he does by his method is deconstruct a lot of the mythologies that have fossilized around the gallery of familiar figures during the American Revolution, in particular, Washington as an army general. Like Ellis in his book, McCullough makes Washington life-sized by describing a patrician hero who learned to accept the morally dubious lot of men who came under his command. He persevered through humiliating defeats to the British on Long Island and at Fort Washington until he famously crossed the Delaware to achieve a victorious counterattack in Trenton at the end of 1776. The book basically ends there but not before divulging the personalities of unknown soldiers in Washington's army, for example, William \\"Billy\\" Tudor, an officer who had been with Washington since Boston where they were laying siege to the British forces in 1775. His loyalty to Washington is captured in a letter to his wife: \\"I cannot desert a man...who has deserted everything to defend his country\\". McCullough also makes human the villains we have come to identify, chief among them King George III. A young man at the time, he was well-liked among at least a third of his subjects in the American colonies. Another third labeled themselves as agitated rebels, and the middle third stood indifferent to his monarchy and the outcome of the war. He was also an idealist as McCullough paints a picture of George not as a despot but as a confused ruler who truly felt being a British subject meant to be free by definition.<br /><br />But what \\"1776\\" is about is the painful struggle and suffering of the people like Tudor, who fought with and against Washington. McCullough is refreshing in allowing his perspective to extend to all the players during the war, including the young British officers who urged for peace to the foot soldiers and generals who saw the battles through. Some historical aspects you would expect to be covered comprehensively, like the development and signing of the Declaration of Independence, are given short shrift in the book, but McCullough's intention is not to cover all the monumental events of that year but rather delve into the otherwise anonymous personalities that fed into our struggle for independence on the battlefield. In that respect, the author has been most successful.fend his country\\". McCullough also makes human the villains we have come to identify, chief among them King George III. A young man at the time, he was well-liked among at least a third of his subjects in the American colonies. Another third labeled themselves as agitated rebels, and the middle third stood indifferent to his monarchy and the outcome of the war. He was also an idealist as McCullough paints a picture of George not as a despot but as a confused ruler who truly felt being a British subject meant to be free by definition.  <br /> <br />But what \\"1776\\" is about is the painful struggle and suffering of the people like Tudor, who fought with and against Washington. McCullough is refreshing in allowing his perspective to extend to all the players during the war, including the young British officers who urged for peace to the foot soldiers and generals who saw the battles through. Some historical aspects you would expect to be covered comprehensively, like the development and signing of the Declaration of Independence, are given short shrift in the book, but McCullough's intention is not to cover all the monumental events of that year but rather delve into the otherwise anonymous personalities that fed into our struggle for independence on the battlefield. In that respect, the author has been most successful.	2005-05-27
US	52697971	R3B5X8EP0RN5QR	0812971426	801961186	Color: A Natural History of the Palette	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Origins of Color More Fascinating Than You Think	Since I am such a visual person and an aspiring globe trekker to boot, the idea of a book about color - not how to use it but how it has evolved over time and from sources often faraway - fascinates me. British journalist Victoria Finlay doesn't let me down with her exhaustive, entertaining tome, as she explores the physical and historical makeup of colors, as well as the social and political meanings that different hues have come to represent. While I realize color has taken on certain significance in other cultures, what Finlay does here in a most compelling and conveniently consolidated fashion is open my eyes to how inextricably connected color is to people and that they value. Chapters are broken down by color - ocher, black, brown, white, red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo and violet - and each has a vivid history beyond what stimulates the eye, even through its symbolism causing death.<br /><br />The author has literally traveled the world to find these connections and unearth their histories, and she has come up with a treasure trove of stories and anecdotes that will make you look twice at colors you have taken for granted, even explaining common color-oriented imagery we use every day. For example, Finlay shares with us that bureaucratic \\"red tape\\" literally comes from ribbons dipped in a safflower-red dye that were used to tie bundles of legal documents in England. She is also quite the adventurer, as her travels took her to Afghanistan to the Sar-e-Sang mine three days after the Taliban stronghold of Kandahar fell in 2002. Prized by Osama bin Laden, the purest blue lapis on earth comes from this area, and ground to powder and mixed with oils, it renders the perfect azure of the sea, the Virgin Mary's robes, or heaven. Finlay can come across as quite the renaissance person, as she shows why red ocher is sacred among Australian Aborigines, then jumps quickly over to Renaissance Italy to muse on the unique blood-orange varnish that Stradivarius used to anoint his violins.<br /><br />Some facts she presents are just interesting trivia - that carmine is made from the blood of cochineal beetles harvested on plantations in Chile, and today used as an additive in cosmetics, soft drinks, paint and many other products; or that the remains of Egyptian mummies produced a brown pigment called appropriately mommia, or \\"mummy\\" back in the 19th century but now has been superseded by what can be extracted by a lump of coal tar. But toward the end of the book, Finlay is understandably melancholy when she visits \\"Color King\\" Lawrence Herbert, whose New Jersey company, the well-known art-supply standby Pantone, has catalogued more than 15,000 shades of basic colors. But Herbert reveals sadly he's in the process of replacing his vivid color descriptions like barn red and sulphur spring with a generic, functional numbering system. The transition does indeed take the life out of the colors, but at least through Finlay's comprehensive study, the reader will discover stories of corruption and murder commensurate with any Shakespeare play and hopefully reawaken to their possibilities.d to anoint his violins. <br /> <br />Some facts she presents are just interesting trivia - that carmine is made from the blood of cochineal beetles harvested on plantations in Chile, and today used as an additive in cosmetics, soft drinks, paint and many other products; or that the remains of Egyptian mummies produced a brown pigment called appropriately mommia, or \\"mummy\\" back in the 19th century but now has been superseded by what can be extracted by a lump of coal tar. But toward the end of the book, Finlay is understandably melancholy when she visits \\"Color King\\" Lawrence Herbert, whose New Jersey company, the well-known art-supply standby Pantone, has catalogued more than 15,000 shades of basic colors. But Herbert reveals sadly he's in the process of replacing his vivid color descriptions like barn red and sulphur spring with a generic, functional numbering system. The transition does indeed take the life out of the colors, but at least through Finlay's comprehensive study, the reader will discover stories of corruption and murder commensurate with any Shakespeare play and hopefully reawaken to their possibilities.	2005-05-25
US	52697971	R21LX4HI4RIUQ4	1592401074	186230703	The Perfectionist: Life and Death in Haute Cuisine	Books	4	28	30	N	N	The Pressures of Being the Premier Master Chef in France	The cutthroat atmosphere of haute cuisine in France has been depicted by author Rudolph Chelminski with penetrating detail in his incisive study of one sad casualty, master chef Bernard Loiseau, the suicidal result of his own Machiavellian calamity. Just in his early fifties, Loiseau shot himself in the head in early 2003, after he sensed his reputation starting to slide. The esteemed Guide Gault-Millet downgraded his classic Burgundy restaurant La Cote d'Or in 2002, awarding it 17 out of 20, a significant and unprecedented drop of two points from its previous rating, and rumor had it that Michelin was thinking of stripping Loiseau of his third star. While this may seem trivial to the layman, this was tantamount to banishment from France, a cultural and professional distinction that Chelminski acutely explores in the rarified culinary world there.<br /><br />Loiseau's career is the foundation of Chelminski's exhaustive and often entertaining book, as we follow his ascension from kitchen apprentice to award-winning chef amid the pressures of maintaining those Michelin stars and even more unrealistically, Loiseau's quest for culinary perfection. It was this stress combined with what was diagnosed as bi-polar disorder (unbeknownst to the public) that led to his suicide. Throughout the late 1980's and the 1990's, Loiseau's developed and mastered a style of cooking called \\"cuisine d'essences\\", which was a response to the prevailing climate of health consciousness. He was media-savvy and became a fashionable figure for a time. But times changed, and he was unwilling or unable to change with them. A new generation of chefs had emerged in the early 21st century, and novelty combinations replaced what was perceived as the lackluster concoctions of old-timers. Instead, they were striving to emulate the surrealist, laboratory-inspired inventions of the emerging Catalan chef Ferran Adria. As the author makes clear, Loiseau was simply not capable of adapting his approach, but what's worse, he could not come to terms with no longer being top dog.<br /><br />Chelminski shows Loiseau's determination to reach the top was tinged with palpable desperation. He had to be the best or nothing in his narrowly focused mind, and he became his own worst enemy. Paranoia set in, and his nervous questioning of those around him set off a damaging chain of murmurs that eventually surfaced in the press. The truth deflated him to no end. Chelminski examines the effects of mental illness and seriously questions whether it is a prerequisite for being the top in anyone's chosen field. La Cote d'Or was open 364 days a year, and Loiseau hardly ever missed a service working fifteen-hour days for more than thirty years. Such monomaniacal behavior would appear to reflect a deep-seeded insecurity masked by a supreme ego and buoyed up by an adoring kitchen staff. Loiseau's innate connection with his restaurant was the model of psychological co-dependency, so much so that when he left La Cote d'Or to open a restaurant in Japan, he had a mental breakdown. In the final months of his life, he started to accept that he wasn't the best, and he must have believed death and perhaps an early legacy were his only options.<br /><br />This entertaining book works on several levels. Chelminski provides a thorough history of 20th century French Cuisine, in particular, describing the rise of the name food critics' importance in the making of young stars in France. The book is also a morality tale about the lure of fame and the downfall of obsession. It's also a probing study on the effects of mental illness on one's increasingly warped perception of reality. In fact, there are so many different subtexts and themes that ultimately we are left with little doubt that a man so adored by the French culinary world would take his own life. Chelminski's book makes a fine reading complement to Ruth Reichl's recent book about being the New York Times food critic, \\"Garlic and Sapphires\\", and Anthony Boudrain's more acerbically funny take on the restaurant business, \\"Kitchen Confidential\\".nd Anthony Boudrain's more acerbically funny take on the restaurant business, \\"Kitchen Confidential\\".	2005-05-22
US	52697971	R3VE959D3S7BLH	0743257529	760447173	China, Inc.: How the Rise of the Next Superpower Challenges America and the World	Books	4	12	16	N	N	China's Economic Viability Is All in Its Numbers	China's impending takeover of the global economy is not news, but author Ted C. Fishman lends a welcome and provocative perspective to this inevitable development. He informs us that in 1949, the Chinese Communists broke centuries of feudalism to mold the country's now 1.5 billion inhabitants into a disciplined workforce. Thirty years later, the economic reforms set in motion by Deng Xiaoping subsequently unleashed the pent-up entrepreneurial spirit of the Chinese people, producing workers that have become irresistible to the world's manufacturers. Concurrently, on the political front, the Communists who run China have actually reversed the social dynamic set forth by Karl Marx, who said that capitalism is the final stage of human development before communism. In China, communism has instead become the final stage before the full fruition of capitalism.<br /><br />Fishman contends that China is well poised for success by wielding a competitive advantage Japan, the last global entrant, could never provide, an endless and cheap supply of workers. Lots of statistics fortify the strength in China's numbers - there are more workers there than people in this country, there are more Chinese who have studied English there than people who speak English here, and the state owns all the factories and machinery over there versus the capital that has to be invested privately here. Couple this data with an authoritarian government that can manage industrial policy without the distractions of public opinion or politicians running for re-election, and one can see China's preferred position pretty clearly from Fishman's perspective. However, the author is almost too preoccupied with the data and not enough on the culture itself. Unlike Japan, China is a country divided into haves and have-nots ruled by a heartless regime that crushes all dissidents. While millions in the cities are benefiting from economic development, hundreds of millions more are missing out on the boom because they remain trapped in the countryside or have lost their jobs in obsolete factories leftover from the Cultural Revolution. The other side of an authoritarian government, which Fishman only gives passing mention, is that the one-party rule runs deep in China. The absence of free elections and a free press creates an environment where the truth becomes arbitrary, and obviously that would make any potential investment decision that much riskier.<br /><br />What Fishman does argue convincingly though is that the developed world has to take some accountability for China's outsized economic growth. U.S. investment in China has reached passed $700 billion, a figure that highlights the startling co-dependency between China and the U.S. The Yuan is tied to the dollar, and if China were to use its leverage and dump the dollar entirely (a feasible option in our terror-stricken world), markets would crash and threaten global economic stability. And one can argue, as Fishman does, that China has taken a less myopic view of its economic survival than its western counterparts, as we continue to focus on short-term gains to alleviate our own downturn. It is this very leverage that has broken apart the heretofore tripartite world between the U.S., Europe and Japan (which is in potential danger of making a slow fade from this trio). This book could have provided more value if he could have delved deeper into how the Chinese entrepreneurial spirit and continuing economic reforms have been shaped by its existing culture and what impact the economic growth may have on their culture going forward, in particular, China's continuing violation of human rights. But what Fishman does offer is a valuable wake-up call to recognize the impact of China's burgeoning economy now.n trapped in the countryside or have lost their jobs in obsolete factories leftover from the Cultural Revolution. The other side of an authoritarian government, which Fishman only gives passing mention, is that the one-party rule runs deep in China. The absence of free elections and a free press creates an environment where the truth becomes arbitrary, and obviously that would make any potential investment decision that much riskier.    What Fishman does argue convincingly though is that the developed world has to take some accountability for China's outsized economic growth. U.S. investment in China has reached passed $700 billion, a figure that highlights the startling co-dependency between China and the U.S. The Yuan is tied to the dollar, and if China were to use its leverage and dump the dollar entirely (a feasible option in our terror-stricken world), markets would crash and threaten global economic stability. And one can argue, as Fishman does, that China has taken a less myopic view of its economic survival than its western counterparts, as we continue to focus on short-term gains to alleviate our own downturn. It is this very leverage that has broken apart the heretofore tripartite world between the U.S., Europe and Japan (which is in potential danger of making a slow fade from this trio). This book could have provided more value if he could have delved deeper into how the Chinese entrepreneurial spirit and continuing economic reforms have been shaped by its existing culture and what impact the economic growth may have on their culture going forward, in particular, China's continuing violation of human rights. But what Fishman does offer is a valuable wake-up call to recognize the impact of China's burgeoning economy now.	2005-05-10
US	52697971	RLZ6RUPCHWVSP	0393060349	511808231	The History of Love: A Novel	Books	5	50	52	N	N	Multi-Literary Styles Bring Life to Tale of Love and Loss	A book within a book generally reveals itself as a literary conceit by a writer intent on showing his or her craft to an audience deemed too cynical for more straightforward prose. However, author Nicole Krauss has written an emotionally rich novel that uses this binary structure to illuminate two extremely different interior lives.  The first is Leo Gursky, an eighty-year old Jewish man who survived persecution in WWII Poland before moving to New York City, where he leads a sad, involuntarily invisible existence. In the confusion after the war, he lost the great love of his life, as well as the son he never knew, who in turn, has become a famous and respected writer. The other protagonist is a fatherless fifteen-year old named Alma. She was named for a character in the Spanish-language book-within-the-book, \\"The History of Love\\", which was a favorite of her parents since her father bought it in South America expressly to give to her mother before his death.<br /><br />As fate would have it, Alma's mother is asked to translate this book into English, and Alma becomes obsessed with her namesake character. The common thread for both Leo and Alma is that they are each searching for someone - Alma for the inspiration for the character in the book and Leo for his long-lost son. The lives of these characters finally intertwine but not in any predictable way, and much of the credit has to be given to Krauss' creative invention for taking such a daring approach in dealing with a plot device that could have fallen prey to condescending manipulation. What the author does very well is capture the transformative nature of literature in all its variety, whether it takes the form of entries in Alma's diary, letters, lists, translations or excerpts from an autobiography. Krauss uses these distinctive writing styles to define each personality vividly, and she is particularly successful in capturing the loneliness experienced by Leo as he tries to gain others' attention and the insatiable curiosity Alma has for her family background.<br /><br />Comparisons to Krauss' husband Jonathan Safran Foer's just-published book, \\"Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close\\" are inevitable, as both authors incorporate a child's perspective in a world that proves itself too overwhelming to synthesize, and both use WWII Poland as a metaphor for the current sense of chaos and loss of identity. Perhaps because she is not dealing with the weightier implications of 9/11, Krauss is more successful in telling her story, as this may be the best multi-linear book I've read since David Mitchell's masterful \\"Cloud Atlas\\" came out last year and nearly won the Booker Prize. Strongly recommended.satiable curiosity Alma has for her family background. <br /> <br />Comparisons to Krauss' husband Jonathan Safran Foer's just-published book, \\"Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close\\" are inevitable, as both authors incorporate a child's perspective in a world that proves itself too overwhelming to synthesize, and both use WWII Poland as a metaphor for the current sense of chaos and loss of identity. Perhaps because she is not dealing with the weightier implications of 9/11, Krauss is more successful in telling her story, as this may be the best multi-linear book I've read since David Mitchell's masterful \\"Cloud Atlas\\" came out last year and nearly won the Booker Prize. Strongly recommended.	2005-05-04
US	52697971	R1URRWYHPUHEPR	0743260031	297692250	Assassination Vacation	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Drollness and Political Passion Imbue Vowell's History Tour	Having just read her very brief epilogue in David Sedaris' short story anthology, \\"Children Playing Before a Statue of Hercules\\", I was intrigued enough by Sarah Vowell's Sedaris-like drollness to pick up this book. With a welcome acerbic tone and a surprising dollop of sentiment, she tackles a defiantly quirky and dark topic by taking a personal journey and exploring historical tourism focused on the first three U.S. Presidents assassinated. Sometimes the mix is uneasy, but for the most part, Vowell seems to be honing in on her own unique voice. I think what saves her from the extremes of being precious or patronizing is her almost academic curiosity of the seemingly mundane. As a result, the author provides some intriguing insights even if they can be sometimes contrived to fit her droll tone. The focal Presidents in her book are Abraham Lincoln, which takes up half the book, and two more obscure choices, James Garfield and William McKinley, and she also examines in detail the assassins and other people associated with the murders.<br /><br />Even though McKinley could have been an interesting subject for the imperialism he espoused during his administration (for example, the turn-of-the-20th-century occupations of Cuba and the Philippines in Iraq-like fashion), perhaps his political resemblance to the current President diminished Vowell's interest in exploring him much further than his assassin, anarchist Leon Czolgosz. Consequently he remains a cipher even after reading this book, as McKinley quickly became overshadowed by his successor, Theodore Roosevelt. Vowell seems far more engaged in musing about Garfield whom she obviously views as a life cut tragically short. In 1881, Garfield was in office only a few months when he was shot at a train station by Charles Guiteau, an unemployed psychotic who had been pestering the new President to get an ambassadorial appointment. Garfield apparently had the education and sharp political instincts to become a great leader, and Vowell ponders the what-ifs of his life with considerable forlornness. She calls him \\"Mr. Loner McBookworm\\" and portrays him as a kindred spirit, almost as a proto-slacker who cared principally about leisure.<br /><br />But unsurprisingly, Lincoln gets most of the author's attention. Everyone knows about his final moments at Ford's Theater from their grammar school classes, but Vowell finds unusual nuances to his murder and the probable conspiracy around it. For example, she talks at length about the word \\"sockdologizing\\", which was used in a punch line in the play Lincoln was watching. The reason for its relevance is that actor John Wilkes Booth knew the line would get a big laugh and thus muffle the gunshot. She goes to Mary Surratt's boardinghouse where the plot was hatched, now a Chinese restaurant called \\"Wok and Roll\\"; and retraces Booth's escape route and takes a boat ride to the Dry Tortugas where she visits the prison that held Dr. Samuel Mudd, the white supremacist physician who set the leg Booth broke after leaping to the stage. She talks about the oddly ironic usage of Booth's onstage Latin declarative in Maryland's state motto and even ventures to Alaska to see a totem pole erected by a Tlingit chief, who was once insulted by Secretary of State William Seward, a figure relevant for the fact that he was roughed up by one of Booth's co-conspirators on the infamous night. Vowell would have made a great history teacher at a progressive school because beyond the hit-and-miss one-liners lies a passionate political viewpoint.er, and Vowell ponders the what-ifs of his life with considerable forlornness. She calls him \\"Mr. Loner McBookworm\\" and portrays him as a kindred spirit, almost as a proto-slacker who cared principally about leisure. <br /> <br />But unsurprisingly, Lincoln gets most of the author's attention. Everyone knows about his final moments at Ford's Theater from their grammar school classes, but Vowell finds unusual nuances to his murder and the probable conspiracy around it. For example, she talks at length about the word \\"sockdologizing\\", which was used in a punch line in the play Lincoln was watching. The reason for its relevance is that actor John Wilkes Booth knew the line would get a big laugh and thus muffle the gunshot. She goes to Mary Surratt's boardinghouse where the plot was hatched, now a Chinese restaurant called \\"Wok and Roll\\"; and retraces Booth's escape route and takes a boat ride to the Dry Tortugas where she visits the prison that held Dr. Samuel Mudd, the white supremacist physician who set the leg Booth broke after leaping to the stage. She talks about the oddly ironic usage of Booth's onstage Latin declarative in Maryland's state motto and even ventures to Alaska to see a totem pole erected by a Tlingit chief, who was once insulted by Secretary of State William Seward, a figure relevant for the fact that he was roughed up by one of Booth's co-conspirators on the infamous night. Vowell would have made a great history teacher at a progressive school because beyond the hit-and-miss one-liners lies a passionate political viewpoint.	2005-04-28
US	52697971	RC88HSZAB5CM4	074327394X	153542764	Children Playing Before a Statue of Hercules	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Eclectic Short Stories From a Sedaris Perspective	The next best thing to a new David Sedaris book is a collection of his favorite short stories since they reflect aspects of his character that may not be readily apparent in his often darkly humorous remembrances. He has chosen seventeen diverse stories by both modern and legendary writers, and the net effect is a microcosm of emotions unexpected, sometimes funny (as you would expect) and often poignant. I like how Sedaris in the foreword reverses the perspective you would expect him to have and settles into being a reader like the rest of us. What he does contribute is a strong sense of himself in the presence of these stories by simply liking them enough to include them.<br /><br />Being such a fan of his work and being able to relate to a lot of the quandaries he faces in his life, I immediately felt a kinship with many of the authors some of whom I am already familiar. For example, Alice Munro who captured a particularly universal perspective in her recent short story collection about women in transition, \\"Runaway\\", has a surprisingly amusing contribution with \\"Half a Grapefruit\\" about an insecure girl named Rose who is rebelling against the concept of you are what you eat. Or Jhumpa Lahiri, who won a well-earned Pulitzer Prize for her own anthology \\"Interpreter of Maladies\\", of which Sedaris has wisely chosen the title story about the delicate relationship between an insightful Indian interpreter and a bickering Indian-American couple visiting India. Both focus on identity crises in vastly different settings. I certainly am familiar with Dorothy Parker but not with her wonderfully brief and evocative story, \\"Song of the Shirt, 1941\\" about a WWII-era seamstress under duress. There's an intense little story called \\"Bullet in the Brain\\" by Tobias Wolff which raises issues of randomness and control at the moment of death in a biting, economic fashion.<br /><br />Other stellar stories are by the likes of Flannery O' Connor, Katherine Mansfield, Joyce Carol Oates and Patricia Highsmith. The quirkiest may be Jincy Willett's \\"The Best of Betty,\\" in which we are witness to the sarcastic decline of a domestic advice columnist. But my favorite may be Amy Hempel's \\"In the Cemetery Where Al Jolson Is Buried\\", which deals with the complex reactions to the dying of loved ones. There is even a brief and amusing epilogue by Sarah Vowell acknowledging the charity to which Sedaris is donating the proceeds, a kindred spirit whose ironic death obsession pervades her latest tome, \\"Assassination Vacation\\" (she was also the voice of goth-like daughter Violet in \\"The Incredibles\\"). There is not a clinker in the bunch. While reading this breezy anthology will not make you want a new Sedaris book any less, it will make you appreciate what great taste he has as a reader.ith. The quirkiest may be Jincy Willett's \\"The Best of Betty,\\" in which we are witness to the sarcastic decline of a domestic advice columnist. But my favorite may be Amy Hempel's \\"In the Cemetery Where Al Jolson Is Buried\\", which deals with the complex reactions to the dying of loved ones. There is even a brief and amusing epilogue by Sarah Vowell acknowledging the charity to which Sedaris is donating the proceeds, a kindred spirit whose ironic death obsession pervades her latest tome, \\"Assassination Vacation\\" (she was also the voice of goth-like daughter Violet in \\"The Incredibles\\"). There is not a clinker in the bunch. While reading this breezy anthology will not make you want a new Sedaris book any less, it will make you appreciate what great taste he has as a reader.	2005-04-27
US	52697971	R14D4FVL9YXXS	0618329706	509942691	Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Quirkiness Suffuses a Prodigious Child's View of 9/11	This audacious novel immediately reminded me of Mark Haddon's masterful \\"The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time\\" in taking the perspective of a child and following him on a search for his identity against seemingly insurmountable odds. In his version, author Jonathan Safran Foer is focused primarily on Oskar, a precocious nine-year old boy living on the Upper West side of Manhattan. He is the type of literary invention who writes letters to Stephen Hawking, designs his own jewelry, and wanders about New York City playing \\"The Flight of the Bumblebee\\" on the tambourine. In other words, the reality of big city life does not seem to exist in Oskar's world. Whereas Haddon uses autism as a means for his protagonist to see the truth of events others could not, Foer uses a near-Dickensian literary device of having a wiser-than-his-years child absorb the psychological impact of 9/11, aided by elders who have gone through similar brutality in their youth.<br /><br />On that fateful day, Oskar discovers five urgent messages from his father on the family's answering machine - he is trapped in the north tower of the World Trade Center. The child decides to hide the messages from his mother. A year passes and one day, Oskar breaks a blue vase stored in his father's closet and finds in it a key in an envelope labeled \\"Black.\\" Oskar decides that this key holds a clue to some essential mystery about his father and decides to contact every person named Black in New York City. Oskar's quest is soon facilitated by a group of caring old people more than happy to be of use. The most pivotal figure is his paternal grandmother, to whom he is close. Foer introduces another narrative thread by flashbacking to the grandmother's past sixty years prior. As a young woman during WWII, she survived the Allied firebombing of Dresden, which the author renders in vivid and appalling detail. As an immigrant in postwar New York, she runs into Thomas Schell, who had been Anna's fianc&eacute;, survived the attack but became mute as a result. The two eventually marry, but before Oskar's father is born the elder Thomas abandons his wife. She doesn't hear from him for forty years, not until he shows up, post-9/11, on her doorstep.<br /><br />Although Oskar's journey is the main thrust of the story, the book is ornamented with stream-of consciousness monologues and dialogues that shift the plot between the present and WWII Dresden. Foer's literary conceit allows him to explore issues such as how to love after one has endured the unendurable, how much commitment is enough to sustain a relationship, and how to forgive if at all. I can appreciate why Foer chooses this parallel narrative structure, as it would be too much to expect a child to absorb the full psychological devastation induced by 9/11, even if it meant the loss of his father. As Ian McEwan proved more successfully though somewhat more elliptically in his recent novel \\"Saturday\\", 9/11 was a malevolent, almost surreal act that turned our otherwise banal and safe world into one of seeping paranoia and immeasurable fear. But for Oskar, the idea of having such a deep revelation is nothing that would have been credible on its own, so Foer uses the old people to explain it on their terms through ruminations and letters telling of their life stories. Ultimately, the burden of maintaining this structure makes 9/11 fade into the background more than it should, and one is left with the forlorn feeling that the event has been more exploited than explored. At the same time, Foer's intense creativity does allow a certain wistfulness to permeate the narrative. It's an ambitious, flawed book from a talented 28-year old writer who wants very much to capture the sorrow, guilt and loss of 9/11 in an original way. He succeeds to a surprising extent though certainly not fully.rvived the attack but became mute as a result. The two eventually marry, but before Oskar's father is born the elder Thomas abandons his wife. She doesn't hear from him for forty years, not until he shows up, post-9/11, on her doorstep. <br /> <br />Although Oskar's journey is the main thrust of the story, the book is ornamented with stream-of consciousness monologues and dialogues that shift the plot between the present and WWII Dresden. Foer's literary conceit allows him to explore issues such as how to love after one has endured the unendurable, how much commitment is enough to sustain a relationship, and how to forgive if at all. I can appreciate why Foer chooses this parallel narrative structure, as it would be too much to expect a child to absorb the full psychological devastation induced by 9/11, even if it meant the loss of his father. As Ian McEwan proved more successfully though somewhat more elliptically in his recent novel \\"Saturday\\", 9/11 was a malevolent, almost surreal act that turned our otherwise banal and safe world into one of seeping paranoia and immeasurable fear. But for Oskar, the idea of having such a deep revelation is nothing that would have been credible on its own, so Foer uses the old people to explain it on their terms through ruminations and letters telling of their life stories. Ultimately, the burden of maintaining this structure makes 9/11 fade into the background more than it should, and one is left with the forlorn feeling that the event has been more exploited than explored. At the same time, Foer's intense creativity does allow a certain wistfulness to permeate the narrative. It's an ambitious, flawed book from a talented 28-year old writer who wants very much to capture the sorrow, guilt and loss of 9/11 in an original way. He succeeds to a surprising extent though certainly not fully.	2005-04-23
US	52697971	R3RWEZB1BT7T7U	1594200319	816807979	Garlic and Sapphires: The Secret Life of a Critic in Disguise	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Fighting Traditions in the Competitive Fine Dining World	Gourmet magazine's editor-in-chief Ruth Reichl provides a sometimes funny and often insightful account of her days back in the nineties as the New York Times food critic, certainly one of the most influential culinary posts in the world. She obviously did not take this responsibility lightly judging from the amount of effort she went through to disguise herself in restaurants she had to review in order to avoid preferential treatment. In fact, one of her more intriguing insights is how a fine dining experience can and should be the great economic leveler, and her disguises would often reflect a lower socioeconomic status or an out-of-place temperament, including pretending to be her own mother. No matter whom you are, according to Reichl, you can walk in and place your credit card on the bill tray, and for however long you want to be at a formal restaurant, you can be anyone you want to be. Like a paid fantasy come true with no emotional repercussions, one of the big reasons people go out to eat is to have that experience of being glamorous and wealthy. Reichl understands this concept clearly, and she is enthusiastic about helping people appreciate what they're going to experience in the way that any good film, art or dance critics can.<br /><br />Her zeal can be infectious, especially as she breaks with tradition and explores ethnic food in the outer boroughs of New York with creative abandon. Her approach apparently did come at a price as she has made enemies at the Times and among those who had come to expect four-star ratings from the paper. When she describes her courage in facing her adversaries head-on, Reichl can come across as smug and sometimes cloying in her attempts to deflate egos, even though she offsets those comments with discourses on colleagues she truly does love and respect. Moreover, she fluently displays a breadth of knowledge about the overall trends in the American culinary movement of the last quarter century. The author doesn't quite have the been-there-done-that tone of Anthony Boudrain in his books, \\"Kitchen Confidential\\" and \\"A Cook's Tour\\", nor does she have the idiosyncratic wit of Alan Richman in his eclectic food travel tome, \\"Fork It Over\\". But Reichl's book does lend a uniquely personal perspective, is it is as much about politics at the New York Times as it is about food, an almost professional survival manual that would serve both present-day foodies and future food critics equally well.the been-there-done-that tone of Anthony Boudrain in his books, \\"Kitchen Confidential\\" and \\"A Cook's Tour\\", nor does she have the idiosyncratic wit of Alan Richman in his eclectic food travel tome, \\"Fork It Over\\". But Reichl's book does lend a uniquely personal perspective, is it is as much about politics at the New York Times as it is about food, an almost professional survival manual that would serve both present-day foodies and future food critics equally well.	2005-04-22
US	52697971	R1XKHS01REXH86	1402203314	729144583	Between You and I: A Little Book of Bad English	Books	4	17	18	N	N	The Art of Misusing Words	I have to admit I enjoy reading slim volumes like this that focus on language, whether it's the misuse of commonly used words or untranslatable words from another culture or when to insert commas. In the spirit of Lynne Truss's \\"Eats, Shoots and Leaves\\" and Christopher Moore's \\"In Other Words\\", James Cochrane covers roughly two hundred words, phrases, and expressions that are frequently misused, mispronounced, or misspelled. In many cases, Cochrane, an editor at Penguin Books, gives real-world examples from people who really should know better: writers, journalists, broadcasters, and other public figures. Throughout, his style is light and readable. As usual with these types of books, he can come across as pedantic and prescriptive, but on the whole he gets the right tone to ingratiate the reader.<br /><br />Cochrane arranges the book alphabetically, with a couple of paragraphs describing each entry and the common error attached to it. I received the most value from the sections highlighting frequently confused words. Cochrane tells the reader how to choose the correct term from pairs such as comprised and composed, discrete and discreet, flout and flaunt, who and whom, and even some you probably thought you understood like envy and jealousy. Other sections of value focus on his mission to stamp out the redundancy in expressions like free gift, ongoing situation, and at this moment in time. Another area of concern for the author is the misuse of plurals. He points out that bacterium is the singular form of bacteria, criterion of criteria, stratum of strata, phenomenon of phenomena and a new one for me, graffito for graffiti. There are some random jewels to be mined here, for example, the mistaken use of alibi to mean any excuse, rather than a plea that when the crime was committed the suspect was somewhere else; or the misuse of \\"epicenter\\" to mean simply a center, rather than the technical sense of the point on the Earth's surface immediately above the origin of an earthquake; or stating the oft-turned phrase of \\"a panacea for all ills\\" is a redundancy since a panacea is already a universal cure. Many more await the reader, and if you're like me, your paranoia will increase with what will come out of your mouth as a result. A genuinely entertaining read if not in the same league as the gold standard on such breeches, Stunk and White's \\"Elements of Style\\".ake; or stating the oft-turned phrase of \\"a panacea for all ills\\" is a redundancy since a panacea is already a universal cure. Many more await the reader, and if you're like me, your paranoia will increase with what will come out of your mouth as a result. A genuinely entertaining read if not in the same league as the gold standard on such breeches, Stunk and White's \\"Elements of Style\\".	2005-04-17
US	52697971	R3NBPYAWNTMZUM	006073132X	150560620	Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything	Books	5	105	125	N	N	The Power of Data in a Master Economist's Hands	Having myself survived the economics program at the University of Chicago as a young graduate student twenty years ago, I know how decidedly eccentric their laurelled scholars can be. One of the most prestigious of the current crop there, Steven D. Levitt, along with journalist Stephen J. Dubner, has written a most intriguing and mind-bending book that uses Chicago-style econometric approaches and applies those to social and political issues that otherwise seem mundane and have no apparent basis in coherent theory which would support the behavior under study. In fact, this book of compelling case studies bears similarities to the approach taken by author Malcolm Gladwell in his recent best-selling book, \\"The Tipping Point\\", where he takes primarily historical events and analyzes them almost anecdotally as exercises in human behavior, in his case, making connections and how ideas become trends not by gradual insinuation but by a singular dramatic moment.<br /><br />But Levitt's canvas is broader, his theories and findings are far more diverse, and his approach is far more quantitative in nature. For example, he challenges the perception that campaign spending determines elections. Levitt's analysis takes a fresh look by contrasting races in which the same two congressional candidates run repeatedly against each other. What he concludes is that a winning candidate can spend half as much as before and lose only one percent of the vote, while a losing candidate who doubles campaign spending picks up only one percent more. Basically they prove that no matter how much candidates spend on their campaigns, the results would not be marginally affected. In another example, the authors describe a seller's real estate agent, who lives on commission and has an incentive to sell a listed home for maximum dollar. Again, this is a misconception since the authors contend the small financial reward to an agent who sells a home for a few thousand more dollars is dwarfed by the greater money to be made by selling properties for less but quicker. Levitt's research into the sale of one hundred thousand Chicago homes found that agents keep their own homes on the market an average of ten days longer and sell them for more than three percent more than the homes they list and sell for clients.<br /><br />The penetrating analyses provided by Levitt appear to have no bounds as he identifies Chicago teachers, who were proven to be changing their students' test answers and ultimately fired for their actions; sumo wrestlers who were found to be cheating as well; and even the alternative and more lucrative career options that crack dealers may have at McDonald's versus making sales. He even questions the impact of a good first name in a person's later life and if children become more literate if their parents read to them. The conclusions surprised me as they will you. But the most compelling study he presents is related to the impact of Roe vs. Wade. In a study he conducted with Stanford law Professor John Donohue, Levitt makes a seemingly broad-stroked conclusion in attributing much of the drop in the U.S. crime rate to legalized abortion. Their argument was based on the theory that abortion prevented the births of unwanted children who otherwise would have been statistically more likely to mature into criminals. The crime rate drop coincided with the time those aborted pregnancies would otherwise have hit their teen years, and the trend showed up earlier in states such as California that were the first to enact more liberal access to abortions. Through the data they gather, the correlation is startling, and the conclusion is hard to refute despite the naysayers who felt the stuffy to be politically motivated. But to Levitt's academically inclined credit, he never seems like he has an ideological agenda as he lets the numbers do the talking for him. His genius is to take those seemingly meaningless sets of numbers, ferret out the telltale pattern and recognize what it all means. A brilliant mind is at work, as he takes the most mundane open-ended questions and actually answers them. Strongly recommended.means. A brilliant mind is at work, as he takes the most mundane open-ended questions and actually answers them. Strongly recommended.	2005-04-16
US	52697971	R39WE61LG4W514	0743245083	712742217	It's Only a Movie: Alfred Hitchcock: A Personal Biography	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Hitchcock Once Over Lightly	It's no wonder that Alfred Hitchcock continues to fascinate a quarter century after his death as his work resonates still. Author Charlotte Chandler has written a breezy history of Hitchcock the master filmmaker. It's by no means the best one on the market, as I feel Donald Spoto wrote the authoritative biography in 1983, \\"The Dark Side of Genius: The Life of Alfred Hitchcock\\", and Francois Truffaut published his famous comprehensive interview with Hitchcock in 1967. I would recommend either before diving into this dishy memoir, but it's good fun about his professional life nonetheless.<br /><br />Chandler breaks down Hitchcock's story movie by movie in chronological order. Each section deals anecdotally with each film, noting the little triumphs and failures inherent in any project and including the actors' impressions of working for the master of suspense. Contrary to popular belief, many were genuinely impressed by Hitchcock's genius almost to the point of genuflection, and the book is full of recollections of his kindnesses, hardly the dark portrait Spoto painted nor Hitchcock himself with the characters in his films.  In fact, according to Chandler, he did not readily abandon his actors as is widely believed. Rather, everyone simply agreed he knew what he wanted and with supreme confidence, Hitchcock dictated a set like a consummate professional. To the thinner-skinned, he was an icy control freak. His no-fuss filmmaking style comes across in Chandler's colorful descriptions of the classics he directed. Sometimes, Chandler insinuates herself into the narrative to the point of being intrusive, as if she needs to validate her qualifications for writing this biography. It can get irritating, but luckily her insights offset much of the over-personalized perspective. Just reviewing his filmography in such gently provocative detail is reason enough to buy this book, whether it's \\"Rebecca\\", \\"Shadow of a Doubt\\", \\"Notorious\\", \\"Strangers on a Train\\", \\"Rear Window\\", \\"Vertigo'', \\"North by Northwest\\", \\"Psycho\\", \\"The Birds\\", or his earlier English pictures.  An entertaining read about a true character and a deservedly legendary director.North by Northwest\\", \\"Psycho\\", \\"The Birds\\", or his earlier English pictures.  An entertaining read about a true character and a deservedly legendary director.	2005-04-16
US	52697971	R3U0GDV60FLY2V	0374292884	377846531	The World Is Flat: A Brief History of the Twenty-first Century	Books	4	24	28	N	N	Flattening the World with Clever Insight	Three-act structures seem to be quite fashionable in books these days, what with Jane Fonda describing her life as a three-act play in her just-published \\"My Life So Far\\" and now with New York Times foreign affairs columnist Thomas Friedman introducing the concept of \\"Globalization 3.0\\" in his newest book. Perhaps it gives readers like myself a sense of order that may not be readily apparent otherwise. According to Friedman, nation-states ruled \\"Globalization 1.0\\" until 1800, while multinational corporations dominated through the Industrial Revolution in \\"Globalization 2.0\\" until the new millennium began. He explains that the burgeoning global fiber-optic network has transcended national borders and corporate entities to the point of starting a new defining phenomenon of our economy - the outsourcing of the U.S. economy's service and information-technology work to India and other developing nations.<br /><br />The result is a flattened world, a macro-level regrouping of economic forces which occur periodically on a global basis. By no means unprecedented, Friedman's treatise goes further to describe the ten forces that have decimated us in similar ways through history, including the fall of the Berlin Wall and the discrediting of Soviet-style command economies, as well as the advent of search engines like Google, most of whose queries are now no longer in English. The concept of a seemingly borderless world is hardly groundbreaking, but Friedman does make a compelling case for the great leveling going on that allows individuals worldwide to collaborate and compete on a whole new scale. Friedman thinks big. Wireless mobility, for instance, is a \\"mobile me\\" revolution that will have its \\"full flattening effect by freeing people to truly be able to work and communicate from anywhere to anywhere with anything.\\"<br /><br />But Friedman understands that true globalization will be limited by the rampant poverty of the third world. \\"You cannot drive economic growth,\\" Friedman says, \\"in a place where 50 percent of the people are infected with malaria or half of the kids are malnourished or a third of the mothers are dying of AIDS.\\" What further complicates this concept is 9/11 and the ensuing threat of terrorism that brings back the reality of national borders. Friedman's treatment of 9/11 and Middle Eastern issues is insightful, but it doesn't convincingly settle the question of whether global trade or global terror is our age's central organizing principle. Taking advantage of the Bush administration's dismissal of securing poorly guarded Russian nuclear weapons and material, the al Qaeda could buy, build or steal nuclear weapons. In such a case, the surging growth of the Indian and Chinese entrepreneurial classes seems rather incidental. As a result, the book becomes more valuable as a guide to surviving in the computer age. It provides specific steps for individuals, companies, and poor nations to adapt to a \\"flat world\\". Friedman is big on metaphors, catch-phrases like \\"in-sourcing\\" and \\"in-forming\\" and sound-bite theories like \\"no two nations having McDonald's have gone to war\\". His glibness aside, he seems to know the world around him through his extensive travels and adept observations.  Highly recommended.lace where 50 percent of the people are infected with malaria or half of the kids are malnourished or a third of the mothers are dying of AIDS.\\" What further complicates this concept is 9/11 and the ensuing threat of terrorism that brings back the reality of national borders. Friedman's treatment of 9/11 and Middle Eastern issues is insightful, but it doesn't convincingly settle the question of whether global trade or global terror is our age's central organizing principle. Taking advantage of the Bush administration's dismissal of securing poorly guarded Russian nuclear weapons and material, the al Qaeda could buy, build or steal nuclear weapons. In such a case, the surging growth of the Indian and Chinese entrepreneurial classes seems rather incidental. As a result, the book becomes more valuable as a guide to surviving in the computer age. It provides specific steps for individuals, companies, and poor nations to adapt to a \\"flat world\\". Friedman is big on metaphors, catch-phrases like \\"in-sourcing\\" and \\"in-forming\\" and sound-bite theories like \\"no two nations having McDonald's have gone to war\\". His glibness aside, he seems to know the world around him through his extensive travels and adept observations.  Highly recommended.	2005-04-10
US	52697971	R3Q4MZZEQZ93OW	0375507108	349152576	My Life So Far	Books	4	23	42	N	N	Evolving Personas Define a Remarkable Woman	To say that Jane Fonda has led a full life seems like an understatement, and this 624-page book will vouch for that since what comes across is not as much the depth of the woman as much as it is the breadth of her life. I have been looking forward to this book for a long time, and at 67, Fonda remains a controversial icon and a person whose identity has evolved dramatically and not without her share of pain, sometimes self-inflicted. But this does not feel like a victim's tell-all, and frankly I'd have been surprised if it did as Fonda always strikes me as her father's daughter - impervious, principled, accomplished, preternaturally intelligent and gifted. As a result, the book feels more like a confessional about how she has reacted to the unexpected events in her life and how she has often been the impetus for many of the challenges she faced. Unlike her stoic father (who unsurprisingly never wrote his life story), she's not afraid to come across as self-absorbed, strident, sometimes overly cautious, and for all her intelligence, quite naïve. The result is a believable portrait of a woman who has spent her entire life in the public eye, and for those reasons alone, her autobiography provides great value in revealing someone who takes accountability for both the successes and failures in her life.<br /><br />Fonda confidently and convincingly divides her life into three acts, asserting that she is near the beginning of Act III. Act I starts with a classic Hollywood childhood gone awry by an emotionally isolated father and a mentally disturbed mother who committed suicide. Similar to her friend Brooke Hayward's 1977 memoir \\"Haywire\\", this portion of the book reveals a world of privilege disconnected from notions of self-worth. Dysfunction becomes a way of life and leads the young Fonda into an extended period of self-loathing (exemplified by her long-running eating disorders) and a fear of genuine intimacy. Growing into a beautiful woman and a rising actress in the Hollywood firmament, she appeared to be quite sexually active (in her words, \\"some pretty terrific fountains-of-Versailles-and fireworks sex!\\") but could not make herself emotionally available. This allowed her first husband, director Roger Vadim, to become her Svengali, ultimately leading her to the infamous soft-porn camp classic, \\"Barbarella\\".<br /><br />As she and Vadim drifted into divorce, Fonda dove into politics with equal amounts passion and naivet&eacute;. Often landing herself in hot water, she makes guarded apologies about her controversial trip to North Vietnam in 1972, but her political liberation kick-starts Act II, arguably her most fruitful period. She finally realized her potential as an actress winning two Oscars in the process and became involved with former Chicago Seven member, Tom Hayden. Despite his passion for economic democracy, he comes across as patronizing and sometimes quite cruel at a time when Fonda was coming into her own, as she became the queen of the workout video well before the concept became big business. The irony is that he resented her success even though the profits funded his political activities. Act II ends with her turbulent ten-year marriage to media mogul Ted Turner, a megalomaniac whom Fonda treats with respect and an occasional sense of regret. For all his out-of-control habits and predilections, he understood what she needed even though the world could not make sense as to why these two political opposites would marry. Act III shows her as active as ever, a born-again Christian reigniting her acting career after fifteen years and focusing on issues regarding adolescent reproductive health, sexuality and pregnancy. I am looking forward to what she'll do next.<br /><br />This is not a perfect book. Her writing can fluctuate wildly in tone from being a mite too matter-of-fact to overwhelming in its use of self-conscious psychology and politically naïve pontification. And I'm probably among the minority in wishing that she could have delved even deeper into her movies and the filmmaking process. These relatively minor flaws aside, one gets the sense of a complete, unfiltered person from this book. I remember very well her prancing around that cold attic apartment as an impetuous newlywed with Robert Redford in \\"Barefoot in the Park\\". And following her from that moment through all her different public personas has been quite a rollercoaster, but the journey certainly remains unparalleled among second-generation Hollywood progeny. Jane Fonda is indeed a remarkable woman unapologetic about the sometimes unwise decisions that have shaped her legacy. A fascinating memoir.eper into her movies and the filmmaking process. These relatively minor flaws aside, one gets the sense of a complete, unfiltered person from this book. I remember very well her prancing around that cold attic apartment as an impetuous newlywed with Robert Redford in \\"Barefoot in the Park\\". And following her from that moment through all her different public personas has been quite a rollercoaster, but the journey certainly remains unparalleled among second-generation Hollywood progeny. Jane Fonda is indeed a remarkable woman unapologetic about the sometimes unwise decisions that have shaped her legacy. A fascinating memoir.	2005-04-08
US	52697971	R17XO671CYA3UT	0385511809	740331338	Saturday: A novel	Books	5	10	17	N	N	Confounding Expectations Looking at a Day in the Life	Living in a post-9/11 world has not really been articulated yet without having to make a direct reference to that tragic day and what it meant on a more macro-level to the collective spirit of the Western world. At least not until author Ian McEwan wrote this penetrating, methodical book, which focuses on one man over the course of one day, February 15, 2003, when there were massive demonstrations worldwide against the looming war in Iraq.<br /><br />The protagonist is Henry Perowne. On the surface, he is a successful London neurosurgeon married contentedly to Rosalind, an equally successful newspaper lawyer, and they are the proud parents to two grown-up children - daughter Daisy is a promising poet and son Theo is a talented blues musician. But underneath his serene façade, there is an instantly relatable wave of dread that permeates his being, as he contemplates the impact of the imminent war on Iraq and the under-seige dismantling of democracy as we still know it. Yet, McEwan is not interested in writing an anti-war polemic under the guise of a novel because his protagonist is also skeptical of the anti-war position, largely because one of his former patients is an Iraqi who was tortured by Saddam Hussein's regime. The author even creates a sense of subtle conflict between Perowne and his own children - recognizing his inability to replicate his son's creative expression and confused by his daughter's need to feed the classics to him. At heart, he is a scientific man who prefers just rational explanations in his life and way too busy to do much reading, skeptical of what others view as literature's importance to society. But then similar to Tom Wolfe's \\"Bonfire of the Vanities\\", everything changes with an unforeseen event. Frustrated by the hundreds of thousands of anti-war protestors he needs to maneuver around, Perowne has a minor accident with a car driven by three gangsters who aren't very keen on the demonstrators either. This brings him into a confrontation with Baxter, the fidgety, diminutive leader that brings Perowne to the edge of violence. But amazingly, a crisis is averted when Perowne recites a 19th-century poem, Matthew Arnold's \\"Dover Beach\\", which utterly disarms Baxter, completely enthralled by the kind of literature Perowne had avoided from his daughter.<br /><br />The irony is palpable because McEwan does a commendable job of making it believable. By his insinuating, dramatically effective prose, he articulates the precarious relationship between rationality and creativity and the necessity for fiction in a world of fact. He certainly has done his research in making his surgeon-protagonist real and fascinating at the same time, adopting the appropriate technical vocabulary and the matter-of-fact way he describes Perowne's surgical procedures. And what McEwan does particularly well is show how a decent man who does useful work and loves his family still needs to seek his moral compass as the violence of the outside world closes in on him. As he has proven with the astonishing \\"Atonement\\", McEwan provides sharp insights and seemingly small observations and makes the sum of them enthralling. The moment of imminent violence in the initial confrontation is dramatically compelling. McEwan has a unique gift for being topical without contriving a situation to fit his themes. Strongly recommended.axter, the fidgety, diminutive leader that brings Perowne to the edge of violence. But amazingly, a crisis is averted when Perowne recites a 19th-century poem, Matthew Arnold's \\"Dover Beach\\", which utterly disarms Baxter, completely enthralled by the kind of literature Perowne had avoided from his daughter.    The irony is palpable because McEwan does a commendable job of making it believable. By his insinuating, dramatically effective prose, he articulates the precarious relationship between rationality and creativity and the necessity for fiction in a world of fact. He certainly has done his research in making his surgeon-protagonist real and fascinating at the same time, adopting the appropriate technical vocabulary and the matter-of-fact way he describes Perowne's surgical procedures. And what McEwan does particularly well is show how a decent man who does useful work and loves his family still needs to seek his moral compass as the violence of the outside world closes in on him. As he has proven with the astonishing \\"Atonement\\", McEwan provides sharp insights and seemingly small observations and makes the sum of them enthralling. The moment of imminent violence in the initial confrontation is dramatically compelling. McEwan has a unique gift for being topical without contriving a situation to fit his themes. Strongly recommended.	2005-03-31
US	52697971	R3G0JY911FQT1L	0393326764	93290784	The Big Bento Box of Unuseless Japanese Inventions	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Japanese Gadgets Hit Closer to Home Than You Think	I took one look at this amusing book and immediately understood why only the Japanese would revel in these wacky inventions which they call \\"chindogu\\". As a Japanese-American myself, I understand the high value placed on self-sufficiency and time-efficiency in their daily existences. After all, these are the people who came up with sleeping tubes and subway passenger pushers. Designer and author Kenji Kawakami and translator Dan Papia promote 200 of these funky devices that range from the conceivably helpful to the hysterically absurd. The humor comes from not only the devices but also the straight-faced photos of the devices in action and the accompanying text that captures the pure huckster cheese of an airline mail-order magazine. Kawakami provides the top ten tenets of chindogu to set the stage for what follows. He considers a chindogu a failure if it is slightly useful, a success if it captures the spirit of anarchy. They cannot be invented simply for humor. They must exist as a prototype but never be patented or sold. Kawakami understands that there is no gadget so unuseless that somebody out there would not buy it if offered, and in this regard, the Japanese have shown more discretion than Americans who would submit their patent applications on a dime.<br /><br />Expect to giggle quite a bit perusing this book, and here are a few of my particular favorites:<br />* Diet dishes - rice bowls cut in half with a mirror inserted to make them seem like full bowls, marketed with the tagline \\"Satisfy your hunger with a culinary optical illusion\\".<br />* Portable subway straps - straps hung on a suction cup that you would place on the ceiling of a particularly crowded subway car. I could easily see using this on BART during rush hour.<br />* Hay fever hat - a chin-strapped ring hat with a toilet paper dispenser mounted on top to allow you to sneeze without incident.<br />* Stormy sky tie - an updated variation of the clip-on tie that doubles as a collapsible umbrella in front.<br />* Baby mops - a sleep-suit quipped with mop-heads so that when the baby is on the floor, he/she can mop the floor at the same time. There are the similarly functional duster slippers for cats. Why not put your toddlers and pets to use on your household chores?<br />* Portable zebra crossing - a rolled-up piece of plastic mimicking a crosswalk pattern so one has the inarguable right-of-way on busy streets.<br />* Self-portrait camera stick - a 57-cm telescoping pole which allows young and apparently shy couples to take pictures of themselves without having to bother passing strangers. The only sacrifice is the constant appearance of the pole in every shot.<br /><br />The last two actually reflect the Japanese tendency to \\"save face\\" by not intruding on others' lives for their own convenience. Consequently I don't think these would translate too well overseas. This is truly a big bento box of fun for those who enjoy the silliness that results from inventive minds focused on the immediacy of their own environments. However, the book also illustrates how close we are in realizing much of this type of seemingly trivial inventions with what we see in Sharper Image and Brookstone catalogs. That may be the primary allure of this pink tome, the fact that we end up laughing at ourselves for ideas we may not have been creative or motivated enough to make real.a sleep-suit quipped with mop-heads so that when the baby is on the floor, he/she can mop the floor at the same time. There are the similarly functional duster slippers for cats. Why not put your toddlers and pets to use on your household chores?  * Portable zebra crossing - a rolled-up piece of plastic mimicking a crosswalk pattern so one has the inarguable right-of-way on busy streets.  * Self-portrait camera stick - a 57-cm telescoping pole which allows young and apparently shy couples to take pictures of themselves without having to bother passing strangers. The only sacrifice is the constant appearance of the pole in every shot.     The last two actually reflect the Japanese tendency to \\"save face\\" by not intruding on others' lives for their own convenience. Consequently I don't think these would translate too well overseas. This is truly a big bento box of fun for those who enjoy the silliness that results from inventive minds focused on the immediacy of their own environments. However, the book also illustrates how close we are in realizing much of this type of seemingly trivial inventions with what we see in Sharper Image and Brookstone catalogs. That may be the primary allure of this pink tome, the fact that we end up laughing at ourselves for ideas we may not have been creative or motivated enough to make real.	2005-03-28
US	52697971	R2AUHD2LYRNZ14	0767911784	137552265	Conspiracy of Fools: A True Story	Books	4	12	19	N	N	Enron Tragedy Only Scratches the Surface of Corporate Greed	Oliver Stone's 1987 movie, \\"Wall Street\\", now seems like mere child's play compared to the corporate greed exposed by the Enron scandal. You need look no further if you want a comprehensive account, as New York Times reporter Kurt Eichenwald uses his masterful investigative skills to assemble a \\"War and Peace\\"-level account of the most significant corporate downfall of recent American economic history.  What Eichenwald does well is provide the domino-like detail of the unethical and illegal activities that seem so preventable on the surface. The intricacy of the corruption shows the entangled culpability of Enron's senior management team in lucid terms, even though the complexity of the company's corporate structure baffled individual investors, stock analysts, government regulators and journalists for months, even years.<br /><br />The author interviewed more than one hundred of the players, and the rest, documented in over forty pages of source notes, reflects a heavy reliance on interviews by FBI agents, federal grand jury testimonies as well as those in front of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, all kinds of media coverage, even personal diaries. He takes a chronological approach to all this, perhaps his only recourse since much of this scandal has yet to be played out in the courts, in particular, the projected trial of Ken Lay is not scheduled to open until this fall. All this corroboration makes for an intriguing though sometimes overwhelming mix of creative accounting, prosecutorial decisions, undisclosed sex scandals, troubled marriages and greed in its most naked form.  Eichenwald does not paint a portrait of simply villainy, which has already been done in other books such as Bethany McLean and Peter Elkind's \\"The Smartest Guys in the Room: The Amazing Rise and Scandalous Fall of Enron\\". Instead, he takes a more logical perspective in outlining a tragedy inhabited by people smart enough to know how to maneuver around the rules but not wise enough to understand why the rules had been written in the first place. That's why the author does not finger Lay completely but rather zeroes in on chief financial officer Andrew Fastow and president Jeffrey Skilling. The author recognizes the shared culpability of the chief Enron executives on their way to increased personal fortune, a well-traveled road judging by James Stewart's illuminating book about Michael Eisner and the Disney executive team in his recent sizzler, \\"Disney War\\".  Perhaps the Enron precedent prevented a similar scenario being played out in the Magic Kingdom.<br /><br />Regardless, Eichenwald believes that new cycles of corporate corruption will be exposed on an even grander scale than Enron, a sobering thought when one considers the nation's current economic malaise. There is a gallery of relative villains to consider from the institutional investors on the make for increasing profits, the Republican-dominated congressional majorities willing to look the other way to maintain their corporate backing, government regulators blindly committed to deregulation without considering the consequences and a dynastic U.S. President who comes from generations of wealth. It's a bleak outlook but one that the author spells out pretty clearly.erstand why the rules had been written in the first place. That's why the author does not finger Lay completely but rather zeroes in on chief financial officer Andrew Fastow and president Jeffrey Skilling. The author recognizes the shared culpability of the chief Enron executives on their way to increased personal fortune, a well-traveled road judging by James Stewart's illuminating book about Michael Eisner and the Disney executive team in his recent sizzler, \\"Disney War\\".  Perhaps the Enron precedent prevented a similar scenario being played out in the Magic Kingdom.    Regardless, Eichenwald believes that new cycles of corporate corruption will be exposed on an even grander scale than Enron, a sobering thought when one considers the nation's current economic malaise. There is a gallery of relative villains to consider from the institutional investors on the make for increasing profits, the Republican-dominated congressional majorities willing to look the other way to maintain their corporate backing, government regulators blindly committed to deregulation without considering the consequences and a dynastic U.S. President who comes from generations of wealth. It's a bleak outlook but one that the author spells out pretty clearly.	2005-03-28
US	52697971	RJ3VQT6QVMP0O	0743243390	655225907	The Chrysanthemum Palace	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Trio of Silver Spooned Misfits in Hollywood Babylon	This is a genuinely fun read for those who want to experience a rather jaundiced view of the inner workings of the entertainment industry, and author Bruce Wagner has a swaggering, scabrous writing style perfect in providing this perspective. Filled to the brim with his insider knowledge about Hollywood, Wagner's novel focuses on three friends who have grown up as the progeny of legends, spoiled misfits really, and now are fully ensconced in what remains of the dream machine.<br /><br />First, there's Bertie, who acts the part of a cocky pilot on a long-running \\"Star Trek\\"-like show called \\"Starwatch\\", created by his father Perry. But he is tired of what he considers hack work and tries to create his own show for HBO, an unpromising soap called \\"Holmby Hills\\". Then there's Thad, a hugely successful Robin Williams-type comic actor in his fifties, who is overshadowed by the far more serious reputation of his legendary novelist father, Jack Michelet, a three-time winner of the Pulitzer Prize. Thad's father is larger than life, to put it mildly, fulfilling his macho archetype by living a hedonist lifestyle, maintaining a high standing among the literati and being psychologically abusive to his son, whom he unfavorably compares to his dead twin in an \\"Ordinary People\\"-style twist. And finally there's Clea, Bertie's old friend and Thad's current girlfriend, who is the daughter of American screen icon Roos Chandler, who has achieved the unprecedented feat of winning three consecutive Oscars.  Clea accepts Bertie's offer of work as an ingenious alien mechanic on \\"Starwatch\\" as a way of keeping ahead of her addictions.<br /><br />What Wagner picks up on quite accurately is the way everyone speaks in that cynical, campy, self-conscious language of Hollywood that you suspect real people there are really talking. It's all about one-upping the other person with a gallows humor laced with a patronizing, know-it-all attitude. They celebrate their hypocrisy when justifying why they would accept a job working on a commercial movie, even though they know they need to develop indie cred to develop the image they want. In fact, the three friends all have projects in development that they believe will stir their creative juices and bring them the respect they feel they deserve. The funniest is Clea's plan to develop a Seinfeld-type show about show business children starring herself and Thad, of course. On the other hand, Thad naturally wants to mount a one-man autobiographical show directed by Mike Nichols (just like Whoopi Goldberg). Your enjoyment of this book will depend on your interest in getting intimate with Hollywood studio politics and the lifestyles of the privileged Southern California ennui set. Despite such alienating trappings, Wagner actually makes us care about these quirky, never-satisfied characters, while giving us ample opportunity to laugh at their exploits. A great commuter read.job working on a commercial movie, even though they know they need to develop indie cred to develop the image they want. In fact, the three friends all have projects in development that they believe will stir their creative juices and bring them the respect they feel they deserve. The funniest is Clea's plan to develop a Seinfeld-type show about show business children starring herself and Thad, of course. On the other hand, Thad naturally wants to mount a one-man autobiographical show directed by Mike Nichols (just like Whoopi Goldberg). Your enjoyment of this book will depend on your interest in getting intimate with Hollywood studio politics and the lifestyles of the privileged Southern California ennui set. Despite such alienating trappings, Wagner actually makes us care about these quirky, never-satisfied characters, while giving us ample opportunity to laugh at their exploits. A great commuter read.	2005-03-21
US	52697971	R1730MZ4IE60TA	0465047238	323650297	The Best Year of Their Lives: Kennedy, Nixon, and Johnson in 1948: Learning the Secrets of Power	Books	5	12	17	N	N	Three Men Face Decisions in 1948 That Lead to Their Fate	This fascinating book chronicles a pivotal year in the lives of three ambitious politicians each of whom became President. In 1948, John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson, and Richard M. Nixon were all on the rise as young congressmen who according to author Lance Morrow, went to great pains - physically, psychologically and morally - to ensure their place on the American political scene.  Like David Halberstam who wrote the classic \\"The Best and the Brightest\\", journalist Lance Morrow is able to shape a cohesive chapter of American history through seemingly unrelated events and brings a present-day relevance to what he writes.<br /><br />LBJ won the U.S. senate seat for Texas by a highly suspicious 87 late-counted votes over the more popular Coke Stevenson. In one of the bellwether events of Communist witch-hunting, Nixon used the headline-grabbing Alger Hiss case as a springboard for national prominence, and it indeed led to him to become Eisenhower's running-mate in 1952. And JFK, despite the image of youthful vigor, was dealing with the death of his glamorous sister \\"Kick\\" (Kathleen) and hiding the debilitating effects of Addison's disease. Morrow does a superb job intertwining these three men by focusing on the secrets each kept to move to the next level of political ascendancy.  Why this takes on a greater relevance is what the year 1948 represents in American history - the redefining period between the end of WWII and the crystallization of the Cold War. Many held secrets far larger in scope than these three. After all, the Cold War was all about Communist infiltration within the U.S. government, concealed knowledge courtesy of informers under the guise of friends, clandestine acts of espionage and who would end up detonating the A-bomb.  That's why the secrets held by LBJ, JFK and Nixon seem so indicative of the prevalent behavior - LBJ did anything, no matter how unscrupulous, to take attention off the controversial votes that sent him off to the Senate; Nixon destroyed civil liberties and took witch-hunting to a new level with his obsessive pursuit of Hiss and Whittaker Chambers; and JFK went to great lengths to hide his medical condition knowing he would never otherwise have a chance to become President. Each drama turned on secrets.<br /><br />What Morrow does best is show how the rather amoral behavior of each shaped each of their destinies and how each was challenged later on when Vietnam brought down LBJ and Watergate did the same for Nixon. Vietnam almost proved to be JFK's undoing, though we'll never know as his life was cut short in Dallas. Each was not so much into breaking rules as much as they saw them as irrelevant to them. Their shared priority was in creating their legacies no matter the cost. 1948 saw many more prominent turning points - Gandhi's assassination, the birth of Israel, the Kinsey Report was published - but this comprehensive history book really shows how the next generation of leaders were formed and ultimately damaged by the decisions they made at that critical juncture.  Strongly recommended.on destroyed civil liberties and took witch-hunting to a new level with his obsessive pursuit of Hiss and Whittaker Chambers; and JFK went to great lengths to hide his medical condition knowing he would never otherwise have a chance to become President. Each drama turned on secrets. <br /> <br />What Morrow does best is show how the rather amoral behavior of each shaped each of their destinies and how each was challenged later on when Vietnam brought down LBJ and Watergate did the same for Nixon. Vietnam almost proved to be JFK's undoing, though we'll never know as his life was cut short in Dallas. Each was not so much into breaking rules as much as they saw them as irrelevant to them. Their shared priority was in creating their legacies no matter the cost. 1948 saw many more prominent turning points - Gandhi's assassination, the birth of Israel, the Kinsey Report was published - but this comprehensive history book really shows how the next generation of leaders were formed and ultimately damaged by the decisions they made at that critical juncture.  Strongly recommended.	2005-03-20
US	52697971	REXL76580UHN	1400062659	627904149	The Orientalist: Solving the Mystery of a Strange and Dangerous Life	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A Short Life Proving the Value of Multicultural Intolerance	What a bizarre life writer Lev Nussimbaum (a.k.a. Essad Bey a.k.a. Kurban Said) led. Author Tom Reiss chronicles an unfinished life that took far more twists and turns than even his subject's name changes. Born the protected son of a Jewish oil millionaire in Baku, Azerbaijan, in 1905, Lev (as the author calls him) traversed Central Asia, eventually moved to Paris and then moved on to Berlin, where he converted to Islamism at age 17. Until his untimely death twenty years later in 1942, he became a prominent journalist and a highly prolific author during his short life - cultural histories; biographies of, among others, Muhammad, Czar Nicholas II and Stalin; and most famously, a love story under his pen name of Kurban Said, \\"Ali and Nino\\", a cross-cultural romance set just before the Russian Revolution, which became a bestseller in the early seventies and is still available to order on Amazon. His constant writing obviously reflected a fertile mind and fearless expression bouncing from one subject to the next with each book. He wrote about his anti-Communist perspective, his idea for global tolerance which he called \\"cosmopolitanism\\" and even the increasing militancy of the Islams even before WWII.<br /><br />But Reiss is not content in telling just Lev's story, as he often delves into details that have little or sometimes nothing to do with him. The author seems like a natural dilettante showing a strong interest in the broader outline of historical events. He takes a single event in Lev's life and then maneuvers the reader through anecdotes and unexpected angles. The whole makes the book feel somewhat episodic at times but generally for the sake of a greater understanding of the context of Lev's story. The problem is that there is so often so much more background than foreground that one loses track of the protagonist for pages at a time, while Reiss explains some cultural phenomenon at the time. But he uses this technique well in explaining the wider political tragedy that marked Lev's death. Lev's ideal of a \\"cosmopolitanism\\" in which every religion subsists with every other is a dream worth savoring, and his brief life was testament that it could happen. A sometimes convoluted but strong read.t marked Lev's death. Lev's ideal of a \\"cosmopolitanism\\" in which every religion subsists with every other is a dream worth savoring, and his brief life was testament that it could happen. A sometimes convoluted but strong read.	2005-03-20
US	52697971	R20WT1CKZJ1179	0743247531	657435935	The Glass Castle: A Memoir	Books	4	10	14	N	N	Traumatic Vagabond Past Told With Surprising Objectivity	It's hard to believe that glamorous MSNBC entertainment reporter Jeannette Walls could have led such a hardscrabble, itinerant life as a child, but this phase of her life is chronicled in vivid detail in this powerful, tightly written memoir. The book starts with a defining moment when she's in a taxi en route to a party and out the window finds her mother sifting through a dumpster. Of course this is followed by a moment of epiphany in front of a mirror and a flashback to her childhood. Apparently, as she was hobnobbing among the upscale Manhattan social set, she hid her deep secret from the world, the fact that she grew up poor and led a mostly nomadic and homeless existence before she went to college at Barnard on a scholarship. You would think the book will be a modern take on a pull-from-your-own-bootstraps Horatio Alger story, but she surprises with her personal insights and reporter's perspective to produce an enriching story of courage.<br /><br />Walls' parents, Rex and Rose Mary, were freedom-loving, eccentric hippies, she a hedonist who loved painting, he a brilliant alcoholic. Her father was a master at turning the most adverse conditions into something more attractive and meaningful to her daughter, even offering the planet Venus as a birthday present when he could not afford anything to give her. Often sleeping in cardboard boxes, the family made hasty getaways from town after town, whether it be in the Southwest or eventually in West Virginia where they settled. Each departure represented yet another trauma - a cat thrown out a car window, a scorpion bite, Jeanette herself hurled out of a car and left for dead in a desert, molestations by a neighbor and an uncle, a Christmas tree erupting in flames...and this seemingly relentless list goes on. Regardless, what I appreciate the most about Walls' style is that she never seems dejected, nor does she have the need to psychoanalyze the obvious dysfunctional nature of her family. She saw it all as a great adventure, albeit one that left both physical and mental scars on all the Walls kids. That they all maintained their sanity and in fact thrived afterward is an amazing testament to their resilience and fortitude. All make it to New York City, where unfortunately their parents follow them and live as squatters in an abandoned building on the Lower East Side, their fates hanging in the balance.<br /><br />Walls never stacks the deck against her parents, nor does she view them with pity. Rather, perhaps because of her journalistic background, she manages to be even-handed and intensely dramatic at the same time. That combination proves to be compelling throughout the book, making her more interesting as a person today versus the dire circumstances that would have prevented a less courageous person from being as successful. A powerful read., albeit one that left both physical and mental scars on all the Walls kids. That they all maintained their sanity and in fact thrived afterward is an amazing testament to their resilience and fortitude. All make it to New York City, where unfortunately their parents follow them and live as squatters in an abandoned building on the Lower East Side, their fates hanging in the balance.    Walls never stacks the deck against her parents, nor does she view them with pity. Rather, perhaps because of her journalistic background, she manages to be even-handed and intensely dramatic at the same time. That combination proves to be compelling throughout the book, making her more interesting as a person today versus the dire circumstances that would have prevented a less courageous person from being as successful. A powerful read.	2005-03-14
US	52697971	R3D7WX554I60HZ	0060012781	86601151	A Cook's Tour: Global Adventures in Extreme Cuisines	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Glibness and Enthusiasm Mix in Food/Travel Adventures	Celebrity chef Anthony Bourdain has that cock-of-the-walk, been-there-done-that personality that people either like or loathe. This travel/food short story collection - 22 in all - will unlikely change anyone's opinions, but on its own, it provides a fascinating glimpse into a variety of cultures and the attitudes of natives to their food. It also makes the ideal companion to the series he did for the Food Network. The concept is simple: he travels the world searching for the perfect meal and discovers more to the countries than just the food. Each chapter is devoted to a particular country or trip.<br /><br />When he sticks to his topic, the book is a fun, interesting read, for example, when he talks about Japan, he recognizes that much of their food preparation reflects the cultural obsession with quality. He manages to get us into a family home in St. Petersburg and captures the spirit within the darkness of that country. In Mexico, he paints a vivid tableau of a small town feast and how their sense of community informs all their cooking.  My favorite chapter is on Vietnam where he shows a real intimacy with the people there and a certain audacity in trying soft-boiled duck embryos and live cobra hearts. Having taken cooking lessons in a number of the countries he visited, I can appreciate his sense of wonder and surprise when he tries something most of the rest of us wouldn't dare touch. Bourdain is most successful when he positions himself as a curious traveler but less so when he feels a need to exhibit how cool he is, offering self-congratulatory quips rather than real insights. Regardless, whether it's deep-fried Mars bars in Glasgow, roasted lamb testicles in Morocco, or a four-star meal at Thomas Keller's French Laundry restaurant in Yountville, California, this book offers Bourdain's adventurous palette in easy, bite-size pieces.	2005-03-12
US	52697971	R29ZRB7VYHBMEO	0316346624	226933679	The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Gladwell Connects the Dots and Makes Them Stick	New Yorker columnist Malcolm Gladwell has a gift of turning the seemingly mundane into an organic series of findings that have universal application.  His entertaining and enlightening book is really about making connections and how ideas become trends not by gradual insinuation but by a singular dramatic moment. Like a scientific researcher, he breaks the process down into three basic rules: (1) the direction provided by the perpetrators or as he calls it, the Law of the Few - the Connectors, Mavens and Salesmen; (2) the qualities that make the ideas resonate - the Stickiness Factor; and (3) the impact of the environment in spreading these ideas, or the Power of Context. This is all very intriguing conceptually, but where the book really takes flight is Gladwell's acute ability to apply his logic to a wide variety of historical and cultural settings. He allows us to revise our thinking about familiar events to fit his theorems and not feel that we are at all being manipulated, no minor feat.<br /><br />I doubt if I have ever read a more compelling case supporting the power of networking than his account of Paul Revere's legendary ride. Tasked with the same mission, William Dawes rode to alert the countryside that night with the same message. However, he didn't know the right people to alert, and though he visited as many villages as Revere, the villages he visited only turned out a few people in the morning's battle. Gladwell's hypothesis is that Revere has become part of our folklore because he had the persona of someone who knew all the right people to alert in each town, and had the salesmanship power to convince them of the urgency of his message. In a more obvious iteration of the three rules, the author asserts that the holocaust would not have happened without the driving leadership of Hitler and his minions, a clear example of the Law of the Few. The Stickiness Factor came in the form of existing prejudices and jealousies ruminating for the past two millennia in Europe, heightened by the total humiliation of the nation after WWI. The Aryan purity espoused by the Third Reich certainly reflected the Power of Context in sustaining Hitler's regime until Germany's defeat in WWII. In a completely different context, Gladwell makes a compelling case for the endurance of \\"Sesame Street\\" and the popularity of \\"Blue's Clues\\", two mega-successful examples of children's television, both designed to make lessons stick through a combination of fantasy characters and relatable humans using repetition and narrative to encourage children to pay attention and remember. He even documents an average GPA increase of 0.25 among high school students who did watch \\"Sesame Street\\" regularly as children.<br /><br />But Gladwell is not one who is buried in the details, nor does he seem intent in changing the reader's perspective. Instead, he gives us a big picture and asks us to look at the familiar in different ways and acknowledge an alternate perspective and an opportunity to reframe. He is not insistent but almost nonchalant with his findings by leaving the reader the choice to apply the patterns he outlines to other situations. As with \\"Blink\\", his more recent book about trusting one's first impressions and snap judgments, Gladwell is expert in introducing new ideas in a most reader-friendly way and offering his own interpretations so that that the reader can make his or her own judgment.rope, heightened by the total humiliation of the nation after WWI. The Aryan purity espoused by the Third Reich certainly reflected the Power of Context in sustaining Hitler's regime until Germany's defeat in WWII. In a completely different context, Gladwell makes a compelling case for the endurance of \\"Sesame Street\\" and the popularity of \\"Blue's Clues\\", two mega-successful examples of children's television, both designed to make lessons stick through a combination of fantasy characters and relatable humans using repetition and narrative to encourage children to pay attention and remember. He even documents an average GPA increase of 0.25 among high school students who did watch \\"Sesame Street\\" regularly as children.    But Gladwell is not one who is buried in the details, nor does he seem intent in changing the reader's perspective. Instead, he gives us a big picture and asks us to look at the familiar in different ways and acknowledge an alternate perspective and an opportunity to reframe. He is not insistent but almost nonchalant with his findings by leaving the reader the choice to apply the patterns he outlines to other situations. As with \\"Blink\\", his more recent book about trusting one's first impressions and snap judgments, Gladwell is expert in introducing new ideas in a most reader-friendly way and offering his own interpretations so that that the reader can make his or her own judgment.	2005-03-11
US	52697971	R7HB8VNJK2F31	0060540176	63741750	Rebels on the Backlot: Six Maverick Directors and How They Conquered the Hollywood Studio System	Books	3	3	5	N	N	An Eye for an Eye: Six Surviving the Hollywood Money Machine	I find it intriguing that New York Times reporter Sharon Waxman has pulled together a book on six film directors who seem to have little in common save for the fact that they were able to break through the hermetically sealed Hollywood studio system in the nineties to forge identities as visionary filmmakers. I suppose that's reason enough to group them together, though when one thinks of their predecessors in the seventies - Spielberg, Coppola, Scorsese - this new brethren hardly seems to be at the same level of creative invention or business savvy, nor does one sense the professional bonding that propelled this former group toward critical and popular success. And unfortunately, Waxman chooses to bypass the current crop of minority filmmakers who have emerged in the past decade, such as Spike Lee, John Singleton, Robert Rodriguez and Alfonso Cuaron, whom one can argue have made as significant an impact as these six auteurs have had.<br /><br />The six filmmakers under Waxman's microscope are Quentin Tarantino (\\"Pulp Fiction\\", \\"Kill Bill - Parts 1 and 2\\"), Paul Thomas Anderson (\\"Boogie Nights\\", \\"Magnolia\\"), David Fincher (\\"Fight Club\\"), David O. Russell (\\"Flirting With Disaster\\", \\"Three Kings\\"), Spike Jonze (\\"Being John Malkovich\\", \\"Adaptation\\") and Steven Soderbergh (\\"Traffic\\", \\"Erin Brockovich\\").  Waxman takes an investigative reporter's scalpel to provide a sometimes scathing expose of the directors' intersecting private and professional lives, but it's saved from total tabloid fodder by providing an incisive and rather disheartening look at Hollywood movie deal-making replete with cleverly maneuvered betrayals. What emerges are six men who, despite their obvious talent, come out as ego-driven, socially inept mercenaries, all willing to compromise their integrity and even their families to secure the deal that will make them the center of the independent film scene. Top of the heap despite his spotty box office track record is Tarantino, a one-time video-rental clerk who parlayed his in-depth film trivia knowledge of film into highly stylized films, the most successful being 1994's \\"Pulp Fiction\\", probably the touchstone for all other independent films that followed its over $100 million domestic take. But the others, despite critical acclaim and awards, have fared less well financially, proving that these men are not really the rebels who have conquered Hollywood, just survivors of a system that will always view artistic statement as a lower priority than profitability, a major accomplishment in itself if you are to believe the author. If you have any doubts about Hollywood's preoccupation for the bottom line, I suggest you read James Stewart's just released \\"Disney War\\" to get validation of the points Waxman raises here.<br /><br />To her credit, she gives highly detailed, often compelling accounts of how some of their major films were made, in particular, \\"Boogie Nights\\", \\"Three Kings\\", \\"Being John Malkovich,\\" and most interestingly, \\"Fight Club\\", a movie so desultory to the studio heads that it brought down Fox's Bill Mechanic, who green lighted the film in spite of performing the same task with a little film called \\"Titanic\\". In addition to interviews with the six, who are understandably wary of Waxman's book, she has spoken with plenty of colleagues and relations to paint an awfully bleak portrait of the current Hollywood scene. One is left to wonder if the business will allow them any sort of longevity comparable to their predecessors despite their talent.l clerk who parlayed his in-depth film trivia knowledge of film into highly stylized films, the most successful being 1994's \\"Pulp Fiction\\", probably the touchstone for all other independent films that followed its over $100 million domestic take. But the others, despite critical acclaim and awards, have fared less well financially, proving that these men are not really the rebels who have conquered Hollywood, just survivors of a system that will always view artistic statement as a lower priority than profitability, a major accomplishment in itself if you are to believe the author. If you have any doubts about Hollywood's preoccupation for the bottom line, I suggest you read James Stewart's just released \\"Disney War\\" to get validation of the points Waxman raises here. <br /> <br />To her credit, she gives highly detailed, often compelling accounts of how some of their major films were made, in particular, \\"Boogie Nights\\", \\"Three Kings\\", \\"Being John Malkovich,\\" and most interestingly, \\"Fight Club\\", a movie so desultory to the studio heads that it brought down Fox's Bill Mechanic, who green lighted the film in spite of performing the same task with a little film called \\"Titanic\\". In addition to interviews with the six, who are understandably wary of Waxman's book, she has spoken with plenty of colleagues and relations to paint an awfully bleak portrait of the current Hollywood scene. One is left to wonder if the business will allow them any sort of longevity comparable to their predecessors despite their talent.	2005-03-08
US	52697971	R3C0UVM6P16SKX	1569473625	835044860	Since the Layoffs	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Vocational Guidance After a Layoff...Murder as a Trade	Author Iain Levison accurately captures the quiet desperation that comes from losing one's job in a layoff. I should know, as I have been a downsizing victim myself. It's a devastating experience, one that has a visceral and insidious impact since you are told you are no longer worth a paycheck and adding insult to injury, you're losing your job so someone higher up can keep his. Bottom line, someone has deemed you worthless so someone else can keep his/her livelihood. Levison manages to detail this feeling with fierce honesty, illustrating the rape of a worker's dignity and the dread it begats. His focus is Jake Skowran, a laid-off loading dock manager in small-town Wisconsin, not too dissimilar to the depressed world painted by Michael Moore in \\"Roger & Me\\", his documentary about Flint, Michigan. Angry, in debt and abandoned by a cheating girlfriend, Jake doesn't give in to his depressed circumstance and instead, discovers a vocational direction that is both financially lucrative and emotionally healing. He becomes a hit man to pay the bills, but it becomes much more since from his perspective, work becomes his life, and the prospect of being out of work is to lose touch with life. Jake apparently finds his calling.<br /><br />What I like most about Levison's book is his matter-of-fact attitude toward the heinous profession Jake has chose for himself. He is surprisingly pensive and calm about his new job. In fact, aside from the killings, the drama is of the more observational variety where we see Jake otherwise live his mundane everyday existence with friends and family. Levison's less-is-more style works well because this doesn't become a personal revenge tale (in fact, the boss doesn't even play a role in the story) or a socioeconomic statement about the disenfranchised. In fact, Jake's emotional detachment serves the reader to help root for him to get back on his feet and feel self-sufficient again. This stark novel feels almost like a black comedy version of Barbara Ehrenriech's non-fiction treatise on the blue-collar worker, \\"Nickel and Dimed\\" in that both capture the economic hardship of working people who are not in the position to fulfill themselves in other ways. It still seems like a most timely book to read, and even as a novel, it feels more authentic in its portrayal of blue-collar workers than a lot of books who simply observe and analyze their conditions from a distance. Highly recommended.Ehrenriech's non-fiction treatise on the blue-collar worker, \\"Nickel and Dimed\\" in that both capture the economic hardship of working people who are not in the position to fulfill themselves in other ways. It still seems like a most timely book to read, and even as a novel, it feels more authentic in its portrayal of blue-collar workers than a lot of books who simply observe and analyze their conditions from a distance. Highly recommended.	2005-03-08
US	52697971	R16TWR0GZTRXOB	0767919505	437347680	The Great Movies II	Books	4	10	15	N	N	Ebert's Second 100 Favorites...Idiosyncratic But Credible	Writing a critique of a critic's work seems somewhat redundant, but world-renowned film critic Roger Ebert's latest compendium of his favorite films is worth discussion. In fact, this volume is more interesting for his selections than his first, which contained essays on the more predictable classics, such as \\"Citizen Kane\\", \\"2001: A Space Odyssey\\", \\"La Dolce Vita\\" and \\"Metropolis\\". One can find any number of cinema books that praise those movies, but what I like about Ebert's approach with his second hundred films is that it is at once pompous and everyman in his perspective on how these films - most classics of some genre, some idiosyncratic - have impacted him. The usual suspects still persist here - \\"King Kong\\", \\"West Side Story\\", \\"Rules of the Game\\", etc. He constantly acknowledges this to be a personal list of favorites, an unnecessary admission given he includes some oddball choices, such as Cameron Crowe's \\"Say Anything\\" and John Hughes' \\"Planes, Trains and Automobiles\\". I like both movies, but putting them in the top 200 certainly attests to Ebert's subjectivity.<br /><br />What offsets the inclusion of such outliers is his genuine enthusiasm for movies overall. He is truly the film projectionist nerd you remember from junior high, who can actually write ebullient, thoughtful analyses and convince you that you are indeed lacking for the experience of viewing his must-see film selections. I particularly like his essays on some of the more unusual choices, such as Bob Clark's \\"A Christmas Story\\", a minor family comedy save for the fact that it has such an empathetic view of its young protagonist that it is hard to resist regardless of how unctuous Jean Shepherd's voiceover gets. Or F.W. Murnau's \\"Sunrise\\", which really took silent pictures to a new emotional level just as they were made irrelevant by the introduction of sound. Or even John Ford's \\"The Searchers\\", which took the Western form into deeper psychological territory without sacrificing the genre's adventuresome appeal. Without apology, he also includes such arguable classics as \\"Goldfinger\\", \\"Yankee Doodle Dandy\\" and \\"My Dinner With Andre\\". For movie lovers who lap up the details only an aficionado like Ebert can provide, this seems like a must-have.esome appeal. Without apology, he also includes such arguable classics as \\"Goldfinger\\", \\"Yankee Doodle Dandy\\" and \\"My Dinner With Andre\\". For movie lovers who lap up the details only an aficionado like Ebert can provide, this seems like a must-have.	2005-03-08
US	52697971	R2OGLTOHE7DH6H	0684809931	307786913	Disney War	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Corporate Backbiting Takes the Luster Off the Magic Kingdom	Megalomania has unlikely been put on a more searing plain than what author James  B. Stewart has done with Michael Eisner in this fascinating book about the Machiavellian power structure he built at Disney. Having been a big fan of his book on the underbelly of Wall Street in the eighties, \\"Den of Thieves\\", I was greatly anticipating Stewart's take on the harsh business realities within the Magic Kingdom. He does not disappoint in what seems almost like an update of \\"Citizen Kane\\" by recounting Eisner's \\"Rosebud\\" moment when as a 7-year-old, Eisner lost a boxing match to a child twice his size and refused to cry in front of his stern father. Stewart then uses a first-person approach to conversations that he obviously could not have witnessed and even playing something of an investigative role as he spends a day in a Goofy costume at Walt Disney World.  More importantly, the author paints a portrait of a complex man who had a track record of turning around failing studios like Paramount but seemed completely at odds with what turned out to be the family-like Disney culture.<br /><br />Fully empowered as CEO, Eisner was not interested in upholding Disney traditions in filmmaking, according to Stewart, but rather increasing the bottom line to fund the perks and salary for himself and his executives. Granted he expanded the empire to include television channels, Broadway shows and other assorted properties, but he also fumbled badly when it came to key hiring decisions, chief among them was Hollywood &uuml;ber-agent Michael Ovitz, who was admittedly \\"not sophisticated about matters of corporate management.\\" But Ovitz was savvy enough to know that Eisner was stabbing him in the back the minute expectations dipped with Ovitz. Eisner was certainly not intuitive when it came to potential moneymakers for the studio, bypassing \\"The Lord of the Rings\\", \\"Fahrenheit 9/11\\" and almost \\"Finding Nemo\\", the latter resulting in what looks to be an irreconcilable firestorm with Steve Jobs, head of Pixar. Key talent like Jeffrey Katzenberg left Disney to build their own fortunes leaving Disney in near-financial ruin. Yet, for all the venom spewed at Eisner, justifiable as it may be, Stewart puts second-in-command Bob Iger under an equally unforgiving microscope and sees a problematic CEO-in-the-making, already scarred by the purchase of the precarious Fox Family Channel at a hefty price tag of $5.2 billion. Iger comes across as equal parts toady and mercenary and hardly the inspiration for a Disney renaissance. This is good, dishy stuff, and Stewart is a pro at making all this feel like a cross between penetrating investigative journalism and an episode of \\"Dynasty\\". Highly recommended.Pixar. Key talent like Jeffrey Katzenberg left Disney to build their own fortunes leaving Disney in near-financial ruin. Yet, for all the venom spewed at Eisner, justifiable as it may be, Stewart puts second-in-command Bob Iger under an equally unforgiving microscope and sees a problematic CEO-in-the-making, already scarred by the purchase of the precarious Fox Family Channel at a hefty price tag of $5.2 billion. Iger comes across as equal parts toady and mercenary and hardly the inspiration for a Disney renaissance. This is good, dishy stuff, and Stewart is a pro at making all this feel like a cross between penetrating investigative journalism and an episode of \\"Dynasty\\". Highly recommended.	2005-02-23
US	52697971	R21Y3ACWBNNBJP	1586482610	322421618	The Case For Democracy	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Former Soviet Dissident Sheds Light on Globalizing Democracy	Like Soviet dissidents before him such as Andrei Sakharov and Alexander Solzhenitsyn, Natan Sharansky is certainly a credible source for espousing the virtues of democracy, as he was a political prisoner in the Soviet Gulags for a nine-year period as a result of his human rights activism on behalf of Soviet Jews. It should come as no surprise that he renders strong opinions about the manner in which the USSR was impacted by US foreign policy. That he does so in such an articulate manner in this powerful book is what makes this essential reading in spite of his obviously pro-Bush political biases. In lucid terms that avoid hyperbole for the most part, Sharansky, along with co-author Ron Dermer, explains the transformative nature of democracy and how it gives rise to peace, human rights and economic opportunities. He says there are basically two types of societies which exist in the world. Free societies are the nations where citizens can \\"express their views without fear of arrest, imprisonment, or punishment.\\" Fear societies prohibit the free expression of ideas altogether, as seen in Cuba, Saudi Arabia, Iraq under Saddam, North Korea, Palestine under Arafat and Afghanistan under the Taliban.<br /><br />Sharansky states strongly that elevating human rights will embolden freedom fighters in these fear societies. Sharansky's book gains strength in defining his own role in the democratization process. He states how he owes a debt of gratitude to Reagan for linking American foreign policy to the internal workings of the Soviet Union, which allowed Sharansky and others to begin changing the regime from within. Reagan's policy stood in stark contrast to Nixon's d&eacute;tente, which he regards as a failure of misbegotten negotiation, and Carter's stillborn attempt to elevate human rights as the centerpiece of American foreign policy. He sees Reagan's approach as the only way the junior Bush can run his foreign policy and global security in an era of unprecedented terrorism. Sharansky argues that free societies should deal boldly with fear regimes by demonstrating how the combination of diplomatic and economic initiatives can lessen the grip of oppressive tyrants. He believes the net result will be moral clarity in international affairs, a pretty tall order when one considers the parties involved.<br /><br />He makes a compelling case for the ability to mobilize democracy, even in former fear regimes that have had no tradition of democracy, and cites Russia, Germany, Japan, and Afghanistan as proof. But as an example of how not to spread democracy, Sharansky chides the Israeli government for seeking accommodation with Yassar Arafat and the PLO, an entity that he feels has been run by a terrorist and despot. He feels strongly that if Israel had linked its policy to the democratization of the Palestinian people, the PLO could have been challenged internally, and the terror of PLO extremists would have abated since their greatest fear is the emancipation of their people. Where the book falls somewhat short is examining why democracy in itself does not appear to be enough for the Israeli government to reconcile with Palestinian self-governance. But what I do appreciate is that the author doesn't deny that creating democracies can be a long and arduous process. In fact, as being demonstrated now in Iraq, there can be significant problems. At heart, he epitomizes the spirit by which democratization can liberate the rest of the world and hopefully without enforcing the imperialism that has marred the current administration's efforts. Excellent reading from a man who obviously treasures his freedom.gues that free societies should deal boldly with fear regimes by demonstrating how the combination of diplomatic and economic initiatives can lessen the grip of oppressive tyrants. He believes the net result will be moral clarity in international affairs, a pretty tall order when one considers the parties involved.    He makes a compelling case for the ability to mobilize democracy, even in former fear regimes that have had no tradition of democracy, and cites Russia, Germany, Japan, and Afghanistan as proof. But as an example of how not to spread democracy, Sharansky chides the Israeli government for seeking accommodation with Yassar Arafat and the PLO, an entity that he feels has been run by a terrorist and despot. He feels strongly that if Israel had linked its policy to the democratization of the Palestinian people, the PLO could have been challenged internally, and the terror of PLO extremists would have abated since their greatest fear is the emancipation of their people. Where the book falls somewhat short is examining why democracy in itself does not appear to be enough for the Israeli government to reconcile with Palestinian self-governance. But what I do appreciate is that the author doesn't deny that creating democracies can be a long and arduous process. In fact, as being demonstrated now in Iraq, there can be significant problems. At heart, he epitomizes the spirit by which democratization can liberate the rest of the world and hopefully without enforcing the imperialism that has marred the current administration's efforts. Excellent reading from a man who obviously treasures his freedom.	2005-02-20
US	52697971	R37YVZLBGIGZH0	0691122946	25166027	On Bullshit	Books	4	71	76	N	N	Provocative Title Reveals Topic Worthy of Deeper Discussion	Professor Harry Frankfurt has come up with a compact winner with this provocatively titled tome, all of eighty pages, about a subject around which we all seem to have a vast amount of experience. As a professional philosopher who has earned emeritus status at Princeton University, he surely must be a master at this topic and sets about to prove it by discussing it with irony, broad humor and a cheekiness that ultimately brings a certain seriousness to his work. He is especially effective in portraying the mental improvisation we go through when asked unexpected questions that require thoughtfulness. Whether it is within the context of a political opinion or literary analysis, the very act he discusses actually provides great motivation for someone to learn more about what he or she is saying.<br /><br />What Frankfurt does is take his analysis several steps further by saying his subject, if left unaddressed, will lead to such an altered perception of reality that we will not know what reality is. His argument about his subject as an indictment has merit, though at times, he seems to be carried away with his own rhapsodizing, rather ironic given the topic. According to the author, the very lack of sincerity in some schools of thought, epitomized by the rise of Nazism, for example, has led to a retreat from the ideal of correctness. I would have never thought of Nazism as the result of common BS, but Frankfurt makes this thinking seem entirely logical and that indeed it is a bigger threat than the outright lie. But he does not dwell on the delivery of such a message, as BS is more easily detectable than a lie, at least from most perspectives. A master at this topic fakes opinions with finesse, but he or she does not necessarily get things wrong. That is exactly the threat described perceptively by the author as \\"a lack of connection to a concern with truth\\". In essence, the search for truth becomes a moot point when there is no concern in finding it. I applaud Frankfurt for his audacious and attentive little book, as it reflects a fertile mind taking on a subject we all know intimately but rarely take so seriously. Highly recommended commuter reading.furt for his audacious and attentive little book, as it reflects a fertile mind taking on a subject we all know intimately but rarely take so seriously. Highly recommended commuter reading.	2005-02-17
US	52697971	R202W3AVS001W8	0895260506	644690342	Men in Black: How the Supreme Court Is Destroying America	Books	3	27	51	N	N	The Supreme Court as an Abusive Power Base...Credible?	It's not such earth-shattering news that there is something awry about the precarious checks and balances upon which the three branches of the U.S. government are designed to keep an eye on each other. Author Mark Levin takes on the Supreme Court with emotional gusto and portrays the judicial arm of the government as a tyranny of monopolistic power threatening the very foundation of our constitution. He sees the Court evolving into a legislative agency rather than fulfilling its intended role as the interpreter of the laws. It's an intriguing premise to take a peek behind the black robes (though not as funny as the nude centerfolds of the justices in Jon Stewart's \\"America: The Citizen's Guide to Democracy Inaction\\") but one often caught in hyperbole, no surprise since Levin is by profession, a talk show host who mistakes such tactics as passionate discourse.<br /><br />To his credit, the author does bear the weight of thoughtful research when he looks, for example, at the Supreme Court's willingness to abrogate the First Amendment through upholding the Bipartisan Campaign Finance Reform Act. He provides some compelling evidence of how the Court has overstepped its bounds on many occasions, in particular, by expanding the power of the federal government vis-&agrave;-vis several states to enforce certain rulings. The author feels this encroaching sense of power has ignited issues such as abortion, immigration, civil rights for terrorists, religious liberty, affirmative action, pornography and election law, beyond what would have made sense within the Constitution's framework.  But the stacked deck approach he takes, dubbing the Court \\"radicals in robes\\", seems to oversimplify what he feels are the justices' directive to impose their policy preferences on society.  Levin should be commended for undertaking such a worthy effort with such vigor, and I have to give credit to him for explaining why certain cases should not have happened in light of what the Constitution says. I just wish he spent less time on what he perceives to be the problem with the current Court and more time on what he feels should remedy it. The book could have resonated with me much more if he was more solution-driven in his approach.h he spent less time on what he perceives to be the problem with the current Court and more time on what he feels should remedy it. The book could have resonated with me much more if he was more solution-driven in his approach.	2005-02-13
US	52697971	R3TE4ZFRHQEEYN	1400043662	478155730	Kafka on the Shore A novel	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Surreal and Wildly Entertaining Journey...for the Most Part	What a wild ride this bewildering, almost maddening novel is, and what an intensely creative talent author Haruki Murakami shows here. Make no mistake, this book is a challenge to read unless you are open to mystical characters, supernatural phenomena and a willingness to avoid basic story conventions. The basic outline of the plot will give you some idea. Two main characters drive the story. The first is fifteen-year-old Kafka Tamura, who runs away from his Tokyo home. He is burdened by his father's dire prophecy that Kafka, like Oedipus, would eventually kill him and sleep with his mother and sister, both of whom fled the family home when Kafka was four. He stays alone in a cheap hotel, and after a blackout period, ends up at a shrine with no memory of the last few hours or how his clothes came to be saturated in blood. The second character is Mr. Nakata, a man in his 70s who lives near the Tamura household in Tokyo. He supplements his welfare subsidy by tracing lost cats, and his success rate is excellent because he can, literally, talk to cats. On the surface, Nakata is a simpleton, unable to read or write, since his memory has been wiped out during WWII by a paranormal incident in the local woods.<br /><br />Both Kafka and Nakata find themselves in the middle of incomprehensible, sometimes shocking events. In fact, their parallel quests eventually merge, as Nakata feels his way toward realizing his destiny, which is entwined with those of not only Kafka but also Miss Saeki, a fiftyish library director whom Kafka meets on his journey, and get this, the ghost of her at age fifteen. In certain ways, the book is a primer on existentialism, but Murakami does not weigh down his story with heavy, complex arguments about the universe. Instead, he uses his surreal writing style as a means to get to the heart of a poignant question posed by Kafka, who never got over being abandoned by his mother and continues to wonder if being alone means being free. The journey that both Kafka and Nakata take is purposeful, though marred at times by Murakami's intentional excesses, such as bringing to life such advertising images as Johnnie Walker and Colonel Sanders to play pivotal plot devices. That's when the author's stylized world becomes rather contrived and the narrative even more convoluted as a result. Regardless, it's a powerful read overall for those willing to take this wild toad of a metaphysical ride.and Nakata take is purposeful, though marred at times by Murakami's intentional excesses, such as bringing to life such advertising images as Johnnie Walker and Colonel Sanders to play pivotal plot devices. That's when the author's stylized world becomes rather contrived and the narrative even more convoluted as a result. Regardless, it's a powerful read overall for those willing to take this wild toad of a metaphysical ride.	2005-01-28
US	52697971	R2ZWOIN1BBU5TE	0802714447	63709949	In Other Words	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Beyond the Phrasebook...the Unintentional Barriers of Language	When I grew up around my Japanese-speaking mother, she often used the phrase \\"yoko meshi\\" when she would get particularly frustrated about having to speak English. Only in hindsight do I see that she was using a particularly Japanese expression of linguistic frustration. This is one of the 250-plus words and phrases that language expert Christopher J. Moore has compiled from around the world that do not have a simple translation in English. Yet what they do convey are life experiences with which we Americans can relate.<br /><br />Words that originate within one culture might as easily have been produced by another at any time. But often one culture may recognize a more immediate need for a word to express an emotion or situation. Consequently there are inconsistencies in how we describe commonalties we have in the human experience. And then there are the cases of words and phrases he introduces that seem specific to their native cultures such as the Czech word, litost, which is a state of torment only experienced by Czechs where they have the sudden sight of their own misery. Bottom line, languages develop in response to a culture's needs and interests. Moore has provided a nice, light tome that clearly expresses our cultural differences through words that truly get lost in translation. It's a great way to get a smidgen of what another culture may be like.	2005-01-27
US	52697971	R3FRMDZC4X5OV3	0316172324	968642731	Blink: The Power of Thinking Without Thinking	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Compelling Case for Snap Judgments But Only for Experts	Having enjoyed his previous book on idea manipulation and selective networking, \\"The Tipping Point\\", I am happy to report that New Yorker columnist Malcolm Gladwell has come up with an even more interesting treatise in \\"Blink\\" about overcoming our biases against first impressions and snap judgments. Once again, he does a superb job in integrating anecdotes with some impressive research data to present his theories without pontification. I really like how he makes the seemingly obvious utterly fascinating by turning upside down our preconceptions and lifelong learnings. In fact, Gladwell sometimes runs the risk of turning his concepts into arguments against intellectual rationalization, i.e., why study and analyze anything if our gut reaction is so sound?  But before one can dismiss his thinking, the author comments repeatedly that he is not advocating abandonment of careful research. In support of that perspective, he talks specifically about the \\"Warren Harding error.\\" Voters across the nation voted for Harding for the White House because he looked and sounded so presidential. But he was poorly prepared to serve as U.S. president. Underneath the façade, he was deceptive and morally at odds with the first impressions he made on the country. Gladwell asserts that guarding oneself against this type of error is key in harnessing the power of using first impressions on important decisions.<br /><br />Consequently, it's not the gut feeling of the layman that counts but that of the expert who has been trained to feel correctly through thousands of relevant experiences. I like an example he used in relation to a Greek statue acquired with great fanfare by the Getty Museum. When the new acquisition was unveiled to renowned antiquities historian Evelyn Harrison, she blurted out, \\"I'm sorry.\\" Her instantaneous feeling that the statue was faked wasn't based on a careful examination or any quantifiable factors, just her sense that something was wrong with the artifact in front of her. As it turned out, she was right, and Harrison's two seconds uncovered a forgery that 14 months of work by the museum's team of scientists could not. The reality is that those who harness the power of first impressions most powerfully are ready to do so through years of preparation, in the science laboratory or in the realm of day-to-day life. The origins of Gladwell's book provide one of the most telling observations.  The author, who is half-Jamaican, half-Caucasian, began to build his theory based on a personal experience. When he wore his hair closely cropped, police never hassled him. When he grew an Afro, he found himself hassled more than once. He understandably wondered why were police making incorrect snap judgments based on hairstyle. Gladwell's natural curiosity about his own situation has led to this wonderful book. Strongly recommended.As it turned out, she was right, and Harrison's two seconds uncovered a forgery that 14 months of work by the museum's team of scientists could not. The reality is that those who harness the power of first impressions most powerfully are ready to do so through years of preparation, in the science laboratory or in the realm of day-to-day life. The origins of Gladwell's book provide one of the most telling observations.  The author, who is half-Jamaican, half-Caucasian, began to build his theory based on a personal experience. When he wore his hair closely cropped, police never hassled him. When he grew an Afro, he found himself hassled more than once. He understandably wondered why were police making incorrect snap judgments based on hairstyle. Gladwell's natural curiosity about his own situation has led to this wonderful book. Strongly recommended.	2005-01-26
US	52697971	R17ZX49DSHBIT6	0312342519	184399102	Sideways: A Novel	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Wryly Funny Account of Wine Trip Deepens the Movie Version	I was intrigued enough by Alexander Payne's movie version to read the Rex Pickett book upon which it is based. It's refreshing to know that the book and movie, while different on key plot points, are consistent in the penetrating examination of male bonding, unexpected romance and personal salvation. Like the film, the book follows Miles and Jack as two old college buddies, who travel through the Santa Ynez Valley vineyards and tasting rooms in a last hurrah victory lap before Jack ties the knot. But the book does not portray Miles as the sad sack embodied by Paul Giamatti in the movie. Rather, he is described as someone more successful in both the writing and the looks department.  And Jack is not the voiceover has-been played by Thomas Haden Church, but surprisingly, a far more successful actor with a movie career thriving enough to keep the buddies awash in high-end wine and gourmet dinners. That's because the novel has 354 pages to capture the subtleties of these characters versus the two hours of the movie. The drilldown reaps rewards for the reader, especially in Pickett's detailed descriptions of Miles' oenophilia and overall depression with his career and long-ago-ended marriage.<br /><br />The background behind the two women who become entangled in their lives is also much more fleshed out in the book. Maya remains the wine-loving hostess who catches Miles' eye, and Terra is a gorgeous, sexually voracious young wine-pourer. For whatever reason, Terra is renamed Stephanie in the film and becomes more mature with a daughter. The intersections of these characters work basically the same way in the book as they do on film but with more subtle reflection in the literary form. This is probably the primary reason to read the book after viewing the movie.  The two endings are very different with the novel injecting a disheartening plot twist involving the affections of Maya. In my opinion, the ambiguity of the film's ending adds to the story's poignancy. But ultimately both the book and the film leave Miles and Jack in about the same place of partial revelation. The book is quite a worthwhile read, as Pickett passionately captures the joys of wine and seems equally enthusiastic when it comes to his characters' rants on love, friendship and alcohol dependency. If you love the movie, read the book to fill in some wryly funny, often entertaining context.h the book and the film leave Miles and Jack in about the same place of partial revelation. The book is quite a worthwhile read, as Pickett passionately captures the joys of wine and seems equally enthusiastic when it comes to his characters' rants on love, friendship and alcohol dependency. If you love the movie, read the book to fill in some wryly funny, often entertaining context.	2005-01-24
US	52697971	R2YI1LXDANZ5GY	0385730640	243328997	Flags of Our Fathers: Heroes of Iwo Jima	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Classic WWII Photo Comes to Life in Powerful History Book	This is an unexpectedly stunning book. Having read his similarly themed \\"Flyboys\\" recently, I was anxious to read this tome and am happy to report that it is even more powerful and poignant. What the two books share inextricably is author James Bradley's unerring ability to depict the American wartime mindset during World War II. This time, he focuses on the Marines who landed on Iwo Jima, a strategic maneuver that has been frozen in our collective memory through the famous photograph and subsequent statue in Arlington National Cemetery of the American flag being raised on Iwo Jima. But the book is far from a flag-waving remembrance of obviously heroic acts in the face of an undeterred suicidal enemy. Instead, Bradley accurately views them as acts as common valor by soldiers who were on that isolated atoll simply because they had to and knew full well that they counted on each other to survive the battle. Bradley should know since his father was the last surviving GI in that photograph, a Navy corpsman who was assigned with the Marines that fateful day of the assault. It is a testament to his father that the author only uncovered facts about his father's heroic acts after his death.<br /><br />The first chapter reminds me quite a bit of Steven Spielberg's \\"Saving Private Ryan\\" in particular, with Bradley's vivid descriptions of the fire and devastation of the assault on Iwo Jima. Over a month's time, a staggering 26,000 Americans and 22,000 Japanese gave their lives in the island takeover. From there, with the aid of co-author Ron Powers, Bradley writes in detail about the six flag raisers, who represented a diverse American portrait. Old film buffs may recall one of them, a Pima Indian named Ira Hayes, as portrayed by a miscast Tony Curtis in 1961's \\"The Outsider\\". Bradley also gives a thorough history of the American Marines, as well as telling snapshots of the enemy. In fact, Bradley finds his way to Japan and spends time relishing the Japanese culture, which in turn, gives him valuable insights into the history of a military-controlled country which trained generations of their men to perform atrocious acts in the name of their emperor. This gives Bradley a much fuller perspective of the reasons behind the fierce fighting that took place and why the enemy fought to such a bitter end.  As he concluded in \\"Flyboys\\", the key difference was that Americans had a will to live and that the Japanese, true kamikazes in their souls, had a will to die. The Japanese leaders bent their soldiers to their monomaniacal will and sent them off on a course that would ensure its fulfillment. This is among the most thoughtful and emotionally affecting examinations of the human element in World War II.ives him valuable insights into the history of a military-controlled country which trained generations of their men to perform atrocious acts in the name of their emperor. This gives Bradley a much fuller perspective of the reasons behind the fierce fighting that took place and why the enemy fought to such a bitter end.  As he concluded in \\"Flyboys\\", the key difference was that Americans had a will to live and that the Japanese, true kamikazes in their souls, had a will to die. The Japanese leaders bent their soldiers to their monomaniacal will and sent them off on a course that would ensure its fulfillment. This is among the most thoughtful and emotionally affecting examinations of the human element in World War II.	2005-01-24
US	52697971	R37N9HS51KM2WH	0743266927	420656326	Tenor of Love: A Novel	Books	3	7	7	N	N	The Great Caruso and the Three Women Who Idolized Him	Author Mary di Michele treats the love life of tenor Enrico Caruso as a grand Verdi-esque opera full of epic gestures and over-the-top passion. It's not a bad approach considering how colorful a character the world-renowned singer apparently was. At times, her fictionalized biography feels more like a Harlequin romance one could easily call  \\"A Love Song for Three Women\\". The novel's first narrator is Rina Giachetti, the seventeen-year-old girl who falls for the young tenor, who then loses him to her older sister Ada. It is with the help of singing lessons from Ada that Caruso wins the leading role of Rodolfo in Puccini's then-new opera \\"La Boh&egrave;me\\". In spite of being a promising soprano herself, Ada goes on to bear Caruso's sons, but it is Rina who goes through self-sacrifice to help raise them. Caruso loves the Giachetti sisters, who come across as passionate and lustful characters in a Vittorio de Sica film. Because he doesn't trust the sisters, Caruso marries the dedicated and dowdy Dorothy Park Benjamin, the American whose loyalty endures beyond death.<br /><br />Caruso's early demise is graphically portrayed in the book as if it was the final act in the opera where one ends up feeling sorry more for the three women who loved him. But di Michele does a good job of making Caruso come alive as larger-than-life whose destiny is to sing but whose foibles, sexual and otherwise, make him utterly human. At the end of the book, I still don't get a clear sense of what made Caruso so special as a performer despite di Michele's best efforts to capture his musical genius. But through the author's poetic writing style, what I do get is a strong sense of his personal charisma and the passions that seem to drive him to succeed. If you are looking for a good use of an opera singer in a dramatic setting, I would recommend Ann Patchett's \\"Bel Canto\\" before reading this book.	2005-01-20
US	52697971	RM8J83UU6QKU6	081297106X	635066654	Reading Lolita in Tehran: A Memoir in Books	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Dreaming of the Ideal World Through Literature in Iran	If for no other reason, author Azar Nafisi provides great value with her memoir by adding texture and dimension to her native Iran, a portrayal that goes well beyond what one sees on CNN. Nafisi is adept at showing the sharp ideological and political divisions between Iranians, obliterating the stereotype of a uniformly anti-American, radical Muslim nation. What makes this book a particularly absorbing read is her compelling storytelling skills, not her political reportage. Of course, there are particularly potent accounts of protests and demonstrations, of bombings and the murders of intellectuals, which help to build the overriding context of Iranian history. However, Nafisi focuses most of her book on the day-to-day activities in which the ideology of the Islamic Republic has insinuated itself into the lives of ordinary Iranians. What evolves from her narrative are personal histories and human concerns expressed by Nafisi and her reading circle. Consequently, she highlights an unacknowledged aspect of a war-torn country, which is the motivation to become more creative than ever in finding outlets for their dreams and passions. As Nafisi notes in one memorable anecdote, many Iranians are just as worried about their illegal satellite dishes being confiscated as they are about witnessing shootings in their backyards. She is able to encompass a wide variety of perspectives and experiences, including her own passionate opposition to the Islamic Republic, as well as several in her reading circle who insist with equal fervor the importance and necessity of Islamic ideology and regulations. These types of penetrating observations are what makes Nafisi's book a vital read.<br /><br />Where the author goes somewhat astray is in her attempts to draw broader conclusions about these activities, specifically her interpretation of the political ramifications of the pent-up humanism of Iran's people. What begins as an intensely personal pursuit-that of reading novels by western authors-for Nafisi and her students takes on political dimensions. Nonetheless, the responses of Nafisi's students to the works of Nabokov, Fitzgerald, James, and Austen provide a remarkable insight into the thoughts of young Iranians who grew up with the specter of Khomeini and his reforms. This book is ultimately a kindred of Ray Bradbury's classic \\"Fahrenheit 451\\" and Dai Sijie's recent \\"Balzac and the Little Chinese Seamstress\\". All three stories revolve around an oppressive society that has sealed itself off from literature and how someone recognizes these works of art as the change agents they are. But I actually recommend reading another book, Kenneth Pollack's \\"The Persian Puzzle: The Conflict Between Iran and America\\", after reading Nafisi's book in order to get a complete landscape of the Iranian people and culture.n authors-for Nafisi and her students takes on political dimensions. Nonetheless, the responses of Nafisi's students to the works of Nabokov, Fitzgerald, James, and Austen provide a remarkable insight into the thoughts of young Iranians who grew up with the specter of Khomeini and his reforms. This book is ultimately a kindred of Ray Bradbury's classic \\"Fahrenheit 451\\" and Dai Sijie's recent \\"Balzac and the Little Chinese Seamstress\\". All three stories revolve around an oppressive society that has sealed itself off from literature and how someone recognizes these works of art as the change agents they are. But I actually recommend reading another book, Kenneth Pollack's \\"The Persian Puzzle: The Conflict Between Iran and America\\", after reading Nafisi's book in order to get a complete landscape of the Iranian people and culture.	2005-01-17
US	52697971	RLT2Q7BNHVI90	0805076824	926765114	102 Minutes: The Untold Story of the Fight to Survive Inside the Twin Towers	Books	5	76	77	N	N	9/11 in the Most Human of Terms...Essential Reading	This is a vividly rendered book, not remotely exploitative and yet so unflinching in the reportage that it demands your attention and ultimately earns your heart. Authors Jim Dwyer and Kevin Flynn, both from the New York Times, make this inevitably moving book suspenseful, almost surreal and ultimately a reflection of the human condition under the most dire of circumstances. As comprehensive as the revelatory \\"9/11 Commission Report\\" is, the stories in this book represent the missing perspective of that horrifying day, the voices of those who survived and perished in the World Trade Center.<br /><br />What the authors are effective in capturing is how endless those 102 minutes seemed to the people inside the buildings, how the period between the first crash and the collapse of the north tower was so chaotic that the full scope of what happened was unknown to those trapped inside. Because we were able to watch the news coverage relentlessly that morning, the book clarifies that what was happening was far clearer from the outside than from the inside. Those inside had no way of knowing what happened to them or why, and certainly no way to know if they would live or die. There are stories of personal ingenuity and heroism, like the window washer who used his squeegee to scrape away a wall and manually bored himself and five others through a tiled wall in the 50th floor men's room. There are stories of paralyzing fear, such as the series of 911 calls from the various floors when the south tower started to collapse. And sadly there are stories that will be disappointing for the very acts of desperation they represent, such as people being pushed out of windows so that others could position themselves for fresh air and possible rescue.  I doubt if there is a more harrowing story than the one about Stanley Praimnath, who was evacuated from the 81st floor of the south tower only to be told to return to his office and see the United jet come speeding toward him in the office window. These are the moments none of us can forget, and Dwyer and Flynn capture them with all their humanity intact. Essential reading.These are the moments none of us can forget, and Dwyer and Flynn capture them with all their humanity intact. Essential reading.	2005-01-11
US	52697971	RQ5KB5JNRP2GQ	0670033375	635086986	Collapse: How Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed	Books	5	50	58	N	N	Eco-Driven Genocide Powerfully Described in New Tome	This is a fascinating examination of how ecologically speaking, we may be doomed to repeat history's mistakes due to the lack of their immediacy to our consciousness. The prospect of self-preservation on a societal level can be a daunting one, but it is a profound question author Jared Diamond handles with skill and panache in his sweeping book. He primarily covers four extinct civilizations, showing how human-led environmental damage was at least partially responsible for their devastation and illustrating how the ramifications of such behavior persist today. As an evolutionary biologist trained in biochemistry and physiology, Diamond deftly uses comparative methods in his areas of expertise, such as archaeology and anthropology, to marshal evidence that sustaining societies over time depends primarily on the quality of human interaction with the environment. His arguments are compelling and act as a direct counterpoint to more common thinking where ideology, culture, politics and economics help shape the course of history. But the author is far more focused on what they bear on the far more important relationship society has with its climate, geography and natural resources.<br /><br />The overriding theme of human history, the author feels, is that societies aren't murdered; they commit suicide. He uses the Viking settlements on the coast of Greenland as a prime example. While it did get colder in Greenland in the early 1400's, it didn't get so cold as to make it uninhabitable. The Inuit survived long after the Norse died out, and the Norse had all kinds of advantages, including a more diverse food supply, iron tools, and ready access to Europe. The problem was that the Norse simply couldn't adapt to the country's changing environmental conditions. Human accountability also shaped the fate of Easter Island where seafaring Polynesians settled over a thousand years ago. They cut the trees for canoes and firewood and used logs to help transport huge statues weighing as much as 80 tons. Eventually, they chopped down all the forests, and their society collapsed in an epidemic of cannibalism. By 1600, all of the trees and land birds on Easter Island were extinct. Diamond covers similarly fatalistic behavior in the native American Anasazi tribe in the southwestern U.S. and the Mayan civilization in Central America.<br /><br />Diamond's perspective is not just historical, as he discusses in depth what is happening now in Somalia, Rwanda, Haiti, China, and Australia, as well as in Montana, a state that once was among the wealthiest in the nation but now struggles with poverty, population decline, and environmental problems. The author remains hopeful by giving more uplifting examples of societies that have found ways to sustain themselves without overexploiting their environments. His conclusion is that what determines a society's fate is how well its leaders and citizens anticipate problems before they become crises and how decisively a society responds. But as we know, and as Diamond corroborates, many societies, including ours, suffer from short-sightedness and political selfishness, which prevent us from seeing the scope of the potential destruction. But it is hopeful, the author asserts, that the U.S. has reduced major air pollutants by a quarter over the past thirty years, as energy consumption and population have risen forty percent. The author's guarded optimism signals a need to take so-called green issues more seriously than we have in the past. Strongly recommended reading.as 80 tons. Eventually, they chopped down all the forests, and their society collapsed in an epidemic of cannibalism. By 1600, all of the trees and land birds on Easter Island were extinct. Diamond covers similarly fatalistic behavior in the native American Anasazi tribe in the southwestern U.S. and the Mayan civilization in Central America.    Diamond's perspective is not just historical, as he discusses in depth what is happening now in Somalia, Rwanda, Haiti, China, and Australia, as well as in Montana, a state that once was among the wealthiest in the nation but now struggles with poverty, population decline, and environmental problems. The author remains hopeful by giving more uplifting examples of societies that have found ways to sustain themselves without overexploiting their environments. His conclusion is that what determines a society's fate is how well its leaders and citizens anticipate problems before they become crises and how decisively a society responds. But as we know, and as Diamond corroborates, many societies, including ours, suffer from short-sightedness and political selfishness, which prevent us from seeing the scope of the potential destruction. But it is hopeful, the author asserts, that the U.S. has reduced major air pollutants by a quarter over the past thirty years, as energy consumption and population have risen forty percent. The author's guarded optimism signals a need to take so-called green issues more seriously than we have in the past. Strongly recommended reading.	2005-01-09
US	52697971	R8N98OYAKFRN3	0743257995	728332589	Bad Dirt: Wyoming Stories 2	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Wyoming Tales Spun in Well Worn Colors	As she proved with \\"The Shipping News\\", author Annie Proulx has an unmistakably intricate, often elegant writing style. The eleven stories that constitute her latest book are testament to her talent, though the short story format seems to undermine her ability to deepen her characters as much this time. In certain ways, that works just fine since the somewhat interrelated stories almost feel like parables set in her vision of a rural Wyoming caught in a downward economic spiral. She brings a tough yet big-hearted sensibility to her stories, some more than others. But on the whole the approach balances itself out well.<br /><br />My favorite of the bunch is \\"What Kind of Furniture Would Jesus Pick?\\", which despite its jokey title is actually a serious-minded distillation of the current red-state mentality. It's a compelling tale about a man who can't make a go of his ranch and what it's like to see your traditional way of life eroding on every front. Rancher Gilbert Wolfscale keeps at it, doggedly and half-hopelessly, fighting against the odds to save his land. The author writes about him with a tenderness worthy of a Horton Foote, and with a deep-seeded sympathy both for Gilbert's determination to stay on his home ground and also for his urge to flee. He receives a final blow when saline wastewater pits, the byproduct of coal-bed methane drilling on land next to his, start poisoning his own land. Ranchers are suddenly thrown together with eco-conservationists, but they get nowhere protesting against the politicians and gas company officials who favor proceeding with the drilling. Wolfscale ends up on the open road, driving for the sake of driving and not caring where he's headed. He's about the only character in ''Bad Dirt'' who receives the full measure of her love.<br /><br />Five of the 11 stories in ''Bad Dirt'' are little more than comic anecdotes about the eccentrics who inhabit Elk Tooth, whose sole distinction is its three popular bars -- Pee Wee's, Muddy's Hole and the Silvertip. In fact, a sixth tale, ''The Old Badger Game,'' is hardly a story at all but an odd animal fable that some drunkard would have told in one of those taverns. The other story worth highlighting is \\"Man Crawling Out of Trees\\", which describes through the eyes of a retiring New York couple, the difficulties of being a newcomer to Wyoming. The wife bears the loneliness as best she can, while her husband delights in long drives through his new surroundings, classical music blasting from his car stereo. Through a series of revelations, a flawed marriage is exposed, and the power of place collides with their reality in unexpected ways, and  Proulx is careful not to tip her hand toward where her deepest sympathies lie. As a whole, \\"Bad Dirt\\" hangs together nicely with recurring minor characters tying the stories unobtrusively. With the exception of a couple of stories that simply seem out of kilter with the rest, Proulx's book certainly makes the ranchland atmosphere of an economically downtrodden but physically beautiful Wyoming come to life.y's Hole and the Silvertip. In fact, a sixth tale, ''The Old Badger Game,'' is hardly a story at all but an odd animal fable that some drunkard would have told in one of those taverns. The other story worth highlighting is \\"Man Crawling Out of Trees\\", which describes through the eyes of a retiring New York couple, the difficulties of being a newcomer to Wyoming. The wife bears the loneliness as best she can, while her husband delights in long drives through his new surroundings, classical music blasting from his car stereo. Through a series of revelations, a flawed marriage is exposed, and the power of place collides with their reality in unexpected ways, and  Proulx is careful not to tip her hand toward where her deepest sympathies lie. As a whole, \\"Bad Dirt\\" hangs together nicely with recurring minor characters tying the stories unobtrusively. With the exception of a couple of stories that simply seem out of kilter with the rest, Proulx's book certainly makes the ranchland atmosphere of an economically downtrodden but physically beautiful Wyoming come to life.	2004-12-25
US	52697971	R3T9F8AITUZO82	0465036562	98025992	Men of Tomorrow: Geeks, Gangsters, and the Birth of the Comic Book	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Superheroes Take a Backseat to the Talent Behind DC Comics	For those like myself who enjoyed Michael Chabon's \\"The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay\\", this is the book for you as this gives the non-fiction account of approximately the same pre-WWII burst of creativity that led to the birth of the comic book industry. As most baby boomers know, comic book aficionados fall into two camps based on the two big houses, Marvel Comics or DC Comics. Since I am firmly in the DC camp, I am happy that author Gerard Jones tackles the history of the company that brought Superman, Batman and Wonder Woman to our collective consciousness.<br /><br />In alternating chapters, Jones describes the careers of founders Harry Donenfeld and Jack Liebowitz and the stories of Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster, who invented Superman. What strikes me is how relevant their parallel stories are relative to the entrepreneurial spirit driving the start-ups of today. In particular, Siegel and Shuster, as portrayed here, reflect geek culture at its purist. Siegel loved adventure movies, and along with his school chum, Shuster, began composing illustrated stories and trying to sell them. Inspired by Zorro, they came up with the story of Superman in a single night. He didn't fly in the first drafts; he jumped and now I understand the comment of leaping tall buildings in a single bound. The other basic elements were there though - the destroyed planet, the surviving baby, the powers, the secret identity, and Lois Lane. Meanwhile, the story of Donenfeld is just as interesting. A natural huckster, he started life printing cheesy magazines and pulp fiction. Later, an old client asked Donenfeld for a job for his son, Jack Liebowitz. A former socialist and union organizer, Liebowitz signed on with Donny Press as the business manager, and his financial savvy and brilliance kept the business afloat while many others went under. Together they built a commercial empire worthy of a miniseries. It culminates with taking the company public and selling it to ex-Time Warner chief Steve Ross.<br /><br />The author digs into the stories behind all the Golden Age heroes, revealing such nuggets as how Bob Kahn became Bob Kane and built his reputation largely on the work of others. The author also examines the bizarre psychologist, William Moulton Marston, who turned his odd notion that \\"women enjoy submission, being bound\\" into a comic book that often featured its heroine in bondage, Wonder Woman. This is quite a combination of stories for anyone interested in the serendipitous mix of talent necessary to make a burgeoning media organization successful. In certain ways, there is more to learn here than from the likes of Rupert Murdoch and other current moguls. Highly recommended especially for those who grew up with these comic books.r chief Steve Ross. <br /> <br />The author digs into the stories behind all the Golden Age heroes, revealing such nuggets as how Bob Kahn became Bob Kane and built his reputation largely on the work of others. The author also examines the bizarre psychologist, William Moulton Marston, who turned his odd notion that \\"women enjoy submission, being bound\\" into a comic book that often featured its heroine in bondage, Wonder Woman. This is quite a combination of stories for anyone interested in the serendipitous mix of talent necessary to make a burgeoning media organization successful. In certain ways, there is more to learn here than from the likes of Rupert Murdoch and other current moguls. Highly recommended especially for those who grew up with these comic books.	2004-12-25
US	52697971	R3ADCM33JTSQQQ	1401300103	578404904	All I Did Was Ask: Conversations with Writers, Actors Musicians, and Artists	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Terry Gross: Interviewer Extraordinaire	With the plethora of bad talk shows on the air (Ellen and Letterman excepted), I happen to think Terry Gross stands out as one of the best interviewers around. I tune into NPR just to listen to her Fresh Air program every chance I get in the evenings, which to be honest, is not very often. That's why it's a particular joy that she has decided to transcribe verbatim 39 of her favorite interviews in this book.  Even though she excludes political figures and consequently some of her most cutting comments, she includes some intriguing people from the arts world as she culls from broadcasts going back to 1988. The result is a series of fascinating insights into celebrities who may not have struck you as all that interesting in the first place.<br /><br />What really shines through these conversations is the level of preparation that Gross brings to bear on each interview. Her excellent questions are obviously the fruit of her tenacious research, and her extensive broadcast experience shows how she is prepared for any situation no matter how potentially sweat-inducing. For example, she makes mincemeat of KISS bassist Gene Simmons in spite of her best efforts to deflect the verbal sparring he was intent on displaying mainly at her expense. But others come off quite well. Jodie Foster is obviously sharp and open about the repercussions of John Hinckley's attempt to assassinate President Ronald Reagan, since he was supposedly obsessed with her performance in \\"Taxi Driver\\". Dustin Hoffman is surprisingly introspective, as are Nicolas Cage and even the eccentric Dennis Hopper. My favorite piece is with pulp novelist Mickey Spillane, who reveals how he was beaten up constantly as a child for the Buster Brown pageboy haircut his mother insisted on giving him. He explains that's why he wore a crewcut into his seventies. Some of the subjects are less well known to the mass audience, such as Mary Woronov, Joyce Johnson or Mary Carr, so they won't resonate with everyone. And I actually would have liked more of her own personal insight interspersed with the interviews themselves. Nonetheless, this is quite a fun read and highly recommended for fans of Gross.d have liked more of her own personal insight interspersed with the interviews themselves. Nonetheless, this is quite a fun read and highly recommended for fans of Gross.	2004-12-23
US	52697971	R1BK8WWI03XKJ4	0393050572	948966865	Will in the World: How Shakespeare Became Shakespeare	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Brush Up Your Shakespeare With a Fine Though Speculative Bio	Stephen Greenblatt, Harvard professor and Shakespeare historian, has taken on the daunting task of filling in all the significant blanks in the Bard's life to pull together a compelling biography. Granted much of it is quite speculative based on what Shakespeare wrote, and Greenblatt certainly has a lot of material to use - 37 plays, 150 sonnets and two long narrative poems. But a question does arise when you read this compelling book as to whether Shakespeare's life experiences informed his work or vice-versa. Obviously, at some point in his life, he fell in love with the language, the acting and the exhilaration of the theater, so to some degree, the question becomes moot -  for Shakespeare, all the world did become a stage, and the stage became a microcosm for the world.<br /><br />Greenblatt reminds us that much of  Shakespeare's genius was his uncanny ability to take the old and to make it new and timeless. A good example of this skill is \\"Macbeth\\", which was written to court favor with Elizabeth I's successor, the Scottish James I, a peculiar man with a fondness for witchcraft and a descendant of Banquo, a contemporary of the murderous thane. Shakespeare transforms this one-time ally of Macbeth's into a character slain by Macbeth for his honor. The author writes that the play, written in haste shortly after the Gunpowder Plot of 1605, served to reassure James that he held a rightful place among England's legitimate rulers. Consequently, the mixing of historical fact and fiction does provide an interesting subtext to the Bard's work. Greenblatt is most effective when he allows facts to lay the groundwork for reasonable speculation, but he is on thinner ice when he looks for the impetus for \\"Hamlet\\", where there is no direct historical reference to call up. Greenblatt tries to connect \\"Hamlet\\" with some personal experience in Shakespeare's life, \\"something powerful enough to call forth the unprecedented representation of tormented inwardness.\\" But at the end of the account, one has no legitimate reason to believe that \\"Hamlet\\" has anything to do with Shakespeare's life, as do \\"Romeo and Juliet\\" or \\"Othello\\". As usual, Shakespeare was able to keep his personal experiences and beliefs out of his work, an aptitude that John Keats famously termed \\"negative capability.\\"<br /><br />While Greenblatt can get extravagant in his speculation of how Shakespeare became Shakespeare, this book still provides great value for illuminating a life so clearly misunderstood. Greenblatt's sharp writing style, as well as his perceptive ability to balance between academic and popular aspects of the Bard's life, are virtues that are on consistent display here. The author also makes a compelling case to put to rest the erroneous notion that Shakespeare's works were written by somebody else. Highly recommended.f the account, one has no legitimate reason to believe that \\"Hamlet\\" has anything to do with Shakespeare's life, as do \\"Romeo and Juliet\\" or \\"Othello\\". As usual, Shakespeare was able to keep his personal experiences and beliefs out of his work, an aptitude that John Keats famously termed \\"negative capability.\\" <br /> <br />While Greenblatt can get extravagant in his speculation of how Shakespeare became Shakespeare, this book still provides great value for illuminating a life so clearly misunderstood. Greenblatt's sharp writing style, as well as his perceptive ability to balance between academic and popular aspects of the Bard's life, are virtues that are on consistent display here. The author also makes a compelling case to put to rest the erroneous notion that Shakespeare's works were written by somebody else. Highly recommended.	2004-12-19
US	52697971	RZN2XN7UIVBDD	1594200092	686377339	Alexander Hamilton	Books	4	5	10	N	N	Unsung Founding Father Gets Intriguing Bio Treatment	Even though he is on the $10 bill, Alexander Hamilton is the most cryptic of the founding fathers perhaps because he did not go on to become President or how his life ended in the infamous duel with Aaron Burr. Author Ron Chernow fills in the blanks quite nicely with this extremely comprehensive, sometimes surprising biography, its 818 pages justified by the full and tumultuous life Hamilton led in his brief 49 years. The first surprise is that Hamilton was born an orphan in the Caribbean, which the author describes almost like a bodice-ripper pirate movie. There are some wonderful stories about his ascendancy through the ranks in the Revolutionary War when a quarrel with Washington led Hamilton to the role of field commander at the decisive Battle of Yorktown.  After the war, he was the chief contributor to the Federalist Papers, a series of newspaper pieces that would argue for the strong central government lacking in the weak Articles of Confederation and would eventually lead to the U.S. Constitution. Hamilton's sharply detailed writing is on display here to understand the man's passion and intelligence. Hamilton recognized that the country's hard-won liberties were better safeguarded ironically by a strong federal government than a fractious group of dissimilar states. At the ripe age of 34, he proved his points by establishing the Treasury department under Washington's administration, which included the first national budget system, a funded debt, a tax system and a central bank. He basically founded the modern corporation as we know it today, which is perhaps why FDR vilified his memory during the Depression while exalting Jefferson for the agrarian idealist he truly was. However, for all these lofty accomplishments in public service, I have to admit that Chernow's account of Hamilton's personal life is just as interesting. He was the Bill Clinton of his time with his own Whitewater-type scandal, which at the time extinguished any aspiration he likely had to become President. Having a sordid affair with a married woman, Hamilton confessed to money laundering, using Treasury monies to pay off the husband of the woman he was having an affair with keep quiet. Worse, the cuckolded husband insisted that Hamilton continue the affair while paying the extortion money. Of course, such high-wire behavior, along with his vituperative tongue, led fellow politician Aaron Burr to confront his long-standing feud with Hamilton with pistols.<br /><br />Chernow has written a finely detailed though somewhat exhausting book. Every minor character seems to warrant a biographical digression. Rather than starting with Hamilton's birth, the author goes back a million years to the birth Nevis, the island in the British West Indies on which Hamilton was born. Chernow could have used a stronger editor since he seems incapable of leaving out any of his voluminous research, and there does seem to be an inordinate amount of speculative assertions especially when it comes to Hamilton's parentage. But Chernow excels when he discusses the inner workings of the U.S. government at the time and how things have not changed much in 250 years, nor frankly the men in the power positions. As we still scrutinize Clinton for his illicit sexual behavior, this book goes into a similarly baffling disconnect between the public Hamilton and the private man. It just makes Chernow's biography more relevant and quite intriguing. Though overlong, this book is a highly recommended for its insight into a misunderstood and underappreciated political leader.become President. Having a sordid affair with a married woman, Hamilton confessed to money laundering, using Treasury monies to pay off the husband of the woman he was having an affair with keep quiet. Worse, the cuckolded husband insisted that Hamilton continue the affair while paying the extortion money. Of course, such high-wire behavior, along with his vituperative tongue, led fellow politician Aaron Burr to confront his long-standing feud with Hamilton with pistols.     Chernow has written a finely detailed though somewhat exhausting book. Every minor character seems to warrant a biographical digression. Rather than starting with Hamilton's birth, the author goes back a million years to the birth Nevis, the island in the British West Indies on which Hamilton was born. Chernow could have used a stronger editor since he seems incapable of leaving out any of his voluminous research, and there does seem to be an inordinate amount of speculative assertions especially when it comes to Hamilton's parentage. But Chernow excels when he discusses the inner workings of the U.S. government at the time and how things have not changed much in 250 years, nor frankly the men in the power positions. As we still scrutinize Clinton for his illicit sexual behavior, this book goes into a similarly baffling disconnect between the public Hamilton and the private man. It just makes Chernow's biography more relevant and quite intriguing. Though overlong, this book is a highly recommended for its insight into a misunderstood and underappreciated political leader.	2004-12-18
US	52697971	R397S4K37KUOX	0066214130	57180289	State of Fear	Books	3	9	17	N	N	Momentum Fluctuates Wildly in Eco-Bashing Thriller	For years, author Michael Crichton has been producing so many fully loaded, fast-paced thrillers that I always look forward to his newest work no matter how pulpish his books have become. He certainly ups his ante quite a bit with his latest book by taking on the controversial notion that environmentalism is a religion borne out of faith, not facts. The author extols that environmentalist misinformation costs lives and money and uses real scientific data and the political ramifications to propel the twists and turns of his story.<br /><br />With Crichton's typical storytelling conviction, the book starts breathlessly in Paris where an American physics graduate student, studying ocean-wave dynamics, is murdered after he demonstrates his research to a mysterious woman. In Vancouver, a boatyard owner renting deep-sea submarines is also murdered, as is a man in London purchasing a half-million feet of guide wire for anti-tank missiles. Near Kuala Lumpur, a man who claims to be an Alberta geologist buys technology with the power to liquefy solid rock. These seemingly unrelated events seem to hover around a multi-millionaire environmentalist named Gregory Morton, who gives $10 million to an environmental non-profit foundation that he subsequently thinks may be funding a radical eco-terrorist group. This leads to revelations that mainstream environmental beliefs like global warming might be dangerously wrong. The author keeps the suspense rolling at a fast clip, but he bogs down periodically in an off-putting didactic tone by sharing lots of scientific sermonizing about the falsity of environmental causes. Lengthy screeds of undigested explication, covering topics like the melting of the polar ice caps and the elimination of DDT, are shoehorned into characters' mouths as if they sound like natural dialogue. Instead, they feel like soundbites from a junior scholastic film and stop the momentum of the story significantly. The character of turncoat MIT professor Kenner, in particular, seems contrived simply to be a mouthpiece for Crichton's perspective. He is working on a hush-hush federal project and soon faces down what looks like global catastrophe but not before meeting a fatalistic end.<br /><br />Even with his didacticism, Crichton can be a terrific pop-fiction writer, as he more than proved with \\"Jurassic Park\\" and \\"Rising Sun\\", thrillers that careen with the verve of theme-park rides. What separates him from his brethren is his impressive depth of scientific curiosity and knowledge coupled with a stern moralism. Sometimes the combination works brilliantly here, but more often, I felt like Crichton was writing two different books that he somehow failed to turn into a cohesive story. Granted his material is strongly presented, thought-provoking  and deserves to be read, but it is severely compromised by the scientific disruptions, robbing readers of a grade-A thriller they have come to expect from Crichton.r, seems contrived simply to be a mouthpiece for Crichton's perspective. He is working on a hush-hush federal project and soon faces down what looks like global catastrophe but not before meeting a fatalistic end.    Even with his didacticism, Crichton can be a terrific pop-fiction writer, as he more than proved with \\"Jurassic Park\\" and \\"Rising Sun\\", thrillers that careen with the verve of theme-park rides. What separates him from his brethren is his impressive depth of scientific curiosity and knowledge coupled with a stern moralism. Sometimes the combination works brilliantly here, but more often, I felt like Crichton was writing two different books that he somehow failed to turn into a cohesive story. Granted his material is strongly presented, thought-provoking  and deserves to be read, but it is severely compromised by the scientific disruptions, robbing readers of a grade-A thriller they have come to expect from Crichton.	2004-12-17
US	52697971	RFHFKLEIUBAR2	140004281X	449937415	Runaway	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Small Moments and Revelations Beautifully Captured	I have to admit I was a bit worried that these eight short stories about women may be too oriented toward the female perspective for me to appreciate fully. I am happy to report I was quite mistaken, as author Alice Munro is a gifted writer whose multi-layered writing style can be enjoyed by anyone. And the short story format suits her very well, as she tells amazing stories precisely but without making any compromise in character development or storyline.<br /><br />In the title story, the author describes a young woman's attempt to leave her husband. Things have gone bad for the couple, compounded by the disappearance of their pet goat, Flora, has disappeared. The centerpiece of the collection is a triptych of stories about a woman named Juliet - \\"Chance\\", \\"Soon\\" and \\"Silence\\" - and her relationship with her mother and later with her daughter. \\"Chance\\" takes place in the 1960's and finds Juliet on a train as she unexpectedly discovers love. At the same time, Munro accurately shows Juliet's inner conflict as she hungers for a college education at a time when such notions for opportunity were ridiculed. \\"Soon\\" shows her as a young mother who goes to reconcile with her own parents and her ideas of faith. \\"Silence\\" picks up Juliet's story when she is an older woman estranged from her daughter and wondering what became of her life. The unexpected ending is haunting.<br /><br />The remaining stories highlight aspects of youth both from a young girl's mindset and from the hindsight of an older woman. The best story is perhaps the last, \\"Powers\\", which is divided into titled sections. The first section begins in 1927. The last section, dating in the 1970s, describes a dream of the protagonist. In the dream, Munro writes that the past \\"begins to crumble behind her, to crumble and darken tenderly into something like soot and soft ash.\\" It is this kind of observation that makes the author truly exceptional. She has written a lovely necklace of tales that illuminate human motive and behavior with piercing insight. Munro is a master of the small moment and how each one expands into revelations for which neither her characters nor we ever seem to be prepared. Highly recommended for both genders.motive and behavior with piercing insight. Munro is a master of the small moment and how each one expands into revelations for which neither her characters nor we ever seem to be prepared. Highly recommended for both genders.	2004-12-13
US	52697971	R35D1FII6Q4F3K	1400062195	973983026	Free World: America, Europe, and the Surprising Future of the West	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Hands Across the Atlantic, Optimistic But Feasible	If you have read T.R. Reid's recently published \\"The United States of Europe\\" (strongly recommended), you will know that the European Union is certainly evolving into a formidable power. Unfortunately the U.S. has not paid much heed, much to our detriment given the lack of support for recent U.S. actions in Iraq. Author Timothy Garton Ash, a fellow at St. Antony's College, Oxford, has written a perceptive and ultimately reassuring book about the current rift between the United States and Europe. Citing the Iraqi conflict as a touchstone, he convincingly argues that the West has always been in turmoil and that the current struggles only show the resonance of the democratic process on a more global plain. First, he accounts for the more fundamental differences in lucid terms marked by the governing administrations. He observes Americans are more religious than Europeans, which seems apt given the recent election results. Americans are more distrustful of government and tolerate greater economic inequality in return for greater individual freedom. Americans place more emphasis on economic growth than on protection of the environment. Americans are more jealous of national sovereignty and have strong feelings on issues anathema to Europeans like the death penalty and gun ownership.<br /><br />From this Atlantic division, Ash recognizes sharper differences within the U.S. and Europe.  Europeans are divided into \\"Euro-Atlanticists\\", who want political ties with the U.S. and worry about the sovereign tendencies of the European Union, and \\"Euro-Gaullists\\", who see the EU as an essential counterweight to the U.S. and support a consolidated welfare state. For their part, Americans are divided between what have come to be called red-state and blue-state voters. The blue side corresponds to the \\"Euro-Atlanticist\\" side, while the red side encompasses traditionally conservative issues such as gun ownership and resistant hostility toward international institutions like the EU. What results is an overlap in what the U.S. sees as the Democratic Party since Europe does not have a red-state equivalent resembling the republicans and the U.S. has no organized socialist party on movement with the two major parties. This overlap is where Ash sees the future of true partnership where he believes the U.S. can move toward greater multi-lateralism and Europe toward improved trans-Atlantic cooperation.<br /><br />Clearly there is a great amount of optimism in Ash's viewpoint. He wholeheartedly feels that what divides the West is less significant than what unites it, even though he acknowledges the erosion in shared causes and memories due to both the \\"Euro-Gaullist\\" mindset shaped by French President Jacques Chirac and the unilateralism forced by the Bush administration. It is really this divisiveness that makes it difficult to believe Ash's vision of trans-Atlantic unity will come to fruition any time soon. One fundamental difference is the war on terrorism. Americans view 9/11 as the beginning of a new age of nihilistic, mass-casualty terrorism, while Europeans, used to random bombings, tend to think of it as a single lucky shot. Moreover, the perception of American credibility has been sorely tested given the lack of resolution in the Iraq conflict. But Ash gives one faith with his well-written arguments about the joint mission toward spreading freedom globally, even if there have been communication breakdowns on the death penalty and global warming. Highly recommended reading for those who realize we must face up to our responsibilities beyond our borders.ts is an overlap in what the U.S. sees as the Democratic Party since Europe does not have a red-state equivalent resembling the republicans and the U.S. has no organized socialist party on movement with the two major parties. This overlap is where Ash sees the future of true partnership where he believes the U.S. can move toward greater multi-lateralism and Europe toward improved trans-Atlantic cooperation.    Clearly there is a great amount of optimism in Ash's viewpoint. He wholeheartedly feels that what divides the West is less significant than what unites it, even though he acknowledges the erosion in shared causes and memories due to both the \\"Euro-Gaullist\\" mindset shaped by French President Jacques Chirac and the unilateralism forced by the Bush administration. It is really this divisiveness that makes it difficult to believe Ash's vision of trans-Atlantic unity will come to fruition any time soon. One fundamental difference is the war on terrorism. Americans view 9/11 as the beginning of a new age of nihilistic, mass-casualty terrorism, while Europeans, used to random bombings, tend to think of it as a single lucky shot. Moreover, the perception of American credibility has been sorely tested given the lack of resolution in the Iraq conflict. But Ash gives one faith with his well-written arguments about the joint mission toward spreading freedom globally, even if there have been communication breakdowns on the death penalty and global warming. Highly recommended reading for those who realize we must face up to our responsibilities beyond our borders.	2004-12-13
US	52697971	R1623LKEFET0D5	0375407367	218868050	Magic Seeds (Naipaul, V. S.)	Books	3	18	19	N	N	Seeds Appear Not to Be Sown in Naipaul's Misbegotten Novel	The title of V.S. Naipaul's new novel refers to the beginning of the revolution by the guerilla fighters his main character, Wllie Chandran, meets in India. It also seems to refer to the magic seeds that can produce a raceless society through miscegenation. In either case, the story does not hold up as intriguing as it could have been, as Naipaul inexplicably makes Willie a passive observer of the life around him.<br /><br />I had never read Naipaul's previous novel about Willie, \\"Half a Life\\", so I assume I am at a disadvantage to appreciate the scope of his development as presented in this book. But I have to fault the author for not providing more of a backstory to lure me into his rather exotic plot, which takes Willie to Berlin to be with his radical sister after escaping both his wife and a colonial rebellion in Africa. His sister pushes him to go to India to join the Maoist guerillas. But through a series of misadventures, he ends up with the wrong guerrillas and stays with this band of misfits for seven years. Willie becomes a revolutionary participating in crimes that terrorize the countryside the group claims to represent. The best portion of the book takes place in India, where he is paired individually with each guerilla, who in turn tells the tale of how that person became a guerilla. Through this literary technique, no matter how contrived it gets, we get completely unique pictures of India. In a moment of epiphany after turning himself to the police, Willie spends some time in jail where Naipaul's vivid descriptions of the different castes of prisoners reveals much about Indian society as a whole. Willie then goes to England, where apparently in Naipaul's previous stories, he went to school. In London, his friend Roger shows up and tells of how he met and lost his mistress. Naipaul makes this character more interesting than he should be after all that Willie has been through, but the author does evoke the predicament of a stateless person with great empathy.<br /><br />Naipaul has led such a full life that I wish I could unconditionally recommend his novel for the experiences he shares. But on the whole, he has written an episodic polemic about the racial and ethnic fates we all face in spite of our best efforts to escape them. An interesting main character would have helped, as Willie here seems to serve as just the tape by which the other characters adhere together to tell their background stories. None of the stories appear to inform the character into a greater sense of self-awareness. For instance, the character's eventual views of England seem befitting of an old man ensconced in late-life irritability, rather than a man who came to realize the guerillas' base arguments were against his greater sensibilities. At the end of the story, Willie has just turned 60 and yet is still crashing at his friends' homes. Forty years seems like a ludicrous amount of time for self-exploration after college. Like Tom Wolfe's \\"I Am Charlotte Simmons\\", this book has flourishes of great prose and some fascinating characters, but ultimately it is disappointing for the obvious disconnect of the main character from the author and the world that you would think would have been shaping both perspectives.empathy. <br /> <br />Naipaul has led such a full life that I wish I could unconditionally recommend his novel for the experiences he shares. But on the whole, he has written an episodic polemic about the racial and ethnic fates we all face in spite of our best efforts to escape them. An interesting main character would have helped, as Willie here seems to serve as just the tape by which the other characters adhere together to tell their background stories. None of the stories appear to inform the character into a greater sense of self-awareness. For instance, the character's eventual views of England seem befitting of an old man ensconced in late-life irritability, rather than a man who came to realize the guerillas' base arguments were against his greater sensibilities. At the end of the story, Willie has just turned 60 and yet is still crashing at his friends' homes. Forty years seems like a ludicrous amount of time for self-exploration after college. Like Tom Wolfe's \\"I Am Charlotte Simmons\\", this book has flourishes of great prose and some fascinating characters, but ultimately it is disappointing for the obvious disconnect of the main character from the author and the world that you would think would have been shaping both perspectives.	2004-12-12
US	52697971	R33YUJKYHOR6UD	0684800012	809832535	On Food and Cooking: The Science and Lore of the Kitchen	Books	5	116	123	N	N	The Foodie's Bible, Colorful and Endlessly Fascinating	Food lovers can rest easy now that Harold McGee has updated his eminently readable 1984 tome, \\"On Food and Cooking\\". He is the literary counterpart to the Food Network's Alton Brown in providing an amalgam of history, science, literature, and cooking tips, spreading his knowledge across fifteen chapters, each devoted to a different food category. McGee leaves no food unturned. He starts rather appropriately with milk and dairy products, life-starting foods, and goes through edible plants, cereals, doughs and batters, wine and beer and distilled spirits, even basic food molecules. This is no dry scientific book, as McGee is a wonderfully colorful writer, lucid and endlessly fascinating.<br /><br />McGee is truly a Renaissance man when it comes to food, and the book is packed with historical facts, literary anecdotes, and food legends passed down through the ages. For instance, when he talks about dairy products in the first chapter, he also brings up the domestication of the goat, the development of Parmesan, the history of ice cream and the best way to clarify butter. But his writing style is never contrived or pedantic and never gets in the way of the intriguing facts he brings to light. There are great illustrations and almost like a textbook, replete with easy-to-follow charts, graphs, and pictures, On the sidebars of each page, McGee shares insights from the likes of Brillat-Savarin, Plutarch and their culinary brethren along with ancient recipes for ash-roasted eggs, stuffed bonito with pennyroyal, and other delicacies. However, his focus is not purely historical, as he examines with great acuity, modern food production, current health risks and an easy-to-understand lesson on atoms, molecules, and the nature of energy. Rest assured that cooking basics are covered thoroughly. Would-be bakers can know what to expect with flour and why it behaves the way it does. Carnivores will discover what makes a tender stew or why it's such a delicate art to roast the perfect turkey. Even the seemingly trivial jumps off the page, for example, the fact that completely different cultures can produce such similar foods like kimchi and sauerkraut. Or one can realize that it takes 70,000 crocus flowers and 200 hours of labor to produce one pound of saffron. Only with this detail can one appreciate the exorbitant cost when you see it in the supermarket.<br /><br />It's as if McGee has taken David Macaulay's wonderful book, \\"The Way Things Work\\", traded machinery for sustenance and mixed it all in a food processor to come up with an essential reference book one can read with pleasure and for education concurrently. Strongly recommended even for the non-food lover if such a creature exists.. Even the seemingly trivial jumps off the page, for example, the fact that completely different cultures can produce such similar foods like kimchi and sauerkraut. Or one can realize that it takes 70,000 crocus flowers and 200 hours of labor to produce one pound of saffron. Only with this detail can one appreciate the exorbitant cost when you see it in the supermarket.    It's as if McGee has taken David Macaulay's wonderful book, \\"The Way Things Work\\", traded machinery for sustenance and mixed it all in a food processor to come up with an essential reference book one can read with pleasure and for education concurrently. Strongly recommended even for the non-food lover if such a creature exists.	2004-12-11
US	52697971	RONZ56RGKKWFT	0375725601	517121775	The Devil in the White City: Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fascinating History Defined by Two Oddly Similar Men	Author Erik Larson has written a perfectly enthralling book that provides a fascinating glimpse into a defining point in U.S. history, the 1893 World's Fair in Chicago, which was more famously known as the Columbian Exhibition, built to celebrate the 400th anniversary of Columbus' discovery of the New World. With the confluence of historical facts, famous figures and a clandestine series of crimes, this book reminds me a lot of the full-blooded, colorful world painted by E.L. Doctorow in his classic, \\"Ragtime\\". But unlike Doctorow's historical fiction, this is decidedly non-fiction and all the more powerful for it. For those who didn't know (including me before this book), the Columbian Exposition introduced the way electricity would be delivered to our homes, zippers and automatic dishwashers, the eight-hour workday, the Ferris Wheel, even the Pledge of Allegiance. But more pertinent to the story, it also represented a touchstone for modern American architecture and urban design, which culminated in the construction of the so-called White City. Built against what seemed to be insurmountable odds, the White City was an essential part of the fair because it gave reason to eradicate the physical and emotional devastation left by the Great Fire nearly a quarter century earlier. The main themes of the White City were scale, harmony, and ensemble, attributes that reflected the aspirations of Americans at the time. The architectural style used was the Beaux Arts style inspired in part by the recently built Eiffel Tower. As intriguing as all this history is, this is only half the story Larson tells in vivid detail.<br /><br />Larson illustrates the journey of two men running parallel yet morally opposing existences, physically within close proximity of each other. One man is Daniel Burnham, the legendary architect who doggedly pursued his even more famous colleagues (like Frederick Law Olmsted and Louis Sullivan) to join him in the Chicago venture.  Through Burnham's eyes, we see in impressive detail the creation and construction of the fair itself. The other man is the cold and charismatic H.H. Holmes, who killed somewhere between 27 and 200 people while the fair was going on. In what turns out to be a too-true-to-be-believed account, Larson describes the meticulous planning and forethought of Holmes in building a \\"World's Fair Hotel\\" just west of the fairgrounds. Only part of the hotel, however, was given over to offices and lodging. The portion of the building given over to a dissection table, gas chamber and crematorium was an area that was generally known to the public until it was far too late for Holmes' many victims, most of whom were young women.<br /><br />Almost like a Henry James novel, the author writes in a robust, fulsome style that seems fitting for the period of the events, but he also becomes subtle and incisive when he focuses on the men and those around them. Larson effectively alternates chapters so that you end up with an interwoven biography of both Burnham and Holmes, with a satisfying denouement that describes the lonely trek of the detective who ultimately solved the murders. What is ultimately most interesting is how much Burnham and Holmes have in common, Both were insatiably ambitious for power, one in full view of the world, the other in the solitude of his own lair. Like Doctorow, Larson brings in actual historical figures to fortify the book's authenticity. Such disparate folks as labor leader Samuel Gompers and suffragist Susan B. Anthony turn up, along with cameos by Helen Keller, Theodore Dreiser and others. What results is a thoughtfully painted portrait of a lost era and a place almost lost in history, an America that simply does not exist anymore except for the sensibilities that inspired it. Larson seamlessly brings all the disparate elements of humanity into a wonderful piece of non-fiction. Strongly recommended.in impressive detail the creation and construction of the fair itself. The other man is the cold and charismatic H.H. Holmes, who killed somewhere between 27 and 200 people while the fair was going on. In what turns out to be a too-true-to-be-believed account, Larson describes the meticulous planning and forethought of Holmes in building a \\"World's Fair Hotel\\" just west of the fairgrounds. Only part of the hotel, however, was given over to offices and lodging. The portion of the building given over to a dissection table, gas chamber and crematorium was an area that was generally known to the public until it was far too late for Holmes' many victims, most of whom were young women.    Almost like a Henry James novel, the author writes in a robust, fulsome style that seems fitting for the period of the events, but he also becomes subtle and incisive when he focuses on the men and those around them. Larson effectively alternates chapters so that you end up with an interwoven biography of both Burnham and Holmes, with a satisfying denouement that describes the lonely trek of the detective who ultimately solved the murders. What is ultimately most interesting is how much Burnham and Holmes have in common, Both were insatiably ambitious for power, one in full view of the world, the other in the solitude of his own lair. Like Doctorow, Larson brings in actual historical figures to fortify the book's authenticity. Such disparate folks as labor leader Samuel Gompers and suffragist Susan B. Anthony turn up, along with cameos by Helen Keller, Theodore Dreiser and others. What results is a thoughtfully painted portrait of a lost era and a place almost lost in history, an America that simply does not exist anymore except for the sensibilities that inspired it. Larson seamlessly brings all the disparate elements of humanity into a wonderful piece of non-fiction. Strongly recommended.	2004-12-07
US	52697971	RJMLLF6XXW7QR	3822815950	589120409	Billy Wilder:The Complete Films, The Cinema of Wit 1906 - 2002	Books	4	10	10	N	N	The Genius of Wilder Augmented by Wondrous Photographs	To me, Billy Wilder is synonymous with the best of what Hollywood offered during the mid-century golden era. A consummate screenwriter, who eventually evolved into one of the leading directors and producers, Wilder has made film classics that have endured into our collective consciousness. Author Glenn Hopp does a nice job following Wilder's career from his birth in Austria in 1906 to his escape from the Nazi uprising in Germany to his eventual settlement in Hollywood. He started writing for his mentor, Ernst Lubitsch, penning the scripts for lovely confections such as \\"Bluebeard's Eighth Wife\\" and the Garbo classic, \\"Ninotchka\\". Then he made his directorial debut with a Ginger Rogers romper, \\"The Major and the Minor\\" in 1942. After that film he had a string of critical and commercial hits - \\"Double Indemnity\\", \\"The Lost Weekend\\", \\"Sunset Boulevard\\", \\"Stalag 17\\", \\"Sabrina\\", \\"Love in the Afternoon\\", \\"Witness for the Prosecution\\", and arguably his high-water marks, \\"Some Like It Hot\\" and \\"The Apartment\\", both non-coincidentally starring a never-better Jack Lemmon. Wilder continued into the 1980`s, but he became less assured with his later films. The book covers each film and provides tantalizing glimpses into the stars involved. It also has some interesting inserts on the visual style he displayed in certain films like \\"The Apartment\\", the use of minor characters, and most interesting, deleted scenes like a shot of Fred MacMurrray facing the gas chamber at the end of \\"Double Indemnity\\".<br /><br />For those who want a more critical and detailed assessment of Wilder's career, this is not it. The book breezes through much of his history, but the photographs are wonderful, some familiar, many completely new to me, for example, color shots on the set of \\"Some Like It Hot\\". But if you are looking for a more comprehensive view of his work and his filmmaking process, as well as more on his personal life and dealings with his casts, then I suggest you pick up Ed Sikov's \\"On Sunset Boulevard: The Life and Times of Billy Wilder\\", a fairly thorough, even-handed biography. As with most of the Taschen books, this is well worth getting simply for the plentiful photographs beautifully presented.ulevard: The Life and Times of Billy Wilder\\", a fairly thorough, even-handed biography. As with most of the Taschen books, this is well worth getting simply for the plentiful photographs beautifully presented.	2004-12-05
US	52697971	RZNB42VM1VPTA	0060195916	389452453	Chain of Command: The Road from 9/11 to Abu Ghraib	Books	5	43	48	N	N	"Blaming the System" Never Had Sadder Dimensions	In this well-documented, revelatory book, investigative journalist Seymour Hersh has fearlessly chronicled a very rocky road between 9/11 and the disclosure of prison abuses at Abu Ghraib. On a deeper level, this book brings to light the questions around accountability when such obvious abuses are exposed, questions that bear certain similarities to the ones faced by those judging the Nuremberg trials after World War II. Does the responsibility rest with the soldiers executing the abuses, or does it go up to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld and National Security Adviser Condoleeza Rice, both of whom Hersh says were made aware of the situation? As horrific as 9/11 was, it was an idealistic notion that a tragedy of such magnitude would produce an epiphany that would inspire the government to bring the nation closer to its founding democratic principles. Hersh proves that quite the opposite has evolved, as he has been doing in the New Yorker, breaking stories that have shocked and repelled on America's war on terror. Breaches are numerous and detailed with dramatic precision in his book - military missteps in the hunt for al-Qaida, abuses at Guantanamo, the Pentagon's manipulation of intelligence, and in the most graphic images from the war, the humiliating treatment of Iraqi prisoners at Abu Ghraib. What was initially hoped to be a sad one-off incident has become the touchstone for what Hersh sees as fundamentally wrong with CIA intelligence and the US military infrastructure. He makes a convincing argument for whom should take responsibility for the prison abuses. Senior military and national security officials in the Bush administration were repeatedly warned by subordinates in 2002 and 2003 that prisoners in military custody were being abused.<br /><br />Hersh draws on numerous sources - most legitimate, some apocryphal - at senior levels of the government and intelligence community, from foreign officials, and from those on the battlefield, all of whom substantiate his investigation. Sadly the message appears to be that the buck does not seem to stop anywhere. While the investigation faults the Army for \\"failing to provide leadership,\\" senior commanders in Baghdad and the top commander himself, Lt. Gen. Ricardo S. Sanchez, as well as senior Pentagon officials, \\"were found to have had no role in ordering or permitting the abuse.\\" The message is muddled to the rest of us  - it is the system's fault, not the fault of those running it. The book sadly reveals that a lack of leadership equals exoneration of the leaders. There comes a point where closing one's eyes to such evidence is a form of complicity, that ignoring the warnings may be closer to a war crime than anyone cares to admit. In raw terms, Hersh brings the brutality of the post 9/11 journey this nation has taken, and while there have been moments of inspiration, the road has unfortunately been riddled with lapses that spread the imperial hubris this country denies globally rather than the greater good of democracy. This is essential reading on what the war on terrorism has brought us, completing a triumvirate that includes Senator Bob Graham's \\"Intelligence Matters\\" and a senior CIA officer's treatise, \\"Imperial Hubris\\".antiate his investigation. Sadly the message appears to be that the buck does not seem to stop anywhere. While the investigation faults the Army for \\"failing to provide leadership,\\" senior commanders in Baghdad and the top commander himself, Lt. Gen. Ricardo S. Sanchez, as well as senior Pentagon officials, \\"were found to have had no role in ordering or permitting the abuse.\\" The message is muddled to the rest of us  - it is the system's fault, not the fault of those running it. The book sadly reveals that a lack of leadership equals exoneration of the leaders. There comes a point where closing one's eyes to such evidence is a form of complicity, that ignoring the warnings may be closer to a war crime than anyone cares to admit. In raw terms, Hersh brings the brutality of the post 9/11 journey this nation has taken, and while there have been moments of inspiration, the road has unfortunately been riddled with lapses that spread the imperial hubris this country denies globally rather than the greater good of democracy. This is essential reading on what the war on terrorism has brought us, completing a triumvirate that includes Senator Bob Graham's \\"Intelligence Matters\\" and a senior CIA officer's treatise, \\"Imperial Hubris\\".	2004-11-29
US	52697971	R2C12K9B1CFIP8	0743253396	760100886	House of Bush, House of Saud: The Secret Relationship Between the World's Two Most Powerful Dynasties	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Bush-Saudi Marriage...the Never Ending Honeymoon	There is plenty of compelling material out there that covers the same ground author Craig Unger does in his book. To name just a few, there are Greg Palast's searing documentary, \\"Bush Family Fortunes - The Best Money Democracy Can Buy\\" (on DVD); Kevin Phillips' intergenerational saga, \\"American Dynasty: Aristocracy, Fortune and the Politics of Deceit in the House of Bush\\"; Senator Bob Graham's compelling \\"Intelligence Matters\\"; and of course, most famous, Michael Moore's \\"Fahrenheit 9/11\\" (on DVD). But Unger's contribution still provides great value, as he is part of a growing brethren that have examined the inextricable ties between the Saudi royals and the Bush family, a relationship so tightly bound that it has shaped America's Saudi policy and to some degree, facilitated the proliferation of terrorism. This intricately researched and thoroughly sourced book covers all aspects of the bond between U.S. politics and Saudi oil, and how those bonds created a foundation of future policy that would include the special treatment of the bin Laden family immediately following 9/11, when 140 Saudis were allowed to leave the U.S. on secret flights, and the ongoing refusal by the Bush administration during the 9/11 hearings to hold the Saudi's responsible for their part in funding and supporting terrorism.<br /><br />The secret relationship between the \\"world's two most powerful dynasties,\\" as Unger puts it, is all about oil, money, power and influence and has had significant impact on the political and economical landscape of the last several decades. It started in the seventies when an oil-rich House of Saud began courting American politicians in an effort to gain more political, military and economic influence. The ruse apparently worked as Unger meticulously details how both Bushes, father and son, have made fortunes over the years by trading on their famous name to persuade rich backers to invest in their various businesses, mostly oil-related. Some of the backers have been Saudi, even members of the royal family, and others came from another clan of note, the bin Ladens. Although the author relies pretty heavily on third-party evidence in illustrating how widespread the Bush-Saudi link is, he does provide compelling evidence of the enormous amounts of money involved, even putting a price tag on the Saudis' contributions to the Bush family at a staggering $1.476 billion, paid out over 30 years as gifts to Bush-related charities and companies. Moreover, Unger shows how our government leaders, namely Republicans, repeatedly chose to ignore the warning signs of Saudi extremism and corruption, because they didn't want to give up the oil, the power, and the access to material wealth the Saudis promised them. It certainly became a two-way street for both the Saudi royalty and the U.S. government. He concedes that Washington's indulgent attitude toward the Saudis may once have made sense, but he points out and then backs up the fact that the Saudis have always been fair-weather friends far more committed to Islamic fundamentalism.<br /><br />The author wisely does not go as far as charging the Bushes with deliberately acting in ways that went against America's national interest. Instead, he tries to describe other nefarious intrigues that the Saudis and Bushes have supposedly engaged in over the years, for example the Iran-contra scandal, the collapse of the Bank of Credit and Commerce International (B.C.C.I.) and even George W. Bush's narrow victory in the contested 2000 presidential election. Perhaps some of this is arguable, but cumulatively, there is credence to Unger's thesis. The fact remains that U.S.-Saudi relations are ruled by a particularly rigid iron logic, which dictates a fairly constant American policy: support for the royal family and indulgence of its excesses in return for stable oil prices. But it's always worth reminding ourselves just how unsavory they (and our own ruling family) can be. Unger has provided a valuable service with this book, and the more people who read it, hopefully the more that outrage will grow. Highly recommended.his book, and the more people who read it, hopefully the more that outrage will grow. Highly recommended.	2004-11-28
US	52697971	R27II7B94OGGPO	0374153892	282518591	Gilead: A Novel	Books	5	72	75	N	N	Subtle Spellbinder From a Master Storyteller	This is the work of a master storyteller that one could fairly compare with Harper Lee's \\"To Kill a Mockingbird\\" and Carson McCullers' \\"The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter\\". Author Marilynne Robinson has written a beautiful novel, concise and poignant with only a modicum of action but a depth of feeling all too rare in today's fiction. Set in mid-fifties Iowa, the dying, 76-year old Reverend John Ames narrates a long letter to his seven-year-old son born of his much younger second wife. It is not to be read until after the death of a father, who won't be around to see his boy grow up. The old man's purpose is to provide the boy with his \\"begats\\", a family history of biblical proportions that stretches from the Civil War to the civil rights movement. Through his discourse, Ames introduces his father and grandfather, who have split bitterly over the elder Ames' sometimes violent association with abolitionists, including John Brown. The reverend then details his boyhood quest to find the patriarch's Kansas grave. Before the Civil War, Gilead had become a haven for Brown and his supporters, as it was just across the border from bloody Kansas. The biblical parallels are clear, as Gilead is the land east of the Jordan traditionally viewed as the source of a healing salve, the balm of Gilead. But in the Old Testament, this same region also carries less than peaceful associations and is sometimes described as a place of bloodshed and inequity.  With Brown, Ames' grandfather rode and once preached to his flock in a red-stained shirt with a pistol tucked in his belt. Ames tells this fascinating family history with alternate strokes of regret and pleasure.<br /><br />Intergenerational conflicts provide the core theme of Robinson's story, as fathers and sons move on similar paths but are motivated by different passions. Much of the book reads like a spiritual diary, until one day, the prodigal son of Ames' best friend, Jack Boughton, returns to Gilead, and it is obvious that Ames has a divisive relationship with him. The source of the friction slowly reveals itself. Decades before, young Boughton brought disgrace on himself and his family then disappeared. But now Boughton starts visiting Ames and begins to assimilate himself within the Ames family. Ames agonizes over whether to reveal the evil of Boughton's past, but his greater good dominates. Ames' beliefs accumulate to express, with rare fullness and grace, nothing less than the divine riddle of existence. And while this revelation is spiritual in nature, the tone is far from sanctimonious thanks to Robinson's clear-eyed prose. As a reflection of the author, Ames possesses an agile intellect and an intimidating capacity for mindfulness, which one could see as a gift of his physical infirmity, but also of a lifetime of self-examination through writing and thinking.<br /><br />The book covers a century from the 1850s to 1956, when Ames sets down his story. Implicitly, it looks far into the future -- Ames imagines his little boy as an old man -- and in spirit back to biblical times. Much of what Ames describes is idyllic, but he also brings up darker memories, whether it's a fire set at the Negro church or the plight of an ignorant unwed mother. Eventually one realizes that beyond a portrait of the human condition, Robinson also introduces a more specific subtext in describing the challenging quest for social and racial justice. She has an uncanny gift to point up her moral wisdom and common sense with dry humor. I have never read Robinson's much-praised first novel, \\"Housekeeping\\" but now I'm curious to read it if only to see how her writing style has evolved over the years. Strongly recommended, one of the best pieces of fiction I've read in years.ve relationship with him. The source of the friction slowly reveals itself. Decades before, young Boughton brought disgrace on himself and his family then disappeared. But now Boughton starts visiting Ames and begins to assimilate himself within the Ames family. Ames agonizes over whether to reveal the evil of Boughton's past, but his greater good dominates. Ames' beliefs accumulate to express, with rare fullness and grace, nothing less than the divine riddle of existence. And while this revelation is spiritual in nature, the tone is far from sanctimonious thanks to Robinson's clear-eyed prose. As a reflection of the author, Ames possesses an agile intellect and an intimidating capacity for mindfulness, which one could see as a gift of his physical infirmity, but also of a lifetime of self-examination through writing and thinking.    The book covers a century from the 1850s to 1956, when Ames sets down his story. Implicitly, it looks far into the future -- Ames imagines his little boy as an old man -- and in spirit back to biblical times. Much of what Ames describes is idyllic, but he also brings up darker memories, whether it's a fire set at the Negro church or the plight of an ignorant unwed mother. Eventually one realizes that beyond a portrait of the human condition, Robinson also introduces a more specific subtext in describing the challenging quest for social and racial justice. She has an uncanny gift to point up her moral wisdom and common sense with dry humor. I have never read Robinson's much-praised first novel, \\"Housekeeping\\" but now I'm curious to read it if only to see how her writing style has evolved over the years. Strongly recommended, one of the best pieces of fiction I've read in years.	2004-11-28
US	52697971	R1J5069F95Y331	0300104111	151320808	Cuba: A New History	Books	5	71	89	N	N	Cuba Revealed In Lucid, Often Surprising Terms	For many, Cuban history started with Fidel Castro's political ascent in the 1950's. Nothing before seems relevant and sadly anything after has been a virtual black hole. Since the revolution of 1959, most writing about the island has been polarized, either ardently sympathetic or passionately hostile. But author Richard Gott, a British journalist and specialist in Latin American history, keeps a level head, guiding us from the first attempt at colonization by the Spanish in 1511 to the present day. By providing a full historical context, the author gives a much needed contextual understanding of an island only ninety miles from the Florida Keys, yet a world away in almost every other respect.<br /><br />Gott dispels many convenient myths, such as the timing of the Communist influence. It didn't start with Castro but actually in 1907 with the Independent Party of Color, when socialists banded together to try to relieve themselves from the oppression they felt from U.S. occupation after the Spanish-American War. The group fomented into an embryonic Communist Party in 1925, which went unabated for years afterward. They even launched their own newspaper and promised then-revolutionary Fulgencio Batista the political support he needed to become Cuba's president during World War II. So, contrary to popular belief, Batista welcomed Communists into his government. But Batista became cruelly repressive during the 1950's, which triggered Castro to launch a failed armed attack on the Moncada fortress barracks in Santiago. It was at this time that Castro met Che Guevara, and Gott vividly describes their first meeting. The two men initially got on very well, brothers in arms. Guevara badly needed a political cause, while he gave Fidel valuable insights into other revolutionary experiments around Latin America. For those who have read and seen the recent movie version of \\"The Motorcycle Diaries\\", Guevara's sociopolitical evolution now becomes clear from Gott's account. As we all know, Castro and Guevara combined forces, which led to Batista escaping and Castro taking control in January 1959.<br /><br />What is enlightening in this book is how Castro's energy inspired some of the greatest Latin American novelists of the 20th century, including Gabriel Garc&iacute;a M&aacute;rquez, Mario Vargas Llosa and Carlos Fuentes. He charmed not only Russian politicians like Nikita Khrushchev and African revolutionaries such as Ahmed Ben Bella, but also French intellectuals such as Jean-Paul Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir. Castro had a falling out with Pablo Neruda when he implied that Castro may be taking too much credit for the revolution, and one begins to see the megalomania that induced fissures in his power base. Nonetheless, Gott is very thorough when it comes to describing Castro's acumen as a politician, especially as he faced the challenge of becoming more estranged from Guevara, who saw himself as a political visionary compelled to spread the word about the revolution globally. But Castro started seeing Guevara as a loose cannon and wanted no part of the armed struggle Guevara desired. As we know, this all ended with Guevara's assassination in Bolivia in 1967, which has been attributed at various times to the CIA and even Castro himself. Gott was actually on hand himself to identify Che's body after the murder.<br /><br />The author explores Castro's perceived political softening recently, for example, his cautious attitude to the Sandinista overthrow of the Somoza dictatorship in Nicaragua in 1979. According to Gott, Castro even suggested that the Sandinistas should establish a mixed economy and a pluralistic political system. Likely the most intriguing portions of the book focus on the continuing interest the U.S. has in usurping the power structure within Cuba. Gott handles these episodes lucidly, for instance, taking the drama out of historical watermark events like the 1962 Bay of Pigs missile crisis. Perhaps his most surprising assertionis that virtually all of the most ruthless acts of U.S. political interference and military aggression in the 20th century have been the work of Democrat rather than Republican Presidents - Wilson's deployment of marines to occupy Cuba in 1917; FDR's interventions to crush the 1933 revolution; JFK's 1961 invasion; LBJ's immigration scheme; and the Torricelli and Helms-Burton Acts under Clinton.  In fact, plans have been underway since the Clinton administration to suborn the Cuban officer corps after the departure of Castro. Gott also describes the Miami power base of Cuban-Americans, who contemplate with satisfaction the recovery of properties lost long ago. But the author leaves us with the most revealing of conclusions - that he expects little change in Cuba in the years ahead even after Castro dies. Gott believes Castro has become a mere figurehead and that a post-Castro government has been in place for several years. And despite images exalted by popular culture, reintegration of Cuba into the international community may not be such a harmonious affair. This has to be the definitive book on Cuba's history and current political situation and consequently, essential reading for those who want to take a harder look at where things will evolve there.virtually all of the most ruthless acts of U.S. political interference and military aggression in the 20th century have been the work of Democrat rather than Republican Presidents - Wilson's deployment of marines to occupy Cuba in 1917; FDR's interventions to crush the 1933 revolution; JFK's 1961 invasion; LBJ's immigration scheme; and the Torricelli and Helms-Burton Acts under Clinton.  In fact, plans have been underway since the Clinton administration to suborn the Cuban officer corps after the departure of Castro. Gott also describes the Miami power base of Cuban-Americans, who contemplate with satisfaction the recovery of properties lost long ago. But the author leaves us with the most revealing of conclusions - that he expects little change in Cuba in the years ahead even after Castro dies. Gott believes Castro has become a mere figurehead and that a post-Castro government has been in place for several years. And despite images exalted by popular culture, reintegration of Cuba into the international community may not be such a harmonious affair. This has to be the definitive book on Cuba's history and current political situation and consequently, essential reading for those who want to take a harder look at where things will evolve there.	2004-11-27
US	52697971	R28BZD0VH9M81J	1400052084	717019642	What Would Jefferson Do?	Books	5	33	39	N	N	Life, Liberty and the Pursuit of Jeffersonian Democracy	I have got to believe Thomas Jefferson would be the first to laugh at the foreword he supposedly wrote for \\"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart Presents America: A Citizen's Guide to Democracy Inaction\\". Our third President purportedly asserts \\"You moderns have a tendency to worship at the altar of the Fathers,\\" but \\"he\\" ends with a vital description of the Constitution as \\"a living document based on principles that transcended the times we lived in...a blueprint for a system to endure.\\" Well put, as Jefferson was a true Renaissance man, a constant inventor and unequivocally a founding father in the history of democracy in this country. His ideal for the way this country should be run is as relevant now as it was back then, and I'm so glad Thom Hartmann's comprehensive and eminently readable book vouches for that fact in lucid terms. At a time when the Bush administration flagrantly disregards the Constitution and the ideals expressed in the Declaration of Independence, Hartmann reminds us that we were founded on noble and then innovative principles that once protected the civil rights of its citizenry.<br /><br />More than coincidentally, Hartmann focuses on why we so clearly need to separate church and state and the reasons why Jefferson was so passionate about this issue from witnessing the ramifications of a tyrannical clergy in England. In his day, there was a powerful movement to make the Ten Commandments the basis of American law, but Jefferson recognized how easily the alliance between church and state in England has led to unprecedented fraud among the judges who were appointed to uphold it. Clearly, the conservative right has been amassing power in more subtle ways today but to the same inevitable conclusions. Jefferson's thoughts on freedom of speech turn out to be equally prophetic, as Hartmann explains that fairness and accuracy in reporting has been torpedoed by the major broadcasting companies more interested in their bottom line than upholding government regulations on speech. The author is particularly effective in responding to the ideals set forth by the conservative movement, as articulated, for example, in Russell Kirk's seminal work, \\"The Conservative Mind\\". One of Kirk's claims is that a right to property is a prerequisite to freedom, because without property other rights are meaningless. Hartmann rightfully claims property to be the result of other more basic rights since Kirk's logic builds in a financial value that produces inequity in its foundation. This is a terrific history book made relevant by Hartmann's intensive data collection and insightful observations. It will motivate you to do what you can to uphold the democratic principles that were meant to ensure us civil liberties and individual freedoms. Strongly recommended.nt regulations on speech. The author is particularly effective in responding to the ideals set forth by the conservative movement, as articulated, for example, in Russell Kirk's seminal work, \\"The Conservative Mind\\". One of Kirk's claims is that a right to property is a prerequisite to freedom, because without property other rights are meaningless. Hartmann rightfully claims property to be the result of other more basic rights since Kirk's logic builds in a financial value that produces inequity in its foundation. This is a terrific history book made relevant by Hartmann's intensive data collection and insightful observations. It will motivate you to do what you can to uphold the democratic principles that were meant to ensure us civil liberties and individual freedoms. Strongly recommended.	2004-11-27
US	52697971	R3TP7YOEANPQJM	0375709827	991421329	The Conversations: Walter Murch and the Art of Editing Film	Books	5	21	23	N	N	The Art and Science of Film Editing From a True Master	The film editor is the great unsung hero of the filmmaking process. After all, during the annual Oscar ceremony, the award for Best Film Editing seems to be hidden away between bad production numbers and some indecipherable technical award. As directors like Francis Ford Coppola and Anthony Minghella constantly receive praise for their creative visions, it is obviously the film editor's onerous task to make sense of that vision and capture the key moments and sounds that define it. Film editor and sound designer par excellence, Walter Murch, is the subject of this endlessly fascinating book, which chronicles a series of five extensive conversations he had with Michael Ondaatje, author of \\"The English Patient\\". They met on the set of that film, one of many fine films Murch has edited, and Ondaatje was so struck by his personality and methods that he decided to write this book. In fact, Ondaatje was bowled over by how Murch could draw lines connecting the most disparate things in the cosmos: philosophy, technology, science, music, literature, art, languages, sound theory. Murch can locate the impulse of a film in the symphonies of Beethoven or in the way he views painting and architecture. He knows of what he speaks as his track record is very impressive - \\"Apocalypse Now\\", all three parts of \\"The Godfather\\", \\"American Graffiti\\", \\"Julia\\", \\"The Unbearable Lightness of Being\\", \\"The Talented Mr. Ripley\\", and the list goes on.<br /><br />This intriguing book also explores the dynamic relationship between film editing and writing, which means Ondaatje is in a unique position to provide insight into his own methods. It becomes clear that Murch's descriptions of his editing offer Ondaatje new ways of understanding his own work as a novelist, and much of the pleasure derived from the book comes from Ondaatje's self-discovery process. Murch convincingly presents himself as both a physicist and a mathematician of cinema and suggests that we are in a prehistoric period, and that over time, we will eventually develop a system of notation for film much like musical notes. He sees it as his own destiny to uncover the underlying mathematics of cinema. Of course, Ondaatje provides perspectives of the filmmakers with whom Murch has worked extensively, providing accounts of Murch's importance in Hollywood by such figures as Coppola and George Lucas. Some films understandably get more attention than others. There is a lot of discourse on \\"The Conversation\\" and \\"Apocalypse Now\\", including the Redux version, as well as the \\"Godfather\\" trilogy, including his re-edit to make it one giant epic. Lots of revelations come out in these discussions. For example, one can now finally understand that Robert Duvall's absence (due to pay demands) is to blame for the lackluster \\"Godfather Part III\\" since the initial vision was to focus on the death of Tom Hagen, much as it was on the killings of Sonny in Part I and Fredo in Part II. He also has some interesting insight in the recutting and remixing of Orson Welles' \\"Touch of Evil\\". But he goes well beyond his own films, as he cites and discusses films of great influence to him like \\"King Kong\\" and Eisentein's \\"Alexander Nevsky\\".<br /><br />An obvious intellectual with a nimble mind for data collection and synthesis, Murch has managed to combine technological and engineering know-how with artistic inventiveness. Not surprisingly, he is also a bit of an eccentric, a Renaissance man slightly out of step with his time. This book will greatly appeal to film buffs as it offers a real insight into how some of our most iconic films of the last quarter century were made. This is a pure delight chock full of interesting photos, probably the best such interactive collaboration since Francois Truffaut interviewed Alfred Hitchcock.me, we will eventually develop a system of notation for film much like musical notes. He sees it as his own destiny to uncover the underlying mathematics of cinema. Of course, Ondaatje provides perspectives of the filmmakers with whom Murch has worked extensively, providing accounts of Murch's importance in Hollywood by such figures as Coppola and George Lucas. Some films understandably get more attention than others. There is a lot of discourse on \\"The Conversation\\" and \\"Apocalypse Now\\", including the Redux version, as well as the \\"Godfather\\" trilogy, including his re-edit to make it one giant epic. Lots of revelations come out in these discussions. For example, one can now finally understand that Robert Duvall's absence (due to pay demands) is to blame for the lackluster \\"Godfather Part III\\" since the initial vision was to focus on the death of Tom Hagen, much as it was on the killings of Sonny in Part I and Fredo in Part II. He also has some interesting insight in the recutting and remixing of Orson Welles' \\"Touch of Evil\\". But he goes well beyond his own films, as he cites and discusses films of great influence to him like \\"King Kong\\" and Eisentein's \\"Alexander Nevsky\\".    An obvious intellectual with a nimble mind for data collection and synthesis, Murch has managed to combine technological and engineering know-how with artistic inventiveness. Not surprisingly, he is also a bit of an eccentric, a Renaissance man slightly out of step with his time. This book will greatly appeal to film buffs as it offers a real insight into how some of our most iconic films of the last quarter century were made. This is a pure delight chock full of interesting photos, probably the best such interactive collaboration since Francois Truffaut interviewed Alfred Hitchcock.	2004-11-27
US	52697971	R1D5Y0A8L1G5LG	1400063159	871583216	The Persian Puzzle: The Conflict Between Iran and America	Books	5	8	17	N	N	Vital Reading on Why Ignoring Iran Is a Frightening Mistake	Twenty-five years after the Iranian hostage crisis, author Kenneth Pollack, a former CIA analyst and National Security Council official, has written a thorough, sometimes frightening, sometimes rose-colored account of the U.S. relationship with Iran. Overshadowed lately by its war-torn neighbor, Iran is a contradictory country that supports terrorism, is building an arsenal of nuclear weapons, and with Saddam Hussein's ouster, evolving into the new key threat in derailing the interminable Middle East peace process. In fact, the author argues that the Bush administration's continued ignorance of Iran's burgeoning prominence will likely result in yet another war based on fictitious weapons of mass destruction. Perhaps still smarting from his previously hawkish stance against Iraq in his last book, \\"The Threatening Storm\\", Pollack believes containment should be our new strategy in dealing with Iran. He calls for a flexible approach that would take into account the constant state of flux in Iranian foreign policy, as extremists and pragmatists fight for internal control of the country.<br /><br />Pollack provides a valuable primer on Iranian history, which is redolent of the suffocating xenophobia of Iranian leaders like Mohammed Mossadegh and the Ayatollah Khomeini. Nineteenth century European imperialism shaped a lot of the current Iranian suspicion of foreign interference in their affairs. The author also discusses the Iranian tendency to resent and resist their rulers, obviously peaking with the Shah's 25-year regime until his overthrow in 1979. And most pertinent, Pollack reviews the many traumatic encounters between the United States and Iran over the last fifty years, which of course, culminated with the fourteen-month long ordeal in the taking of the U.S. hostages. This was a defining moment in our own history, scarring the American psyche and making the U.S. look weak in the eyes of the world. Jimmy Carter's presidential legacy took a tumble as a result (the hostages were released just hours after Reagan's inauguration), and the perceived weakness invited challenges that persist today. When one sees the beheadings of Westerners like Daniel Pearl by terrorists, one cannot help speculate that the hostage crisis was the spark that led to such atrocious activity. Ironically, the author seems less thorough when it comes to looking at Iran within the context of the ongoing Iraqi conflict. One can deduce that Pollack's aversion to war has something to do with leaving a power vacuum in the region that would make it particularly ripe for a greater flourishing of the al-Qaeda network. What he does far more effectively is put America's relationship with Iran into historical perspective. This level of understanding is critical in any negotiations with the Iranians. For instance, many are still furious at the Shah twenty-five years later for a multitude of sins, from his creation of a repressive police state to his squandering of money on military equipment. Unfairly or not, they continue to blame the U.S. for being colonial allies to his master plan. Pollack is actually generous in pinning the blame entirely on the Shah, and he even forgives U.S. policymakers in the 1970's for their failure to anticipate Ayatollah Khomeini's ascendancy.<br /><br />According to Pollack, Iran is at a pivotal cusp in history at this very moment. Depending on how well Iraq fares as a democracy, Iran could follow suit or continue on its path toward a complete Islamic autocracy. Just how the Bush administration deals with Iran for the next four years will be a real test of the global leadership to which the U.S. aspires and needs to define if there is going to be any inroads in thwarting the ongoing terrorist threat.  Pollack provides valuable reading, critical for anyone who wants to understand the broader Middle East political situation.ere released just hours after Reagan's inauguration), and the perceived weakness invited challenges that persist today. When one sees the beheadings of Westerners like Daniel Pearl by terrorists, one cannot help speculate that the hostage crisis was the spark that led to such atrocious activity. Ironically, the author seems less thorough when it comes to looking at Iran within the context of the ongoing Iraqi conflict. One can deduce that Pollack's aversion to war has something to do with leaving a power vacuum in the region that would make it particularly ripe for a greater flourishing of the al-Qaeda network. What he does far more effectively is put America's relationship with Iran into historical perspective. This level of understanding is critical in any negotiations with the Iranians. For instance, many are still furious at the Shah twenty-five years later for a multitude of sins, from his creation of a repressive police state to his squandering of money on military equipment. Unfairly or not, they continue to blame the U.S. for being colonial allies to his master plan. Pollack is actually generous in pinning the blame entirely on the Shah, and he even forgives U.S. policymakers in the 1970's for their failure to anticipate Ayatollah Khomeini's ascendancy.    According to Pollack, Iran is at a pivotal cusp in history at this very moment. Depending on how well Iraq fares as a democracy, Iran could follow suit or continue on its path toward a complete Islamic autocracy. Just how the Bush administration deals with Iran for the next four years will be a real test of the global leadership to which the U.S. aspires and needs to define if there is going to be any inroads in thwarting the ongoing terrorist threat.  Pollack provides valuable reading, critical for anyone who wants to understand the broader Middle East political situation.	2004-11-26
US	52697971	R31XQPCUE30GGY	0151010900	575089176	The Facts Behind the Helsinki Roccamatios	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Bumpy, Worthwhile Ride Into Martel's Just-Forming Universe	If, like me, you are awaiting author Yann Martel's next creative work after his whimsical animal allegory, \\"Life of Pi\\", then you can get a fix in the meantime with these four short stories written by the author about ten years ago. You definitely see the talent forming and consequently expect unwarranted flashes of brazenness here and there.<br /><br />The book's title is actually the title of the first story told in the first person. The Roccamatios are an imaginary Italian family living in Finland in the late 1980's, and their friend Paul is dying of AIDS. In order to alleviate the unrelenting grief of the situation, the narrator invents a game where he and Paul each takes turns picking one fact from each year of the twentieth century. Their characters reveal themselves piece by piece by what fact they choose. It's a creative if bit contrived two-character study, which ultimately reflects a dying wish to preserve the past and somehow immortalize Paul. The second story has the unwieldy title of \\"The Time I Heard the Private Donald J. Rankin String Concerto with One Discordant Violin, by the American Composer John Morton.\\" It's about a Canadian who visits Washington, D.C., in 1989, and has a chance encounter with a Vietnam War veteran who leads an ensemble of his former comrades in arms in an abandoned theater. The music they play becomes cathartic to the visitor, and in turn, the musicians recount their wartime experiences in unexpected ways. Like one of the better episodes of Rod Serling's \\"Night Gallery\\", the story becomes a meditative examination of loneliness, lost opportunities and reaching for something that is beyond your grasp.<br /><br />The third story, entitled \\"Manners of Dying\\", consists of a more hackneyed premise, creative variations on a convicted criminal's last hours, including his execution. In true \\"Rashomon\\" style, each one is written in the form of a letter to the prisoner's mother from the warden of a correctional institution. In each version of his story, the main character details his last meal, whether he ate it, how much time he spent with the chaplain, what attitude he displayed in expectation of the inevitable and precisely how he died. One variation has him choking on a potato, another laughing hysterically, and so on. It's a bit like \\"Groundhog Day\\" only in this case, the prisoner ponders different aspects of his life with each variation. The last story, \\"The Vita Aeterna Mirror Company: Mirrors to Last Till Kingdom Come\\" gets its title from a strange device that an old woman has, a machine that makes mirrors and runs on memories. Structured like a play with different voices, the old woman tells her life story on the left side of the page and her grandson on the right. Like the famous \\"Far Side\\" cartoon with Ginger the dog, when the grandmother talks, all the boy hears is \\"blah-blah-blah\\". Of course, the ending is inevitable the grandson appreciating the device and then ultimately recognizing his grandmother to be a more interesting person than he realized.<br /><br />You can see the wheels at work in these four stories and certainly the start of what would culminate with \\"Life of Pi\\". Familiar elements are evident - the ironic sense of play characters use when facing death, whimsical plot turns that have greater gravity than they appear, odd facts that meld apparent non-sequiturs into a cohesive storyline. This is definitely worthwhile reading for anyone who wants to see how Martel started creating his universe.the main character details his last meal, whether he ate it, how much time he spent with the chaplain, what attitude he displayed in expectation of the inevitable and precisely how he died. One variation has him choking on a potato, another laughing hysterically, and so on. It's a bit like \\"Groundhog Day\\" only in this case, the prisoner ponders different aspects of his life with each variation. The last story, \\"The Vita Aeterna Mirror Company: Mirrors to Last Till Kingdom Come\\" gets its title from a strange device that an old woman has, a machine that makes mirrors and runs on memories. Structured like a play with different voices, the old woman tells her life story on the left side of the page and her grandson on the right. Like the famous \\"Far Side\\" cartoon with Ginger the dog, when the grandmother talks, all the boy hears is \\"blah-blah-blah\\". Of course, the ending is inevitable the grandson appreciating the device and then ultimately recognizing his grandmother to be a more interesting person than he realized.    You can see the wheels at work in these four stories and certainly the start of what would culminate with \\"Life of Pi\\". Familiar elements are evident - the ironic sense of play characters use when facing death, whimsical plot turns that have greater gravity than they appear, odd facts that meld apparent non-sequiturs into a cohesive storyline. This is definitely worthwhile reading for anyone who wants to see how Martel started creating his universe.	2004-11-26
US	52697971	ROFYQBS66YUGP	0805073396	564190816	What's the Matter with Kansas? How Conservatives Won the Heart of America	Books	4	23	32	N	N	Why the Disenfranchised Vote Against Their Own Betterment	Those who have already read John Sperling's fascinating treatise, \\"The Great Divide: Retro Vs. Metro States\\", will recognize many of the tenets that author Thomas Frank writes about here. The key difference is tone and context. Frank replaces the data-intensive approach that Sperling and his co-writers took with personal insight and deep-seeded passion focusing on his native Kansas as his prototypical \\"red state\\" case study. His theories smack of polemic at times, but the election results certainly heighten their credibility. The author states that conservative leaders in the Republican Party care only about promoting big business concerns, which by their nature, are inimical to those of the average Midwesterner. Recognizing an opportunity to translate their economic clout into a political power base, these leaders have cynically seized upon an unsuspecting populace and fanned the embers of a deliberate and pervasive sense of cultural grievance. The net result is that like lemmings into the sea, the constituents are fooled into voting against their true interests. For reasons known only to them, they place social issues - abortion, gun control and the like - above an adequate income and affordable health insurance. Frank's book has plenty of contempt predictably for the conservative leaders but also for his fellow Kansans. He describes them as deranged and lunatic, people who live in a dysfunctional state. They \\"revel in fantasies of their own marginality and persecution\\". Worst of all, according to Frank, evangelical Kansans are often \\"aggressively pious individuals\\", zealots who can be expected to \\"bark and howl and rebuke the world for its sins\\". These self-deniers believe that too many Democrats are hung up on the right to control one's body, the result being uninhibited access to abortion, and also deaths directly attributable to easy firearms access. The Democratic Party's support for gun control and abortion rights has been the one-two punch that has obliterated party support in the Great Plains. It is the very inflexibility that right-wing Republicans exhibit on abortion, gun control and other emotional issues that forces Kansans and the other disenfranchised to continue electing and re-electing Republicans.<br /><br />This is quite a charge, and journalistic objectivity is definitely not a hallmark of Frank's writing style. In a tone filled with equal parts vitriol and heart, he expresses his dismay over the shift and tries to seek answers as to why voters faring poorly economically would vote for Republicans whose mantra is to make the rich richer. Frank sometimes overreaches such as his view of capitalism as \\"borderline criminality\\", but he provides a strong foundation for his theories. Where he veers off is not examining fully the possibility of legitimate cultural grievances. The only legitimate interests, he believes, should be economic. Frank also does not cite the superior marketing skills of the Republicans, a defining factor during the campaign that has been recognized by not only Sperling but also George Lakoff in his incisive study of political metaphors, \\"Don't Think of an Elephant: Know Your Values and Frame the Debate\\". Frank's book is a great anthropological study. Although not terribly successful at explaining the cultural divide, the book manages to exemplify it perfectly in its condescension toward people who don't vote as Frank thinks they should. The political universe is black-and-white to Frank and the bad-guy conservatives are further divided between the fools and the knaves. The fools are the Kansans, the average folks who have been driven into right-wing politics by what they see as the tyranny of the blasphemous, \\"blue state\\" power mongers. The knaves are the opportunists, the professionals who see the great right-wing groundswell as a means toward realizing their own personal ambitions. Although Frank is obviously anti-Republican, he is not so openly pro-Democrat, especially since he calls the Democratic Leadership Council a \\"hothouse of the right\\". He seems to care not so much about whom is in power as about the powerless who are hurting themselves and thus widening the unhealthy divide between the haves and have-nots. A smart, intriguing read worthy of broader discussion.the Democratic Leadership Council a \\"hothouse of the right\\". He seems to care not so much about whom is in power as about the powerless who are hurting themselves and thus widening the unhealthy divide between the haves and have-nots. A smart, intriguing read worthy of broader discussion.	2004-11-25
US	52697971	R1BBZAS0MZPUA7	159420036X	810143782	The Pacific and Other Stories	Books	4	11	17	N	N	Expert Craftsmanship Leaves Less Room for the Heart	A novelist and political columnist, Mark Helprin writes with the steady hand of a meticulous craftsman in the telling of these sixteen stories of mortality and redemption. There is a pervasive sense of melancholy in each story, and although he displays his talent to evoke historical settings authentically to the last detail, Helprin faces a more significant challenge in providing depth and complexity to the characters he draws. He is masterful when it comes to precise and lucid explanations of events outside the human experience, whether it's the currents in the ocean or a play-by-play of a perfect baseball game. As a literary miniaturist, he can get into the minutiae of life, but there is an odd imbalance that results. While the characters of his stories speak with eloquent exactitude, they are less specific when it comes to their own emotions.<br /><br />The stories are quite varied in setting. Several concern soldiers facing death during wartime, yet the climax of a story can happen without warning and then it uneventfully ends. For instance, in \\"Charlotte of the Utrechtseweg,\\" a World War II Army major has a vivid flashback after being shot by a German soldier, regretting his abandonment of his daughter, and then dies without moving from the spot where he fell at the beginning. Other stories focus more on philosophical dilemmas, for example, men who have amassed the spoils of wealth attempt to atone for past excesses by willfully reversing their fortunes. Toward that end, Helprin can get so carried away with his descriptions of the burgeoning materialism that infiltrates some of his stories, that it plays like a Home and Garden TV special on how the wealthy live. In a tale called \\"Monday,\\" a successful contractor pushes his business to the edge of bankruptcy in an attempt to console a woman who lost her husband during the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center. The contractor persuades his entire crew to work non-stop for free, and for his suppliers to donate only the best materials, so he can surprise the widow by renovating her co-op and leaving a bill on the mantle marked \\"Paid in Full.\\" It plays almost like an episode of \\"Extreme Makeover\\" and skims the surface of the story just as much. Helprin gets into specifics about carpentry and construction at the expense of diving headlong into the torrents of emotion that you would think the characters are feeling, and then leads us to a pat ending. The story could have resonated as a parable about the possibility of redemption through sacrifice, but the fact that it leaves one wanting to point out the taste of the decorator suggests that Helprin falls short of the transcendence he attempts.<br /><br />I still admire Helprin's craftsmanship, but with this collection, he is perceptibly not as involving when it comes to matters of the heart and soul. His stories read more like fables without an equal amount of attention paid to the human condition. Characters come off as stereotypes rather than people: males are brave and uncompromising, and most of his females are breathtakingly beautiful. Nonetheless, Helprin's writing can be exquisite, and sometimes he creates worlds so dark that the ameliorative power of wallowing in them is to allow readers to appreciate what they have. I only wish the author could have delved a little deeper into the human heart to make these stories really soar.the best materials, so he can surprise the widow by renovating her co-op and leaving a bill on the mantle marked \\"Paid in Full.\\" It plays almost like an episode of \\"Extreme Makeover\\" and skims the surface of the story just as much. Helprin gets into specifics about carpentry and construction at the expense of diving headlong into the torrents of emotion that you would think the characters are feeling, and then leads us to a pat ending. The story could have resonated as a parable about the possibility of redemption through sacrifice, but the fact that it leaves one wanting to point out the taste of the decorator suggests that Helprin falls short of the transcendence he attempts.    I still admire Helprin's craftsmanship, but with this collection, he is perceptibly not as involving when it comes to matters of the heart and soul. His stories read more like fables without an equal amount of attention paid to the human condition. Characters come off as stereotypes rather than people: males are brave and uncompromising, and most of his females are breathtakingly beautiful. Nonetheless, Helprin's writing can be exquisite, and sometimes he creates worlds so dark that the ameliorative power of wallowing in them is to allow readers to appreciate what they have. I only wish the author could have delved a little deeper into the human heart to make these stories really soar.	2004-11-21
US	52697971	ROKHJKGH6M42Q	0670033510	63045000	The Inner Voice: The Making of a Singer	Books	4	24	24	N	N	No Prima Donna Ranting Here...the Story of Her Voice	I knew it had to be more than coincidence that the opera singer Roxane Coss in Ann Patchett's accomplished novel, \\"Bel Canto\\", reminded me of Ren&eacute;e Fleming. As it turns out, Patchett assisted the world-renowned soprano in the writing of her polite yet down-to-earth memoir here. Despite how colorfully punctilious the opera world can be, there is nary a tidbit of gossip to be found in this book, and having performed in the world's leading opera houses, she has probably seen it all and could tell some ribald stories. But she takes a more tactful route and as a result, she comes across as almost academic yet powerfully ambitious. The seemingly contradictory combination actually helps make some of her vaunted statements more reflective than self-serving (for example, \\"I believe the ultimate goal of an opera singer is to create a legacy\\"). In fact, Fleming seems intent on providing a primer for rising young singers to learn her lessons with chapter titles such as \\"Business\\" and \\"Image\\". And she has reason to be heard, as she is probably the only female classical music star today who is comparable to Callas, Sutherland and Sills in stature.<br /><br />Truth be told, Fleming is not as innately likeable as Sills, but I don't think she aspires to be either. She is truly the product of hard work and discipline, values that permeate her career as much as her vast talent. At least, the soprano is honest about her fragile and recalcitrant voice being the product of care and technique rather than positioning it as some inspirational gift to share with the masses. In that vein, I also like her sharp accounts of brutally honest publicists and managers who have criticized her clothes, her acting and her weight. Fleming is also candid about the challenges she faces in juggling stardom with being the single mother of two. I would think this book would be valuable to any aspiring singer, classical or otherwise, as she goes into great detail about her vocal technique and study habits. For the rest of us, we can be impressed by this accomplished performer from a distance, for Fleming is quite circumspect when it comes to her personal life beyond talking about her children. I don't consider that a failing of this book, but it does make me think what an alternatively interesting book could have been written had Patchett written it strictly in the third person as an observer. I am planning to see Fleming's Met performance of Handel's \\"Rodelinda\\" next month co-starring with the amazing countertenor David Daniels, and now that I've read her story, I can fully appreciate how she got there.st of us, we can be impressed by this accomplished performer from a distance, for Fleming is quite circumspect when it comes to her personal life beyond talking about her children. I don't consider that a failing of this book, but it does make me think what an alternatively interesting book could have been written had Patchett written it strictly in the third person as an observer. I am planning to see Fleming's Met performance of Handel's \\"Rodelinda\\" next month co-starring with the amazing countertenor David Daniels, and now that I've read her story, I can fully appreciate how she got there.	2004-11-20
US	52697971	R3RUT1ZPRYNP9C	1400061016	696961016	The Godfather Returns	Books	4	31	42	N	N	Solid Attempt at Sleeping with the Fishes	The daunting task of writing a sequel to Mario Puzo's classic \\"The Godfather\\" rests squarely on the shoulders of a writer who won a contest run by Random House, the book's publisher. From this unpromising true-life scenario comes a novel that is well crafted and only marginally disappointing when it comes to its built-in expectations. A writer, even one as obviously talented as Mark Winegardner, unfortunately starts in a creative deficit when his one overriding responsibility amounts to not only supplementing but expanding upon as singular a vision as Puzo's original telling of the Corleone family saga. These characters are so ingrained in the American consciousness that Winegardner's immediate priority is to deal with the burden of remaining faithful to a classic. In a way that highlights the selectiveness of our collective memory, \\"The Godfather\\" invented the Mafia, endowing it with a mandolin-strumming legend and pinkie ring-kissing ritual even the actual Mafia didn't know was there.<br /><br />The story picks up the Corleone story in 1955 right after Michael has proven his mettle among New York's most powerful crime families, and now he wants to claim legitimacy for his family business. So obsessed is he for respect, Michael becomes more and more isolated as a character, and unfortunately, the lack of inner conflict doesn't make for a very dramatic arc since he doesn't undergo any significant transformation in the story. I believe this sort of evolution is what made the first book and its film version resonate. The author instead focuses Michael's attention externally on his deteriorating relationship with Fredo, the weak brother whom we already know is no match for him. In fact, Winegardner fills in a lot of the blanks about Fredo making him a bisexual psychopath who hosts a TV show. He also introduces a street informer named Nick Geraci, who is set up as not only a vengeful competitor but also the yang to Michael's yin. These mostly parallel tracks are interspersed with less important stories that still effectively add texture to the novel - Fredo's efforts to start a cemetery business in New Jersey, the power struggle the Corleones experience in taking over Las Vegas and the West Coast, the incendiary role the family plays in trying to oust Castro from Cuba. Even Johnny Fontane, the veiled alter-ego of Frank Sinatra, comes back in this sequel, as does sister Connie who has become a pretentious jet-setter (instead of the Lady Macbeth figure in Part III of the movie trilogy). Indeed, as with the movie sequels, this book dramatically shows how family dynasties destroy themselves over time.<br /><br />The main problem with the book has nothing to do with Winegardner's robust writing and everything to do with the iconic status of the Francis Ford Coppola films, even the lackluster third installment. When the author provides his own creative invention to such familiar characters, he seems like he's cheating somehow, veering off course simply because we already feel we know what happened to these characters from the movies. Of course, the comparison to Coppola's grand, operatic epics is unfair but inevitable. Taken on its own terms, however, this is a pretty strong sequel to the potboiler that Puzo's 1969 novel really was - fast, suspenseful, often baroque and lurid. It captures the pulp fiction pitch of the first book without the self-importance attached to the movie version. No small feat. If you can escape this comparison, you'll find this book a very worthwhile read.th less important stories that still effectively add texture to the novel - Fredo's efforts to start a cemetery business in New Jersey, the power struggle the Corleones experience in taking over Las Vegas and the West Coast, the incendiary role the family plays in trying to oust Castro from Cuba. Even Johnny Fontane, the veiled alter-ego of Frank Sinatra, comes back in this sequel, as does sister Connie who has become a pretentious jet-setter (instead of the Lady Macbeth figure in Part III of the movie trilogy). Indeed, as with the movie sequels, this book dramatically shows how family dynasties destroy themselves over time.    The main problem with the book has nothing to do with Winegardner's robust writing and everything to do with the iconic status of the Francis Ford Coppola films, even the lackluster third installment. When the author provides his own creative invention to such familiar characters, he seems like he's cheating somehow, veering off course simply because we already feel we know what happened to these characters from the movies. Of course, the comparison to Coppola's grand, operatic epics is unfair but inevitable. Taken on its own terms, however, this is a pretty strong sequel to the potboiler that Puzo's 1969 novel really was - fast, suspenseful, often baroque and lurid. It captures the pulp fiction pitch of the first book without the self-importance attached to the movie version. No small feat. If you can escape this comparison, you'll find this book a very worthwhile read.	2004-11-18
US	52697971	RCFZQY29DGKP9	006076340X	92756786	The Final Solution: A Story of Detection	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Bruno, Want a Cracker?...Holmes Meets the Holocaust	I really enjoyed Michael Chabon's mix of comic books and pulp fiction in his epic novel, \\"The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay\\", so it was a surprise to find this to be such a compact read - only 131 pages - even though the subject is arguably more ambitious. The plot focuses on an 89-year old Sherlock Holmes, long retired and perfectly content looking after his bees, who is called back to action by an odd murder case involving a rare and oddly eloquent parrot named Bruno and a 9-year old mute German Jewish refugee named Linus. Holmes and Linus inevitably start out with a prickly relationship, but they begin to nurture each other in the midst of the changing yet steadfastly prejudiced society that was Britain before the end of World War II.<br /><br />Inspired by the atmospheric Arthur Conan Doyle mysteries, Chabon has written a very English mystery that hinges on a numerical puzzle. The parrot can sing German lieder but more pertinently, repeat complex lists of numbers. His talent attracts British intelligence agents and perhaps German ones as well, and the consequence of the war comes to the fore. This is too convoluted for the clueless police but not for Holmes even in his frail and enfeebled state. There is plenty of wonderful writing here, and Chabon keeps the narrative tight, almost too cryptic at times. The conclusion is inevitable and frankly not all that surprising, which undermines the point of resuscitating Holmes for what is presumably his final case. An intriguing novella ideal for a few commuter train rides, though I think Chabon could have lent a bit more of the color and texture that made Kavalier and Clay so memorable.	2004-11-16
US	52697971	R1BEPZL0I6TG4O	0316159433	755102072	Flyboys: A True Story of Courage	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Shades of Gray Pervade View of WWII's Pacific Theater	As a history lesson on the American wartime mindset during World War II, this is an intriguing book that may ultimately make you feel conflicted. The story ostensibly focuses on nine American pilots shot down over the remote island of Chichi Jima. One pilot was George H. W. Bush, the future 41st President of the United States, who was rescued by a submarine. The other eight were captured by the Japanese, and disappeared. A military inquiry after the war was labeled top secret and sealed the story of the fate of these men from even their families. With painstaking research, author James Bradley has uncovered the truth behind what happened to these men. Even Bush didn't know the details of the fates of his fellow fliers, and post-war politics prevented the revelations presented here of wartime atrocities that befell the eight men on Chichi Jima.<br /><br />Bradley uses this story to paint a broader canvas of how the Americans and Japanese viewed war very differently. The key difference was that Americans had a will to live and that the Japanese, true kamikazes in their souls, had a will to die. Their \\"spirit warrior\\" leaders bent their soldiers to their monomaniacal will and sent them off on a course that would ensure its fulfillment. These disclosures are vital to share now, but just as compelling is how the author presents the historic hypocrisy on the U.S. side, specifically how subjugating other peoples was ingrained in the American psyche and how imperialism was felt justified only for the U.S. While the Japanese occupation of Manchuria reflected horrendously barbaric acts, no less destructive was the air power demonstrated by the Americans. In one March 1945 firebomb attack on Tokyo alone, nearly 100,000 Japanese died, surpassing the death toll from the nuclear-bomb attack on Nagasaki. If anything, Bradley makes the reader understand how gray things truly were and why events happened the way they did between the United States and Japan. It is this thoughtful, fearless examination of the gray zone that makes this essential reading on a defining passage in our history.examination of the gray zone that makes this essential reading on a defining passage in our history.	2004-11-16
US	52697971	R1WGM1SEH6B75Q	0812972821	593758140	Franklin and Winston: An Intimate Portrait of an Epic Friendship	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Male Bonding at the Highest Level of Political Power in WWII	Now whenever I see Bush and Blair at their parallel podiums in their mutual support for the war in Iraq, I wonder if people in the forties perceived Roosevelt and Churchill just as cynically. Author Jon Meacham, the managing editor for Newsweek, has done some extensive research to build a supremely engaging story of the burgeoning friendship between Roosevelt and Churchill during World War II. They actually had a lot in common - turbulent private lives, long-lasting marriages, problem children, and medical problems (Roosevelt paralyzed by polio, Churchill's purported alcoholism). They sought each other's company for reasons that went well beyond the struggles of the war, yet their relationship imbued their respective leadership roles with a human quality that seems sadly missing today.<br /><br />Before the advent of e-mail, these two leaders exchanged an astounding number of messages, nearly two thousand. The author seems to have gotten access to a great many of them, including the papers of Pamela Churchill Harriman, as he pieces together a friendship alternately devoted and tenuous. And the two men often met secretly in many different locales, and Meacham was able to interview the few survivors who were in Roosevelt and Churchill's joint company. The combination of accounts sheds fresh light on the characters of both men as he engagingly chronicles the hours in which they decided the course of action for the Allies toward victory in WWII. The introduction of Joseph Stalin caused an odd triangle that brought out Churchill's insecurity and his exclusion from strategic discussions. Meacham shows how the frailty of the human ego is no different when it comes to world leaders and the fate of their countries. As we know, Stalin's intrusion ultimately led to the U.S. and Russia being the emerging superpowers, not England. When Roosevelt died in the spring of 1945, even as he was making plans to travel to England, Churchill was crushed; he could not bring himself to come to the funeral to say goodbye. Such was the depth of their male bonding, and Meacham's book demonstrates that leaders are not made of stone, that they still need a connection with someone who can empathize with their challenges as they discriminately wield their power. In certain ways, the author has written the historical equivalent of a buddy picture. A surprisingly entertaining read not just for WWII fanatics.funeral to say goodbye. Such was the depth of their male bonding, and Meacham's book demonstrates that leaders are not made of stone, that they still need a connection with someone who can empathize with their challenges as they discriminately wield their power. In certain ways, the author has written the historical equivalent of a buddy picture. A surprisingly entertaining read not just for WWII fanatics.	2004-11-15
US	52697971	RAGF2CQDF7805	1594200203	809431414	The Right Nation: Conservative Power in America	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Two Outsiders' Dispassionate View of U.S. Conservatism	It is inevitable that John Kerry's defeat will signal a re-examination of the Democratic Party's mission in diluting the conservative stranglehold on Washington now, and this thoughtful albeit somewhat overreaching book should be required reading toward that end. John Micklethwait and Adrian Wooldridge, the U.S. editor and Washington correspondent of The Economist respectively, have written a probing and surprisingly involving examination of the history and current state of conservative politics in America. Unlike conservative muckrakers who take for granted their opinions expressly to alienate the liberal faction, the authors are genuinely interested in explaining how and why conservatism has come to dominate America, and why that makes it unique among Western nations.<br /><br />Micklethwait and Wooldridge define American conservatism as a combination of patriotism, suspicion of state power, and preference for liberty over equality. Since World War II, the movement has blended, often quite uneasily and at odds with the U.S. Constitution, libertarianism, moral traditionalism, and anti-communism. Since the end of the Cold War, anti-communism has of course turned into anti-Islamism. Similar to T.R. Reid's just-published book, \\"The United States of Europe: The New Superpower and the End of American Supremacy\\", they note how conservative America still seems to most Europeans, with the lack of completely nationalized health care and the support for gun rights, the death penalty, and tough criminal sentences. As proven by Bush's victory, America's right is far more values-based than class-based; voting GOP corresponds much more closely with church attendance than with social standing. But too much can be credit to the conservative movement, as their ascendancy is remarkably fragile, a point the authors raise but don't examine in great detail. After all, Bush lost the popular vote in 2000, even though he managed a slight majority (51%) in 2004. More pertinent, government on all levels is bigger and more intrusive, taxing and spending and regulating more than ever.<br /><br />Thankfully insulated in their Eurocentric mindsets, Micklethwait and Wooldridge never show their own political cards. The authors say America has been a \\"50-50 Nation\\" since 1988, with the two main parties taking turns at the levers of state power. But the real fifty-fifty division in American life is between the approximately fifty percent of eligible voters who bother to participate in the voting process and the rest of us. The authors clearly take conservative ideas seriously, and they examine both the popular appeal and the intellectual weaknesses of those ideas. In fact, perhaps the only real victory of the conservative movement has been to provide greater media exposure to ideological activists and publicists who would otherwise been considered too didactic in our allegedly ever-decaying culture. The authors are smart enough to know that declaring any contemporary alignments of party or ideology in America will rule the future is foolhardy. The fortunes of the big parties can shift precipitously. Micklethwait and Wooldridge have written an intriguing book that is half social analysis, half history of ideas that examines how conservative ideology became such a defining feature of American life. Highly recommended for those seeking a more non-partisan take on the current political landscape.levels is bigger and more intrusive, taxing and spending and regulating more than ever.    Thankfully insulated in their Eurocentric mindsets, Micklethwait and Wooldridge never show their own political cards. The authors say America has been a \\"50-50 Nation\\" since 1988, with the two main parties taking turns at the levers of state power. But the real fifty-fifty division in American life is between the approximately fifty percent of eligible voters who bother to participate in the voting process and the rest of us. The authors clearly take conservative ideas seriously, and they examine both the popular appeal and the intellectual weaknesses of those ideas. In fact, perhaps the only real victory of the conservative movement has been to provide greater media exposure to ideological activists and publicists who would otherwise been considered too didactic in our allegedly ever-decaying culture. The authors are smart enough to know that declaring any contemporary alignments of party or ideology in America will rule the future is foolhardy. The fortunes of the big parties can shift precipitously. Micklethwait and Wooldridge have written an intriguing book that is half social analysis, half history of ideas that examines how conservative ideology became such a defining feature of American life. Highly recommended for those seeking a more non-partisan take on the current political landscape.	2004-11-14
US	52697971	R3VBZ8HBRL0OIJ	0374281580	481407616	I Am Charlotte Simmons: A Novel	Books	3	17	24	N	N	Young Girl's Epic Journey Missing the Wolfe Bravado	Charlotte Simmons is as unlikely a protagonist for a Tom Wolfe novel as one can imagine, but the author has more in common with his virginal college freshman, female no less, from the backwoods of North Carolina than one would think. Like Wolfe, she is an acute observer of the life around her, and the author seems to enjoy voicing the fears and awkwardness this girl feels as she enters the prestigious and fictitious DuPont University in Philadelphia. It is rather strange to read a Wolfe book that doesn't turn on male hubris on a broad canvas of settings and lifestyles, but I admire how he gets inside the character within the confines of the campus and the life it breeds independent of the outside world. Where my admiration wanes is in Wolfe's valiant but misguided attempt to give this girl's life an epic sweep and Victorian-style pacing that would make even Henry James blush.<br /><br />The focus of the multi-layered plot is on the dilemma anyone Charlotte's age faces, how to find her place in this world without succumbing to the debauchery around her. And though she makes friends with a couple of girls as lost as she is, it is unsurprisingly the boys who seem to promise salvation. Three are eager to hook up with her, each of course representing a different college archetype - Adam, the sensitive nerd who works for the student newspaper; Hoyt, the dangerously manipulative hedonist to whom she can't help but be attracted; and JoJo, the dumb jock who is the token white on the college basketball team. Wolfe seems to revel when he inhabits the male mind and frankly from the reader perspective, it is a blessed relief from Charlotte's ongoing angst among the snobs who exclude her.<br /><br />The book is typically voluminous for a Wolfe novel - nearly 700 pages - but the timid, sometimes whining subject does not seem to warrant the length as it takes quite a while to get to the inevitable milestones in her small life. And for all the sometimes great, sometimes embarrassingly dated prose Wolfe spews forth, Charlotte is not all that interesting since she remains basically a cipher, even in a pivotal scene where one should feel her pain but where Wolfe, as a true journalist, characteristically keeps his distance. The author does attempt to broaden the themes of the book, but one can't help but feel that Wolfe is the wrong writer to tell Charlotte's story, that his gift for satire and pointed caricature is wasted on people who have yet to form their identities. This is an intriguing attempt at something different replete with some nicely written passages, and not as humiliating as some reviewers might have you think, but I have to say I am disappointed by the result. Yet I still believe subpar Wolfe is better than most others' best efforts.olfe spews forth, Charlotte is not all that interesting since she remains basically a cipher, even in a pivotal scene where one should feel her pain but where Wolfe, as a true journalist, characteristically keeps his distance. The author does attempt to broaden the themes of the book, but one can't help but feel that Wolfe is the wrong writer to tell Charlotte's story, that his gift for satire and pointed caricature is wasted on people who have yet to form their identities. This is an intriguing attempt at something different replete with some nicely written passages, and not as humiliating as some reviewers might have you think, but I have to say I am disappointed by the result. Yet I still believe subpar Wolfe is better than most others' best efforts.	2004-11-14
US	52697971	R3P3CU19STW0II	0316277665	138477305	They Made America: From the Steam Engine to the Search Engine: Two Centuries of Innovators	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Innovation as a Political Spirit Colorfully Chronicled	Author Harold Evans has chronicled American history in a most personalized way, by spotlighting seventy innovators driven by the American spirit to be remembered for their particular contributions to our everyday lives. Divided into three parts and filled with hundreds of photographs and illustrations, this coffee table book is an ideal introduction to the people, both the famous and the forgotten, who have inspired the rest of us to think beyond our self-imposed boundaries and capitalize on ideas that would benefit the greater good. What Evans does very well in his incisive narrative is show how these ideas are not exclusive to any specific group or place and how they often came about by accident or through circumstances they could have never been foreseen. The common thread is a faith in technology in its earliest incarnation when the early settlers devised windmills as a way of getting water on the Great Plains to the latest trends with the electronic whiz kids of the Internet. Even more importantly, the author traces how most of these innovators have time and again proved to be \\"democratizers\\", driven not by greed but by an ambition to be remembered. In aggregate, these innovators translated the nation's political ideals into economic reality.<br /><br />Part One covers our history up to the Civil War, and the inventions one remembers from the social studies class of our youth are covered here - the cotton gin, the Colt revolver, the telegraph, the sewing machine, the bicycle - but also some surprising things like blue jeans and the credit rating.  The emergence of electricity and its subsequent predominance in our lives are covered in Part Two, when Edison indeed invented the incandescent bulb, as well as the \\"kinetoscope\\", an early motion picture projector. Of course, the Wright brothers and Henry Ford are in this section for obvious reasons, but so are those responsible for plastic, gas masks, Weight Watchers, Walt Disney Enterprises and even Barbie dolls. Probably the most interesting portion is Part Three, which covers the Digital Age with the personal computer revolution fathered by DRI's Gary Kildall and the recognition of Steve Jobs and Bill Gates for commoditizing PCs into \\"the software equivalent of fast food\\". The emergence of biotechnology is covered here, as is Ted Turner's introduction of \\"24-hour electronic news\\", Joan Cooney's Sesame Street, hip-hop, eBay, and Google.<br /><br />Evans makes some unsurprising conclusions - persistence is a definite requirement as is a \\"make it work\\" mentality, and many ended up in debt or destitute in the process. There is apparently no character requirement as several were not particularly moral characters and abrasive to those who hard to work with them. But they delivered...and Evans enthusiastically celebrates their creative spirits. This is a terrifically educational book for not only adults but also children as a way to inspire them to tap into their own ideas.Probably the most interesting portion is Part Three, which covers the Digital Age with the personal computer revolution fathered by DRI's Gary Kildall and the recognition of Steve Jobs and Bill Gates for commoditizing PCs into \\"the software equivalent of fast food\\". The emergence of biotechnology is covered here, as is Ted Turner's introduction of \\"24-hour electronic news\\", Joan Cooney's Sesame Street, hip-hop, eBay, and Google. <br /> <br />Evans makes some unsurprising conclusions - persistence is a definite requirement as is a \\"make it work\\" mentality, and many ended up in debt or destitute in the process. There is apparently no character requirement as several were not particularly moral characters and abrasive to those who hard to work with them. But they delivered...and Evans enthusiastically celebrates their creative spirits. This is a terrifically educational book for not only adults but also children as a way to inspire them to tap into their own ideas.	2004-11-14
US	52697971	R233T9C9KM7MOF	1576753018	331881073	Confessions of an Economic Hit Man	Books	5	39	46	N	N	Flying Without a Net...Dangerous Disclosures Vividly Captured	Author John Perkins has written a most thrilling adventure and most amazingly, it is his own true story of a dramatic awakening of his social conscience. As the chief economist for a secretive international consulting firm with close ties to U.S. intelligence, he was in the jockey position for numerous under-the-table deals, which led underdeveloped countries to take out huge loans that in turn, led to contracts for U.S. multinational corporations like Bechtel and Halliburton. This book reflects an act of great risk for Perkins, as for years, the self-dubbed \\"economic hitman\\" intentionally made unpayable loans to foreign governments in order to provide the U.S. government a monopoly over the economic and political resources of the indebted nations. The National Security Agency held his mercenary tactics in high esteem, and he lived in great affluence as a result.<br /><br />In the most intriguing portion of his book, Perkins dramatically supports the assertions made by Michael Moore in \\"Fahrenheit 9/11\\", which tied Saudi Arabia to U.S. interests thereby creating a financial and political alliance between the Saudi royals and the Bush family. This partnership channeled billions of dollars to the Saudis, who were holding their oil earnings in U.S. Treasury bonds. The Treasury Department pays the interest on these bonds directly to favored U.S. corporations, with which it contracts to modernize Saudi Arabia's physical infrastructure. In return, the U.S. government uses its political and military clout to keep the Saudi royal family in power. As convoluted as this deal is, it worked very well for all parties until Iraq refused to participate in the same sort of deal, so U.S. military action became inevitable. This domino effect of events, while not revelatory at this point, is given stark resonance by Perkins' personal account of his participation in these immoral dealings.<br /><br />But he realizes the ultimate fruitlessness of his endeavors and comes clean. While his awakened conscience is refreshing, I am not certain his hopeful messages at the end are realistic. As we know from Enron and the like, for-profit corporations, especially those on a global scale, face strong pressures to maximize returns to their shareholders without regard to social or environmental consequences. Even more sadly, history has shown time and again that an unaudited concentration of power will directly produce the very corruption Perkins discusses. His guarded optimism leads him to suggest we identify steps we can make toward creating a more compassionate and just world. Somewhat idealistic but a worthy objective we all need to discuss and pursue. Strongly recommended reading, even more so in light of the election results.ence is refreshing, I am not certain his hopeful messages at the end are realistic. As we know from Enron and the like, for-profit corporations, especially those on a global scale, face strong pressures to maximize returns to their shareholders without regard to social or environmental consequences. Even more sadly, history has shown time and again that an unaudited concentration of power will directly produce the very corruption Perkins discusses. His guarded optimism leads him to suggest we identify steps we can make toward creating a more compassionate and just world. Somewhat idealistic but a worthy objective we all need to discuss and pursue. Strongly recommended reading, even more so in light of the election results.	2004-11-10
US	52697971	R37YZ799NKN92W	1594200335	844238166	The United States of Europe: The New Superpower and the End of American Supremacy	Books	5	70	85	N	N	Europe as a Superpower...Its Time Has Come	It seems a shame that this fascinating, eminently readable book came out the day after the national elections, as the subject has great pertinence to anyone who has questioned the bullying imperialism that the Bush administration condones in dealing with the rest of the world. Currently the Rocky Mountain bureau chief for the Washington Post, author T.R. Reid more relevantly was the paper's London bureau chief, and from this vantage point, he has been able to apply an obvious wellspring of knowledge about Europe's changing social, political and economic landscape. In lucid terms that result in some eye-opening observations, he spells out how the European Union (EU) has taken the road not taken by coming together as a burgeoning superpower that threatens to overtake the U.S. in many historically dominant areas in which we have become victim to our own nationalistic pride. <br /> <br />A super-nation consisting of 25 separate nations and over 500 million inhabitants, the EU hopes to eclipse the U.S. to become the ideal welfare state, not a military giant. It's an audacious objective, somewhat in a vacuum and rather idealistic on many levels, but according to most Europeans, it's a goal definitely within reach. Reid provides plenty of evidence that the EU has a powerful value proposition that the U.S. is unable and currently unwilling to replicate here. Much of the EU's economic strategy is based on their goal of becoming the global center of anti-trust legislation. No longer willing to follow Washington's rules, the EU has been successful in forcing corporate heavyweights like Microsoft and General Electric to bend to their will. In the most intriguing example, Reid follows the journey of GE Chairman Jack Welch and his quest to buy Honeywell. His $45 billion deal was approved by all of the U.S. government agencies, but it could not pass the approval of the EU's distrusting anti-trust czar Mario Monti despite Welch having spent nearly $75 million on the buyout. According to Reid, much of the EU's clout comes from the fact that it can amass power as a single unit when it matters (e.g., sharing a single currency, eliminating border patrols) but capitalize on their individual sovereignties by having 25 separate votes within pivotal international organizations. In the most obvious recent case, the EU used their numbers to their advantage in voting overwhelmingly against Bush's second attempt to gain support for a U.N.-sanctioned war against Saddam Hussein. Even more interesting was their unified position within the World Trade Organization where together they issued sanctions against the U.S. in providing special benefits to U.S.-based corporations. This is a different kind of global power based not on guns but on a solid, intimidating front upon which the U.S. has had to yield time and time again. Moreover, the EU prides itself on being the \\"beloved welfare state\\" and is more than happy to allow the U.S. to increase its multi-billion dollar deficit to fund the military forces deemed necessary to protect the free world from terrorism. In fact, despite their fears of the al-Qaeda, the EU views military spending as anachronistic, much preferring to spend their budgets on free medical care, free college education, a rich pension system and helping mothers raise their newborn babies without economic hardship. <br /> <br />The author is particularly merciless when it comes to the European view on President Bush, a deeply negative perception compared to his predecessors including his father. Although some of Reid's comments are quite conjectural (e.g., talking about Bush's posturing swagger and cowboy boots), one cannot argue with concrete evidence of reaction to Bush's imperialist and often self-righteous tendencies - voting against the Kyoto Accord, politically arm-wrestling the EU to allow Turkey membership, and perhaps most damaging, his support of the death penalty. In fact, Reid states that the European perception of the U.S. death penalty has driven a deeper wedge than one can imagine since such a stand reflects a zealous religious right completely alien to the European mindset. Providing a glimpse into the future of the EU and the evolving identity of its constituents, Reid also discusses the social implications with the emergence of \\"Generation E\\", the 18-40 year olds who travel Europe with no regard to borders and speak English as their language of choice. If you are looking to understand the shifting balance of global power, then this is the book to read as Reid has written one of the most insightful and frankly entertaining books on the global ramifications of current U.S. policy and how Europe has faced the challenge of overcoming the U.S. shadow. Strongly recommended for those who have the temerity to take a hard look across the Atlantic.	2004-11-09
US	52697971	R1M7AGA2101XXF	0743246411	845477731	Waiting for Snow in Havana: Confessions of a Cuban Boy	Books	4	15	23	N	N	A Privileged Childhood at Odds with Castro's Cuba	Author Carlos Eire led a fairly charmed life as a child in pre-Revolution Cuba. In this intriguing memoir, he writes of his idyllic life in the suburbs of Havana just before Castro evicted Batista. As the son of a prominent judge who believed he was the reincarnated King Louis XVI, Eire experienced privilege, Catholic guilt and voodoo curses inflicted by the family maid. But his childhood slowly disintegrated after the Batista government fell, while rumors circulated that Castro would separate children from families. Eire's mother insisted on getting the boys out, but his already estranged father did not, an act that continued to haunt the author through his adulthood. Eire and his older brother then became two of the 14,000 children airlifted out of Cuba in Operation Pedro Pan in 1962. They eventually reunited with their mother and settled in Chicago.<br /><br />The author writes with exacting detail, which for the most part, serves him well in describing a life torn asunder and ultimately put back together through persistence and faith. At the same time, I get the feeling he misses the privileged life he had in Havana almost too much, and the book becomes exasperating in what comes across sometimes as an obsession with his past. And in certain ways, the author still seems angry about the loss of his pre-Castro existence of swimming pools and extravagant birthday parties, not an appealing trait for a man now in his fifties. Perhaps this tone was intentional since the effect of the airlift left him that much more unprepared for life in the United States. But he gets a bit too much mileage out of relatively trivial things like his phobia with lizards. Every page seems crammed full of incidental information, yet somehow Eire succeeds in keeping me compelled by how he copes. I also give the author credit for not turning this book into a diatribe against Castro as that would have been too easy a route to take. He seems genuinely conflicted about the current state of his native country, and that seems like the most honest aspect of the book. Eire has said he was inspired to write his story by the Elian Gonzales case, but Eire's story seems more singular, more idiosyncratic than even little Elian's story. An unexpectedly effective memoir even with all its flaws, highly recommended for those interested in Cuba during that volatile period.country, and that seems like the most honest aspect of the book. Eire has said he was inspired to write his story by the Elian Gonzales case, but Eire's story seems more singular, more idiosyncratic than even little Elian's story. An unexpectedly effective memoir even with all its flaws, highly recommended for those interested in Cuba during that volatile period.	2004-11-08
US	52697971	R2JKXXRURIFZD1	0848728521	935394279	Williams-Sonoma Foods of the World: San Francisco: Authentic Recipes Celebrating the Foods of the World	Books	4	33	34	N	Y	The San Francisco Treat Courtesy of Chuck Williams	As a resident of San Francisco who loves his city, I am hardly the most objective reviewer of this book, but I do think this is a worthy if rather cursory overview of the culinary treats and idiosyncratic dining experiences that make up the best of what this city has to offer to local and tourist alike. Chuck Williams has established one of the more unavoidable upscale gourmet store chains in Williams-Sonoma, and this tome is the latest in a series of cookbooks focused on the premiere food capitals of the world. The first third is actually a well-organized explanation of what makes San Francisco unique from its culinary history to the distinctive flavors currently found in its major neighborhoods. There are sections on local specialties such as artisan bread, coffee, wine, Asian produce and chocolate. The breezy but informative text is by Janet Fletcher.<br /><br />The recipes actually don't start until page 79, but the 45 selections all look tasty and not overly complex to prepare. I have always had good luck with the recipes in the Williams-Sonoma catalog, and this one is proving to be no exception so far. Personally I have tried making the orecchiette with broccoli rabe; the braised chicken with tomato, pancetta and zinfandel; and the stir-fried long beans with Thai chile paste. All were hits with friends, though I would think items such as Chinese long beans may be harder to find outside the major metropolitan areas. There are even snippets of local information interspersed among the recipes. The book is also abundant in nice color photographs courtesy of Jean-Blaise Hall, though I wish the editors would have included captions so you know where some of the places are. Highly recommended for those who left their palettes in San Francisco.	2004-11-07
US	52697971	R2T6W2IQNYV9WL	006058629X	238696015	Fork It Over: The Intrepid Adventures of a Professional Eater	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A Foodie's Delight Well Served With Vinegar	Raconteur Alan Richman, food critic at large for \\"GQ\\" magazine, seems to be tapping into his inner David Sedaris in these short accounts of his various experiences with food and dining across the country and around the world. Culled from over a decade of columns in \\"GQ\\" and \\"Bon Appetit\\", his stories are clever and entertaining, reflecting a wellspring of culinary knowledge and life experiences, which lend a particularly idiosyncratic view to the way he looks at food.<br /><br />As a fellow \\"foodie\\", I can appreciate his curmudgeon view of vegans and their holier-than-thou attitudes toward carnivores. He also includes a vitriolic portrayal of the Hamptons, which he views as a desolate area for quality restaurants where a greater importance is attached to Billy Joel sightings; and an equally acerbic tour of Louis Farrakhan's $5 million Chicago eatery, Salaam, where you can apparently watch pro golf on the TV in the lounge. Other pieces describe a dinner date with Sharon Stone, Richman's elusive fantasy come true; an insistent drive through the Carolinas in search of the perfect barbecue sandwich; the undervalued art of wine spitting; a bemused but ultimately loving view of the archetypal cranky Jewish waiter; and perhaps most amusing, a desperate, Godot-like quest to find a celebrity chef, any celebrity chef, present at his own restaurant. There is even something touching about his recollections of his own tour of duty during the Vietnam War as he sits down for baked squab at a restaurant in Ho Chi Minh City. Sometimes his hardened opinions are at odds with the conversational tone of the book, but his passion for food more than compensates for the acidity. I think the Food Network could use him since no one there (with perhaps the exception of Anthony Bourdain and Alton Brown) shows a fraction of the wit Richman displays here. This is entertaining reading for food aficionados.	2004-11-07
US	52697971	R2K3RXDLXMDHOT	1582345082	570121918	The Line of Beauty	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Brideshead Revisited...Revisited and Well Updated	It's a bit difficult not to think of the Evelyn Waugh classic with Charles Ryder and Sebastian Flyte as one reads this sumptuously written novel by Alan Hollinghurst. You can also throw in some of E.M. Forster's \\"Maurice\\", a touch of John Guare's \\"Six Degrees of Separation\\" and a little post-divorce Princess Diana for good measure. But with its beautiful prose and contemporary sensibilities, you can hardly call Hollinghurst's story derivative. It takes place in the eighties with the central figure of Nick Guest, the son of a middle-class antiques dealer. While attending Oxford, he befriends Toby, the son of rising Tory politician Gerald Fedden, and insinuates himself into the Fedden home in Notting Hill. In his wishful thinking and self-delusion, Nick develops a taste for the privileges of the wealthy, but unlike the people that surround him, he is all preference and no possession, and that barrier remains insurmountable.<br /><br />The story unfolds in three parts, and each extended episode reveals Nick's maturing sexuality from the \\"inner theatre of sexual make-believe\\" at Oxford to the experienced and confident lover he becomes four years later. Along the way, he becomes deeply involved emotionally and sexually with an outrageously wealthy Lebanese lover named Wani, a Dodi-like figure whose father does bear a striking resemblance to Mohammed Al Fayed. Despite the posh, erudite environment, the story's focus is primarily Nick coming to terms with his homosexuality. Be forewarned that Hollinghurst goes into sometimes graphic detail in describing his protagonist's sexual liaisons as a means of defining this rather critical period when the AIDS epidemic was moving into the mainstream consciousness. Concurrently, at odds with the sexual liberation enjoyed by Nick and his friends, the author effectively evokes Britain's growing conservatism in the Thatcher years, even introducing her in a cameo appearance. Wearing a jacket that makes her look like a country and western singer, Thatcher finds herself swept onto the dance floor with a very coked-up Nick, a surreal moment that turns into the book's most amusing scene.<br /><br />I have to admit I was disappointed to hear that Hollinghurst won the 2004 Man Booker Award over David Mitchell, who penned a sprawling and impressively complex masterwork in his \\"Cloud Atlas\\". However, this book does provide its own unique pleasure by adding an intriguing texture to a socially turbulent time in Britain's recent history. I think it would unfairly trivialize the book to call it simply a gay novel, as it is for anyone who is looking for a beautifully observed story full of stylish passages and heart-piercing human insight. Certainly not for everyone but highly recommended for those who are curious.rn singer, Thatcher finds herself swept onto the dance floor with a very coked-up Nick, a surreal moment that turns into the book's most amusing scene.  <br /> <br />I have to admit I was disappointed to hear that Hollinghurst won the 2004 Man Booker Award over David Mitchell, who penned a sprawling and impressively complex masterwork in his \\"Cloud Atlas\\". However, this book does provide its own unique pleasure by adding an intriguing texture to a socially turbulent time in Britain's recent history. I think it would unfairly trivialize the book to call it simply a gay novel, as it is for anyone who is looking for a beautifully observed story full of stylish passages and heart-piercing human insight. Certainly not for everyone but highly recommended for those who are curious.	2004-11-05
US	52697971	R2E1AL6F7OAQQ8	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Multiple Gods, a Tiger, a Lifeboat and a Lot of Faith	Author Yann Martel has come up with a fanciful tale that revolves around faith, and the story seems to challenge and deepen with every turn of his far-fetched plot. There are two distinct stories told sequentially and book-ended by the recollections of an older version of the main character, the son of a zookeeper in Pondicherry, India. What makes Martel's novel especially compelling is how the two stories tie together through his theme without pontificating about it either way. He first deals with faith directly as a question of identity for the teenaged Pi, who concurrently embraces three different religions in order to encompass how he views God in all the different forms presented to him. Martel uses subtle humor as well as personal insight to get his points across.<br /><br />Then in an interesting turn, Martel masterfully feeds the second story with the first one by arguing against \\"anthropomorphosis\\", a concept that ascribes human emotions and traits to animals. Pi instead believes animals are creatures of habit and content to repeat their daily routines once all their needs are met. Baby boomers will recall this to be the same tenet Joy Adamson was espousing in \\"Born Free\\", but the point this time around is not to humanize and sentimentalize the animals inhabiting his story. Rather, this concept proves to be an indispensable survival tool when his family decides to move from India to Canada aboard a Japanese cargo ship, which sinks and forces Pi to share a lifeboat for the better part of a year with a Bengal tiger named Richard Parker. But the story is not so much one of persisting against all odds, as one would expect, but rather it is much more focused on confronting unrelenting challenges to one's beliefs in the face of extraordinary circumstances. Martel then goes further by challenging us at the end to disbelieve it all, thus enveloping the reader into his overriding question of faith. Despite the use of some literary conceits, such as having the older Pi tell his story to the writer, this is a wonderfully creative book that deserves the praise heaped upon it.r Pi tell his story to the writer, this is a wonderfully creative book that deserves the praise heaped upon it.	2004-11-03
US	52697971	R26YGTJUWIRQE7	0375403728	672463940	Maximum City: Bombay Lost and Found	Books	4	23	26	N	N	"Bombay Nightmares" Explicitly Revealed, Intriguing Portrait	As a neophyte traveler to India planning my itinerary a few years back, I chose to limit myself to the Grand Trunk Road and at the time had regrets about having to bypass Bombay. According to author Suketu Mehta, it looks like my decision may have been inadvertently wise. His portrayal of this megalopolis and its inhabitants is fulsome but frequently bleak and sometimes stultifying. He offers an insider's view of Bombay in a way that makes you feel you are experiencing all dimensions of it, no small feat for a city that contains 18 million people. Of course, some of the details are on the sketchy side, but frankly the city is so overwhelming, I don't mind some of the book's more cursory aspects. After all, Mehta has the daunting task of encompassing the gang wars, the corruption, the poverty and the prolific industry known worldwide as \\"Bollywood\\" into a single tome.<br /><br />The author paints an almost surreal picture of urban life there, but through his determined and often risky investigations, he is also intent on showing the layers underneath to provide the typical outsider a more comprehensive understanding of how Bombay has become so out of control. Mehta is particularly riveting when interviewing the rioters and hit men on both sides of the long-standing Hindu-Muslim divide that peaked with extreme violence in the early nineties. Promising to put their lives in the movies, the author extracts brutal yet fascinating confessions from people who murder for a living and trust no one. The tactic seems questionable, but the resulting confessionals are worthwhile. The other high point of the book is his first-hand account of the Indian film industry. Since Mehta himself is a screenwriter for a film highlighted in the book, \\"Mission Kashmir\\", he is able to extract some interesting perspectives, including his own, on the filmmaking process and the surrounding business and politics.<br /><br />I would imagine a lot of what he writes will not be popular with native Mumbaikars (as they are known especially since the city's name changed officially to Mumbai in 1996), but it certainly feels real, especially as he expresses outrage at the tightening grip of the underworld bosses controlling much of the wealth of the city.  In particular, Mehta paints an incisive portrait of Bal Thackeray, the city's uncrowned king who exercises unwarranted levels of power and influence through his political acumen and questionable ethics. Just by the startling revelations he gets, it's obvious the author is incurring a great deal of risk by uncovering Thackeray in this journalistic manner. At the same time, Bombay holds a strange fascination over anyone interested in Indian culture, and Mehta's writing will certainly satisfy those in need of his amazing insight. Despite all the travesties there, I actually never questioned Mehta's admiration for the city and those who survive living there day after day. So order up some vadapav and a masala Coke and be prepared for a dark journey. Needless to say, this is no Lonely Planet guide. Fascinating reading.ey are known especially since the city's name changed officially to Mumbai in 1996), but it certainly feels real, especially as he expresses outrage at the tightening grip of the underworld bosses controlling much of the wealth of the city.  In particular, Mehta paints an incisive portrait of Bal Thackeray, the city's uncrowned king who exercises unwarranted levels of power and influence through his political acumen and questionable ethics. Just by the startling revelations he gets, it's obvious the author is incurring a great deal of risk by uncovering Thackeray in this journalistic manner. At the same time, Bombay holds a strange fascination over anyone interested in Indian culture, and Mehta's writing will certainly satisfy those in need of his amazing insight. Despite all the travesties there, I actually never questioned Mehta's admiration for the city and those who survive living there day after day. So order up some vadapav and a masala Coke and be prepared for a dark journey. Needless to say, this is no Lonely Planet guide. Fascinating reading.	2004-10-31
US	52697971	R3NY9P323XWKIM	0451213076	165093773	Days of Infamy: A Novel of Alternate History	Books	4	6	8	N	N	And What If the Japanese Invaded Hawaii...Hmmm	A what-if story can be either frustratingly out of kilter with historic context or supremely entertaining for the creative direction it can take with our perceptions of that reality. Fortunately, author Harry Turtledove appears to have done his homework in speculating what could have happened had the Japanese followed up their surprise attack on Pearl Harbor with an actual invasion of Hawaii, surely a military action that must have been seriously considered at the time. For that brief time in the early forties, the Japanese seemed invincible...precise, cunning and extremely well organized, while the unprepared Americans would naturally seem to be easy prey for such an invasion. The mind reels from the possibilities therein, and the author feeds our curiosity expertly.<br /><br />That degree of credibility explains why Turtledove is able to craft an intriguing thriller that seems to beg already for a miniseries treatment given the multiple viewpoints and morally ambiguous characters he includes here. Especially interesting is that the author offers the Japanese consciousness far more than that of the Americans, an interesting reversal that may challenge reader sympathies toward the main characters. Turtledove does this by keeping focus on the Japanese in their country during the Hawaiian occupation. Luckily, they are a varied lot defined by their customs, but according to Turtledove's story, they can be extremely ruthless, which as a third generation Japanese-American myself, made me think that some of his brushstrokes are a bit too broad in the portrayal. But for the most part, the author is respectful of the Japanese, as well as the conflicted Japanese-Hawaiians, whose loyalties are tested as they try to deal with the new order. He also has a handful of American observers, who lend their perspective on this unsettling situation since the next step in this alternate reality is a full frontal assault on the U.S. West Coast. What I appreciate most about Turtledove's style is his thorough and dramatically effective presentation of the military mind, but he seems less assured  when he focuses too much on the more personal aspect of his characters and the book veers somewhat toward pulp fiction. Nonetheless, he shows daring creative invention with this dense book, even if the open-ended narrative leaves the reader wanting. His obviously deep knowledge of this period lends a certain resonance that makes this novel a cut above other alternate history books I've read.his thorough and dramatically effective presentation of the military mind, but he seems less assured  when he focuses too much on the more personal aspect of his characters and the book veers somewhat toward pulp fiction. Nonetheless, he shows daring creative invention with this dense book, even if the open-ended narrative leaves the reader wanting. His obviously deep knowledge of this period lends a certain resonance that makes this novel a cut above other alternate history books I've read.	2004-10-31
US	52697971	R1D0X2O9DEHLTZ	1400040310	845366857	His Excellency: George Washington	Books	4	22	29	N	N	Father of Our Country Becomes Life-Sized Thanks to Ellis	Now that I have completed and sent off my absentee ballot hopefully to elect our 44th President, it feels like a good time to go back and review our first one with this insightful biography. Author Joseph Ellis builds an intriguing psychological profile of George Washington that goes well behind his mythology replete with powdered wig, wooden teeth and a cherry tree honestly chopped.  As a result, Washington comes across as a rather impersonal man with natural leadership ability, a controlling tendency and a questioning moralist. In other words, he would have fit right in as a 21st century politician.<br /><br />Through meticulous research newly catalogued at the University of Virginia and also through some of his own speculative abilities, Ellis delves into Washington's formative experiences, romantic life, sources of wealth, and evolving repugnance toward slavery. His bitterness toward the British is also explored in great detail and apparently, it started when his status as a vast landowner was diminished by shrinking prices for his crops relative to the soaring profits realized overseas. It's interesting to see how the author concludes that the economic angle provided much of the impetus for driving Washington's leadership in the Revolution. But this is not an expose...Ellis does not debunk Washington as a war hero, as his description of the Revolution is revealing, especially as he describes Washington's gift for rallying soldiers under the most dire of circumstances, specifically the mythic Valley Forge of the winter of 1777-78. Nor does Ellis shortchange Washington's ability to shape the unprecedented and undefined role of a U.S. President, uniting a group of bickering states and herding them toward national unity. But the most interesting part of the book is when Ellis addresses Washington's moral dilemma over slavery. Even more than Jefferson, Washington was a man who felt great guilt over owning slaves, and Ellis describes vividly the arrangements he made to free his slaves after his death. Surprisingly, little is discussed of his romantic relationships either with Sally Fairfax or his courtship and eventual marriage to Martha Dandridge Custis. Regardless, this book gives me a greater appreciation of Washington as a man as well as a myth. Highly recommended for U.S. history buffs.his slaves after his death. Surprisingly, little is discussed of his romantic relationships either with Sally Fairfax or his courtship and eventual marriage to Martha Dandridge Custis. Regardless, this book gives me a greater appreciation of Washington as a man as well as a myth. Highly recommended for U.S. history buffs.	2004-10-29
US	52697971	R22XPEDMV8I9IS	0375757309	279496882	In an Uncertain World: Tough Choices from Wall Street to Washington	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Fiscally Conservative Democrat Is Worth Two in the Bush	Presiding over our nation's largest economic growth period, Bill Clinton's former Secretary of Treasury under Robert Rubin has written an insightful book on how he was able to formulate fiscally conservative policies in face of great uncertainties and reduce the budget deficit. While it is ostensibly a personal memoir, the book has a far greater purpose and if the Bush administration would listen, a strong relevance to the problems we face today in enacting economic policy, which could bring our deficit down. Rubin explains how he uses \\"probabilistic decision making\\", assigning likelihood to various potential outcomes. This is how he dealt with the Asian financial crisis of the nineties, when he decided that with some reforms, the emerging economies of Thailand and other nations were basically sound - and needed a credit guarantee in the near term to roll over debts and resume growth.<br /><br />But the far more interesting part of the book is his comprehensive description of how Rubin worked on reducing our federal deficit from the high spending, low tax years of the Reagan and elder Bush presidencies. It was a commitment Clinton made, and the question among his advisors was how long should it take to realize a surplus. Rubin highlights the serious political risk that the public would not understand the importance to the U.S. economy of reducing the deficit, especially when compared to easily grasped programs such as health care and education. It was not a tangible course of action to most, especially in how it would feed into the strong economy of the late nineties. As Rubin spells out clearly, if interest rates didn't drop, the economy kick-start, or foreign investments pour in, the political cost to Clinton could have been huge. The aggressive deficit reduction plan they embarked on was based on a thoroughly investigated debate where all sides had their point of view heard, unfortunately not a concept that appears to be tested by the current administration. This is valuable insight to anyone who wants to understand how democratic processes, when performed correctly and with conviction on the face of uncertainty, can reward itself with economic benefit. I highly recommend reading this thorough account of our nation's political and economic history during the Clinton years, as it appears those in power now are doomed to learn Rubin's lessons the hard way....and we unfortunately will be paying for those mistakes for years to come.able insight to anyone who wants to understand how democratic processes, when performed correctly and with conviction on the face of uncertainty, can reward itself with economic benefit. I highly recommend reading this thorough account of our nation's political and economic history during the Clinton years, as it appears those in power now are doomed to learn Rubin's lessons the hard way....and we unfortunately will be paying for those mistakes for years to come.	2004-10-23
US	52697971	R7T0Y5PRS06IC	0374288925	14498838	What We've Lost: How the Bush Administration Has Curtailed Our Freedoms, Mortgaged Our Economy, Ravaged Our Environment, and Damaged Our Standing in the World	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Lucid Study of the Bush Administration Reveals a Sad State	Yet another distinguished voice has joined the chorus of those who have recognized how the Bush administration has significantly and perhaps irreparably weakened our democratic processes. Graydon Carter, the editor-in-chief of \\"Vanity Fair\\", uses his journalistic skills effectively by researching and presenting facts and statistics and verifying sources for legitimacy.  The result is the ideal complement to the excellent books authored by his political brethren, Senator Robert's Byrd's \\"Losing America: Confronting a Reckless and Arrogant Presidency\\" and Senator Bob Graham's \\"Intelligence Matters\\".  What makes Carter resonate even more is the fact that he never strays from his point to spout his own biases or beliefs. Despite the often negative findings presented, this book is not a personal attack on the President. Rather, in a more dispassionate tone than either Byrd or Graham could muster, it's an attack on the destructive errors of an administration that believes they are above the Constitution.<br /><br />Carter organizes his book according to the major issues such as, of course, the war, the Patriot Act, Medicare and public funding for domestic programs. The longest and most revealing chapter is on the environment, which explains everything you were afraid was happening from how many acres of forest and wetland have been lost to the unsigned Kyoto treaty. Even though Social Security is in good shape now, Carter points out that we are in debt to the world's other strongest nations, the same ones we used to fund. In fact, it is only our past reputation that prevents us from facing an Argentina-size economic crisis, and even our nation's global standing is tenuous. According to Carter, it took us two centuries to build our position as a global leader only to see one administration destroy it, perhaps irrevocably. This is among the most clear-eyed books about the Bush administration, and coming out just weeks before the election, one you will need to move up your priority reading list post haste. The book is heavy on statistics, but Carter's findings will likely enlighten you. Highly recommended.reading list post haste. The book is heavy on statistics, but Carter's findings will likely enlighten you. Highly recommended.	2004-10-20
US	52697971	R3BF1A54T0W4FJ	1565848403	209925989	Dick: The Man Who Is President	Books	4	16	20	N	N	A Puppet President in a Cheney-Link Fence...a Sad Picture	Having seen the recently produced \\"Bush's Brain\\" on DVD and especially after reading this book, I have to admit I am confused as to who is really running the country. Is it Bush, Cheney or Karl Rove? If you are to base your opinion on this well documented, insightful book, one could surmise that Bush is actually the least important of the trio, at least behind the scenes, a virtual front man for the other two. Left-leaning journalist John Nichols presents the sitting Vice President as a man of few words who has spent his career as the ultimate schemer, accumulating power for the sake of power and self-enrichment. Like Rove, Cheney is not a man who enjoys the limelight, though in Cheney's elected capacity, he knows he needs to get some exposure given that he holds down the second most important job in America...at least on the surface. The irony is that the Bush administration has allowed a man lacking the glibness, social ease and looks of many traditional politicians to move quietly and relentlessly, the author says, toward a lifelong goal of ever-increasing power. Nichols has a straightforward thesis here: Cheney has achieved that goal -- and is president in all but title. It is Nichols' unsurprising contention that Cheney is actually the one running the country.<br /><br />Now while it's hard to dispute that Cheney has amassed power and promoted the Iraq war, it does seem too simplistic to make Bush a zero in the political calculus, especially after 9/11, which other authors say focused Bush and contributed to a sense of personal mission. Still, Nichols sticks vehemently to his position, as he details Cheney's track record as a Washington insider whose Congressional votes, statements and other details have largely been ignored by the press corps. For instance, in the chapter \\"Apartheid's Congressman,\\" Nichols documents Cheney's record in the House. The author counts 10 votes by Rep. Cheney opposing various measures to pressure South Africa to end its apartheid system, which long subjugated the country's black majority - including a vote against calling for the release of political prisoner Nelson Mandela, who would go on to become president. In fact, Cheney as a congressman was so isolated on his positions that he was a member of the rather infamous \\"Less Than 10 Club\\". Nichols says that among 435 representatives, he was one of four to vote against the Undetectable Firearms Act of 1988, a plastic gun measure; one of eight who opposed the Older Americans Act in 1987 (a nutrition program); one of eight who voted against reauthorization of the Clean Air Act; one of nine who opposed a plan to grant federal employees time off to care for sick relatives.  Obviously this does not reflect a man committed to social , political or environmental reform.<br /><br />Nichols asserts that we are living through a Dick Cheney war under a Dick Cheney presidency. The Machiavellian tendencies, as documented by Nichols, are frightening and would make even Karl Rove blush. Even though he includes extensive annotations, the book is polemical albeit one with a revelatory stance on whom is really pulling the strings in the Bush administration. More often than not, I tend to believe what Nichols states here. Before the election next month, I suggest you read this book, watch \\"Bush's Brain\\" on DVD and then see if Bush is the leader you think he is.ich long subjugated the country's black majority - including a vote against calling for the release of political prisoner Nelson Mandela, who would go on to become president. In fact, Cheney as a congressman was so isolated on his positions that he was a member of the rather infamous \\"Less Than 10 Club\\". Nichols says that among 435 representatives, he was one of four to vote against the Undetectable Firearms Act of 1988, a plastic gun measure; one of eight who opposed the Older Americans Act in 1987 (a nutrition program); one of eight who voted against reauthorization of the Clean Air Act; one of nine who opposed a plan to grant federal employees time off to care for sick relatives.  Obviously this does not reflect a man committed to social , political or environmental reform.    Nichols asserts that we are living through a Dick Cheney war under a Dick Cheney presidency. The Machiavellian tendencies, as documented by Nichols, are frightening and would make even Karl Rove blush. Even though he includes extensive annotations, the book is polemical albeit one with a revelatory stance on whom is really pulling the strings in the Bush administration. More often than not, I tend to believe what Nichols states here. Before the election next month, I suggest you read this book, watch \\"Bush's Brain\\" on DVD and then see if Bush is the leader you think he is.	2004-10-17
US	52697971	R22QJE3SSNPM6S	0670032646	621157776	American Dynasty: Aristocracy, Fortune, and the Politics of Deceit in the House of Bush	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Four Generations of Bushes...the Model of Dynastic Politics	Kitty Kelley's recent tell-all book, \\"The Family: The Real Story of the Bush Dynasty\\", would appear to be the companion volume to Kevin Phillips' book published earlier this year. But rather than going for the titillating copy that Kelly excels at in dissecting the Bush family, Phillips, a former Republican strategist, broadens his theme to the concept of intergenerational political power. Phillips explains that the United States has entered an alarming period of \\"dynastic politics\\", in which the spouses and offspring of political figures are picking up where their relatives left off, sadly to the ultimate detriment of democracy. This umbrella thesis leads to the Bushes, who far more than the Kennedys do, demonstrate this phenomenon. It begins with George W. Bush's great-grandfathers, Samuel P. Bush and George H. Walker, who assembled wealth and power by exploiting ties to Wall Street, arms merchants, the American intelligence apparatus and foreign dictators including Hitler. Phillips states that the Bushes' wealth and power, and those connections, are why a Bush is President today and why his policies are what they are. Phillips spends a good amount of the book discerning the family fingerprints on everything from Bush's pursuit of Saddam Hussein to his leanings toward the energy industry, which make up an intricate web of political dependencies that substantiates the power of the Bush family.<br /><br />This book provides a lucid explanation of the current President's behavior, which far from being entirely his own product, is rooted in the four-generation family evolution and according to Phillips, a consistent pattern of deception and misinformation. The duration of the Bush dynasty makes this pattern deeper and more worrisome since it is unprecedented in scope given that it has been almost a century in the making. Granted, to some degree, we are all the products of our parents and they of their parents. But Phillips argues convincingly that it's the uncompromising trajectory of the Bush power base that stimulates the author to make historical connections and sometimes sweeping statements that transcend his heavily documented annotations. There are definitely some gaps in credibility, but what adds to the veracity of this tome is the long history that Phillips himself provides on assessing the impact of national elections. He started with the 1968 contest in his 1969 book ''The Emerging Republican Majority,'' a legendary blueprint of Republican hegemony. It described how the rise of the Sun Belt and the suburbs, coupled with Democratic tone-deafness on social issues, was leading to a generation of Republican presidential dominance. Phillips' biting insight certainly sounds familiar, as we are undergoing the same sorts of trends now (read John Sperling's \\"The Great Divide: Retro Vs. Metro America\\" for verification of this). As someone who has obviously drifted away from his partisan identification, Phillips seems far more even-handed than most in conveying his disappointment with the current administration. This is highly recommended reading especially before the election.ising trajectory of the Bush power base that stimulates the author to make historical connections and sometimes sweeping statements that transcend his heavily documented annotations. There are definitely some gaps in credibility, but what adds to the veracity of this tome is the long history that Phillips himself provides on assessing the impact of national elections. He started with the 1968 contest in his 1969 book ''The Emerging Republican Majority,'' a legendary blueprint of Republican hegemony. It described how the rise of the Sun Belt and the suburbs, coupled with Democratic tone-deafness on social issues, was leading to a generation of Republican presidential dominance. Phillips' biting insight certainly sounds familiar, as we are undergoing the same sorts of trends now (read John Sperling's \\"The Great Divide: Retro Vs. Metro America\\" for verification of this). As someone who has obviously drifted away from his partisan identification, Phillips seems far more even-handed than most in conveying his disappointment with the current administration. This is highly recommended reading especially before the election.	2004-10-17
US	52697971	R2A7GSOTQ7PO9M	0385512198	705828633	Our Oldest Enemy: A History of America's Disastrous Relationship with France	Books	4	53	79	N	N	History of Betrayal Amounts to a French Kiss-off	Co-authors John J. Miller and Mark Molesky have written an extremely polarizing book about the lengthy history of America's derisive relationship with France. It is also a surprisingly thought-provoking, meticulously researched assessment on a most delicate subject and one that needs greater concentrated attention than it has in the past. Problems between the two countries started long ago, and Miller and Molesky begin their book 300 years ago chronicling the American Revolution and in particular, sharing the eye-opening story of the Deerfield massacre of 1704, when a group of French and Indians massacred settlers in northern Massachusetts. Ever since that epochal moment, France has provided one obstruction after another to the U.S., whether it was the decision to side with the Confederacy during the Civil War or Charles de Gaulle's decision to leave NATO during the Cold War or François Mitterrand's denial of French airspace for U.S. warplanes on their way to Libya in 1986. Nations take self-serving stances all the time but not developed countries with economic dependencies on others. That's why France remains unique in maintaining its political vacuum executing a series of decisions and acts that have either hindered or simply not helped the U.S. This is perfectly illustrated by current French President Jacques Chirac's words of gratitude toward American heroism at a D-Day celebration contrasted days later by his derogatory comments of American imperialism in Iraq. The French mindset, according to the book, finds the inconsistency in viewpoint perfectly reasonable, and therein lies the problem.<br /><br />The co-authors have really done their homework in detailing all the historic events, as well as sharing some fascinating soundbites from figures as wide ranging as Benjamin Franklin, Mark Twain and Winston Churchill, all of whom shared anti-Gallic feelings at one time or another. There is certainly overwhelming evidence to support Miller and Molesky's treatise, yet there are some statements which go over the line such as France's purported accountability for WWII: \\"The Second World War was as much the product of French intransigence and vengefulness as it was the result of Hitler's lust for domination.\\" There should have been more discussion of French suffering and the resistance movement to counterbalance that remark. One could also argue that although French imperialism had a long-term damaging effect to the native people in Indochina, the same could be said of the American presence during the Vietnam War. Regardless, the co-authors make a compelling case for France as an unreliable ally, a nation unlikely to come to our defense voluntarily any time soon. Clearly France does not pose a threat like North Korea or the al-Qaeda, but it is a country against which we have to be hopelessly and justifiably guarded. If you are still filled with romantic images of Gene Kelly dancing along the Seine in \\"An American in Paris\\", then you may not want to absorb the litany of betrayals documented here. But if your mind is geared toward freedom fries and jokes about Jerry Lewis' comic genius, then this may be one of the most educational and unexpectedly entertaining reads you will have all year. Highly recommended.are some statements which go over the line such as France's purported accountability for WWII: \\"The Second World War was as much the product of French intransigence and vengefulness as it was the result of Hitler's lust for domination.\\" There should have been more discussion of French suffering and the resistance movement to counterbalance that remark. One could also argue that although French imperialism had a long-term damaging effect to the native people in Indochina, the same could be said of the American presence during the Vietnam War. Regardless, the co-authors make a compelling case for France as an unreliable ally, a nation unlikely to come to our defense voluntarily any time soon. Clearly France does not pose a threat like North Korea or the al-Qaeda, but it is a country against which we have to be hopelessly and justifiably guarded. If you are still filled with romantic images of Gene Kelly dancing along the Seine in \\"An American in Paris\\", then you may not want to absorb the litany of betrayals documented here. But if your mind is geared toward freedom fries and jokes about Jerry Lewis' comic genius, then this may be one of the most educational and unexpectedly entertaining reads you will have all year. Highly recommended.	2004-10-17
US	52697971	R2IOPEYK5K89OP	1878424319	991834329	The Four Agreements: A Practical Guide to Personal Freedom (A Toltec Wisdom Book)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Profundities Galore in Slim Tome	A sliver of a tome, this one is worth having at arm's length in case you are facing one of life's challenges and your self-esteem is in precarious balance. Don Miguel Ruiz has written something quite simple yet profound based on ancient Toltec wisdom he learned from his elders in Mexico. The book explains how, as children, we're taught all kinds of things about what we must do and who we must please-and as we find out, often through expensive psychoanalysis or at least a hefty dollop of Oprah, a lot of those beliefs make us unhappy. He explains succinctly that we have become mired in others' \\"black magic\\". This problem started for us at birth when the nurturing process begins. We have chosen to believe what we have been programmed to believe, i.e., that we are imperfect, we are bad, that we depend on each other to assess our value. Ruiz explains that we can create our own earthbound heaven by reclaiming the birthright of our happiness and stop believing all the lies we've been given. But a person can make four simple pacts that will make a huge difference in his or her life.<br /><br />In brief, the four agreements are:<br />(1) \\"Be impeccable with your word.\\"  Don't lie, don't gossip. Follow through on your commitments.<br />(2) \\"Don't take anything personally.\\" Don't judge yourself by how others perceive you. Everyone acts out of his or her own preconceptions. If someone asks you for a favor, you will do it only if you want to and not because you have to.<br />(3) \\"Don't make assumptions.\\" No could have, should have second-guessing. Allow experiences to be what they are, for as Tony Randall memorably said as Felix on \\"The Odd Couple\\", \\"Never assume...because you make an 'ass' of 'u' and 'me'.\\"<br />(4) \\"Always do your best.\\" And you will never have to worry how you could have done better.<br /><br />These are basic principles, common sense really, but taken together, it's a powerful message to anyone who questions the value of their existence. Obviously this is all easier said than done, especially when you are challenged by those who have yet to be touched by these agreements. That's what makes this particularly essential reading for the soul.lly when you are challenged by those who have yet to be touched by these agreements. That's what makes this particularly essential reading for the soul.	2004-10-15
US	52697971	R2GKN4VGV8T2XX	0375507256	851412948	Cloud Atlas: A Novel	Books	5	53	60	N	N	Dazzling Novel Brings Unity to Six Stories of Inhumanity	This is one book where I honestly can't wait for the movie version, as author David Mitchell has a cinematic sense of narrative that juggles with time like a Quentin Tarantino and sprawls vividly amid exotic locations like a David Lean. This would be an impressive achievement even for the most accomplished writer, much less one as relatively new to the literary scene as Mitchell, as he interweaves six individual stories, each one set in a unique time and locale, into amazingly, one cohesive novel. The discrete stories are told in parts and sometimes out of order, but they tie together through intersections, coincidences and the clever notion that every central character is a reincarnation of a previous character. Perhaps that concept borders on being contrived, but somehow the ploy works beautifully due to Mitchell's full-blooded commitment to his themes. Spanning times, continents and cultures, Mitchell focuses on the follies that would subjugate humanity - slavery, corporate greed, and of nationalistic politics.<br /><br />The utterly nonlinear novel begins with the 18th-century diary of Adam Ewing, a San Francisco notary who is traveling by ship in the South Pacific (story #1). Story #2 follows in 1931 when a sexually indecisive, aspiring composer named Robert Frobisher serves as amanuensis to an older, more accomplished composer. Story #3 jumps to the 1970's where a reporter named Luisa Rey investigates a cover-up at a nuclear reactor (think of Karen Silkwood), and Story #4 focuses on a 60-ish book editor named Tim Cavendish who finds himself accidentally imprisoned in a home for the elderly. A near-future vision of Korea is the setting of story #5 where a genetically engineered ''fabricant'' named Sonmi-451 is interrogated for her crime of wanting to be fully human, and finally, story #6, the most devastating of all, a Hawaiian ruminates on a post-apocalyptic life. Mitchell is particularly strong in describing the Hawaiian landscape, populated by primitives, tribal warfare and brutal violence. Somni returns here as God for the tribesman protagonist Zachry. Then all the unfinished stories are completed in backward order, a creative stroke at once maddening and fulfilling.<br /><br />Through birth, death and rebirth, Mitchell raises some tough questions that give the reader pause. This is a dense work driven by an appropriately dark vision, and one could certainly get caught up in the plot convolutions if a full commitment is not made to the audacious concept he has presented here. The title of this book is apt, as this is a map of ever-changing clouds alternately revealing and hiding a world that evolves on common paths. Make sure to concentrate when you read this complex book because it's a winner for the patient among us.fare and brutal violence. Somni returns here as God for the tribesman protagonist Zachry. Then all the unfinished stories are completed in backward order, a creative stroke at once maddening and fulfilling.    Through birth, death and rebirth, Mitchell raises some tough questions that give the reader pause. This is a dense work driven by an appropriately dark vision, and one could certainly get caught up in the plot convolutions if a full commitment is not made to the audacious concept he has presented here. The title of this book is apt, as this is a map of ever-changing clouds alternately revealing and hiding a world that evolves on common paths. Make sure to concentrate when you read this complex book because it's a winner for the patient among us.	2004-10-14
US	52697971	R20OGTUQQOJNGI	1741044510	623414052	The Travel Book	Books	5	165	173	N	N	Spectacular Images Will Weigh Heavily on Your Coffee Table	I had no idea the editors of the Lonely Planet guides would have such an extensive library of National Geographic-quality photographs. After all, like other travelers, I am used to the miniscule text and overabundant data of their inevitably tattered handbooks. But this oversized coffee table book is nothing you can carry with you too easily, nor would you want to as this is not a comprehensive reference source for global travel. It's merely a staggering feast for the eyes.<br /><br />The stunning images in this wonderful book provide a potent reminder of what a diverse place the world is, as it covers each of the 230 countries existing today in visually enticing two-page entries. The text for each country is minimal but creative within the following standard sections:<br /><br />--\\"Best Time to Visit\\" - Not only time of year but in some cases, when in history was the best time to be there.<br /><br />--\\"Essential Experiences\\" - A bulleted list of the top five to eight things to do in that country.<br /><br />--\\"Getting Under the Skin\\" - What to read, listen, watch, eat and drink in each country...what happened to \\"smell\\"?<br /><br />--\\"In a Word\\" - The one word or expression in the country's native tongue that epitomizes its spirit.<br /><br />--\\"Trademarks\\" - What you immediately think of when someone brings up the name of the country.<br /><br />--\\"Surprises\\" - ...which really amounts to some interesting trivia and arguable observations, e.g., under the entry for the United States - \\"New Yorkers love to help strangers.\\"<br /><br />Your enjoyment of this comprehensive approach will depend on what your degree of wanderlust is. Since mine is quite high, I love poring through the book to get a visual sense of each country's identity. Unless you are a geography addict, you will be surprised that many of these countries even exist. It's also intriguing to see the entries for current hotspots like Iraq and North Korea where their political turmoil is mentioned but contrasted with some unexpectedly vivid photos. Note the surcharge for delivery above as this is indeed a big book, over eight pounds. Say, isn't that the weight of the human head according to the little boy in \\"Jerry Maguire\\"? I wonder if that's a coincidence.dly vivid photos. Note the surcharge for delivery above as this is indeed a big book, over eight pounds. Say, isn't that the weight of the human head according to the little boy in \\"Jerry Maguire\\"? I wonder if that's a coincidence.	2004-10-13
US	52697971	RPPDOD1AVI59R	0226467716	768676081	Moral Politics : How Liberals and Conservatives Think	Books	5	47	51	N	N	Compelling Morality Models Explain Our Nation's Divisiveness	It's refreshing to see a resurgence of interest in George Lakoff's principles of cognitive linguistics as they apply to the current political landscape. After just finishing his recently published \\"Don't Think of an Elephant\\", I was more than intrigued to go back to his original treatise on this topic first published in 1996. An esteemed professor of linguistics at UC Berkeley, Lakoff is a senior fellow of the Rockridge Institute, the renowned liberal think tank that concentrates in part on helping Democratic candidates and politicians with re-framing political metaphors. He completely understands the power of words, and this book explains how those words feed his model, which render images we retain vividly within our minds regardless of what facts are presented to us.<br /><br />In this revealing book, Lakoff's model suggests that the apparently contradictory positions between conservatives and liberals lie in the moral underpinnings of their respective mindsets. His treatise explains that conservatives tend to a view that favors what he calls the \\"Strict Father Morality\\" model of the family. Liberals, on the other hand, prefer the \\"Nurturant Parent Morality\\" model. Each implies a system of beliefs that determine how conservatives or liberals judge the morality of a situation. When the models are applied to the nation, the political clash ensues. He concedes that while the model's ability to predict various aspects of political decisions may not be sufficient proof of its validity, it would certainly be a strong indicator as to predict behavior based on the consistency of the model. As a good academic, Lakoff spends the bulk of the book explaining the model and presenting empirical evidence of its existence in the current political environment. Yet the most intriguing part of the book is when he explains why US politics cannot get away from these morality-based models, and of course, as a self-professed liberal, why liberals have the better moral model. The message is that conservatives, with their push for \\"family values,\\" understand very well where the basis for their politics originates. Liberals will have to come to a similar understanding if they want to come to the table for political dialogue. Fortunately, Lakoff's treatise is very well written (after all, he is a linguistics professor) and does not come across as a self-absorbed polemic like works by either Ann Coulter or Maureen Dowd.<br /><br />This is strong, thought-provoking work. Lakoff paints liberals and conservatives as sitting on the opposite ends of a spectrum since the moral models are radial categories. He makes a compelling case for why the models cannot intersect, which he makes clear during his discussion of conservative vigilantism, where he dissects the motivation behind the Oklahoma City bombing. If you are undecided and have a commitment to the democratic process, this is essential reading before the election. If you want a briefer treatment, I suggest you read the aforementioned book by Lakoff, a slim volume entitled \\"Don't Think of an Elephant: Know Your Values and Frame the Debate--The Essential Guide for Progressives\\".  You cannot afford to be without an understanding of his models.at conservatives, with their push for \\"family values,\\" understand very well where the basis for their politics originates. Liberals will have to come to a similar understanding if they want to come to the table for political dialogue. Fortunately, Lakoff's treatise is very well written (after all, he is a linguistics professor) and does not come across as a self-absorbed polemic like works by either Ann Coulter or Maureen Dowd.    This is strong, thought-provoking work. Lakoff paints liberals and conservatives as sitting on the opposite ends of a spectrum since the moral models are radial categories. He makes a compelling case for why the models cannot intersect, which he makes clear during his discussion of conservative vigilantism, where he dissects the motivation behind the Oklahoma City bombing. If you are undecided and have a commitment to the democratic process, this is essential reading before the election. If you want a briefer treatment, I suggest you read the aforementioned book by Lakoff, a slim volume entitled \\"Don't Think of an Elephant: Know Your Values and Frame the Debate--The Essential Guide for Progressives\\".  You cannot afford to be without an understanding of his models.	2004-10-13
US	52697971	R1NZ4ODYEZQUI4	140005026X	867073333	Cary Grant : A Biography	Books	4	14	22	N	N	Screen Legend's Urbane Façade Hid Lifelong Insecurities	As any baby boomer knows, screen legend Cary Grant was the epitome of style and elegance throughout his thirty-plus-year acting career, yet he had a down-to-earth sensibility that endeared him to movie audiences unlike other continental types like Charles Boyer. Certainly not a scathing expose, this book takes an admiring look at the two sides of Grant, as he made the not-altogether-smooth transition from Cockney-born acrobat to Hollywood star. Although he seemed to maintain a permanent veneer of calm, he was quite a rule-breaking pioneer in his prime, on one hand, redefining what creative freedom meant in Hollywood by working outside the established studio system and then on the other hand, flaunting an 11-year, openly gay relationship with actor Randolph Scott. According to author Marc Eliot, such maverick tendencies did not sit well with him at times, as he felt the studios often conspired against him, robbing him of respect and a Best Actor Oscar, a lifelong obsession. Eliot provides an insightful glimpse into a man who never really thought he had talent and felt he held onto the coat tails of great directors like Alfred Hitchcock and George Cukor to sustain his career. What a shame since one look at any of his best movies shows not only great acting prowess but a matchless and timeless charisma to which today's leading men can only aspire.<br /><br />On the private side, Grant's purported bisexuality you would think would make for titillating copy, but it is presented in quite a matter-of-fact way, as I'm sure Grant would have approved had he lived during a more liberal time. Moreover, his subsequent and multiple marriages seem far less interesting than his close friendship with Howard Hughes; his WWII spy work on his then-wife, Woolworth heiress Barbara Hutton; his experimentation with LSD in the fifties; and the happiness he found in fatherhood late in his life. But honestly, the best parts of the book relate to his amazing legacy of films, many but not all cherished classics. From \\"The Awful Truth\\" to \\"Bringing Up Baby\\" to \\"The Philadelphia Story\\" to \\"Notorious\\" to \\"North by Northwest\\", he was unavoidably sublime, and Eliot does a fine job recounting Grant's experiences in making all these movies. Almost as interesting is the list of films he reportedly turned down due to professional insecurity or excessive salary demands - \\"Roman Holiday\\", \\"Sabrina\\", \\"A Star Is Born\\", \\"Lolita\\", \\"My Fair Lady\\", to name a few classics. I will always remember Grant's touching modesty when he finally accepted an honorary Oscar in 1970 after a clever montage of clips that merely proved his greatness, an episode retold in the book. This is a treat for Hollywood cinemaphiles.cherished classics. From \\"The Awful Truth\\" to \\"Bringing Up Baby\\" to \\"The Philadelphia Story\\" to \\"Notorious\\" to \\"North by Northwest\\", he was unavoidably sublime, and Eliot does a fine job recounting Grant's experiences in making all these movies. Almost as interesting is the list of films he reportedly turned down due to professional insecurity or excessive salary demands - \\"Roman Holiday\\", \\"Sabrina\\", \\"A Star Is Born\\", \\"Lolita\\", \\"My Fair Lady\\", to name a few classics. I will always remember Grant's touching modesty when he finally accepted an honorary Oscar in 1970 after a clever montage of clips that merely proved his greatness, an episode retold in the book. This is a treat for Hollywood cinemaphiles.	2004-10-12
US	52697971	R18FIBCAO8SNS3	1400054184	925221592	How to Talk to a Liberal (If You Must): The World According to Ann Coulter	Books	2	19	39	N	N	Bipartisanism Only Lives in a Counter-Coulter World	I have to admit conservative muckraker Ann Coulter's vitriol has a certain anti-Will Rogers cynicism that makes me smirk at times. But unfortunately this book does not use her self-conscious wit as the basis for a serious treatise on challenging the liberal agenda. Instead, as a self-professed polemicist, Coulter presents a collection of her columns as if they were part of a stand-up comedy act on the Fox News Channel. Her efforts to stir the pot in this book should be the basis of some hardball discussion, as we desperately need to have constructive political arguments. Sadly you won't find any of that here. Instead, Coulter uses the same sarcastic, piecemeal approach that Maureen Dowd does with \\"Bushworld: Enter at Your Own Risk\\", but at least Dowd attempts to paint a picture with more depth than her individual columns, and despite her didactic Bush-whacking, is relatively even-handed in her distribution of one-liners against Republicans and Democrats alike.<br /><br />Without the realization of a bipartisan world, Coulter can be very hit-and-miss in getting her points across. Some of her zingers land squarely on their target, e.g., \\"A reporter asked Kerry, `Are you for or against gay marriage?' As usual, his answer was, `Yes.'\\" Some just don't have much relevance except to reflect her insatiable need to be clever, e.g., Coulter describes the liberal mindset as \\"The absolute conviction that there is one set of rules for you, and another, completely different set of rules for everyone else.\\" And just how does that statement not describe a conservative? I will give credit to Coulter for being consistent in her perspective, but if you are looking for well-earned laughs at the expense of both parties, I suggest you pick up Jon Stewart's \\"America: A Citizen's Guide to Democracy Inaction\\".	2004-10-11
US	52697971	R37GG9AZ5PDXLT	0393035158	2927274	The End of Faith: Religion, Terror, and the Future of Reason	Books	4	31	40	N	N	Believers, Prepare to Be Challenged	I suppose it was just a matter of time before someone would make the case that the same forces that guide terrorism are those behind organized religion. Not the actual beliefs, mind you, but the uncompromising commitment in believing what they say, and this does not bode well for the rest of us. Author Sam Harris takes fundamentalists at their word, as he points out astutely that \\"The men who committed the atrocities of September 11 were ... men of faith -- perfect faith, as it turns out -- and this, it must finally be acknowledged, is a terrible thing to be.\\" Curiously, political observers have often discounted principles of faith, and fundamentalist Christians, much like Islam-inspired terrorist groups, are often viewed as the members of the disenfranchised. Harris views this as a life-threatening mistake, and frankly in our ongoing war against terrorism, no one could possibly disagree.<br /><br />Harris is careful to separate religion from the people who have faith, but he takes dead aim at Islamic militants, who see themselves engaged in a war against infidels, and at Christian fundamentalists, who want to impose their moral views on abortion and sexuality on others. That is not the groundbreaking part of the book. Rather, Harris espouses that faith itself is the source of all ill in the world and that we need to live in a world of scientific reason. A key part of his controversial argument is the condemnation of moderate religion, which Harris sees as feeding into the extreme beliefs that lead to mass destruction. He does not appear to condone suppressing religion, a key nuance that needs to be stressed to anyone alienated by the book's theme. Though somewhat oblique about it, Harris does support the belief that life has a spiritual dimension. However, he feels religion should be accessible to scientific study, and that will most certainly raise the ire of the religious right.<br /><br />I like Harris' daring in tackling this seemingly indefensible subject, but since he is not a theologian, the book is not without simplistic logic and incomplete study. For instance, he strongly argues that believers of every denomination constantly engage in civil wars that have produced the Inquisition and the anti-Semitism that resulted in the Holocaust. While true to a degree, one needs to understand the political climate that contributed to such atrocities to get a complete picture of how these abominations occurred. His views on Hindu and Buddhist meditation practices as the basis of ethical foundation are interesting, but ironically contrary to his arguments, there is little scientific evidence to back up his claims yet. What Harris is great at is developing hypotheses worthy of healthy discussion. If we could truly follow his line of logic, I have no doubt the world would be a better place. This is smart reading...expect to be challenged.but since he is not a theologian, the book is not without simplistic logic and incomplete study. For instance, he strongly argues that believers of every denomination constantly engage in civil wars that have produced the Inquisition and the anti-Semitism that resulted in the Holocaust. While true to a degree, one needs to understand the political climate that contributed to such atrocities to get a complete picture of how these abominations occurred. His views on Hindu and Buddhist meditation practices as the basis of ethical foundation are interesting, but ironically contrary to his arguments, there is little scientific evidence to back up his claims yet. What Harris is great at is developing hypotheses worthy of healthy discussion. If we could truly follow his line of logic, I have no doubt the world would be a better place. This is smart reading...expect to be challenged.	2004-10-09
US	52697971	R2MAC6A2PAR9D4	031600023X	827119224	Worse Than Watergate: The Secret Presidency of George W. Bush	Books	5	63	73	N	N	Incisive Whistle Blowing from a Concerned Citizen Who Knows	It's been years since I read John Dean's personal account of Watergate, \\"Blind Ambition\\". I was always struck by his courage and ongoing fortitude in identifying Nixon's role in the Watergate scandal. Perhaps there was some self-aggrandizement in his book, but I didn't question his veracity since he went to prison (granted for less than Martha Stewart's sentence) and contributed significantly to Nixon's unprecedented decision to resign the Presidency. The bottom line is that as former White House counsel during the Nixon administration, Dean knows what it takes to bring about grounds for impeachment. Similar to Senator Robert Byrd's charges in his excellent tome, \\"Losing America: Confronting a Reckless and Arrogant Presidency\\", Dean takes dead aim at Bush for violating the Constitution by making the executive branch the most powerful arm of the government at the expense of Congress. The difference is that Dean is no gerrymandering enemy of the right but someone who has experienced the fallout of executive duplicity at his own personal sacrifice. This is an important read, well written and comprehensively documented.<br /><br />The first half of the book focuses on the startling similarities between the Bush and Nixon administrations, especially on the level of secrecy in the Oval Office. But the most interesting finding he provides is Dick Cheney's unprecedented amount of power showing how the country is actually run by the Vice-President (or \\"Co-President\\", as Dean says) exhibiting far more authority than a Hillary Clinton could ever dream of exerting. Dean then presents a legitimate case for impeachment based on Bush's purported deception in bringing the nation into a pre-planned war motivated by still-unfound weapons of mass destruction. But Dean presents his greatest indictment for the Bush-Cheney administration's stealth disregard for environmental issues. With legitimate evidence on his side, Dean charges that Bush sacrificed the environment to benefit special interest corporations, which have led to \\"potentially fatal\\" consequences, this coupled inextricably with Cheney's in-bed secret relationships with the major oil companies. After hearing Bush give a desultory laundry list of  his environmental accomplishments, I have to say that Dean is right in identifying this as Bush's worst crime.<br /><br />Dean minimizes the conspiracy theories espoused by many Bush-bashers by providing, as any good lawyer would, a steady stream of data supporting his vitriolic claims against the current administration. This is essential reading before the election, as Dean paints a foreboding picture of how these deceptions will multiply to no end during a lame duck Presidency. It's easy to imagine what legacy Nixon would have left had Watergate not soiled him irreparably....a world leader who ended American fighting in Vietnam and improved relations with the then-Soviet Union and China with personal visits. It's harder to imagine what Bush's less assured legacy will be since the  response to 9/11 was more a civic accomplishment than a national one. That's why an Iraqi war and assumed victory was necessary to him at any cost. Dean proves this point in spades. This book stands tall alongside Senator Bob Graham's \\"Intelligence Matters\\" and a senior CIA officer's account in \\"Imperial Hubris\\" in portraying a fearsome administration.t corporations, which have led to \\"potentially fatal\\" consequences, this coupled inextricably with Cheney's in-bed secret relationships with the major oil companies. After hearing Bush give a desultory laundry list of  his environmental accomplishments, I have to say that Dean is right in identifying this as Bush's worst crime.    Dean minimizes the conspiracy theories espoused by many Bush-bashers by providing, as any good lawyer would, a steady stream of data supporting his vitriolic claims against the current administration. This is essential reading before the election, as Dean paints a foreboding picture of how these deceptions will multiply to no end during a lame duck Presidency. It's easy to imagine what legacy Nixon would have left had Watergate not soiled him irreparably....a world leader who ended American fighting in Vietnam and improved relations with the then-Soviet Union and China with personal visits. It's harder to imagine what Bush's less assured legacy will be since the  response to 9/11 was more a civic accomplishment than a national one. That's why an Iraqi war and assumed victory was necessary to him at any cost. Dean proves this point in spades. This book stands tall alongside Senator Bob Graham's \\"Intelligence Matters\\" and a senior CIA officer's account in \\"Imperial Hubris\\" in portraying a fearsome administration.	2004-10-09
US	52697971	R14WDVDTJ5OFE0	0312315945	993897127	Magical Thinking: True Stories	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Shades of Sedaris But a Gentler Burroughs Emerges	As with \\"Running With Scissors\\", the twisted sense of humor is evident again in Augusten Burroughs' new collection of essays, which are tied around the theme of \\"magical thinking\\", or the belief that you have more influence over things that happen to you than you actually do. I suppose the inevitable comparisons with David Sedaris must grow tiresome for Burroughs (and probably for Sedaris as well), but the short story format he uses this time does make me wonder whether he is trying to one-up his literary colleague. Luckily, Burroughs infuses enough of his mordant wit and self-deprecating humor to make me appreciate his individual style much more than I could with the more challenging \\"Running With Scissors\\". Optimizing mind over matter certainly has its share of benefits, as the author is able to will his psycho-hag boss to her death, a story that I am ashamed to say induced not disgust but rather humorous empathy from me. But this power has its pitfalls as he listens in disgust to an adoring fan talk about the effectiveness of Dr. Pepper enemas in an anecdote about the strangely supernatural.<br /><br />Burroughs is also more comically frank about his sexual escapades this time around perhaps freed by the \\"magical thinking\\" theme, as he recounts among many others, a spiritual young man with a sad case of \\"micro-penis\\". But the biggest surprise is that he does manage he literary balancing act of being both amusing and dare I say, sweet, in his account of finding true love with his boyfriend. I'm not sure if Burroughs' editors encouraged him to be more accessible with these stories, but the result is worthwhile and hardly compromised. Even if you have reservations after reading \\"Running With Scissors\\", and even if you are devoted to Sedaris (as I am), I say give Burroughs another try with this one. Like me, you might find yourself pleasantly surprised.	2004-10-05
US	52697971	RXRF85N291KGT	1585676195	914251018	Molvania: A Land Untouched By Modern Dentistry (Jetlag Travel Guide)	Books	4	30	32	N	N	Molvania: Love It or Leave It...If You Dare	I would have never thought those comprehensive Lonely Planet guides would be ripe for parody. However, this book is hilarious, an observant mock-guidebook to a fictitious Eastern European country named Molvania, which sounds like a cross between the Marx Brothers' Freedonia from \\"Duck Soup\\" and the duchy of Grand Fenwick from \\"The Mouse That Roared\\". So backward is this new backpacker destination that \\"visitors can share a glass of locally brewed zeerstum (garlic brandy) while watching a traditionally dressed peasant labourer beat his mule\\". Sadly the country suffers from \\"bleak post-war cities and deforested hills\\", but at least the adventurous traveler can revel in the capital city of Lutenblag, where one can enjoy a traditional Molvanian puppet show or use the particularly unique female urinals installed all around town. Surely any book that provides the complete list of asbestos-free restaurants has to be considered essential preparation reading.<br /><br />What I enjoy most about this book isn't so much the imaginative and rather sadly destitute world the co-authors created, but the way they capture the condescending tone that mimics accurately the smugly conveyed expertise of the writers behind the Lonely Planet and Rough Guide books. For example, in explaining the complexity of the Molvanian language, the co-authors state in pseudo-helpful prose: \\"There are four genders: male, female, neutral, and the collective noun for cheeses, which occupies a nominative sub-section of its very own. The language also contains numerous irregular verbs, archaic phrases, words of multiple meaning and several phonetic sounds linguists suspect could represent either a rare dialect or merely peasants clearing their throat.\\" Priceless stuff here. The aptly named Jetlag Travel editors apparently have an entire library of upcoming titles, which sound equally amusing. I can't wait. So pack your toilet paper and bring those water filter tablets, as the good, dentally challenged people of Molvania will welcome you with a hearty \\"Zlkavszka!\\". Just make sure you read the instructions on how to leave before you get there. Bon voyage!vania will welcome you with a hearty \\"Zlkavszka!\\". Just make sure you read the instructions on how to leave before you get there. Bon voyage!	2004-10-03
US	52697971	R2IKWIBMHOSXEZ	076241541X	19237402	In A Cuban Kitchen (Quintet Book)	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Former Food Network Chef Goes Back to His Roots	Cuban cuisine mixes Caribbean and Latin flavors that turn into some truly memorable dishes. From personal experience, I also find it one of the more difficult cuisines to pull off honestly because one mistake can turn a dish into something generic or worse, unsalvageable. I had enjoyed the personable, fun-loving chef Alex Garcia on the Food Network for several years, as he co-hosted the Nuevo Latino cuisine segments on the dearly departed \\"Melting Pot\\" series. I even had the privilege of meeting him and tasting his food firsthand at his rather pricey midtown Manhattan restaurant, Babalu. That's why I had been anticipating his cookbook ever since he mentioned writing it over two years ago. Fortunately the result is a beautifully photographed and tantalizing cookbook with tasty recipes from his native Cuba.<br /><br />I can vouch for the quality of several of the recipes since many of them were featured on his old series, and I have tried them successfully. The carne mechada (Cuban-style beef stew) is quite hearty and a crowd favorite. Also excellent are the arroz con gandules (pigeon pea rice) and the plat&aacute;nos en tentaci&oacute;n (roasted sweet plantains). His mojito recipe is fool-proof. Granted some of the native ingredients are hard to find, if not impossible, in some parts of the country, but reasonable substitutes are provided in the recipes. My one disappointment with the book is that even though Garcia writes the introduction, his personality is strangely missing from the book, which is a shame since that's what drew me initially to his cooking. Otherwise this is a fine starter for anybody who wants to give Cuban cooking a try. Along the same lines, I also recommend his former TV co-host Aaron Sanchez's versatile cookbook, \\"La Comida del Barrio\\", which focuses on Latin American cuisine as  done here in the barrios stateside.	2004-10-03
US	52697971	R1N4KZTET4RDRO	1876175702	541158628	The Motorcycle Diaries: Notes on a Latin American Journey	Books	4	12	17	N	N	Darkening Voice of a Young Man Crossing South America	In anticipation of the new film, the previews of which cast an intoxicating spell beyond its obvious travelogue aspects, I wanted to read the original source, Che Guevara's diary of the cross-continental journey he took with his best friend Alberto Granado. What I found is a book whose voice is purely that of a young man looking for his place in the world. There are many books of this ilk around, but obviously what makes this one resonate is Guevara's history after the end of this diary - doctor, Marxist revolutionary alongside the more politic Castro, Cuba's minister of industry, martyr for the Communist cause shot by a firing squad in Bolivia, photogenic icon emblazoned on T-shirts and college dorm posters.<br /><br />It's a slim volume, mostly observational as would be reasonable to expect from a 24-year old. By no means is the book deeply introspective, as an older man would probably write in nostalgic hindsight. The young Che describes his and Granado's race around South America on a Norton motorbike, and true to someone whose world was ahead of him, he makes broad generalizations about everything he sees - the sight of a stag running as a symbol of the calm before the storm, the political unrest in Chile, the police state he felt Peru was becoming. As road trip stories go, this is decent if rather callow. But what saves the book from being purely youthful treacle is the increasingly darker tone the book takes foreshadowing his development into a revolutionary. Granted it ends far too short of his true achievements to be meaningful as biography, it helps to keep in mind where his life was about to lead. This new edition also has a nice expanded foreword by his daughter Aleida and lots of previously unpublished photos taken by Guevara and Granado on their journey. Definitely worth seeking out if you want to understand the beginning of Che's myth but not if you want political biography.	2004-10-02
US	52697971	R2W68NE9QX6BLF	0345471865	440188610	We Got Fired!: . . . And It's the Best Thing That Ever Happened to Us	Books	4	48	61	N	N	And When One Door Closes, Another Opens...Simple But True	It's not as if author Harvey Mackay has written anything all that earth-shattering in this book, as any effective outplacement consultant will give you the same advice he provides here. But what he does exceptionally well is highlight a problem over which people have the ridiculous notion that there is shame in being fired from a job. Even as unemployment statistics stabilize, there are many who have dropped off the surveys since they are not receiving unemployment compensation. In other words, there is a far greater audience for this book than those who were recently fired. Having been laid off myself from a large company for whom I worked devotedly for twelve years, I know the dark feelings that can overtake you when you are unilaterally eliminated. It can make you delusional about your economic worth and cause havoc with your self-esteem.<br /><br />Mackay's angle is a good one - take a group of successful celebrities who have been fired at some point in their careers and have them talk about how they were able to turn things around and produce even better, more lucrative livelihoods. While much of the wisdom imparted by the likes of Donald Trump, Michael Bloomberg and Muhammad Ali is sound, their stories really provide a framework for Mackey's broader motivational treatise. I have to admit I do tire of people who tell me getting fired is the best thing that ever happened to them, as I always feel they are patronizing me to conceal their own conceit and insecurity. But Mackay does not make the mistake of relying on his cheerleading capabilities. I particularly appreciated his \\"cold truths\\" about being fired, two of which had particular sting - \\"The nicest, most loyal, and most submissive employees are often the easiest people to fire.\\", which of course runs counter to the values by which a lot of us were raised, and an even more resonant truism, \\"The time to start worrying about what you'll do when you're fired is the day you get hired.\\" Perhaps these are not motivational statements in themselves, but they are honest assessments of how one needs to look at oneself in the workplace. Ultimately one has to be true to oneself, but the Bush economy has dramatically altered our perspectives on what we need to do to survive and remain gainfully employed. The best and most constructive sections of the book have to do with how to deal with being fired. Frankly, the survival tactics he espouses should be taught at new employee orientations, so people do not asphyxiate themselves in glass bubbles believing their employers will provide them lifelong security. Whether you have been fired, are worried about being fired, or just received the best performance evaluation of your career, be smart and pick this book up. Mackay puts your employment status in realistic context.al statements in themselves, but they are honest assessments of how one needs to look at oneself in the workplace. Ultimately one has to be true to oneself, but the Bush economy has dramatically altered our perspectives on what we need to do to survive and remain gainfully employed. The best and most constructive sections of the book have to do with how to deal with being fired. Frankly, the survival tactics he espouses should be taught at new employee orientations, so people do not asphyxiate themselves in glass bubbles believing their employers will provide them lifelong security. Whether you have been fired, are worried about being fired, or just received the best performance evaluation of your career, be smart and pick this book up. Mackay puts your employment status in realistic context.	2004-10-01
US	52697971	R1MJHC0H2D7EUR	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	4	19	24	N	Y	Chasing the Holy Grail...Almost As Good as They Say	I had avoided this book for the longest time because frankly the idea of a convoluted thriller around the Holy Grail did not appeal to me. To my chagrin, I find this novel to be consistently entertaining in spite of the rather intimidating topics it covers - the Catholic Church, pagan religions, and religious mysteries. True, there are some lengthy historical passages that weigh down the book unnecessarily. At the same time, it does not require a catechism to get through the dense plot. In fact, author Dan Brown appears to thrive on the reader's initial ignorance and produces a comprehensive education around the story of the Holy Grail, as well as the symbols and histories which are intrinsically connected to it. But Brown is able to balance the extremely onerous subject, as well as the reader's preconceived notions about it, with an endlessly fascinating mystery that leads to one surprising revelation after another.<br /><br />Without giving the story away, suffice it to say that everyone in this book is in the hunt for the secrets hidden by the Priory of Sion including the Grail. Some want to protect it, some want to expose it, and some want to destroy it. Harvard professor Robert Langdon and Paris police cryptologist Sophie Neveu, equipped with secrets shared by the murdered curator of the Louvre, Jacques Sauni&egrave;re, are ahead of everyone else, but police, assassins, and churchmen aren't far behind. The race is on, and the puzzles to be solved seem incomprehensible. This is where Brown excels as he keeps reader interest high in spite of the convolutions. In particular, Langdon's explanations for clues and tricks hidden within Da Vinci's paintings make you want to go look at them all and see if it's true. His comments about the early church, the origins of the gospels, and the assimilation of pagan rituals and symbols into the church's practices and holy days make sense when he tells them, and they come across as easily understood historical facts, whether true or not. Since I am not well versed on the teachings around the Catholic Church, the veracity of the book was a moot point to me. The pages turn quickly as the information is presented, the latest puzzle is solved, and the next escape is done by the skin of their teeth. Despite Langdon's bottomless knowledge, the moral center of the story is really Sophie, especially as she recognizes her past has shaped her to be the possessor of information that could change history and religion. Brown's decision to focus on Sophie's evolution makes the book resonate all the more since we can more readily relate to her plight. This is one breathless thriller albeit a rather pedantic one at times due to the subject matter. Not quite a masterpiece of fiction but an educational and fun read.not. Since I am not well versed on the teachings around the Catholic Church, the veracity of the book was a moot point to me. The pages turn quickly as the information is presented, the latest puzzle is solved, and the next escape is done by the skin of their teeth. Despite Langdon's bottomless knowledge, the moral center of the story is really Sophie, especially as she recognizes her past has shaped her to be the possessor of information that could change history and religion. Brown's decision to focus on Sophie's evolution makes the book resonate all the more since we can more readily relate to her plight. This is one breathless thriller albeit a rather pedantic one at times due to the subject matter. Not quite a masterpiece of fiction but an educational and fun read.	2004-09-29
US	52697971	R1D0V7I0AMYF3Q	0425199096	583255343	Kate Remembered	Books	5	3	6	N	N	"Cold Sober, I Find Myself Absolutely Fascinating"...Agreed	Before this book, published just days after her death last year at 96, I felt there wasn't much more I needed to know about screen legend Katharine Hepburn. I had read Barbara Leaming's comprehensive family tree biography and much earlier, the late Garson Kanin's remembrance, \\"Tracy and Hepburn\\". Like so many others, I was taken by her headstrong heiresses, liberated career women, lovestruck spinsters, devouring mothers and domineering queens. Her angular cheekbones, her often haughty behavior, her whinnying laugh, her hands-on-hips posturing - all ingrained in my movie viewing memories. I recalled her first TV interview with Dick Cavett in 1973 when she asserted quite accurately with characteristic candor, \\"Cold sober, I find myself absolutely fascinating\\". No argument here. Author A. Scott Berg, who became Hepburn's confidante in her last twenty years, has painted a portrait of an irascible woman whose defiant, New England character had not changed much in her nearly hundred years of living. She made no apologies for the life she led and the values she espoused, nor did she need to as lovably eccentric as she was. Hepburn was ahead of her time in her views on female empowerment but amazingly old-fashioned when it came to the dynamics between men and women, as epitomized by her loving, sometimes abusive relationship with the alcoholic and tormented Spencer Tracy, an affair she recalls in the book with a percolating mix of nostalgia and unfiltered honesty.<br /><br />Much more than a standard biography, Berg's eminently readable book does a wonderful job of showing off her sarcasm and biting wit. Hepburn's razor sharp sense of humor informs her memories of getting sick while filming \\"The African Queen\\", being pursued by germ-conscious Howard Hughes, and in one hysterical account, rebuffing Michael Jackson's obtuse request for publicity shots. Her views on the current crop of actors are similarly merciless in ribaldries - Meryl Streep (apparently her least favorite actress with her methodical approach described by Hepburn as \\"Click, Click, Click\\"), Glenn Close (\\"She's got these big, flat, ugly feet\\" said Hepburn after seeing her onstage), Melanie Griffith (\\"lethargic\\"), Arnold Schwarzenegger (\\"I don't understand him\\" as Hepburn was referring not to his audience appeal but to his English). I found her interest in TV journalist Cynthia McFadden quite interesting with Hepburn obviously envisioning her as the granddaughter she never had and someone she entrusted to be the executor of her will. The last pages chronicling an enfeebled Hepburn's last months are inevitably sad but resonant of a life fully lived, for one could never feel sorry for Hepburn. She would have never tolerated that. Berg is quite the biographer having covered the lives of Lindbergh and Sam Goldwyn among others, but this is a much more intimate account like Graham Greene's \\"Travels with My Aunt\\". A charming book of a most unusual friendship captured by Berg with great heart and just enough sentiment to make you want to rent \\"Summertime\\", \\"Holiday\\", \\"The Lion in Winter\\", \\"Bringing Up Baby\\", and on and on and on...ith her methodical approach described by Hepburn as \\"Click, Click, Click\\"), Glenn Close (\\"She's got these big, flat, ugly feet\\" said Hepburn after seeing her onstage), Melanie Griffith (\\"lethargic\\"), Arnold Schwarzenegger (\\"I don't understand him\\" as Hepburn was referring not to his audience appeal but to his English). I found her interest in TV journalist Cynthia McFadden quite interesting with Hepburn obviously envisioning her as the granddaughter she never had and someone she entrusted to be the executor of her will. The last pages chronicling an enfeebled Hepburn's last months are inevitably sad but resonant of a life fully lived, for one could never feel sorry for Hepburn. She would have never tolerated that. Berg is quite the biographer having covered the lives of Lindbergh and Sam Goldwyn among others, but this is a much more intimate account like Graham Greene's \\"Travels with My Aunt\\". A charming book of a most unusual friendship captured by Berg with great heart and just enough sentiment to make you want to rent \\"Summertime\\", \\"Holiday\\", \\"The Lion in Winter\\", \\"Bringing Up Baby\\", and on and on and on...	2004-09-29
US	52697971	RZFPUHNR6DZ7C	0743262379	36588324	A Mighty Heart: The Inside Story of the Al Qaeda Kidnapping of Danny Pearl	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Personalizing Terrorism With Honesty and Passion...Sadly True	I cannot imagine the unrelenting nightmare Mariane Pearl, five months pregnant, must have felt for those endless weeks back in early 2002 when her husband, Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl, was being held hostage by radical Islamic terrorists in Karachi. It is a tribute to her as both investigative reporter and grieving widow that she has written such a moving and cogent book about her husband's kidnapping and expands the picture to include an unblinking portrait of the man responsible, Omar Shiekh. His conversion into a jihadi is treated just as comprehensively as Pearl's more personal account of her relationship and eventual marriage to her husband. I was particularly moved by her story about how they went to Cuba to return her mother's ashes to her birthplace. As a former reporter herself, she is never overly sentimental, but you cannot help but be touched by the loving portrait of her husband, a tough-minded reporter who was also a charming dilettante and avid mandolin player. Her lucid narrative paints a marriage of great passion and mutual trust, and she successfully articulates his mission of building understanding between Islam, Christianity, and his own Judaism.<br /><br />I have to admit some part of me felt Daniel Pearl sealed his fate when he chose such a dangerous assignment, risky not just for an American and all the more so for a Jewish-American. But his widow gives me a much greater understanding of his mission and the passion he had to carry his mission through the most horrifying circumstances. It has since been reported that he was fully aware of his inevitable execution and refused to be sedated during his final moments of life. This added knowledge makes her book an even greater abject lesson in courage, which she delineates in the most poignant yet clear-eyed way. This could have been easily sensationalized into a clarion call for anti-Islamic hatred stateside, but her book is remarkably controlled and free of self-pity. Mariane Pearl goes well beyond my expectations in documenting not just a personal tragedy and ultimate triumph in survival but a true lesson in reconciling one's immediate circumstances with the greater purpose of building tolerance. Beyond Senator Bob Graham's remarkable \\"Intelligence Matters\\" or a senior CIA officer's comprehensive account in \\"Imperial Hubris\\", it is her book that captures the power of the human spirit against terrorism and will continue to resonate well beyond the upcoming election.l beyond my expectations in documenting not just a personal tragedy and ultimate triumph in survival but a true lesson in reconciling one's immediate circumstances with the greater purpose of building tolerance. Beyond Senator Bob Graham's remarkable \\"Intelligence Matters\\" or a senior CIA officer's comprehensive account in \\"Imperial Hubris\\", it is her book that captures the power of the human spirit against terrorism and will continue to resonate well beyond the upcoming election.	2004-09-28
US	52697971	R21J8DNIIQNC9X	1931498717	762318883	Don't Think of an Elephant!: Know Your Values and Frame the Debate--The Essential Guide for Progressives	Books	5	75	85	N	N	Strict Father Vs. Nurturing Parents...Powerful Metaphors	I sure wish I had the foresight to take George Lakoff's class when I was going to Berkeley, but at least I can revel in this illuminating book about the influence exerted by metaphors that resonate with the American public. A professor of linguistics, Lakoff is a senior fellow of the Rockridge Institute, the renowned liberal think tank that concentrates in part on helping Democratic candidates and politicians with re-framing political metaphors. He certainly has the credentials to produce this treatise on the power of words and the resulting images that stay within the mind regardless of what other objective information may be conveyed that run counter to these images. The discussion seems so basic, but Lakoff's treatment is fascinating.<br /><br />In this penetrating book, he focuses on the impermeable connection people make between family and nation and how images are divided along party lines. Republicans follow the strict father model, which assumes that the world is a dangerous place and always will continue to be because there is evil out there in the world. The world is also difficult because it is competitive. There will always be winners and losers. There is an absolute right and an absolute wrong. What is needed in this kind of world is a strong, strict father who can protect the family in a dangerous world, no matter the cost.<br /><br />Democrats, on the other hand, see both parents are equally responsible for raising the children. The assumption is that children are born good and can be made better. The world can be made a better place, and our job is to work on that. The parents' job is to nurture their children and to raise their children to be nurturers of others. According to Lakoff, empathy and responsibility are paramount in political liberalism. From this opposing logic, one can, for example, understand the power of Governor Schwarzenegger's \\"girly men\\" comment, which one moment was considered appallingly sexist and subsequently turned into a rallying cry at the Republican National Convention. Lakoff is especially articulate in showing how the Republicans have leveraged the fear of homeland terrorism to reinforce the strict father model and used it as a groundswell to gain support among the undecideds.<br /><br />This is an essential guide for not only progressives but also any American who wants to segregate facts from messages and so-called values from actual programs. More importantly, this book explains why people vote their values and identities, often against their best interests. My only fear is that the book has come out a bit late to make a genuine impact on the November election. This is the perfect complement to John Sperling's \\"The Great Divide: Retro Vs. Metro America\\", which explores the same partisan dilemma but in terms of marketing principles, the Republicans' superiority in unifying the retro states and the Democrats' failure to do the same with the metro states. I recommend reading both to get the full picture of how the Democratic strategy has not historically embraced the strategies proposed by Lakoff and Sperling and what needs to be done to reconstitute an effective two-party system. Highly recommended.Republican National Convention. Lakoff is especially articulate in showing how the Republicans have leveraged the fear of homeland terrorism to reinforce the strict father model and used it as a groundswell to gain support among the undecideds.     This is an essential guide for not only progressives but also any American who wants to segregate facts from messages and so-called values from actual programs. More importantly, this book explains why people vote their values and identities, often against their best interests. My only fear is that the book has come out a bit late to make a genuine impact on the November election. This is the perfect complement to John Sperling's \\"The Great Divide: Retro Vs. Metro America\\", which explores the same partisan dilemma but in terms of marketing principles, the Republicans' superiority in unifying the retro states and the Democrats' failure to do the same with the metro states. I recommend reading both to get the full picture of how the Democratic strategy has not historically embraced the strategies proposed by Lakoff and Sperling and what needs to be done to reconstitute an effective two-party system. Highly recommended.	2004-09-27
US	52697971	R1T3J3UKAGBQC3	0375415513	814842405	On the Wing: To the Edge of the Earth with the Peregrine Falcon;( Rough Cut)	Books	5	44	45	N	N	Following a Falcon Will Take Your Breath Away	I remember as a child in the sixties poring through the Time-Life book on the animal kingdom. It had this one memorable illustration of all the major species in a big race to show how fast each of them ran, swam and flew against each other. Far ahead of anything else in nature was the peregrine falcon. From that distinct memory, I picked up this book to see why anyone would be foolish enough to try to track one. Author and naturalist Alan Tennant has taken on the challenge and come up with one of the most interesting non-fiction books I've read all year. The peregrine falcon would seem elusive. After all, when diving for prey, it can reach speeds upward of 200 mph, and they can migrate 10,000 miles in a single year, traversing from Canada to as far as Argentina. But Tennant decided to radio-tag one, whom he appropriately dubs Amelia on her migration from Texas to Canada. What ensues, as documented in this journal, is unexpected, unique and extraordinary.<br /><br />This is no simple Audubon Society-style study. Blend Jack Kerouac's \\"On the Road\\" and Ch&eacute; Guevera's \\"The Motorcycle Diaries\\", cross-breed them with \\"Winged Migration\\", and you get some sense of the spell this book casts. Of course, Tennant has a cantankerous sidekick, George Vose, a septuagenarian World War II flight instructor who trusts his instincts more than his flight instruments. Clearly he provides the yang to Tennant's yin. They have life-endangering adventures, astounding views of North America from far above and naturally, the strong pull of male bonding to make it through their journey. Tennant has obviously picked up a lot of information on falconry, which he shares generously, but he also has a true gift of describing the soaring epiphanies that he and Vose experienced flying in their aged Cessna. Just like being in the cockpit with Amelia Earhart and Fred Noonan, the reader gets transported to a contained world where exhilaration mixes unexpectedly with dread. The result is a breathtaking book, a needed panacea for anyone who is tiring of the political, election-timed tomes filling the shelves of your bookstore.book, a needed panacea for anyone who is tiring of the political, election-timed tomes filling the shelves of your bookstore.	2004-09-25
US	52697971	R2BCXBGV48RFUX	031242227X	994951933	Running with Scissors: A Memoir	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Oddest of Journeys, the Blackest of Humor...Take the Ride	This may be the strangest memoir I ever liked, and I'm not even sure about the veracity of the story. The author's humor has a twisted sense that a reader can either ride with or be appalled by...take your pick. It seems a shame to take the latter route, as the story evolves in many unexpected and delightful ways. It focuses on a young boy named a little more than coincidentally, Augusten, who is abandoned by his narcissistic, aspiring poetess mother to live with her cavalier psychiatrist, Dr. Finch. From there, the book is about his journey to manhood recognizing himself as gay, but it goes into directions heretofore unknown due to Augusten's unusual sensibility. At times, it can be unsettling, especially when he mistakenly seeks out Dr. Finch for parental advice. Here's an example of the doctor's nurturing wisdom...When Augusten complains he can't get along with others in school, the doctor suggests he attempt suicide so he can be admitted to an institution and get out of school for several months.<br /><br />The black humor, however, is what saves the novel from going into the trash bin. Let it be said that there are parts of this story that are pretty much guaranteed to disgust you, for example, the idea of a Masturbatorium to treat Augusten's delusional mother or Dr. Finch's study of his own feces to find the will of God. But you have to hand it to author Augusten Burroughs to take charge of this (or is it his?) painful childhood and turn it on its head for laughs and provocative thought. You can't help but smile for a boy whose greatest concern is the maintenance of his perfect Ken-doll hair and whose most vivid dream is one day to rule over his own Vidal Sassoon-like beauty empire.<br /><br />Unlike more traditional books like John Knowles' \\"A Separate Peace\\", John Irving's \\"The Cider House Rules\\" or even J.D. Salinger's \\"Catcher in the Rye\\", this is no emotion-driven coming-of-age novel filled with self-revelations that are easily identifiable. Yet Burroughs' book is oddly introspective even as Augusten grows up totally lacking moral responsibility and constantly shifting the blame for his strange actions to his mother or father. In certain ways, the main character reminds me of the autistic teenaged protagonist who showed a similar lack of insight into the human condition in Mark Haddon's wonderful \\"The Curious Incident of the Dog at Night-Time\\". Only in this case, there is no literally convenient label of a medical diagnosis for Augusten. For lack of a better term, he is just plain weird. Highly recommended but read the first twenty pages to see if you are going to appreciate the uniquely creative perspective of this author.introspective even as Augusten grows up totally lacking moral responsibility and constantly shifting the blame for his strange actions to his mother or father. In certain ways, the main character reminds me of the autistic teenaged protagonist who showed a similar lack of insight into the human condition in Mark Haddon's wonderful \\"The Curious Incident of the Dog at Night-Time\\". Only in this case, there is no literally convenient label of a medical diagnosis for Augusten. For lack of a better term, he is just plain weird. Highly recommended but read the first twenty pages to see if you are going to appreciate the uniquely creative perspective of this author.	2004-09-24
US	52697971	R35XY3CNXIL22M	0618509283	528177434	The Plot Against America: A Novel	Books	5	43	57	N	N	Lucky Lindy Contaminates Roth's World in Searing Novel	With his latest masterful novel, Philip Roth has written a very personal story about his pre-WWII childhood in Newark, NJ. The twist is that the world he paints is significantly different from what was then reality. Charles Lindbergh, dashing American hero for piloting the first transatlantic flight a dozen years earlier, has defeated FDR in his bid for a third term in 1940 to become the 33rd President of the U.S. The Republicans are in charge, and Lindbergh's sole charter is to keep the U.S. out of WWII. An isolationist in real life, Lindbergh was known for his anti-Semitic sentiments, and Roth creates a revisionist history by building his case for an America that turns against its Jewish citizens. He has meticulously assembled archival materials, such as Lindbergh's actual radio address in which he accused the British and the Jews of trying to force America into a foreign war. The result is a world that seems at once outlandish and logical and what ensues seems as horrifying as it does eerily plausible. Roth could have developed a more standard political thriller with his \\"Twilight Zone\\"-like concept and painted a broad landscape of a democratic people altered by fascist leadership.<br /><br />But this novel is no simple polemic about the dangers of a fascist America and its consequences on current generations. It is much more a remembrance almost like Woody Allen's \\"Radio Days\\" or Barry Levinson's \\"Avalon\\", complete with colorful relatives and local neighborhood characters with names that come out of comic books. The seven-year old Philip has a brother he idolizes even as the brother slowly turns into a Lindbergh-abiding Fascist, a proud father who is being eroded personally and professionally by Jewish persecution and a stoic mother who can only stand by and observe in fear. The fictitious political atmosphere does not engulf this family as much as it insinuates itself into their lives through unexpected acts of fear and desperation. Nonetheless, the book does make a profound statement about the reduction of civil liberties for the sake of national security, an issue that confronts us today when one considers the various tactics being weighed to fight the war on terrorism within the boundaries of our country. If anything, Roth has written a book that slams such means as racial profiling to eliminate supposed undesirables, as conservative extremist Michelle Malkin would have us believe to be the only option in her salacious treatise, \\"In Defense of Internment\\". \\"The Plot Against America\\" is a serious-minded, often lugubrious novel by a master author who writes in such a natural, detailed style that his alternative world reverberates with a deep sense of his own identity. Following Roth on roads not taken will challenge many readers, roads so painfully pot-holed that they refuse to believe would ever exist, but I can assure you the journey is revelatory albeit an often troubling one. This is ultimately a triumphant novel that will not disappoint fans of Roth. Highly recommended.s make a profound statement about the reduction of civil liberties for the sake of national security, an issue that confronts us today when one considers the various tactics being weighed to fight the war on terrorism within the boundaries of our country. If anything, Roth has written a book that slams such means as racial profiling to eliminate supposed undesirables, as conservative extremist Michelle Malkin would have us believe to be the only option in her salacious treatise, \\"In Defense of Internment\\". \\"The Plot Against America\\" is a serious-minded, often lugubrious novel by a master author who writes in such a natural, detailed style that his alternative world reverberates with a deep sense of his own identity. Following Roth on roads not taken will challenge many readers, roads so painfully pot-holed that they refuse to believe would ever exist, but I can assure you the journey is revelatory albeit an often troubling one. This is ultimately a triumphant novel that will not disappoint fans of Roth. Highly recommended.	2004-09-22
US	52697971	RHW11K9T7WIC9	0446532681	502504625	America (The Book): A Citizen's Guide to Democracy Inaction	Books	4	116	130	N	N	Take My Government, Please!...ba-bum-bum	This book may not be the most incisive in its examination of the performance of the Bush administration, but it sure is the funniest. We are talking laugh-out-loud funny, not the bemused chuckling of Maureen Dowd's \\"Bushworld: Enter at Your Own Risk\\" or the laughter-through-fears treatment of Michael Moore's \\"Fahrenheit 9/11\\". But Bush is hardly the only target in this consistently clever, brightly illustrated book. This may very well be the textbook you wish you had while you were pretending to listen to your civics teacher in high school. Even if you don't get the Comedy Central cable channel and watch the \\"Daily Show\\", you can still enjoy this book for its shamelessly funny but sadly accurate observations of our government at work. However, if you have seen the clever antics of Jon Stewart and his crew, you know what you're in for, and you won't be disappointed. All you miss with the book is the clever editing of TV news clips, press conferences and convention speeches, which they love to skewer.<br /><br />Any cynical thought you have had about government bureaucracy and the execution of democratic principles will be supported wholeheartedly here. The writers go as far as illustrating the timeline for democracy from its supposed birth in prehistoric times through the lightning-striking Biblical period to early American history and then of course, to the current political landscape. It all has a strong Mel Brooksian feeling of Borscht Belt schtick and frat house humor topped off with some tasty zingers like \\"...it turns out if Betsy Ross was alive and sewing American flags today, she'd be a 13-year-old Laotian boy\\". By all means, get this book as we all need a good laugh considering the paucity of options we have come November. You may find something sadly ironic when you read it and absorb the abuses and absurdities built into our political processes and institutions. But then again, any book that introduces a potential Bush-Kerry boxing match as \\"The Thrilla in Vanilla\\" is aces with me.\\" is aces with me.	2004-09-20
US	52697971	R27B8JVZ338UTZ	0743272935	412606618	The Good Earth (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Reviving a Classic About the Value of Land...Still Resonates	You have to hand it to Oprah for using her considerable influence to revive an old war-horse like Pearl Buck's \\"The Good Earth\\", required reading from my own high school days. But her intuition proves valid, as this is a novel worth rediscovering not only for its study of a time and place long forgotten but also for a value system that seems to sustain a significant part of itself in the Chinese culture today. Surprisingly, \\"The Good Earth\\" has a lot in common with more recent books like Alice Walker's \\"The Color Purple\\" and Arthur Golden's \\"Memoirs of a Geisha\\". All three novels capture the breadth of a particular culture by focusing on the life of one person immersed in it and through a long series of episodes, both affirming and degrading, showing how that culture shapes the eventual fate of that central character.<br /><br />The daughter of missionaries based in China, author Pearl Buck focuses her novel on early 20th century China as it moves from a poor agrarian society to an increasingly more complex one on the threshold of major revolution. The focal point of this change is embodied through the protagonist, a Chinese farmer named Wang Lung, whose land is all by which he measures his own self-worth. This impermeable connection proves to be a double-edged sword throughout his life, as his evolution from proud hardworking peasant to decadent overlord proves to be disheartening. Buck has great credibility in capturing the simple raw imagery of this land and the people who inhabit it in spite of what others perceive to be an outsider's viewpoint. Her fluency in this culture is the book's major strength because she understands how critical it is for the reader to understand how essential land is to the characters and how ancient traditions have led to certain injustices that sacrifice people for the greater good of keeping the land. As a means to illustrate Wang Lung's conflicting needs for family devotion and carnal temptation, she effectively paints two conflicting images of women in Wang Lung's long-suffering slave-wife, O-lan, and his materialistic mistress, Lotus.<br /><br />Major life barriers permeate this deceptively simple saga - poverty, blight, famine, infidelity, even female slavery. Yet Buck humanizes these broad issues through each major character's evolution and in the strength that sustains them through stark conditions that we would find inconceivable. Ironically what we see at the end of the story, probably as an indication of the revolution to come, is the sad disintegration of this man and his family as they become alienated from the land and the noble values it imparted. It's not a happy ending but in hindsight, it resonates as a realistic one. This book remains a deserved classic.<br /><br />You may also want to check out the frayed-at-the-edges 1937 MGM adaptation, even though thirties standards forced the casting of obviously European actors, Paul Muni and Luise Rainer, in the leads. It is a typically self-important MGM movie from that period but nonetheless a surprisingly evocative one with some still amazing special effects such as the fury of a major locust attack.es of women in Wang Lung's long-suffering slave-wife, O-lan, and his materialistic mistress, Lotus.    Major life barriers permeate this deceptively simple saga - poverty, blight, famine, infidelity, even female slavery. Yet Buck humanizes these broad issues through each major character's evolution and in the strength that sustains them through stark conditions that we would find inconceivable. Ironically what we see at the end of the story, probably as an indication of the revolution to come, is the sad disintegration of this man and his family as they become alienated from the land and the noble values it imparted. It's not a happy ending but in hindsight, it resonates as a realistic one. This book remains a deserved classic.    You may also want to check out the frayed-at-the-edges 1937 MGM adaptation, even though thirties standards forced the casting of obviously European actors, Paul Muni and Luise Rainer, in the leads. It is a typically self-important MGM movie from that period but nonetheless a surprisingly evocative one with some still amazing special effects such as the fury of a major locust attack.	2004-09-17
US	52697971	R2K1R6YPYL5M0S	0385503245	519479219	The Family: The Real Story of the Bush Dynasty	Books	4	56	64	N	N	The Bush Dynasty...an Aaron Spelling Production	I have to admit this is an entertaining book. One simply needs to adjust to the fact that this book is not a serious treatise on the Bush administration, its policies on the economy and intelligence reform and its controversial approach to terrorism. These are all critical issues we as voters need to acclimate into our own sensibilities given that we have less than two months remaining before the election. If gaining this understanding is your priority, I suggest first reading Senator Bob Graham's sizzling expos&eacute;, \\"Intelligence Matters\\", or a senior CIA officer's comprehensive insider view, \\"Imperial Hubris\\". Author Kitty Kelley's book is actually a gossipy, often lugubrious but oddly compelling study in dysfunctional relationships among three generations of a powerful family, a Lone Star version of the Kennedys without the requisite glamour and sex scandals. Reading this book gives me an overwhelming sense of d&eacute;j&agrave; vu not because there are identical insights into the Bush dynasty elsewhere, for example, Maureen Dowd's black-humored \\"Bushworld: Enter at your Own Risk\\". Actually what Kelley provides in contrast is a chatty, innuendo-filled writing style that is hard to resist. It's as if I'm watching some Aaron Spelling-produced hybrid of \\"Dallas\\" and \\"Dynasty\\". After all, the story contains all the standard soap opera elements - a distant, nearly pathological relationship between an elitist father and a ne'er-do-well son, a mother who is more Lady Macbeth than June Cleaver and an \\"East of Eden\\"-like brotherly competition that somehow converted the family \\"black sheep\\" into the 43rd President of the United States. If the book included a catfight in the Tidal Basin and a few scandalous indiscretions in the Lincoln bedroom, then the parallel universe would be basically complete.<br /><br />This book is being marketed rather inaccurately as investigative reporting, as it really has the same insidious earmarks of Kelley's previous tell-alls on Frank Sinatra, Jacqueline Onassis and Nancy Reagan. She is definitely more at home as a celebrity biographer, so it's a big step for her to tackle an entire intergenerational saga as she does here. The bulk of the book does in fact focus on the previous generations, not the current President. She covers the first Bush's alcoholism, the second Bush's purported adultery and the entire family's elevated sense of entitlement. In piecing together a back story for George W. Bush, Kelley is credible and entertaining even though her book is admittedly an undetermined mix of legitimate and apocryphal sources. Regardless, she exhibits a good journalistic sense knowing what makes sense to include and what to avoid. The one drawback, however, is that the story does not really get us that much closer to what the junior Bush is all about, perhaps an impossible task given the amount of self-imposed spin that seems to buffer him from actual analysis or debate. For example, Kelley spends an inordinate amount of time explaining George W.'s obsession with avoiding his father's mistakes, the ones she documents as leading to his failure to be re-elected, but she doesn't really connect this emotion-based thinking with the decision-making behind the current conflict in Iraq as an affront to the war on terrorism. The much sought-after psychological profile of the President falls somewhat short of expectations as a result. Nonetheless, if you read John O'Neill's and Jerome Corsi's \\"Unfit for Command: Swift Boat Veterans Speak Out Against John Kerry\\" as a means to understand Kerry's potential shortcomings as President, then you should probably give equal time to this book to understand what drives the incumbent toward his own failed decisions. At least Kelley knows how to tell a good back story. Can't wait for the mini-series that will be shunted over to Showtime.d Nancy Reagan. She is definitely more at home as a celebrity biographer, so it's a big step for her to tackle an entire intergenerational saga as she does here. The bulk of the book does in fact focus on the previous generations, not the current President. She covers the first Bush's alcoholism, the second Bush's purported adultery and the entire family's elevated sense of entitlement. In piecing together a back story for George W. Bush, Kelley is credible and entertaining even though her book is admittedly an undetermined mix of legitimate and apocryphal sources. Regardless, she exhibits a good journalistic sense knowing what makes sense to include and what to avoid. The one drawback, however, is that the story does not really get us that much closer to what the junior Bush is all about, perhaps an impossible task given the amount of self-imposed spin that seems to buffer him from actual analysis or debate. For example, Kelley spends an inordinate amount of time explaining George W.'s obsession with avoiding his father's mistakes, the ones she documents as leading to his failure to be re-elected, but she doesn't really connect this emotion-based thinking with the decision-making behind the current conflict in Iraq as an affront to the war on terrorism. The much sought-after psychological profile of the President falls somewhat short of expectations as a result. Nonetheless, if you read John O'Neill's and Jerome Corsi's \\"Unfit for Command: Swift Boat Veterans Speak Out Against John Kerry\\" as a means to understand Kerry's potential shortcomings as President, then you should probably give equal time to this book to understand what drives the incumbent toward his own failed decisions. At least Kelley knows how to tell a good back story. Can't wait for the mini-series that will be shunted over to Showtime.	2004-09-15
US	52697971	R1CF07U9KEOS59	0743262514	611334106	All the President's Spin: George W. Bush, the Media, and the Truth	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Spin City Has Grown Into an Empire of Media Manipulation	This has to be one of the most definitive books on political spin, which is indeed a sad development in the history of mass communication but one that requires the timely scrutiny provided here. As recipients of such misinformation, we the readers seem to experience a level of media manipulation that goes from bad to worse with each passing administration. Apparently, Bush and his handlers have elevated spin, or perhaps more accurately, demoralized it into a subversive art form. This fascinating book by the editors of the nonpartisan Web site, [...] unmasks the tactics of deception that Bush has used to sell his agenda to the American people. In fact, Bush and his handlers have become such experts at half-truths and strategically ambiguous language that a parade of politicians and journalists have written a library of books trying to expose the truth but with their own varying degrees of effectiveness in telling their own truth. The most prominent are Maureen Dowd's \\"Bushworld: Enter at Your Own Risk\\", and of course, Michael Moore's \\"Fahrenheit 9/11\\". However, the most relevant complement to \\"All the President's Spin\\" is actually John Sperling's \\"The Great Divide: Retro Vs. Metro America\\", which explains how the Democratic Party is in need of sharpening their marketing plans to counteract the Bush administration. Both books verify what masters the Bush administration have become in using unprecedented marketing and public relations techniques to package and sell their policies and themselves to voters rather than serving them.<br /><br />Twisting and distorting the facts is nothing new for those of us who lived through LBJ's patriotic justifications for the Vietnam War and Nixon's covert explanations about Watergate. What has become the greater issue now is why Bush's record of policy deception seems to escape accountability, and the authors vividly demonstrate the threat these spin tactics pose to honest political debate. It is no longer a matter of flat-out lies but a more complex web of deceit. The Bush administration is expert at \\"unrepresentative examples\\", which means they will assert one broad group will benefit from a certain Bush policy when in reality, a much smaller group will. For example, the term \\"tax families\\" was supposed to refer to all middle-class beneficiaries of Bush's tax-cuts-for-the-rich, but in reality, after all the stringent requirements were met, it turned out that only 15% of Americans in that income bracket were eligible for the tax amount advertised. The other 85% received little if any amount in tax cuts - and in aggregate, Al Gore's tax cut plan would have meant a greater relative benefit. Yet this discrepancy was never disclosed clearly to the voters. Bush's most effective spin tactic is apparently to make statements that are technically true but laced with false impressions as to what was implied. The key example is whenever Bush speaks of Iraq as a \\"gathering and growing threat\\" with \\"evidence\\" of chemical and biological weapons, which created the impression that Iraq was an imminent threat. But when confronted with this statement, Bush would backtrack by asserting that he never used the words \\"imminent threat\\". The authors of the book call it a \\"strategic use of language\\". That is putting it kindly.<br /><br />The press does not escape the book unscathed. The authors take them to task for putting sensationalism over substance, for creating stereotypes of political leaders in order to help engage readers. If you follow the line of thinking in both this book and Sperling's, both major parties are now engaged in a major marketing war, and for reasons unclear, the mainstream media isn't going to help sort it out for us. Read \\"All the President's Spin\\" and Sperling's \\"The Great Divide: Retro Vs. Metro America\\" if you want a better understanding of what amounts to spin and how to discern the truth. Unfortunately, the alternative is to leave oneself vulnerable to the constant spin this campaign season, as it has become standard practice and a sad deterioration of our democratic principles. Essential reading before you vote this November.become standard practice and a sad deterioration of our democratic principles. Essential reading before you vote this November.	2004-09-13
US	52697971	RSDAJT379NGEH	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Elegant Novel Lets Opera Music Be the Tie That Binds	Author Ann Patchett is obviously quite an opera lover, for who else but an opera lover would write a hostage story where opera music proves to be the tie that binds, sort of speak. As an opera lover myself, I can find this all credible and to be honest, enthralling. What Patchett does is transcend the contrivance of this device by writing a lovely and very original novel in spite of the circumstances that would make the reader think this will be a story strewn with fear and violence. Describing the plot makes the novel sound trite, which in an intentional way, is a major part of its appeal. The story starts with a high-powered Japanese business tycoon, who is invited by the government of an unnamed and of course, unstable South American country to celebrate his birthday, the goal being that he will be encouraged to build a factory there. The centerpiece of the party is Roxane Coss, the world's most famous lyric soprano, who has been invited to perform there since her biggest fan is the tycoon. All of a sudden, midway through the lavish party, terrorists appear and take the 58 international guests hostage. What happens next is what makes this novel quite unusual and compelling.<br /><br />Most of the book covers the months that pass by with this hostage situation in place. On the surface, it sounds like an uneasy mix of \\"Dog Day Afternoon\\" and \\"Diva\\", but the story takes unexpected turns, and most surprisingly, it becomes an almost Shakespearean human comedy rather than a standard thriller. Basically what happens is that the artificial binds of a hostage crisis bring out the best in everybody, including the hostages. Patchett's message is simple but resonant, that our everyday existences desensitize us to what is most important in our lives and that only under dire circumstances where we have no means of escape do we have the initiative to overcome our self-imposed barriers and create our own miracles. She makes you care about all the characters in a very subtle way and interlaces the seriousness of the situation with unexpected humor. What Patchett does best is use her gift for dramatic imagery in describing the beauty and power of Roxane's voice as the bonding agent between the terrorists and hostages. Characters step outside of their own identities, such as Roxane's unexpected and most un-diva-like leadership aptitude during the ordeal and in particular, the genuine love that develops between the tycoon and Roxane. At times, there are some contrivances that lend an aroma of a romance novel to the proceedings, and there is a certain patness to the ending. Still, Patchett shows herself to be a deft and observant writer, who can capture the different aspects of life in a unique setting and turn these disparate elements into a cohesive, constantly surprising story. Highly recommended.rlaces the seriousness of the situation with unexpected humor. What Patchett does best is use her gift for dramatic imagery in describing the beauty and power of Roxane's voice as the bonding agent between the terrorists and hostages. Characters step outside of their own identities, such as Roxane's unexpected and most un-diva-like leadership aptitude during the ordeal and in particular, the genuine love that develops between the tycoon and Roxane. At times, there are some contrivances that lend an aroma of a romance novel to the proceedings, and there is a certain patness to the ending. Still, Patchett shows herself to be a deft and observant writer, who can capture the different aspects of life in a unique setting and turn these disparate elements into a cohesive, constantly surprising story. Highly recommended.	2004-09-10
US	52697971	RZHJICZH7E1GS	1400063523	567524678	INTELLIGENCE MATTERS: The CIA, the FBI, Saudi Arabia, and the Failure of America's War on Terror	Books	5	96	102	N	N	The Fear Lies Within...A Senator Divulges	Similar to an anonymous CIA officer's account of intelligence lapses in \\"Imperial Hubris: Why the West is Losing the War on Terror\\", this book is a sizzler almost told as a morality tale with sadly no ending to echo the moral the author espouses. Senator Bob Graham (D-Florida), former 2004 Presidential hopeful, has joined the growing ranks who have written well-timed books to reflect their disgust and confusion over the constant deceptions that seem to entangle the Bush administration in its bid for re-election. Graham has much in common with Senator Robert Byrd (D-West Virginia), who similarly derides the current administration in his recent book, \\"Losing America: Confronting a Reckless and Arrogant Presidency\\". That book places more focus on the President's complete disregard for the U.S. Constitution and uses historical references to back up his claims. However, Graham, joined by former Gore speechwriter Jeff Nussbaum, has a more immediate target in mind, the allegedly close and protective relationship between the Bush family and the Saudi government. The consequences of this connection, according to Graham, have now resulted in over one thousand casualties in Iraq. In particular, he assails the Bush administration for the charade that is the Iraqi war, for failing to address the real war on terrorism and for ignoring a Saudi-funded al-Qaeda network that remains largely intact here in the U.S. Damning charges but ones he meticulously backs up in this book.<br /><br />This Bush-Saudi connection is the same subject that Michael Moore emphasizes during the middle portion of \\"Fahrenheit 9/11\\". In both cases, it is difficult to deny that much of what he does claim is at minimum strangely coincidental and at worst immoral. Whereas Moore is mainly flippant in his approach, Graham is quite sober and provides a perspective commensurate with a conscience-stricken political insider tasked almost impossibly with investigating the full impact of the terrorist threat. After all, he was the co-chair of the joint House-Senate panel investigating 9/11 prior to the formation of the broader commission that resulted in the phenomenal \\"9/11 Commission Report\\". Interestingly, that book claims no connection exists between the Saudis and the 9/11 terrorists. Graham, however, provides compelling evidence that proves otherwise, in particular, the funding of two of the 9/11 hijackers by the Saudi government and the abrupt movement of forces from the bin Laden manhunt in Afghanistan to the more nebulous political landscape of Iraq, a move that surprised even General Tommy Franks.<br /><br />The most intriguing and explosive charge in the book is the U.S.-based support network for al-Qaeda, as the war with Iraq has provided a helpful distraction to the detection of these individuals. Even members of the 9/11 Commission acknowledge that Graham may be right when he says the FBI never fully unraveled a support network that helped the hijackers. This book, coupled with \\"Imperial Hubris\\", gives as complete a picture as possible on the whole terrorist issue. \\"Intelligence Matters\\" is essential reading as it represents a wake-up call to those from President Bush downward to respond to the crisis of poor intelligence in the face of a serious terrorist threat. No matter how you vote in November, you need to read Senator Graham's account to be more fully informed.s the co-chair of the joint House-Senate panel investigating 9/11 prior to the formation of the broader commission that resulted in the phenomenal \\"9/11 Commission Report\\". Interestingly, that book claims no connection exists between the Saudis and the 9/11 terrorists. Graham, however, provides compelling evidence that proves otherwise, in particular, the funding of two of the 9/11 hijackers by the Saudi government and the abrupt movement of forces from the bin Laden manhunt in Afghanistan to the more nebulous political landscape of Iraq, a move that surprised even General Tommy Franks.    The most intriguing and explosive charge in the book is the U.S.-based support network for al-Qaeda, as the war with Iraq has provided a helpful distraction to the detection of these individuals. Even members of the 9/11 Commission acknowledge that Graham may be right when he says the FBI never fully unraveled a support network that helped the hijackers. This book, coupled with \\"Imperial Hubris\\", gives as complete a picture as possible on the whole terrorist issue. \\"Intelligence Matters\\" is essential reading as it represents a wake-up call to those from President Bush downward to respond to the crisis of poor intelligence in the face of a serious terrorist threat. No matter how you vote in November, you need to read Senator Graham's account to be more fully informed.	2004-09-09
US	52697971	RSF1KEEX0G985	0393059170	168441340	Cruel and Unusual: Bush/Cheney's New World Order	Books	4	22	26	N	N	Big Brother Is Watching...and He Has a Texas Drawl	I'm not sure even a President as devious in hindsight as Richard Nixon has produced the same amount of ire that has been behind the multitude of books and films aimed squarely at the George W. Bush presidency. Having read a few and seen \\"Fahrenheit 9/11\\", these pieces have been of varying quality, intelligence and entertainment, consequently it's difficult to decide which ones are the most worthwhile to recommend. Believe me, this is one of the better ones, and it bears a striking similarity to the arguments raised by Senator Robert Byrd's recent book, \\"Losing America: Confronting a Reckless and Arrogant Presidency\\". Author Mark Crispin Miller sees the U.S. as being subverted by an administration that integrates religiosity into its policy-making, encourages astronomical spending on an unjustified war and disregards the U.S. Constitution almost entirely. However, Miller's treatise goes further than Byrd's tome in exploring the news media as an enabling partner treating the Bush administration as if it were moderate and honest, ensuring each White House statement is given its proper spin.<br /><br />As if speaking from his own pulpit, Miller certainly makes his case with enough testimonies and transcripts to make the reader wonder what exactly are the motivating factors behind the Bush/Cheney \\"new world order\\". He asserts that the current administration truly believes they have been tapped by God to lead a journey to move the country to the far religious right, regardless of the conflicting opinions of the American people as expressed through their voting. It's a frightening, almost-Orwellian proposition, and by the end of the book, I have to say Miller's positioning appears quite credible. One particularly compelling area he covers is the build-up to war in Iraq and the Bush White House-instigated discrediting of weapons inspectors, who insisted that Iraq had no weapons of mass destruction. This is where Miller's investigative skills are at full force, and the book becomes a flaming expos&eacute; of the media manipulation of which the current administration is capable. Whereas Michael Moore with \\"Fahrenheit 9/11\\" and Maureen Dowd in her book, \\"Bushworld: Enter at Your Own Risk\\" find an almost black humor in what is going on now, Miller remains steadfast and serious-minded, as if Bush's allegedly egregious violation of democracy requires someone of equal conviction to hold on tight against the onslaught of those who would claim the author to produce simply hyperbolic judgments. Miller can be quite didactic in his support of his convictions, nonetheless, it's still a fine and strong read, albeit a scary one, reinforced by several viewpoints that have been recently published on this same topic, in particular, \\"Imperial Hubris\\" by an anonymous senior CIA officer. Highly recommended.a flaming expos of the media manipulation of which the current administration is capable. Whereas Michael Moore with \\"Fahrenheit 9/11\\" and Maureen Dowd in her book, \\"Bushworld: Enter at Your Own Risk\\" find an almost black humor in what is going on now, Miller remains steadfast and serious-minded, as if Bush's allegedly egregious violation of democracy requires someone of equal conviction to hold on tight against the onslaught of those who would claim the author to produce simply hyperbolic judgments. Miller can be quite didactic in his support of his convictions, nonetheless, it's still a fine and strong read, albeit a scary one, reinforced by several viewpoints that have been recently published on this same topic, in particular, \\"Imperial Hubris\\" by an anonymous senior CIA officer. Highly recommended.	2004-09-06
US	52697971	R1TWTLJDS5J254	0375414576	786383328	My Life	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Public Life Separate from Personal Demons, Legacy Incomplete	The most immediate traits one picks up from reading Bill Clinton's autobiography are his resilience and his charm, the two attributes that most directly come across on television. This is not to diminish the scope or depth of what he has written here as he has led a most unique life. Rather these traits portend a man who knows not only how to survive against adversity but how to prevail as if his legacy has already been assured. How history will view Clinton a century from now will be interesting since so much of what makes him memorable is his ability to connect with people during these times. And even with a wife who has been elected to the U.S. Senate and earmarked as the frontrunner for the 2008 Democratic ticket, he remains the dominant Clinton in the American psyche. The man is undeniably charismatic no matter how you view the life he has led. That's why this book provides great value since it provides a foundation for his legacy steeped as it is in a great amount of detail and explanation. At more than a thousand pages, this would border on excess from anybody else, but the length perfectly defines Clinton's character as a high-minded and goal-oriented intellectual determined to tell his story his way regardless of what his pundits would want him to emphasize and edit. His comprehensive approach may wear some out, but it provides major dividends as this has to be the most thorough account of a presidency ever written, justification enough for anyone interested in what is to be learned from the most difficult job in the world. Clinton not only highlights the milestone achievements and crises but also describes in sometimes surprising minutiae how his office worked on a daily basis for the eight years of his administration. Just for the simple fact that he has endured a multitude of scandals and fielded all sorts of questions about his character and integrity makes this autobiography a very worthwhile read.<br /><br />Like it or not, Clinton is a nonlinear thinker, and this reflects in his often stream-of-consciousness writing style. For instance, instead of bringing up the illicit affairs with Gennifer Flowers and Monica Lewinsky as they happened in his life, he chooses to talk about them carefully within the context of the legal depositions that followed after the affairs were disclosed. I'm sure many are frustrated by what they view as an evasive approach to his adulterous behavior, but it more reflects a man who recognizes his shortcomings but does not place undue emphasis on them. What Clinton succeeds at reporting is his public life as separate from his private demons. If the reader can get past judging his personal behavior, one can see his career shaped by a resolute determination to improve the life of his fellow citizens, an intense commitment to civil rights and the environment, and an exceptional understanding of daily life from the Oval Office.<br /><br />Clinton spends relatively little time on his childhood where he had to protect his mother and himself from the abuse of an alcoholic stepfather. Yet he is greatly sympathetic toward him for what his stepfather tried to do. Even at an early age, Clinton looked inward to see the cracks in his reality, the difference between what is and what might be. It is a uniquely personal facility that would carry him forth through his Presidency. The rest of this voluminous book is really about his political career and not nearly as much about his family life or his personal dealings. That is his decision to make, and given the richnes of what he shares, I don't disagree with it. His tone is confident throughout but especially so as he recalls his presidency dealing with complex policy-making and often frightening international issues, all within the context of an aggressive assault orchestrated by his conservative enemies. By no means is this a perfect book, and certain sections could have been better edited in hindsight, but it is essential reading for anyone who wantsto understand the lingering impact of Bill Clinton's political career on our society.he lingering impact of Bill Clinton's political career on our society.	2004-09-04
US	52697971	R2VECGJOLSQ1ZE	0805063897	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Ehrenreich's Travels...O Sister, Where Art Thou?	Author Barbara Ehrenreich takes on welfare reform in a compelling way, by subjecting herself to a series of low-wage jobs in Florida, Maine and Minnesota. The result is a provocative and often indignant look at how women forced off welfare try to make ends meet in a stacked-deck world. What starts out as an interesting sociological experiment about living in poverty turns into something far deeper and self-revelatory about survival from paycheck to paycheck. Even though she gives herself an advantage upfront by keeping her car and having $1000 in an emergency fund, she dives headlong into her first person study by taking on the burden of this study by separating herself from family and friends.<br /><br />In each locale, Ehrenreich struggles to find a place to live in which she feels safe, while considering whether it is cheap enough that she will still have money left for food and transportation. She also faces the difficulty of becoming ill and needing medical care. Ehrenreich struggles to cover the expenses for just herself and learns through co-workers what can happen if one also has dependents. It is this realistic compilation of situations that makes the book singe with realistic observations at which Ehrenreich is adept. As she finds out, second jobs and the help of family, friends and even outside agencies are vital for workers at this level in the economy. The book can feel relentless in the constant exhaustion she must have felt at the end of each day, and I'm sure this is intentional. It is in this level of detail that she is quite effective in portraying the everyday lives of people who are not only \\"getting by\\" but also showing great pride in their work and ability to earn a living. Ehrenreich shares lots of statistics, but the more important aspect of this book is how she writes about what happens to her spirit, her feeling of self-worth. In the jobs, she discovers the reality of becoming a non-person. It is in her descriptions of not being seen as who she is, not being valued, that really makes this book come alive.<br /><br />In an odd way, this book reminds me of the old forties Preston Sturges movie, \\"Sullivan's Travels\\", about the Hollywood director who masquerades as a hobo so he can understand the plight of the downtrodden \\"real\\" people. Both that movie and this book dance on the line between straightforward social protest and an often painful acknowledgment of inconvenience, which translates into truths that we choose to ignore because we simply can. The reader gets a sense of outrage peeking at the trials of poor Americans, both in Ehrenreich's own test case and in the real lives of the many people she met during her grim adventures. It is the difference in her situation versus theirs that allows a certain elitist viewpoint to creep in at times. Toward the end of the book, she takes a self-congratulatory tone for her months of sacrifice and crusading journalistic integrity, but to be fair, she keeps this attitude in check as she expresses a real sense of compassion for her coworkers.<br /><br />Her final chapter is an overview of the problems of the working poor from a more analytic perspective, and her conclusions are bleak. While the Bush administration boasts about getting welfare mothers off the dole and into gainful employment, these women are, in reality, sinking more deeply into poverty. One gets the sinking feeling this will be a perpetual state unless employers are willing to pay their employees a living wage and take into consideration their long-term health. A painful and thought-provoking read but highly recommended.not being valued, that really makes this book come alive.    In an odd way, this book reminds me of the old forties Preston Sturges movie, \\"Sullivan's Travels\\", about the Hollywood director who masquerades as a hobo so he can understand the plight of the downtrodden \\"real\\" people. Both that movie and this book dance on the line between straightforward social protest and an often painful acknowledgment of inconvenience, which translates into truths that we choose to ignore because we simply can. The reader gets a sense of outrage peeking at the trials of poor Americans, both in Ehrenreich's own test case and in the real lives of the many people she met during her grim adventures. It is the difference in her situation versus theirs that allows a certain elitist viewpoint to creep in at times. Toward the end of the book, she takes a self-congratulatory tone for her months of sacrifice and crusading journalistic integrity, but to be fair, she keeps this attitude in check as she expresses a real sense of compassion for her coworkers.    Her final chapter is an overview of the problems of the working poor from a more analytic perspective, and her conclusions are bleak. While the Bush administration boasts about getting welfare mothers off the dole and into gainful employment, these women are, in reality, sinking more deeply into poverty. One gets the sinking feeling this will be a perpetual state unless employers are willing to pay their employees a living wage and take into consideration their long-term health. A painful and thought-provoking read but highly recommended.	2004-09-03
US	52697971	R1USFRGGDWU2KG	0974537616	164161415	A National Party No More: The Conscience of a Conservative Democrat	Books	2	11	31	N	N	Maverick Miller Sets Himself on Fire...Got Water?	In this sermonic book, Senator Zell Miller (D-Georgia) has a dinosaur-sized bone to pick with the Democratic Party, but at the same time, he seems quite resigned to the buzzards circling overhead and devouring the current leadership of the party. Since deciding to throw his support behind Bush and consequently not seeking reelection this year, Miller is the mouse that roars. His book comes across as a diatribe from a man embittered by his party's treatment of southern Democrats and the continuing proliferation of special interest groups that he feels has diminished the party's power and values. Miller minces no words in explaining how the Democratic Party lost the South as well as many moderates and conservatives elsewhere. He has reason to be angry, and his perspective is well-earned given his significant legislative achievements and his guiding hand in helping Bill Clinton in his first Presidential campaign.<br /><br />However, the problem with this book is that Miller would rather express frustration than provide a real solution for the Democratic Party's salvation. He outlines key positions on important issues, but his conservative agenda does not embrace the diversity of the party and more importantly, he fails to give a realistic game plan for his ideal vision of the Democratic Party. Whereas Senator Robert Byrd's book, \\"Losing America: Confronting a Reckless and Arrogant Presidency\\", trashes the Bush administration, at least he provides a guidepost for reform in the US Constitution. I see no such foundation in Miller's words. This is not to say Miller's book is not without merit, as I think the chapters on Carter and Clinton, \\"How Carter Ran And Won-Once\\" and \\"How Clinton Ran And Won-Twice\\", provide a credible history of the Democratic Party's failure in winning the South substantively.<br /><br />I respect Senator Miller's opinion on many issues, and I have no doubt that he wrote the book as a wake-up call to current Democratic leadership. Certainly in light of his resume, few can challenge Miller's right to state his utter disappointment in the state of his party. But I find the assertion of Miller's refusal to abandon the Democrats rather suspect given his endorsement of Bush prior to Kerry's nomination as the Democratic contender. It is this sort of lapse that makes one feel his abandonment may have already occurred. He also wants the reader to feel that he has been abandoned by the party, hardly an empowering statement from a man who was able to achieve so much in education against great odds in Georgia. The book's tone is unwaveringly didactic much like Miller's fiery keynote speech this evening at the Republican National Convention. If you are interested in a more objective assessment of the South's abandonment of the Democratic Party, you should read John Sperling's \\"The Great Divide: Retro Vs. Metro America\\", which at least pulls together a data-based marketing and branding strategy for the Democrats to reverse this trend. Had Miller taken such a more proactive approach toward saving the Democratic Party, I would have better appreciated the case he presents here.few can challenge Miller's right to state his utter disappointment in the state of his party. But I find the assertion of Miller's refusal to abandon the Democrats rather suspect given his endorsement of Bush prior to Kerry's nomination as the Democratic contender. It is this sort of lapse that makes one feel his abandonment may have already occurred. He also wants the reader to feel that he has been abandoned by the party, hardly an empowering statement from a man who was able to achieve so much in education against great odds in Georgia. The book's tone is unwaveringly didactic much like Miller's fiery keynote speech this evening at the Republican National Convention. If you are interested in a more objective assessment of the South's abandonment of the Democratic Party, you should read John Sperling's \\"The Great Divide: Retro Vs. Metro America\\", which at least pulls together a data-based marketing and branding strategy for the Democrats to reverse this trend. Had Miller taken such a more proactive approach toward saving the Democratic Party, I would have better appreciated the case he presents here.	2004-09-02
US	52697971	R2IATCUFAHY7WH	1574888498	892390637	Imperial Hubris: Why the West is Losing the War on Terror	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Frightening But Necessary Treatise, Essential Reading	As illustrated in this no-holds-barred treatise, the concept of a pre-emptive war was the shaky ground by which the Bush administration has based the U.S. war on and continuing occupancy of Iraq. The author calls the conflict \\"an avaricious, premeditated, unprovoked war against a foe who posed no immediate threat but whose defeat did offer economic advantage\\". A sermonic yet alarming assertion and one of many to be found in this provocative and often disturbing book written undercover by a senior CIA officer.<br /><br />As we know, the 9/11 Commission Report concluded, \\"We have no credible evidence that Iraq and al-Qaeda cooperated on attacks against the United States\\". The fact that the author has been allowed to publish this book even anonymously obviously reflects the heightened level of frustration of senior intelligence officials over the course the Bush administration has taken. The lack of connection between Iraq and al-Qaeda actually induced an unexpected cause-and-effect. It was evidently the U.S.-led decision to go to war on Iraq that in turn elevated the al-Qaida's standing and reputation in the Islam world. Moreover, the author points out that the escalating terrorist attacks culminating in 9/11 have nothing to do with attacking American democracy or way of life and that Bush's claims represent yet another case of self-delusion leading to failed policy. This sadly ironic twist is at the heart of \\"Imperial Hubris\\" making it one of the most profoundly important reads this year. Thanks to the author's insider view and his intensive investigations, this book is no simple anti-Bush (or for that matter, anti-Clinton) polemic.<br /><br />In a lucid and understandably zealous tone, the author presents what our \\"war on terrorism\\" has really brought us. He obliterates our image of bin Laden and the al-Qaeda as a band on the run, and he also attacks the misconception that Saddam Hussein's defeat forms the basis of a safe democracy in Iraq. Even more importantly, the author shows how the conflict and its prolonged duration lie as much in the way our intelligence operations are structured as it does with the radical Islamic movement we seem to be trying to defeat. So dysfunctional are communication lines within and between the CIA and FBI that no one in the intelligence community could honestly say they did all they could before 9/11. This book provides a clear explanation on how this situation has evolved and been resistant to change over the past decade.<br /><br />The author's view of bin Laden as a charismatic leader can be rather off-putting, but there is no getting around the fact that he has the leadership skills to unite Muslims from many different countries around the world into a highly effective and mobile organization. By invading a country that's regarded as the second holiest place in Islam, the Bush administration inadvertently validated bin Laden's claims that the U.S. intends a holy war against Muslims. It appears the largest failure is in labeling al-Qaeda as a terrorist group, same as any other with no regard to the power of their religious unity. As we all know, our government's official position is that the U.S. never negotiates with terrorists since negotiation means defeat. According to the author, this is the wrong way to fight bin Laden.<br /><br />The real enemy is in the radical form of Islam that bin Laden and his followers espouse. The author calls for an undetermined mix of stronger military actions and dramatic foreign policy change, obviously unsettling conclusions not only for the inevitable bloodshed but also for the uncertainty. Whether both could work either in tandem or in sequence is arguable, but at the very least, the author provokes thought for change. To substantiate his findings, he uses examples from past American history (such as John Quincy Adams, the Civil War) as signposts for our current behavior but with rather mixed results since we live in unprecedented times globally. Nonetheless, the author's valid points, passionately told, make this essential reading for our times.passionately told, make this essential reading for our times.	2004-09-01
US	52697971	R3FE5K45PDVH10	1400082773	773934124	Dreams from My Father: A Story of Race and Inheritance	Books	4	454	560	N	N	Inspiring Life Story...Somewhat Less Than Complete	U.S. Senate hopeful Barack Obama has an inspiring story to share, and yet he doesn't simply rest on his laurels in this critical evaluation of his life and in his continuing search for himself as a black American. He wrote \\"Dreams From My Father: A Story of Race and Inheritance\\" almost ten years ago, but his stock has obviously surged since his star-making speech at the Democratic National Convention last month, perhaps to the chagrin of Hillary Clinton...unless she is dreaming of a Clinton-Obama ticket in 2008! Growing up mulatto in Hawaii and Indonesia, Obama discusses trying to come to grips with his racial identity through a period of rebellion that included drug use, becoming a community activist in Chicago and traveling to Kenya to understand his father's past. It is in Kenya where he discovers a nation with forty different tribes, each of them saddled with stereotypes of the others. It is also in Kenya where he recognizes the dichotomy that has been his lifelong existence between the graves of his father and his grandfather. His description of this defining moment is worthy of a passage in Alex Haley's \\"Roots\\".<br /><br />Obama is also candid about racism, poverty and corruption in Chicago, and he pulls no punches in his account of this period. Because the book stops in 1995, it does not get into much detail on his learning experiences, culminating in both missteps and triumphs, as a state legislator.  For all the value the book provides on Obama's history, I would have appreciated a more substantive update than the preface on the last decade, as he gained political prominence in Illinois, so that we understand more why his time in the spotlight has come at this moment. Perhaps that will be Volume 2. I was also disappointed he spent so little time writing about his mother and the influence her side of the family has had on him, a narrative gap Obama acknowledges and over which he expresses regret in the preface. Perhaps inclusion of such details would have made for a less compelling story from his originally intended Afro-centric perspective; but at the same time, I think a more balanced look at his own racial dichotomy would have made his story resonate all the more given where he is now.<br /><br />Obama is open in the preface about using changed names and composite characters to expedite the flow and ensure privacy of those around him, but it does somewhat lessen the impact of his story when one starts to wonder who was real and who was a fictionalized character. Regardless of these literary devices, this book is still a very worthwhile look into the background of someone who is on a major upward trajectory in the current national political scene.less compelling story from his originally intended Afro-centric perspective; but at the same time, I think a more balanced look at his own racial dichotomy would have made his story resonate all the more given where he is now.    Obama is open in the preface about using changed names and composite characters to expedite the flow and ensure privacy of those around him, but it does somewhat lessen the impact of his story when one starts to wonder who was real and who was a fictionalized character. Regardless of these literary devices, this book is still a very worthwhile look into the background of someone who is on a major upward trajectory in the current national political scene.	2004-08-31
US	52697971	RAMZXZ0ITXMAG	0756607760	605816370	Hollywood	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Flip Through the Hollywood Dream Factory in Record Time	For a Hollywood film fanatic, this is one delightful photo flip book that will represent a major time suck if you're not careful. Surely there are worse ways to spend your time than poring through the photos of the great and some not-so-great movies that are included here. David Thomson, the renowned film historian who is responsible for the be-all tome on the movies, \\"The Biographical Dictionary of Film\\", a volume so onerous that he can only update it every ten years or so. This book is no less ambitious in its scope, yet amazingly compact considering that it covers almost the entire history of Hollywood filmmaking from 1915 to 2001. This time he lets the pictures do most of the talking.<br /><br />What I like most is the choice of images used here, as they are hand-picked from the legendary Kobal Collection - a combination of film stills (some familiar, some unusual alternate shots), publicity photos, movie posters and my favorites, on-the-set photos that capture both cast and crew at work and sometimes play. One priceless photo has actors in full make-up playing poker on the set of \\"Planet of the Apes\\". Adding to the enjoyment are Thomson's pithy yet often perceptive captions on the impact of the stars and films highlighted. He organizes the book into the separate decades and provides a small introduction for each section, but it is the comprehensive photo collection that garners the most attention here. Now in a much smaller, more reasonably priced, almost square-shaped form, the paperback version is fun to share and use to reminisce with friends on everyone's favorite films. The only downside is that the print gets miniscule at this size. A treat that should be a mainstay on your coffee table.	2004-08-31
US	52697971	R2AOYBRL41NHB2	0895260174	829131114	Unfit For Command: Swift Boat Veterans Speak Out Against John Kerry	Books	2	15	62	N	N	Memories Not Like Videotape...Playback Seems Edited and Cloudy	One would hope an unjust war viewed 35 years later would resonate with the broader context of what lessons could be applied to a similarly brutal conflict in Iraq. That's why it seems ironic and rather sad that the most recent focus on Vietnam has taken the shape of a \\"Rashomon\\"-style media game where competing factions insist they know the truth and have the right to state it. Certainly the right for authors John O'Neill and Jerome Corsi to state their truth is something we should all cherish regardless of their perspective. But where things go awry in this book is when I realized that I was not going to learn anything from the comprehensive review of the swift boat incident that will have any application to our future...except the didactic message that we should not vote for Kerry based on his purported behavior on March 13, 1969. To be fair, a similar approach was taken on the other side of the spectrum about Douglas Brinkley's earlier book, \\"Tour of Duty: John Kerry and the Vietnam War\\", where there is another single-minded purpose but an equal mix of clouds.<br /><br />Reading this surprisingly concise book made me feel that I was being given a telling condemnation of John Kerry as the next Commander-in-Chief. What proves more revealing, however, is how much the authors push their agenda at the expense of revealing the subject himself. The end result leaves me uneasy because I am not left to draw my own conclusions from the carefully segregated facts they present. The book certainly appears as meticulously reported and carefully documented, complete with eyewitness accounts and hefty annotations. What does seem odd is the timing of this publication and what is not raised but seems equally pertinent - that memories fade and change 35 years after the fact. This would require a level of awareness that the authors seem either incapable of or unwilling to share. There is no doubt that personal memories often harden over time, especially if what circulates in public view runs counter to how you remember events. I do agree that Kerry has some accountability for not addressing this sooner. What happens is that old recollections fade, new mental pictures take over and then a whole new personal history seems to materialize.<br /><br />That's why the book feels like some fraction of the real story and loses credibility from its relentlessly matter-of-fact flow of one arguable testimony after another. The authors identify facts equally, carefully select people who will support their viewpoint and then quote them without providing the larger context of what the war meant to them. It seems rather contrived to find that everyone with damning evidence about Kerry would be available to make such comments without some sense of their own guilt over their participation in the war. It is also a shame that O'Neill has already undermined his credibility by having already exposed his long-standing resentment toward Kerry. Much of his anger has to do with Kerry's subsequent anti-war activities covered in the book's second half. But given the deeper hindsight we have now, Kerry's post-war position illustrates someone who went through a significant crisis in conscience and felt a need for the country to learn from his mistakes. If one chooses to read \\"Unfit for Command\\", then one should read \\"Tour of Duty\\" to balance the two perspectives out there. But frankly the combination would still not make the reader feel enlightened since neither seems entirely credible skewed as they are by the altered realities they both create. Having also read Senator Robert Byrd's \\"Losing America: Confronting a Reckless and Arrogant Presidency\\", I am left with a queasy sense that the American public will fulfill the adage of choosing between the lesser of two evils. Integrity issues abound with both candidates, and the choice is ours as far as whose truth we want to believe.s counter to how you remember events. I do agree that Kerry has some accountability for not addressing this sooner. What happens is that old recollections fade, new mental pictures take over and then a whole new personal history seems to materialize.    That's why the book feels like some fraction of the real story and loses credibility from its relentlessly matter-of-fact flow of one arguable testimony after another. The authors identify facts equally, carefully select people who will support their viewpoint and then quote them without providing the larger context of what the war meant to them. It seems rather contrived to find that everyone with damning evidence about Kerry would be available to make such comments without some sense of their own guilt over their participation in the war. It is also a shame that O'Neill has already undermined his credibility by having already exposed his long-standing resentment toward Kerry. Much of his anger has to do with Kerry's subsequent anti-war activities covered in the book's second half. But given the deeper hindsight we have now, Kerry's post-war position illustrates someone who went through a significant crisis in conscience and felt a need for the country to learn from his mistakes. If one chooses to read \\"Unfit for Command\\", then one should read \\"Tour of Duty\\" to balance the two perspectives out there. But frankly the combination would still not make the reader feel enlightened since neither seems entirely credible skewed as they are by the altered realities they both create. Having also read Senator Robert Byrd's \\"Losing America: Confronting a Reckless and Arrogant Presidency\\", I am left with a queasy sense that the American public will fulfill the adage of choosing between the lesser of two evils. Integrity issues abound with both candidates, and the choice is ours as far as whose truth we want to believe.	2004-08-29
US	52697971	RTFKTFDVLPDQR	0316776963	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Komatsuuuuuuuuuu!...Well Done, David	David Sedaris has a voice like no other. His observations seem random but somehow produce compelling autobiography on its own idiosyncratic terms, even if it isn't a straight-through chronology of his life. This book moves quickly through signposts in his life, as he evolves from an effeminate boy with a lisp...to a guitar-strumming college dropout...to an aimless writing teacher in Chicago...to a self-proclaimed no-talent performance artist...to an American living abroad with his partner Hugh in France. What ties these different stages together is his constant sense of the absurd and an acute ability to include himself in that world, not as an observer but as someone who creates an existence that is simultaneously at odds with yet strangely compatible with the world around him. Sedaris seems as much an eccentric as everyone else in the book, especially compared to his family, even compared to his deliciously wacky sister Amy, but he still stands out as a character without alienating the reader, no mean feat. Sedaris does not use cheap sentiment, and I like how he takes me on his journeys no matter how bumpy.<br /><br />The second half of this book focuses on his adventures settling into the Gallic world, where his boyfriend owns an 18th century house in the French countryside. Sedaris does not take the easy way out by ridiculing the French but hilariously describes the quixotic nature of language barriers. The chapter, \\"Jesus Saves\\", is a great illustration of how he captures the quirkiness that befalls all sorts of international students trying to make sense of the French language on their terms by having everyone explain what Easter is.<br /><br />But I have to say my favorite section is earlier on when he discusses his succession of pets and the sadness he felt when someone brought up \\"euthanasia\\" for his aged cat Neil, in the aptly named chapter, \\"The Youth in Asia\\". Sedaris brings up a cherished memory for me by remembering \\"Fatty and Skinny\\", the Japanese movie that showed up periodically on Saturday mornings with Kukla, Fran and Ollie in the sixties. His vivid recollection of this movie completely embraces me, as his memories match mine completely, especially when Fatty climbs the pole to the cruel taunts of his schoolmates and then cries out his friend's name for forgiveness of his failure, \\"Komatsuuuuuuuuuu!\\". I had the privilege of meeting David Sedaris at a book signing this past summer where I could share this with him, and so in my copy of this book, he signed.... \\"Komatsuuuuuuuuuu!\\" How funny and dear this man is, and what a wonderful read this book  is.p periodically on Saturday mornings with Kukla, Fran and Ollie in the sixties. His vivid recollection of this movie completely embraces me, as his memories match mine completely, especially when Fatty climbs the pole to the cruel taunts of his schoolmates and then cries out his friend's name for forgiveness of his failure, \\"Komatsuuuuuuuuuu!\\". I had the privilege of meeting David Sedaris at a book signing this past summer where I could share this with him, and so in my copy of this book, he signed.... \\"Komatsuuuuuuuuuu!\\" How funny and dear this man is, and what a wonderful read this book  is.	2004-08-28
US	52697971	R387RDX139ZOPC	0316143464	555987354	Dress Your Family in Corduroy and Denim	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Introspective "Fairy Poppins" Still Talking Pretty and Funny	I thought \\"Me Talk Pretty One Day\\" was definitive Sedaris, and I am constantly amazed how he can mine his life with each succeeding book for more nuggets of comic revelation. It's funny how his books remind me of all things, \\"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\\", where Mary succinctly explained to Rhoda once in the midst of preparing for an inevitably bad date that she has spent her whole life trying to avoid humiliation. Obviously she didn't succeed, and neither does Sedaris.  The difference with Sedaris though is that he honestly embraces the way life embarrasses him. For that viewpoint, I am grateful and in certain ways empowered by the 22 brief essays on display here.<br /><br />For sure, Sedaris does not disappoint as he finds more material in his North Carolina childhood, for instance, the TV-less Tomkeys whom Sedaris likes to observe for anthropological reasons since \\"friendship would have taken away their mystery and interfered with the good feeling I got from pitying them\\". In fact, writing about his family is also a way of simultaneously expressing his affection and getting even with them, though he's not quite ready to admit it to himself or to his sister Lisa, who is justifiably worried that everything she says will be fodder for his next book. In the chapter \\"Repeat After Me\\", he debates with a parrot and faces the uncomfortable realities of using his family members' lives for material. Even more bittersweet is \\"Put a Lid On It\\", about a visit to his sister Tiffany, whom unrescued by her family, struggles to get by as an adult after an adolescence spent in reform school.  She's the one who calls him the politically incorrect yet dead-on moniker of \\"Fairy Poppins\\" over the phone to their brother.<br /><br />These remembrances no matter how funny and skewed show Sedaris is getting more introspective and achieving more emotional resonance this time around. In one of my favorite stories, \\"The Ship Shape\\", he wistfully recalls a childhood visit to a summer house that his father had promised to buy but could not. In the most honest way, he clings onto the vivid memory that they were once a happy family. In a seemingly odd non-sequitur called \\"Possession\\", he captures the typical American obsession for prime real estate when he visits Anne Frank's house in Amsterdam in the midst of his own apartment-hunting. He does not memorialize the memory of the Holocaust but rather unapologetically goes on about what a great place she and her family had during the war from a realtor's perspective. It's a risky move, but he pulls it off because he knows we all have inappropriate thoughts during life's most solemn moments.<br /><br />But lest you worry that he is on a self-help bender, the key elements of all his other books are still here - the confusion of childhood and the embarrassments of adolescence, the difficulties of connecting, the sense of being a perpetual outsider, the pervasive biting humor. As his family grows to become mine, and as his adventures produce more than just laughs but an oddly tingling sense of d&eacute;j&agrave; vu, I look forward to what Sedaris will remember next.promised to buy but could not. In the most honest way, he clings onto the vivid memory that they were once a happy family. In a seemingly odd non-sequitur called \\"Possession\\", he captures the typical American obsession for prime real estate when he visits Anne Frank's house in Amsterdam in the midst of his own apartment-hunting. He does not memorialize the memory of the Holocaust but rather unapologetically goes on about what a great place she and her family had during the war from a realtor's perspective. It's a risky move, but he pulls it off because he knows we all have inappropriate thoughts during life's most solemn moments.    But lest you worry that he is on a self-help bender, the key elements of all his other books are still here - the confusion of childhood and the embarrassments of adolescence, the difficulties of connecting, the sense of being a perpetual outsider, the pervasive biting humor. As his family grows to become mine, and as his adventures produce more than just laughs but an oddly tingling sense of dj vu, I look forward to what Sedaris will remember next.	2004-08-28
US	52697971	R1JIYZN2IZR0IZ	0060736682	254771706	Rewriting History	Books	4	41	45	N	N	Flawed Person But a Complete One...Not a Hillary-World Yet	Unlike Christopher Anderson's didactic and misbegotten \\"American Evita\\", political insider-turned-outsider Dick Morris takes a more full-blooded tact in dissecting Hillary Clinton that by the end of the book, represents a more balanced view of her public and at least semi-private selves. I'm sure this incisive portrayal is causing rancor among extremists on both sides, most particularly among those who see her as the only hope for the Democratic Party should Kerry face defeat, Edwards notwithstanding. But by peeling her layer by layer like an onion, Morris effectively approaches his subject as a more complete person than she does herself in \\"Living History\\", which in hindsight, seemed too simplistic a portrait of a woman caught in the course of history and unforeseen personal struggles. Given the comically spliced cover photo on Morris' book, I was fully expecting a complete trashing of her autobiography. Instead, it felt more like an unabridged version of her own book, the warts-and-all version that would have never saw the light of day had her political advisors gotten a hold of a draft.<br /><br />In what Morris views as her intensely focused quest to become President, Hillary Clinton is shaping her own destiny in spite of the highly unusual circumstances that have led to her current success. As we know, she achieved her greatest fame as a professionally emancipated, then personally scorned First Lady. Despite living in the constant shadow of her far more charismatic husband, she was elected U.S. senator for a state with which she had little previous familiarity or interest, having seized a prime opportunity when Rudolph Guiliani's health forced him to drop out. But through her own talent in creating an image of a powerful leader and decision-maker, she has flourished as the next Democratic presidential contender, even though she remains a cipher to us when it comes to her vision and values. She is obviously devoted to the party line and continues to back her husband, but we don't really know her. Judging from this book, we never will. And therein lies the rub that Morris is trying to exacerbate in this book. He exposes an insecure woman who exaggerates and fabricates stories on the national campaign trail, but at the same time, he praises her professional acumen, leadership and organized management skills. The combination of her talents became the ideal complement to her husband during their White House years, and one at least understands why they are so well partnered politically if not personally. Having known the Clintons for over 25 years, Morris has credibility, and he exhibits this throughout by being as upfront about her positive qualities as well as her negative traits.<br /><br />Although by no means a flattering portrait, it is also not a completely unfair one, as Morris makes greater sense of her complexity and ambition and goes further than anyone else, including Hillary Clinton herself, in explaining why she induces such extreme reactions. With sometimes piercing insight, a good sense of humor and a little dime-store psychoanalysis thrown in, Morris actually makes his subject a more fully rounded person and perhaps unintentionally, not necessarily an unfavorable one compared to many of her colleagues. Given the limited truths and skewed perspectives that surround our current presidential candidates in other best sellers, that's probably a good thing for the rest of us to know as we consider our options in the 2008 election.ut we don't really know her. Judging from this book, we never will. And therein lies the rub that Morris is trying to exacerbate in this book. He exposes an insecure woman who exaggerates and fabricates stories on the national campaign trail, but at the same time, he praises her professional acumen, leadership and organized management skills. The combination of her talents became the ideal complement to her husband during their White House years, and one at least understands why they are so well partnered politically if not personally. Having known the Clintons for over 25 years, Morris has credibility, and he exhibits this throughout by being as upfront about her positive qualities as well as her negative traits.    Although by no means a flattering portrait, it is also not a completely unfair one, as Morris makes greater sense of her complexity and ambition and goes further than anyone else, including Hillary Clinton herself, in explaining why she induces such extreme reactions. With sometimes piercing insight, a good sense of humor and a little dime-store psychoanalysis thrown in, Morris actually makes his subject a more fully rounded person and perhaps unintentionally, not necessarily an unfavorable one compared to many of her colleagues. Given the limited truths and skewed perspectives that surround our current presidential candidates in other best sellers, that's probably a good thing for the rest of us to know as we consider our options in the 2008 election.	2004-08-27
US	52697971	R2HAWQD019NZL3	0976062100	176660738	The Great Divide: Retro vs. Metro America	Books	4	82	96	N	N	Marketing 101 for Democrats...But Can They Make It Happen?	I found this book fascinating, familiar and obviously quite biased all at the same time. The Great Divide between the so-called \\"Metro\\" and \\"Retro\\" America is really nothing that new in concept, as national election results have fallen along these boundaries when there was no clear victor, as obviously was the case in the last election. What is particularly interesting is the positioning of this book, which is really about how the Democrats can regain footing as the dominant political party through an adjustment in their marketing strategy. What the five co-authors do is provide an interesting treatise on the importance of branding and targeting your audience, basic marketing principles upon which the Democrats have failed to execute.  I don't disagree.<br /><br />The authors consist of three economists, a political strategist and John Sperling, a multi-millionaire Democrat and founder of the privately held University of Phoenix. They appear to have the credentials to back up their claims, and they certainly present their data with enough easy-to-understand graphics to fill a college textbook. Most of the findings are quite illuminating and well worth discussing in a larger political forum. For instance, in the last decade, Metro America, representing 65% of the population, produced almost 70% of the U.S. gross domestic product annually and paid 71% of the federal taxes. Retro America, on the other hand, received $800 billion more in federal payments than it paid in taxes. This lopsided equation has fed into an economy that is not moving us forward, yet the imbalance has provided the Republicans an opportunity to forge a solid identity upon which they have succeeded in building an effective presidential and congressional majority.  For that, they should be lauded, but Sperling and company sometimes get a bit didactic when it comes to accusing conservative evangelicals and fundamentalists for taking the nation backwards. The tone frankly undermines the important messages the authors are trying to convey about the need to address the needs of both sides of the divide, as well as the critical energy discussion in Chapter 5 that ties us inexorably to the Middle East.<br /><br />As a marketing handbook and economic study, this book provides great value, though I am not certain whether either party can take heart to the recommendations presented by the authors. The Democrats appear emboldened to build national security based on multi-lateralism, substantiate an intact Bill of Rights and provide a clear separation of church and state, since all three appear missing from the current administration. That's why I understand why Sperling and company feel the Democrats have more of an incentive to build a new conceptual framework. But at the same time, there is no denying that thus far, the Republicans have actually proven to be the better marketers. And frankly, the waters have become so muddy between the two parties that only time will tell us who will get us to this new framework. Let the real marketing begin.ssages the authors are trying to convey about the need to address the needs of both sides of the divide, as well as the critical energy discussion in Chapter 5 that ties us inexorably to the Middle East.  <br /> <br />As a marketing handbook and economic study, this book provides great value, though I am not certain whether either party can take heart to the recommendations presented by the authors. The Democrats appear emboldened to build national security based on multi-lateralism, substantiate an intact Bill of Rights and provide a clear separation of church and state, since all three appear missing from the current administration. That's why I understand why Sperling and company feel the Democrats have more of an incentive to build a new conceptual framework. But at the same time, there is no denying that thus far, the Republicans have actually proven to be the better marketers. And frankly, the waters have become so muddy between the two parties that only time will tell us who will get us to this new framework. Let the real marketing begin. <br />	2004-08-26
US	52697971	RHSD0TD48AZ4J	039915258X	346813546	Bushworld	Books	4	15	20	N	N	Dr. Strangebush Or How We Learned to Worry and Hate the War	Above anything else, columnist Maureen Dowd is a political humorist of considerable influence. To view her as anything more (...or less) is a mistake. Consequently, people will either get her and chuckle, or think of her inappropriately as a news reporter incapable of objectivity. The fact that Dowd has covered the Bushes for over 25 years in the Op-Ed page of the New York Times should give her the credentials to publish this book, so regardless of which camp you fall into, people are clearly reading her and paying attention. At first, it seems she is going the fast-buck route here and adding to the voluminous anti-Bush library since she simply consolidated over one hundred of her columns into this tome. But taking a deeper look at these columns and having the experience of reading them sequentially, I can see a broader landscape not necessarily apparent in the individual columns themselves, as Dowd paints a vividly surreal, strangely illogical existence called \\"Bushworld\\".<br /><br />For the most part, the book is hilariously insightful, though at times, she can get self-satisfied with her smugness, especially in her constant attempts to introduce catchphrases (\\"Oedipal loop-de-loop\\", \\"Gorzac\\"). Dowd could probably learn a thing or two from David Sedaris on the subtleties of observational humor. Yet the book turns into an intriguing attempt to illuminate the \\"Freudian tango\\" that exists between father and son, or as she facetiously calls them, Bushes 41 and 43. As told by Dowd, the story makes Arthur Miller's classic drama on father-son conflict \\"All My Sons\\" look like child's play. For those unfamiliar with that play, it is about the consequences of personal choices and the sense of personal responsibility which grows outward from the individual to society. In Dowd's account, it appears we have a wildly improbable variation on this theme, as we have a son who not only won't listen to his father but actually uses his dad as a reverse playbook.  In an unfortunate case of truth being stranger than fiction, the story here takes on a worrisome tone with her portrayal of Bush 43 as a unilateralist surrounded by dangerous ideologues led by Dick Cheney as the purported primary villain. Even though such descriptions would naturally put her in the growing camp of Bush-haters, Dowd does not really come across as didactic in the book. Certainly Clinton and Gore did not escape her poison pen, as she claimed the latter so effeminized that he was on the verge of lactating. She just seems more like a curmudgeon, albeit a clever and funny one, critical of whomever is in charge or at least trying to be in charge. Her tendency toward cynicism is kept in check throughout.<br /><br />I'm sure people are comparing and contrasting her book with Michael Moore's \\"Fahrenheit 9/11\\", as they both have an irreverent tone that can be insinuating to their target audiences.  However, Dowd skips Moore's political grandstanding in favor of letting her observations do the work as they filter through her natural skepticism. Her comments can be priceless, and the book is well worth reading for her jaded yet concerned perspective. To get a complete sense of d&eacute;j&agrave; vu, you should rent Stanley Kubrick's \\"Dr. Strangelove: or How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb\\", a fictitious movie that was originally viewed as over-the-top satire but now after Dowd's book, seems quite true-to-life.ruth being stranger than fiction, the story here takes on a worrisome tone with her portrayal of Bush 43 as a unilateralist surrounded by dangerous ideologues led by Dick Cheney as the purported primary villain. Even though such descriptions would naturally put her in the growing camp of Bush-haters, Dowd does not really come across as didactic in the book. Certainly Clinton and Gore did not escape her poison pen, as she claimed the latter so effeminized that he was on the verge of lactating. She just seems more like a curmudgeon, albeit a clever and funny one, critical of whomever is in charge or at least trying to be in charge. Her tendency toward cynicism is kept in check throughout.    I'm sure people are comparing and contrasting her book with Michael Moore's \\"Fahrenheit 9/11\\", as they both have an irreverent tone that can be insinuating to their target audiences.  However, Dowd skips Moore's political grandstanding in favor of letting her observations do the work as they filter through her natural skepticism. Her comments can be priceless, and the book is well worth reading for her jaded yet concerned perspective. To get a complete sense of dj vu, you should rent Stanley Kubrick's \\"Dr. Strangelove: or How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb\\", a fictitious movie that was originally viewed as over-the-top satire but now after Dowd's book, seems quite true-to-life.	2004-08-24
US	52697971	R39JC75OOE2NTU	1592400876	436381860	Eats, Shoots & Leaves: The Zero Tolerance Approach to Punctuation	Books	4	1	1	N	N	I Feel the Ruler on the Palm of My Hand...Ouch!	I was raised by ruler-swinging, grammar-obsessed schoolteachers on Strunk and White's \\"Elements of Style\\", and at first glance, its 105 well-organized pages seem like a bargain compared to Lynne Truss' (or Truss's, excuse me) twice-as-long book on punctuation. Passionate and unflagging about her topic, the author does have a tendency to pontificate, but at least she is clever about her understandably anal-retentive nature if somewhat uncompromising (as she does warn with her subheading, \\"The Zero Tolerance Approach to Punctuation\\"). This book has to be the oddest mainstay on the bestseller lists since Francesca Johnson swooned over Robert Kincaid in the disguised Harlequin romance, \\"The Bridges of Madison County\\". But at least Truss's book provides value in the little takeaways that will make readers appear more literate in their next e-mail correspondence.<br /><br />This is my backhanded way of saying that this is a delightful little book. I really enjoyed how she delved into the historical roots of many of the punctuation standards (in particular, abused commas, foreboding semicolons and mysterious hyphens) we take for granted today. But for me, what was particularly interesting was her take on the Internet and how it has introduced yet another form of lexicon with \\"emoticons\\". She disapproves of their use, of course, assuming people should be able to use words to express their emotions, yet there is no getting around the fact that they are a convenient shorthand in a real-time medium that demands responses yesterday ;-).  I think if Truss were more tolerant of these Web-based changes, I could more enthusiastically endorse this book. As it stands, it remains a charming book by someone who loves her subject and makes no apology for being stubborn about how we should all punctuate.	2004-08-23
US	52697971	R2HLLO00KYRE3Y	0761104844	280019609	1,000 Places to See Before You Die: A Traveler's Life List	Books	5	5	8	N	Y	Serendipity Is Your Best Travel Guide...But This'll Do!	Author Patricia Schultz is absolutely right - \\"Serendipity really is the best travel guide\\". But for those who need a bit more guidance on where to take their flights of fantasy, this will do in a pinch. I really like the idea behind this book - that we all need to get out of our daily localized existences from time to time to discover how incredible the rest of the world can be. For a theme as large as that, Schultz does a fine job executing upon it - the book is predictably voluminous but well organized with useful indices at the end. The monumental, almost unwieldy scope will bring back childhood memories when you would spin the globe and see where your finger would land just to dream what that place would be like to visit. By no means should this be seen as the end-all travel book since there is generally less than a page for each entry, and the print can get quite miniscule. But it provides a valuable starter to those vacations you are thinking about, especially as she adds brief logistical information including when to go, especially important for many of the event-driven entries she includes here (e.g., Pushkar Camel Fair in India, Kentucky Derby, Day of the Dead in Mexico).<br /><br />There is no way Schultz could please everyone with her choices. I have been fortunate to have visited many of the sights she lists in the book, and of course as a traveler, I wonder why she would leave out equally amazing sights such as Ranakpur and Fatehpur Sikri in India or the Monteverde Cloud Forest in Costa Rica. But one could quibble endlessly on why she highlighted certain places and events and not others.  Personally, I'm excited she has specific entries for Angkor Wat, Cappadocia in Turkey and even Superdawg in Chicago, though the great places to eat would require yet another 1,000 entries if you ask me - perhaps as a sequel? She does cheat a bit by consolidating the various sights in major cities such as Paris and London into top-ten aggregate entries, though oddly, major cities like Tokyo and Bangkok do not get the same treatment. Completely forgivable. This is a book to keep, dog-ear and share with your friends.ies like Tokyo and Bangkok do not get the same treatment. Completely forgivable. This is a book to keep, dog-ear and share with your friends.	2004-08-22
US	52697971	RRHN5PLTAO7SS	0671024787	141692914	Audrey Hepburn, An Elegant Spirit: A Son Remembers	Books	5	23	23	N	Y	A Son Loves His Mother...Who Happens to Be Audrey Hepburn	If there is a polar opposite to Christina Crawford's scathing poor-me memoir, \\"Mommie Dearest\\", it has to be this loving tribute to Audrey Hepburn from her eldest son, Sean Hepburn Ferrer. Rather than being an exhaustive biography on the legendary film star (and enough of those exist anyway), it is more a very attractive coffee table book with remembrances from her colleagues, family friends and most importantly, Ferrer himself. It is a testament to Hepburn that all these books, especially this one, have been nothing less than respectful and at times downright reverential. There is no getting around the fact that she was well loved by those closest around her and certainly by her fans, me included. That she comes across as such a giving person merely validates what we all want to believe about her, and this becomes especially clear in Ferrer's account of her later years making goodwill trips to Bangladesh, Ethiopia and Somalia on behalf of UNICEF. And while as a fan, I was disappointed about her long absences from films from the late sixties until her death in 1993, Ferrer makes it clear how important motherhood was to her and how imperative it was for her to stay at home with her sons during those years. Just from the treasure trove of family photos, this book clearly shows that her dedication to them was and continues to be reciprocated.<br /><br />The perspective of this book is understandably biased but fresh, and obviously Ferrer's access to his mother's personal belongings - family snapshots, paintings and drawings done by her, even her passports - builds an intimate story. I have to admit I was taken aback by the more familiar photos of Hepburn during her Hollywood glory years (especially the glamorous Cecil Beaton pictures) and amazed at how lovely she continued to look in the professional photos taken a year or so before her death. Not surprisingly, the most moving part is Ferrer's account of her final weeks when she took one last flight from California to what looks to be a most idyllic place, her home La Paisible in Switzerland. This should be the final word about her, but that is unlikely as she continues to fascinate. Somewhere Joan Crawford must be eating her heart out.ks to be a most idyllic place, her home La Paisible in Switzerland. This should be the final word about her, but that is unlikely as she continues to fascinate. Somewhere Joan Crawford must be eating her heart out.	2004-08-21
US	52697971	R2KJEXQWXVU6OB	0895260514	783985120	In Defense of Internment: The Case for Racial Profiling in World War II and the War on Terror	Books	1	383	570	N	N	Lack of Courage Feeds Into Narrow-Minded Revisionism	When I finished reading this book, I was aghast for many reasons, amazingly the least of which had to do with her advocacy of limited racial profiling of male Arab-Americans. As a third-generation Japanese-American, I just had to pick up the book once I saw the inflammatory title and side-by-side mug-shots on the cover. As I started reading the book at the store, it started deluding me with cogent, almost matter-of-fact statements. Author Michelle Malkin was compelled to raise a valid debate between national security and civil liberties, but her book is based on a centrally flawed premise - that racial profiling is perfectly acceptable and that limited implementation of such programs is possible and can be quite effective in warding off terrorism. To some degree, I can appreciate her willingness to take on the more politically incorrect position here, and it's good to put the wartime treatment of the Japanese-Americans in perspective. There are certainly enough pages of annotation to make one think she has the evidence to support her convictions.<br /><br />However, Malkin's book is not useful as a history lesson, as it remains ignominiously a polemic that relies on overstatement and an unfiltered chain of arguable findings. Much worse though, she exhibits neither the courage nor integrity necessary to address the controversy of this book. Malkin makes it clear that she supports \\"narrowly-tailored and eminently reasonable profiling measures\\". So why does she take the onerous burden of defending the wholesale eviction and detention of an entire ethnic group from the West Coast during World War II? If the paranoia raised by the Magic intercepts is the basis of her rationale, how reasonable would it be to try segregating suspects from an ethnic group through her recommended profiling measures now? If as Malkin states repeatedly, Japanese-American internment was justified, then she would have far more credibility if she supported the wholesale internment of Arab-Americans now. Instead she weakens her own argument for fear of facing a greater scope of rage. Too bad she is incapable of being consistent on the one pervasive point of the book.<br /><br />Malkin's perspective seems eminently logical but with no sense of historical lessons learned. By identifying facts equally, by carefully selecting statistics that lack a larger context, she manipulates the readers by tapping into their greatest fears of the next terrorist attack and mobilizing the government to take steps too simplistic for such a complex problem. What Malkin fails to acknowledge is that terrorists come in all colors. There would be no end to the type of persecution she advocates. The disturbing core of this book is that Malkin makes a series of findings however arbitrary look as if it poses for historical truth. Malkin claims to set the record straight, when in reality, she is distorting selected facts to fit her political position. The same can be said for Michael Moore, but at least Moore advocates using the democratic process to rid us of the current administration. Pushing one's agenda would be fine if one can discern a viable course of action to address the wrongs he or she highlights.  Instead, her impossible recommendation shows she is not interested in developing a realistic solution but racist paranoia, the same that led to the original decision for the internment camps. I'm sure many - including Malkin - will discount my opinion because I am Japanese-American and apparently incapable of reading this book with objectivity.  She just proves the adage that those who don't learn from history are doomed to repeat it. Sadly she expects us to spend twenty bucks to validate her ignorance. No thanks...I returned the book and instead bought Senator Robert Byrd's \\"Losing America\\", so I could read an author who at least has the courage of his convictions.Instead she weakens her own argument for fear of facing a greater scope of rage. Too bad she is incapable of being consistent on the one pervasive point of the book.    Malkin's perspective seems eminently logical but with no sense of historical lessons learned. By identifying facts equally, by carefully selecting statistics that lack a larger context, she manipulates the readers by tapping into their greatest fears of the next terrorist attack and mobilizing the government to take steps too simplistic for such a complex problem. What Malkin fails to acknowledge is that terrorists come in all colors. There would be no end to the type of persecution she advocates. The disturbing core of this book is that Malkin makes a series of findings however arbitrary look as if it poses for historical truth. Malkin claims to set the record straight, when in reality, she is distorting selected facts to fit her political position. The same can be said for Michael Moore, but at least Moore advocates using the democratic process to rid us of the current administration. Pushing one's agenda would be fine if one can discern a viable course of action to address the wrongs he or she highlights.  Instead, her impossible recommendation shows she is not interested in developing a realistic solution but racist paranoia, the same that led to the original decision for the internment camps. I'm sure many - including Malkin - will discount my opinion because I am Japanese-American and apparently incapable of reading this book with objectivity.  She just proves the adage that those who don't learn from history are doomed to repeat it. Sadly she expects us to spend twenty bucks to validate her ignorance. No thanks...I returned the book and instead bought Senator Robert Byrd's \\"Losing America\\", so I could read an author who at least has the courage of his convictions.	2004-08-21
US	52697971	R3NDD3TYGF4QXM	0393059421	844050142	Losing America: Confronting a Reckless and Arrogant Presidency	Books	5	41	46	N	N	Giving Bush the "Byrd" With Fire and Greater Purpose	Senator Robert Byrd (D-West Virginia) certainly gives new meaning to the expression, \\"giving the Byrd (sic)\\", but this is not a simple diatribe leveled against the current administration. His book is filled with biting truths interlaced with frequently bombastic political rhetoric. At the heart of all this is Byrd's cogent and substantiated argument that President Bush has severely abused the separation of powers and damaged our nation's founding concept of checks and balances, as documented by the U.S. Constitution. And unlike many outside observers, most prominently Michael Moore, who has positioned his documentary \\"Fahrenheit 9/11\\" along similar lines, Byrd has the insider's knowledge, the clout of credibility and certainly the sizable ego of a man who has been able to survive 45 years in the U.S. Senate. He is a man intent on doing us a public service, and on that basis alone, he succeeds admirably.<br /><br />Much has been made of Byrd's association with the Ku Klux Klan in the forties and his support of the Vietnam War in the sixties, but here is an unapologetic man who stands by the truths of the Constitution. Another difference from \\"Fahrenheit 9/11\\" - Moore often uses humor and irony to get his points across, but Byrd is a man enraged, plain and simple, as he points out with great clarity the arrogance of the Bush administration in disregarding the public's opinion. Interestingly though not surprisingly, he was considered too inflammatory even to be a speaker at last month's Democratic National Convention. But out of fear lies his truth, and it would be difficult to invalidate his position - that we bring back the Constitution as the only proper guide to running our government.<br /><br />At times, Byrd's enthusiastic prose can overwhelm his extensive historical perspective, and he goes at length to support his arguments without being that much more enlightening. However, within the greater context of his points, this can be forgiven. As evidenced by the eight speeches that conclude the book, he is a fiery, \\"old school\\" speaker filling his speeches with relevant quotes in history dating back to ancient Rome. A simpler, more straightforward political treatise could have been written, but certainly not by Byrd. And perhaps such an objective piece could have gone further in reconciling the various factions at odds over this book, but I doubt it. Senator Byrd's passion is exactly what we need to remind us of our right to free speech and our privilege in expressing our individual feelings about the way our government is currently run. This is one case where conciliatory discussion is pointless. This book is essential reading.t conclude the book, he is a fiery, \\"old school\\" speaker filling his speeches with relevant quotes in history dating back to ancient Rome. A simpler, more straightforward political treatise could have been written, but certainly not by Byrd. And perhaps such an objective piece could have gone further in reconciling the various factions at odds over this book, but I doubt it. Senator Byrd's passion is exactly what we need to remind us of our right to free speech and our privilege in expressing our individual feelings about the way our government is currently run. This is one case where conciliatory discussion is pointless. This book is essential reading.	2004-08-21
US	52697971	R2MWGQ9JANJAU0	0385722206	749687762	Balzac and the Little Chinese Seamstress: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A More Intimate and Less Incisive "Fahrenheit 451" in China	This is an enchanting though serious-minded little book that actually has a lot in common with Ray Bradbury's classic \\"Fahrenheit 451\\", especially since both stories revolve around a totalitarian society that has sealed itself off from literature and how someone recognizes the oppression and dares to break free from it.  This novella tells the story of two city teenage boys exiled to a remote mountain village for re-education during China's Cultural Revolution of the sixties. There the two friends meet the daughter of the local tailor and discover a hidden treasure trove of classic Western literature in Chinese translation. This proves fortuitous to them as they venture into worlds they never imagined.<br /><br />What I liked most about this book is how author Dai Sijie conveys the rapture of losing oneself in the words and stories found in these books while the characters lead desperate lives in a dreary setting. Under the author's light narrative touch (which was translated from French), the reader is left with the conviction that the mind and soul matter - that trying to control them by banning books and restricting education is wrong and intolerable. The book offers a good yet intimate picture of China during the Cultural Revolution -- the outrages, the petty humiliations, and the incredible poverty in the Chinese countryside. At the same time, the story moves too quickly given the scope of the theme. The net result is that Sijie does not dig deep enough into his main characters, thus making the lack of closure at the end less than satisfying though inevitable. Regardless of the shortfall in its pacing, this book is a fine little read and highly recommended.	2004-08-20
US	52697971	R2ITKUJRARWZYM	0385512104	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time: A Novel (Alex Awards (Awards))	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Creative Detective Story Turns Into a Different Journey	I have to admit I picked up this book because I was drawn to the bright red cover with the cutout of the upside-down dog (as well as the glowing staff recommendation that came with it). What I didn't know was that very reaction would foreshadow the book's very original story since the main character believes that red is a good color. I didn't expect this story to be so humorous and haunting at the same time, but author Mark Haddon in his first novel strikes a fine balance between the two throughout.<br /><br />\\"The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time\\" is ostensibly a detective story but with quite a twist in having an autistic 15-year old named Christopher as the protagonist. He is incapable of lying or understanding metaphors or telling or appreciating jokes, i.e., he seems at first to be a younger \\"Mr. Spock\\" without the pointy ears. Everything registers in his mind as the same, and since he has no filters to eliminate the inane or insignificant, it becomes hugely challenging for him to deal with too many things at once. So when Christopher discovers his neighbor's poodle dead, skewered on a pitchfork, he sets out to solve the mystery and write an account of his investigation. In doing so, he inadvertently stumbles upon the emotionally complicated secrets of his parents and their neighbors, and the story becomes something much more.<br /><br />But rather than giving us a Hardy Boys take on \\"Rain Man\\", Haddon actually plays out his story like an updated version of \\"Catcher in the Rye\\", as it becomes Christopher's search for his identity through his long-forgotten mother. This part of the journey, which takes him to the wilds of London, puts him into such sensory overload that the adventure becomes harrowing for someone who cannot handle change logically in his mind. The book makes for a fascinating and entertaining read, as Haddon plays with the concept of empathy, not only in Christopher's limited ability to empathize but also in our ability to empathize with him.  An audacious and creative book.udacious and creative book.	2004-08-19
