US	52693037	R1YTLO2A8GJQQI	0595300170	622611935	Who Mourns for Majik: Book One of the Memoirs Trilogy	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Far Future Noir!	Wow! that is word I felt after reading this rollercoaster of a ride book! Norling has written a cinematic style far future sf thriller that can best be describe as as SF version of the fugitive mixing up a murder mystery and a group of characters similar to the Xmen!.Set in 37th century where after centuries ago a deadly virus almost wipeout the human race on Earth and produces people of supernatural powers called prenaturals.The prenaturals are Earth's first line of defense against it's alien adversaries.One of these prenatural is Terran Defense Directorate Cap Daniel Briggs who is now framed for the brutal murder of his exwife.Briggs must now find her killers in Boomtowm which is old New York and dodge his colleagues, bounty hunters and a psychotic shapshifter assasin by the name of Jolly Rogers!He is aid by good friend Brent Forester, private eye Emma Lemieux and the powerful Aiha Sinclair a half alien prenatural with supernatural powers!Norling's debut novel has it all: a flawed but resourceful hero who must clear his name of murder and discovers that the murder is first step in a sinister alien invasion plot against  humanity!The novel has it all: brutal scenes of hand to hand combat and laser gun battles and occasional vicious murder.Plot twists as you watch Briggs and his friends unearth corruption and treason in the highest branches of Terran Government. Norling's vision of 37th century New York called Boomtown almost becomes a character itself in his description of corruption, organized crime. Norling's villians such as Jolly Rogers, a sadistic shapeshifting psychopath with a mother fixation was quite chilling in it's intensity.If ever there was a Sf Novel just waiting for the silver screen this is it!	2004-12-15
US	52693037	RLDG2WQPJKQN2	0441012159	898196045	The Nimble Man: The Menagerie #1	Books	5	6	10	N	N	A Cinematic-style Ride You will Never Forget	Wow! what a ride! Golden has outdone himself with this incredible cinematic style dark fantasy adventure depicting a group of unforgettable heroes who's job is to protect the world against dark forces of evil.Lead by the amazing Sir Arthur Conan doyle, a famous sorcerer.Ceridwen, powerful fey princess and Doyle's exlover.Dr. Leonard Graves, a ghost of a famous adventurer, Eve, the sexy and deadly mother of all vampires who seek redemption for centuries of evil and Clay-a powerful and immortal shapeshifter.They and Squire, <br />Doyle's hilarious and sharp-tongue hobgoblin manservant must combine all of their formidable powers to battle Morrigan-Ceridwen's evil fey aunt who seeks to resurrect a ancient terror:the Nimble Man, which is a terrifying and insane fallen angel! Golden pulls all of the stops in this gripping adventure and breathtaking in scope as our heroes must battle Morrigan's army of Corca-Duibhne, night people and other monsters  <br />and menaces straight from celtic mythology and  hordes of decaying zombies!!Another I love about this book is that resembles in style the movies: hellboy and League of Extraordinary gentleman and the witty dialogue between Squire and Eve is hysterical! I only hope  this will be only a first in Doyle and his league of heroes adventures because this one was a classic!	2004-10-08
US	52693037	RXCUN594DD8GM	0345440676	549569088	The Charnel Prince (The Kingdoms of Thorn and Bone, Book 2)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Impressive epic! even better than the first book!	Kudos for Keyes in writing this sequel to last year suprised hit: <br />Briar King. Keyes returns us to his war-torn land of Crotheny where the Queen Muriele still mourns for her murdered family and must protect the crown for her half-witted son charles.She must send her loyal protector, Sir Neil to find out if her daughter, Anne Dare is still alive.Anne Dare and her devoted servant/friend Austra must flee assasins who seek their death with the aid of bumbling but ultra brave Cazio.Aspar with the aid of Winna and Stephen are sent by the power-hungry churchman, Praifec Hespero to kill the briar king who has turned villagers into bloodthirsty cannibals!Keyes's novel has all the ingredients to become a fantasy classic in the same leagues as Martin's Song of Ice and Fire. You will watch his ingenious plot twists set in this world where prophecy, folklore and deception are the norm and characters and their motivates are nothing as what they seem to be! Charnel Prince's also boasts some sinister villians like some fanatic priests who seek resurrects some ancient evil with the help of undead knights and some human sacrifices.Queen Muriele must watch her back as she is plagued by intrigue and murder in her kingdom and she will come face to face with her husband's killer and shocking connection she has with him!Keye's world-building skills are becoming more evident in each page of this novel and his lyrical prose heightens the tense and battle scenes between our heroes and dark forces are gripping in their intensity.Keyes also gives some shivers with his thrills with band of villiagers who developed a taste of human flesh and a sea monster who lures his victims like a siren to their doom!I look forward to the next novel in this sage because this book is the one to beat for best fantasy of 2004!	2004-09-13
US	52693037	R2W8QYU44HOUZM	0446528722	968422356	Horizon Storms: The Saga of Seven Suns - Book #3	Books	5	7	12	N	N	Space operas don't get better than this!	Anderson is on a role in his splendid space opera saga:Saga of the seven Suns. He returns us to his war-torn 25th century universe where human race is battling against the ancient race of Hydrogues. <br />the novel is seen through the eyes again with it's cast of memorable characters both human, alien and robotic.You will watch as King peter  must try to defy and yet survive the machinations of the utterly ruthless Hansa chairman, Basil Wenceslas who secrets controls the terran empire and who seeks to bring the Roamers and green-priests of Theron under his heel and who will resort to anything to gain this including declaring war upon them! The newly crowned Mage-Imperator Jora'H must keep his empire together as he unravels the dark secrets of his realm and not knowing that his insane brother seeks to overthrow him and who willing to start a civil war to do it.Cesca Peroni, the leader of the roamer people struggles to keep her people free from the grasp of the terran empire  while finding ways to battle the Hydrogues.She will also learn that her first love, Jess Tamblyn long thought dead is alive and who has given up his humanity to become allies with a alien race who might hold the key in winning the war. Tasia Tamblyn's the brave roamer woman who joins the terran army and becomes a war hero only to see that even war heroes are not to be trusted and her loyality to the cause will be questioned!You will be shocked at the evil Klikiss robots who have allies with the hydrogues and who seek to eradicate the human race!One thing I loved about this book is that some favorable characters who I thought have perished have survived and Anderson's universe-crafting skills are wonderful as ever as he describes political intrigues on two galactic empires and a terrible war that threatens them both!Bring on book next book quick! :)	2004-09-13
US	52693037	RUZBMLYE3OJ2	0743470966	650971910	Riverwatch	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Ravenous Evil!	I loved this book! Nassise has written one of the most viscerally terrifying and brutal horror novels in recent memory about a small town which finds itself terrorized by ancient, ravenous evil that preys upon it's citizens in the dead of night. Jake Caruso and his construction firm find a hidden tunnel and stone chamber and they mistakenly unawakened Moloch, a ancient winged creature with taste for human flesh and blood and thirst for terror.Moloch's is not mindless monster but intelligent evil that enjoys killing his victims and considers human race as cattle for slaughter!<BR>This creature was the last of his kind and it was imprisoned centuries ago by being called Elder;now it's loose and all of the citizens of the sleepy town of Harrington Falls will face the wraith of this monster as it slaughters and devours all of it's victims and savors their terror and pain! the only ones that can stop it are:Jake Caruso and his friends Sam and Katelynn who has a psychic link to the beast!Nassise's debut horror novel puts him in the leagues with King, Little,Koontz and Clegg as he describes in relish the horrifying <BR>carnage that this monster does to it's victims.This novel is not for faint of heart or weak of stomach! If ever a book screams for the silver screen this chiller does as Our heroes battle to death a ancient hideous evil that leads to sad but truimpant climax!	2003-11-11
US	52693037	R11J6H1PSPHRP0	0765307359	158972074	Gridlinked (Ian Cormac, Book 1)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Intense Cross between Buck Rodgers and 007!	I loved this book! Gridlinked was a super read set in a high-tech 25th century universe where interstellar travel is done instantly through runcibles-matter transmitters control by A.I.<BR>Ian Cormac-our hero who can best be described 25th century James Bond who is burned out from years of being linked to his AI in missions. Cormac lastest mission he must find the cause of destruction of runcibles which resulted in death of thousands of people. Cormac's got two problems in this case: one is mysterious and possible deadly alien construct called the Dragon who has something to do with the runcible tragedy and the other is brutal psychopathic interstellar terrorist by the name of Arian Pelter who is after Cormac for killing his sister in his last mission! Pelter is aided by terrifying  and nearly unstoppable android called Mr. Crane!Gridlinked is awesome space opera that combines hard science with james bondian action sequences between humans, cyborgs and assasins!Asher's  world-building skills are wonderful! his Heroes and villians are three-dimensional.I look forward to Asher's next book!	2003-10-12
US	52693037	RMB1YE5RFOXB6	0553803344	788454801	Lord of Snow and Shadows (Tears of Artamon, Book 1)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Atmospheric Masterpiece! I love this book!	I was in awe of the story-telling ability of Sarah Ash! She has transported me to a icy realm of intrigue, war dark passion and even darker magic! Set in a land that bares a eerie resemblance to 19th century Czarist Russia. She tells the epic tale of reluctant hero, Gavril Andar a young and poor painter who finds himself the ruler of a distant and barbaric Land of Azhkendir,after the murder of his father!Gavril also discovers his terrible legacy:a curse/blessing where he blood of dragon-warrior known as Drakhaoul which gives him supernatural powers of a dragon but also give him lust for human blood as well!Gavril<BR>will need these powers as he must avenge his father's murder and <BR>stop the possible invasion of his land by the power-hungry<BR>Prince Eugene of Tielen! Ash's epic novel of fantasy is stark departure from most fantasies written today. Her world is more like 19th century Eastern europe than Medieval era.Where armies do not fight with knights but with gunpower.I also love the sinister atmosphere of this world and her use of eastern european legends with the aspect of vampirism and combines it high fantasy of dragons was brilliant.Her characters come alive in this book:reluctant ruler Gavril who must battle enemies who seek to him and his country harm and his own lust for blood and death!Kiukiu-young servant girl who has power to communicate with spirits and who becomes Gavril's ally.Jaromir-blood enemy to Gavril's family and Gavril's unexpected friend as well and  Elysia-Gavril's mother who seeks to save her son only to become a pawn of political intrigue among the ruling nations! I can't wait to read the sequel of this book!	2003-10-08
US	52693037	R3KPK8CCDSMW8K	0446528714	603165414	A Forest of Stars: The Saga of Seven Suns Book 2	Books	5	1	1	N	N	a truly spectacular space opera!	once again Kevin anderson has astonished me with his storytelling ability in his second novel in his epic Saga of the seven suns. This novel is sequel to  Hidden empire in which 25th century mankind  unknowlingly started a terrible interstellar war with a ancient and advance race called the Hydrogues. This terrible war in seen through the eyes of some memorable characters both human and alien and across the expand of space.King Peter-the young monarch of Earth who in a deadly power struggle with the ruthless Basil Wenceslas, chairman of Hanseactic Terran league who rulers the human empire behind the scenes and uses King Peter as his puppet. Tasia Tamblyn-the roamer woman who joins the terran army to vengeance against the hydrogues and who sees the Hanseactic league brutal treatment of it's colonies. Prime Designate Jora\\"h the soon to be Mage-Imperator of IIdiran empire.Jess Tamblyn-the roamer businessman who will make a incredible first-contact with a alien race that might help the humans in their tragic war against the hydrogues.<BR>Nira-the girl from Theroc who is enslaved by the IIdirians in their sinister breeding program!<BR>Anderson's world-building skills are incredible once again as he takes you worlds like the green planet Theroc where world-trees communicate beyond the vastness of space and IIdiran empire where shocking secrets threaten this alien realm and it's leaders will take terrible steps insuring the survivial of their empire! Anderson's plot twists are wonderful as you watch the machinations of it's villians such as Klikiss robots who aid earth in their war but secretly plot to destroy the human race and the battle scenes in this book are sweeping in their intensity as you see the cause of lives.Now my own drawback is waiting another year for the next book in this powerful series!	2003-08-09
US	52693037	R1X31KCJRIKXEH	0843952180	453244711	Darkfall	Books	5	10	13	N	N	The Stuff of Nightmares!	the title of this review pretty much sums up what I thought of this terrifying horror book I just finished reading. Darkfall was recommended by my friend Jim Lay who's good expert on horror fiction.Laws has put himself in the league of King,Little, and Straub in this novel about strange phenomenon called Darkfall which begins with a massive storm with lightning at a high-rise building in England where some of the employees are having a christmas party and they all disappear!What the police, led by Inspector Cardiff start to investigate this incident find out is that all of people are still in the building but are absorbed into the walls! Darkfall is one of the most vicerally frightening books I've read because what happenes to the people who are victims of the darkfall will chill your blood as some of them come back as insane or  hideous monsters!<BR>Plot twists are great in this book as Cardiff and Jimmy devlin, a young thief and mysterious government scientists try to solve and survive the horrifying onslaught which is darkfall as madness, monsters and gruesome death or worst figure in this book.There are unforgettable scenes of terror in this book as you read in eager anticipation what new horrors that the darkfall will reveal to us! As far as I'm concern this book is a new horror classic that you will remember anytime you hear the thunder rumble!	2003-06-18
US	52693037	R2580KA7C88HYM	189238924X	746162353	Gods in Darkness: The Complete Novels of Kane	Books	5	26	27	N	N	dark fantasy at it's finest!	Gods in darkness is stunning dark fantasy  containing three novels about unforgettable anti-hero named Kane.Kane is cursed to wander the world immoral until he is destroyed by the violence that he himself has created!the first book:Bloodstone, Kane has found a ring that part of ancient alien empire that will give him incredible power which he will use for conquest not knowing that he himself is being used by the Ring's sinsister masters in the bid to enslaving the planet! This story itself has  terrifying scenes of monsters, magic and battles as Kane uses his army of froglike beasts in pursue of his goal!<BR>Second Book: Dark Crusade finds Kane joining forces with fanatical cult leader who seeks to conquer kingdom with the use of dark magic and finally in Darkness Weaves: Kane aids a depraved and hideous sorecress who wants to reclaim her empire<BR>by using a ancient race of aquatic demons and their advance technology! This book is brilliant marriage of horror of Lovecraft with violent swashbuckling of Robert Howard. Wagner's world-building skills are awesome and lyrical prose which heigtens the atmosphere of his dark world!Wagner's descriptions of gruesome and bloody battle scenes and intrigue and betrayal will have you  turning pages all through the night! You may not like Kane, who acts more of a villian than hero but you can't stop reading about him and his dark adventures as his hunger for power almost consumes him and his world!	2003-04-23
US	52693037	RT07QO9O7IRQB	0345457684	556713066	Altered Carbon (Takeshi Kovacs)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	In the Future Death is only a memory!	Richard Morgan got a hit on his hands with this stunning sf noir thriller set in the 25th century where real death is only a memory to a select few!Technology exists in this future society where a person's consciouness can be stored in a cortical stack and download into another body(sleeve). Ex Un envoy Takeshi Kovacs is killed in a firefight with the authorities and he finds himself in another body on Earth in Bay City which use to be San Francisco. He is hired or threatened by the rich Laurens Bancroft to find out who had him to kill himself! Morgan's sf thriller has it all: scenes of brutal violence as Kovacs uncovers a rather sinister conspiracy that will rock this future society to it's core. Morgan's vision of the future where human life is bought and sold and where death loses it's sting to select few who can afford it.Another thing I love about this novel is wonderful characters both good and evil who inhabit this world: Takeshi Kovacs-a man who finds his conscience as he battles his corrupt enemies. Kristin Ortega-the cop who has ties to Kovacs that makes her distrust him at first. Laurens Bancroft-<BR>centuries year old man who's hires Kovacs to find out who tried to kill him. Miriam Bancroft-Laurens wife who has some dark secrets of her own as she tries to seduce and stop Kovacs.I love the gritty feel of this book with it's scenes of future eroticism<BR>and gory violence and it's theme of in the future technology changes but human nature doesn't!Greed and betrayal figure in this advance world. I can't wait to read the next Kovacs novel!	2003-04-07
US	52693037	R9AZ9DGVE6K7H	0345440668	994608113	The Briar King (Kingdoms of Thorn and Bone, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Briar King Rules!	2003 is getting to a good start if this novel is example of what's coming out this year! Keyes has launched himself into the big leagues of epic fantasy authors with this book! He takes us to the kingdom of Crotheny where evil forces both natural and supernatural will threaten this empire and royal family. The events are seen through the eyes of some unforgettable characters: Aspar White-the King's holter who investigates some brutal murders and who uncovers a terrifying threat, the awakening of ancient beast called greffyn who leaves a trail of death and destruction. Stephen Darrige, a young monk who finds a sinister plot against the crown festering in his monastery. Neil MeqVren-a young knight who protects the queen against a assasination plot! and last but not least is Anne Dare-the young headstrong princess who will find out that she might be savior of her world! Keyes's world-building skills are incredible as he takes us step by step into the land of Crotheny that will be threatened by war from it's neighbors and lethal intrigue at home!Keyes's atmospheric prose will remind you of Martin's saga as he describes the menaces of Briar King, who's arrival signifies evil forces are afoot on the land and utterly terrifying greffyn and Keyes also is no slouth in action catergory as this novel has plenty of swordfights, daring escapes and and brutal battle scenes.This novel bodes well for future installments of this epic series!	2003-03-01
US	52693037	R1DSDZYXDF998X	0671024825	223617005	Wither's Rain : A Wendy Ward Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Wendy Vs. Wither part 2!	Passerella has done it again with this utterly gripping and sometimes gruesome horror novel pitting  Wendy Ward, the college student and struggling white witch against the ancient evil called Wither! Wendy thought the terror was over when she destroyed the Wither in the first book only to find that true evil never dies and Wither's evil spirit has now taken up resident in body of a immoral young woman named Gina Thorne and now wants revenge against Wendy and her family and friends! Passerella's chilling sequel to his hit Wither has all of the ingredients:<BR>a brave young heroine who must rise to occassion to save her life and the lives of all the people she cares for against a <BR>unspeakable evil. This novel also boast scenes of Gina under the guidance of Wither capacity of evil as she targets her family for death and she corrupts her boyfriend. Other characters  shine in this book such as young abby, the nine year old girl who<BR>shapeshifts into a wolf thanks to the powers of the witch coven and the crone,  invisible spirit that guides Wendy in her uses of magic and warns her of the dangers poses by Wither.<BR>This novel also has a very memorable climax as Wendy has a fight through the death(through magic) between herself and Wither. Please bring us another Wendy ward book!	2003-02-11
US	52693037	R3CG30QY5JF7DZ	0765301571	936885917	The Butlerian Jihad (Legends of Dune #1)	Books	5	2	8	N	N	Best SF novel of 2002!	once again the writing team of Kevin Anderson and Brian Herbert have brought Frank Herbert's epic vision of the distant future alive in Dune:Butlerian Jihad!the authors have taken us thousands of years in the past of the dune universe to tell us one of the most enduring legends in the saga: the war against the machines!this epic space opera is about how the humans battled the genocidal machines! You will see this horrible galactic war through the eyes of some unforgettable characters!<BR>Serena Butler-this novel's heroine who's uses her tragic grief<BR>to fuel a holy war a jihad against the evil machines!Xavier Harkonnen-Serena's lover and supreme commander of his planet, Salusa Secundus. Believe it or not a heroic Harkonnen! Vorian Atreides- the human son of the evil cymek titan Agamemnon. Erasmus-the sadistic robot scientist who seeks to understand all humans who's cruel deed against Serena will fuel of her holy war!<BR>Tito Holtzman-the brilliant scientist who struggles to find a weapon to defeat the machines.Norman Cenva- the daughter of powerful sorceress, Zufa who lacks her mother's telepathic powers but makes up for it with her brilliant mathmatical mind!Selim-the young exile on Arrakis who binds himself to the sandworms.Iblis Ginjo- human slave leader on earth who starts a revolt against their brutal machine masters. The authors's world building skills are incredible. The battle scenes in this book are outstanding as the authors describe in great relish battles scenes in space and on planets!One of the things I love about this book is the theme of indominable human spirit against the face of slavery and genocide! Pick up this book and watch the battle between the humans and evil machine masters for fate of the universe!	2003-01-10
US	52693037	R3HNJFTIPJUH5Q	0670894710	1013337	Bitten (Otherworld)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Hungry Like the Wolf!	I loved this book! Kelley armstrong's debut novel was one sexy and gripping supernatural thriller! Elena Michaels is a successful and beautiful young woman who has one very dark secret.She is a werewolf! She is summoned back to the home by her pack leader to help them battle some nonpack werewolves, mutts who are turning human killers to vicious werewolves and who are framing the pack for their crimes!One of the things I love about this book is the heroine, Elena is a the only female werewolf in existence who was turned into one by her lover, Clay who torn between the desire for him and the love of her human lover Phillip who is her link ot the human side of her. Bitten has all of the things a good modern gothic horror should have:<BR>brutal violence, steamy sex and lots of suspense.Fans of Anita Blake series and Anne Rice should take note  of Armstrong's storytelling ability as she takes us into her world of werewolves! Once you enter this book be prepare for some great entertainment!	2003-01-03
US	52693037	R2P7D1GQA1IE5X	0595095321	427255276	The Song of the Sword (Swordsong)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Wondrous Song!	The best of epic fantasies are the ones that when the last page is turned you are begging for more! That was opinion I got after reading this wondrous piece of the imagination. Kenneth Harding has written a bold epic fantasy that resembles but doesn't ripoff Tolkein's masterpiece,Lord of the Rings. He takes us to world he calls the Middle-lands and introduces us to heroes who will risk life and limb to save it from a hideous ancient evil! The story begins when a young man named Daerufin leaves his homeland to find out what has befell his father who went to see his friend King Tocken of Netherwess and Daerufin will find more than he bargains for because he will find a powerful sword and <BR>release a wizard who was imprisoned countless centuries ago by a evil sorceress.The wizard,Grithstane and Daerufin will free Tocken's daughter, Davidea and destroy the evil mage Saenin who has murdered both of their fathers and this is just in the first part of the book! The other part is where the story really begins two years later as now King Daerufin, Grithstane and Davidea must now rally the kings of the world: both human, elven and dwarf so they can marshall their forces to seek the one who will wield that powerful sword against the evil sorceress Syran and her army of demons and monsters! Harding's world-building skills show on every page of this book and his novel also has scenes of lyrical beauty of this world and his description of evil and terror are heightened by his prose!the characters come alive like Daerufin a young man who finds himself king of a country and one of the leaders in awesome war against forces of darkness and evil! Frockle-the Pixie who finds himself the savior of his world and wielder of a incredible weapon. Bion-the brave dwarf and protector of Frockle.When you start this novel be prepare to enter a world of awesome beauty, stirring deeds and  terrifyhing evil such as: monstrous sea serpents, ghostly wraiths and of course armies of blood-thirsty demons, trolls, throgs and other nasties! A epic adventure you will never forget<BR>that will stir the blood and warm the heart!	2002-12-04
US	52693037	R1J54BMO436EEH	0786015012	610152600	The Invoker (Lawson Vampire Novels)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Merz isn't a one-shot wonder! this book was great!	Jon Merz has lived up to the promise he showed in his very entertaining debut novel:the Fixer. Our hero, Lawson aka the fixer returns in another dark adventure pitting himself once again against some power-hungry vampires!Lawson is duped into  killing a innocent vampire accused of drug dealing and finds himself protecting the dead man's son.A boy who is invoker, a being who can control spirits of the dead! the  boy, Jack  is targeted  by  evil vampire council member Arvella and her renegade fixer Petrov to open a link to the spirit world in their bid for world domination!He is aided by elder vampire Wirek. Lawson's adventure will take him from Boston to cold reaches of himalayas mountains! this novel is action-packed ride<BR>with brutal scenes of hand to hand combat, narrow escapes and pursuits. Merz is fashioning his heroic vampire as nosferatu version of james Bond and this novel's conclusion is a almost a witty nod to the ending to Goldfinger as Lawson life or death against his enemy, Petrov on plane! Bring on Lawson's next adventure!	2002-10-25
US	52693037	R3A6WPAKQ2WQE6	0345448928	785575065	The Fifth Sorceress (Chronicles of Blood and Stone, Book 1)	Books	5	0	14	N	N	Truly Intense Fantasy Classic!	after reading all the negative reviews of this incredible book I must say I thought I might had read a different novel.Ok enough with that let me start my review. Robert Newcomb has fashioned a incredible fantasy epic with intensity so powerful I almost felt I was there.He tells the story of the land of Eustracia, a country that was focuspoint of a terrible sorcerous war between wizards and group of hideously evil sorceresses who plotted to enslaved the land three centuries ago and who were defeated and banished to beyond the seas.This novel also is the story of the reluctant monarch to be, Tristan who will soon become king of this land and who like his twin sister Shailiha<BR>had magical endowed blood which will make them and particular Tristan powerful in the use of magic.Tristan will need all this and his warrior skills to defeat the sorceresses who after three centuries have hatched a diabolical plot to seize control of Eustracia and kidnap Shailiha and use her in a spell to remake the world in the own terrible image! Newcomb's epic fantasy novel has all of the trimmings to make this a classic:  awesome world-building as his world comes alive with all of it's beauty, terror, magic and wonder.Powerful scenes of battles as you will watch in horror as the sorceresses's brutal army of wingmen called Minions lay seige upon Eustracia lead by the sadist Kluge who Tristan will vow to kill and finally stirring battle between Tristan and Kluge!Characters  come alive through the pages of this unforgettable novel such Wiggs, master wizard who will Tristan seek to stop the sorceresses mad scheme.Geldon-the dwarf slave who will risk his life to defeat sorceresses. Faegan,<BR>the powerful wizard who's tortured by coven of sorceresses and who knows how to defeat them. Failee, the leader of the coven who's dabbling in the dark magic has made her insane and finally Shailiha, Tristan's twin sister who is tortured in body and mind by the coven and turned into the fifth sorceress. One minor quibble in this book though and I think this might explain why few female readers will enjoy this book.It really doesn't have too many good women characters in it.Most of the female characters in this novel are absolutely evil and sadistic.Other than that pick of this book and journey with Tristan, wigg as they battle for their lives against some of the most evil villians and villianess that had ever been made upon the printed page!	2002-10-21
US	52693037	R13VT7PJPX8P1G	0312872364	386786462	The Veil of a Thousand Tears (The Pearl Saga, Book 2)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Another Masterpiece of the imagination!	Lustbader continues to astonish me with his epic saga called the Pearl.He returns us to the planet of Kundala where the inhabitants, the Kundalans battle their oppressors, The V'ornn and their masters sinister Gyrgon.Our Heroine, Dar Sala-at, Riane with the aid of her mother Giyan, former V'ornn Rhynnon, Rekk and brave young resistance fighter, Eleana are in the fight of their lives when daemons are unwittingly unleased from their prison by Giyan when she saved Riane's life. Giyan is possessed by archdaemon Horolaggia and the only way Riane can save her is finding the veil of thousand tears and stopping the daemons from invading the entire planet. Lustbader's world building skills are more evident than ever as he transport us to his realm of sorcery and science, intrigue and betrayal as you watch V'ornns<BR>intrigue against each other and their masters Gyrgons. This novel has some awesome action sequences and Riane's adventures will take her to a tyrant's harem and brutal battle against a vicious gyrgon. New characters are introduced like Marethyn Stogggul, rebellious sister of Kurgan the evil young regent of Kundulu. Sornnn SaTrryn, the V\\"ronn businessman and Marethyn's lover who secretly helps the Kundalan resistance.Konara Lyystra, the priestess who must conquer her fear as she watches in horror as the daemons invade the most holiest of sanctuary. Plot twists of this novel are ingenious as villians plots against each other and evildoers are resurrected from the dead courtesty of daemons.Lustbader's lyrical prose helps bring this epic saga to life! Pick up this book and return Riane's world of intrigue, romance, magic and adventure!	2002-09-26
US	52693037	R268V4HEQ9N23Z	0451458923	511698178	Summer Knight (Dresden Files)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Murder in Faerieland!	Harry Dresden, our wizard gumshoe is back and up to his neck in trouble again! This time is targeted by the vampire council for destroying their leader in the last book and this causes a war between the wizards and vampires. To save himself from being turnover to the vampires and to stop the war he must solve the murder of Summer faerie's queen summer knight and he must do it or the courts of Summer and Winter will go to war and that's bad for the planet! Butcher's Harry Dresden series is gripping mix<BR>of film noir thrills, fantasy and witty dialogue as Dresden's deadly new case will have him come face to face with a lover from his dark past who betrayad him and now seeks his help and he must deal with the deceptive faerie courts who uses humans as playthings. Butcher's knows how to write action scenes like  a deadly battle between Harry and cop friend Murph against a deadly ghoul hitwoman and lethal plant monster that comes to life<BR>and incredible battle between the faerie courts! Butcher is giving  Laurell Hamilton and Tanya Huff some compeition in the dark fantasy detective genre. I hope Butcher is writing the next Dresden's adventure because this one was a corker!	2002-09-18
US	52693037	R266LEXPVD4TY1	0345444388	397145373	The Scar (Bas-Lag)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Mieville's imagination knows no bounds!	China Mieville, the author who astonished me with his vision with Perdido Street Station has wowed me again with this equally unforgettable masterpiece:The Scar. The author who could had taken the easy route and just write a sequel to his first instead takes us back to his world of Bas-lag but in a different place. Bellis Coldwine, a linguist is escaping her city of New Crobuzon because of her brief relationship with a certain scientist named Isaac Dan der Grimmnebulin.If you want to know why read Perdido Street station. Bellis's ship that she is traveling on is attacked by pirates and she and the survivors are taken to Armanda, a city constructed from the hull of pirates ships. While Bellis is there she finds out that rulers of this strange shipcity: a S&M couple called Lovers are planning on a epic project that will change the face of this world forever! Mievielle's epic masterpiece is filled with scenes of terror and wonder as his obvious love of the sea shows on every page. This novel can be described as combination of Herman Mieville and H.P. Lovecraft in design. The characters of this epic novel come alive in these pages. Bellis Coldwine, the unlikely heroine who is manipulated by the various forces upon Armanda. Silas Fennac-the spy and Bellis sometime lover who's agenda no one can fanthom and who holds a deadly secret that will threaten everyone on the Armada. Uther Doul-the Lover's powerful warrior henchman with a incredible weapon at his command.Tanner Sacks-the sailor who becomes less than human and who's loyality to the Armada is set in stone. Brucolac, the sinister vampire who rebels against the power of the Lovers. I mentioned earlier that this book is combination of Herman Mieville and Lovecraft. Like Mieville's moby dick the Lovers obsession with their endeavor it will threaten the lives of all of the inhabitants of this city and the menace of a group of  terrifying aquatic demons called grindylow who seek something stolen from them by one of the inhabitants of the city chilled the blood.Mieville's skills as a world-builder are more evident in this book than in perdido street station as he creates alien beings like a race of mosquito people who feast upon blood and <BR>raising of giant ancient creature called Avanc from it's resting place under the ocean.This novel is the one to beat as best fantasy novel of 2002 and further cements China Mieville place as one of the premier fantacist of this generation and century!	2002-08-14
US	52693037	R17OVQ24DLJ07G	0843950315	129204569	Vampyrrhic	Books	5	14	17	N	N	British answer to Salem's Lot!	Simon Clark has written one of the most viscerally chilling vampire novels I've read in recent memory! David Leppington returns to the british villiage which he left as a small child;<BR>which he shares the same name with and uncovers of horrifying secret underneath the town which is connected to his family.A army of hideous vampire creatures come out at night as feast upon the citizens. He now must do battle with terrifying creatures who's blood lust knows no bounds! He is aid by Electra Charnwood, a hotel owner, jack Black a goth thug and a young woman names Beatrice. Clark's chilling vampire novel is stark departure from the vampire books we are use to reading. There are no erotic scenes of bloodletting and vampires are not handsome men or seductive women.These are bloodthirsty creatures with a unholy hunger who live in tunnels below the town and are waiting for centuries to come out to feast! <BR>there are brutal scenes of the vampires killing their human prey with their razor sharp teeth and even more brutal scenes of the heroes battling the vampires in their underground lair!This is the first book by Clark I've read and certainly won't be the last!	2002-08-12
US	52693037	RUZPVLB78UPDA	0446528625	952437072	Hidden Empire: The Saga of Seven Suns - Book 1	Books	5	15	20	N	N	This is How I like my Space Operas!	This is like I like my space operas:big, brassy beautiful with worlds to explore, villians to hate and maximum excitement! This what I got in this novel. Kevin Anderson who cowrote those awesome dune prequels continues  his quality writing in this his first sole endeavor.Hidden Empire introduces us to fabulous 25th century universe where human race has split into three parts:<BR>Earth-based Hanseatic league with it's figurehead King Frederick but is secretly ruled by the ruthless chairman Basil Wenceslas.<BR>Telepathic green priests of planet Theroc and gyspy-like starship dwelling Roamers who produce the starship fuel called ekti.Humanity shares the galaxy with the ancient alien empire of the Ildirans. A decaying realm that has passed it's glory. A experiment using technology of extinct alien race called Klikiss.<BR>A device called Klikiss torch which scientists will use to convert gas giant planets into new life-giving suns.The result of this experiment has a tragic and horrifying  side effect. A race of beings called Hydrogues who live in the core of this planet are killed! This accidental genocide results with the Hydrogues launching their vast planet-size armadas with purpose of destroying each and every human in the universe!Anderson's space opera has it all: incredible world-building as he takes you to his worlds of wonder like the beautiful planet of Theroc where green priests use their telepathic links to their worldtrees to communicate to vast parts of the universe. The Ildiran empire, decaying realm filled with centuries old secrets and intrigues and conspiracies.The characters(with are many) come alive in this book like ruthless chairman, Wenceslas who rules the terran empire behind the scenes and who manipulates who ever becomes king. Dr.Margaret Colicos, the scientist who's experiment will usher in a terrible interstellar war! Tasia Tambyn-the roamer woman who will leave her people to join the terran army to avenge the death of her brother.Raymond  Aguerra<BR>a young man who will fall in Wenceslas's web of intrigue. Adar Kori'nh, the admiral of the Ildiran fleet who seeks past glory of his people in battle.Jora'h-the soon to be heir of Ildiran empire and who falls in love with human woman. Nira-the young green priest who is Jora'H's lover and who find herself a victim of Ildiran's sinister breeding experiment.Anderson's lyrical prose makes his novel sing and his harrowing battle scenes and plot twists are wonderful. All this leads to shocking cliffhanging conclusion that makes me wait with baited breath for the next novel in this saga!	2002-07-31
US	52693037	R18YVL4WNSRG18	0312878885	355689687	Starman (The Wayfarer Redemption, Book 3)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Prophecy Fulfilled!	Sara Douglas has outdone herself in this sweeping conclusion to her Axis trilogy.In Starman, you will watch in awe as Axis and Azhure fulfill the prophecy of destroying axis half-brother, the evil monster Gorgrael.Douglas's skills as a world-builder are more evident in this novel as she  describes the beauty of her world. The battle scenes in this book are a wonder to behold as you see Axis and his army with the sorcerous help of his wife,Azhure decimate Gorgrael's army of Skaelings and gryphons.Plot twists in this novel are also great as Wolfstar, the cunning iscaii sorcerer manipulates Axis and Gorgrael  and twists the prophecy for his own ends. Axis must not only contend with his nemesis, Gorgrael but also with his ruthless baby son, dragonstar who seeks to kill his own brother Caelum to become firstborn and treachery from Timozel who now leads Gorgrael's army! Douglass's unforgettable series with all of it's magic, color, wonder and spectacle pales in comparison to the heart-tugging conclusion as one character will sacrifice herself so Axis can defeat Gorgrael. I look forward to Sara Douglass's next series because I prophecy to make: She will be a force to reckon with in the fantasy genre!	2002-07-26
US	52693037	R3T420CDJF1MIK	0886777895	34231585	The Burning Heart of Night	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Grand science fiction adventure!	Ivan Cat bursted on the sf scene a few years ago with the unforgettable and chilling space opera:eyes of light and darkness.Finally after a few years he gives us his second novel.<BR>This one of the most involving and gripping sf adventures I've ever read.Burning heart of Light is story of planet in peril and the unexpected visitor to that planet who becomes the planet's savior. Lindal Karr,a pilot to his living seedship Long Detail battles a deadly saboteur on his ship and must crashland on the beautiful but deadly island planet of New Ascension and sets immense ocean ablaze! New Ascension, a lost colony world harbors a terrifying secret:a horrible virus called The Scourge affects all of the life-forms but especially the human inhabitants who in their fear of dying enslaves the sentient species called Khafra and drained them of their immune venom which saves lives of the humans but it kills the khafra!This horrible process is called the Sacrament.One of the ones who is trying to find a cure to this disease and stop the killing of the Khafra is rebellious daughter of the colony's leader:Jenette Tesla and her faithful khafra servant Arrou. Jennette and Karr must form alliance to stop the war between the Khafras and the humans and seek a cure to Scourge.Cat's world-building skills are incredible as he takes you step by step into this beautiful but terrifying planet as beings both human and nonhuman seek the survival of their species at all costs.This novel asks the question does one species have the right to destroy another for it's on survival.The action sequences in this novel are wonder to behold as Cat describes brutal battle scenes between humans and Khafra and race of mutant and mad khafra on the planet.Characters in this novel are delight like Lindel Karr the aloof pilot who must rely on others to save his ship and maybe his life on hostile planet.Jenette Tesla-the brave young woman torn between helping the Khafras and saving her fellow humans.Tlalok-the warlike khafra who seek to destroy the humans and who has a special hatred toward Karr who killed his mate. Arrou-loyal domesticated Khafra who must help Jenette and Karr even if it means going against his own kind.<BR>Olin Tesla-Jenette's father and leader of the colony who seeks to save the humans but doesn't care how many khafras die in the process!Incredible epic far future sf novel propels to the 47th century and to a world of beauty and danger!	2002-07-20
US	52693037	R30L36X2YWYNHC	0595201733	201971091	Nocturnes and Neon: A Novel of the Vampiric	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Epic horror thriller!	Wow! that's the only word that came to my mind when I turned the last page of this unforgettable supernatural thriller!Armstead has written one of the most gripping, violent imaginative vampire novels I've read since discovering Brian Lumley. He tells us a tale of vendattas than span the centuries and lethal conspiracies. He creates a new myth for vampires and he calls his creations Moon-chosen and they seek a biogenetics experiment that will control their blood-lust called the Need and walk in daylight! One of those who will oppose their plan is one of the formidable heroes that has ever been on a printed page. A immortal, unstoppable being called Montgomery Quinn and the vampires called him  The Adversary!.He is one of the Olympians, a race of  of immortal beings who's hunt vampires! He is aided on his mission by Professor Patricia Silver, Father Clement, a priest and exsoldier and Lorenz Novembre, a lethal agent of darklink, clandestine organization that battles occult forces!<br />Armstead's novel has brutal scenes of gunfights and hand to hand combat between our heroes and the dark forces. This book combines<BR>intrigue and conspiracy worthy of Robert Ludlum as our heroes must contend with no only the vampires but their mafia connections and rogue government agents! The villians that dwell in this epic also execellent like the twisted and sadistic warlock Creighter, evil vampire lord Cartarrian and the sinister and seductive vampiress Helinor and brutal mafia don Vic Palmiotta.In this book  entranced as Armstead takes you back in time showing some one the battles Quinn has had with vampires and showing also the arrogant cruel nature of this moon chosen as seek torture and kill humans for hunger and their amusement.Pick up this book and enter Quinn's world of vampires, warlocks and vengeance than spans centuries! and Mr. Armstead please write a sequel!	2002-07-15
US	52693037	R10XI1IXPCM3NJ	0786015039	680292351	The Red Church	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Give me that old time Terror!	Chills are plenty in Scott Nicholson's debut horror novel! A red church in a small town in north carolina houses a ancient evil! ...Nicholson's chilling horror novel's theme of religious fanaticism that sometimes dwells in rural towns and the scenes of terror are described in ghoulish detail!<BR>the characters are very memorable ... Zombies and ghosts also are some of the elements in this chiller. The novel ends with one of the creepy finals in I've ever read as you find out source of the evil that resides in the red church. Unforgettable tale of terror!	2002-07-05
US	52693037	R2P4FL3OU99PQ2	0446610771	676153144	Warchild	Books	5	12	13	N	N	War and Lost Innocence among the Stars!	I was impressed with  this novel! Lowachee's debut novel was one of the most powerful novel of interstellar warfare  I've ever read! She tells the tragic and heroic story of a young boy comes of age during terrible interstellar war and the divided loyalities he has in this conflict. Young Joslyn Musey sees his life torn from him as the merchant ship he calls home is attacked by space pirates  and he is taken prisoner. Jos's capitivity  is under the sadistic pirate called Falcone. Jos escapes only to be captured by earth's enemies the alien race called the Strits and their human allies. He is befriended by Human turncoat general called Warboy and he is taught to become a spy for the strits in their war against EarthHub.He is sent to <BR>space battleship, Macedon  under the command of charismatic captain Azarcon.Lowarchee's novel is gripping tale of one young man who is torn between the loyalities of his shipmates on the battleship and his alien benefactors. Lowarchee's future is the most impressive I've seen since Cherryh's Union-Alliance novels and the atmosphere of on the ship is so realistic you could almost taste it! The battle scenes were brutally realistic in tone.Characters in Warchild were unforgettable such as our hero Jos who immediately gets our sympathy as he tries to remain loyal<BR>to crew of the Macedon and strits. Falcone-the ruthless pirate who uses manipulation and brutality. Dorrs-Jos's commanding officer who has a taste for battle and bloodshed but who will stand by his men if the need arises. Niko-human sympathize general who befriends Jos and who teaches him to become a spy.Lowarchee's chilling vision of warfare in space where children are used as soldiers and spies has eeries resemblance to the conflicts we have in our time. I look forward to the other next novel!	2002-06-28
US	52693037	R3F2Q53CH9JQ2G	0786014172	257248197	Crimson Night	Books	5	17	17	N	N	stunning sequel!	Trisha Baker once again had me entralled with her story of reluctant vampire, Meghann O'neill  and her battles with her master simon Baldevar.Baker is a skillful writer because she could had taken the easy route and just have this novel like it's predecessor with endless scenes of Simon chasing and terrorizing Meghann but no  Baker does something I thought could never happen she makes Simon likable! Yes you read it right those of you who read the first book like myself was shocked at the depths of evil and depravity that Simon was capable of and his obessive and terrifying love of Meghann. Baker allows us to see Simon's history on how he became a vampire and why he did the horrible things that he done.When Meghann becomes pregnant<BR>Simon becomes more human in his love and concern toward Meghann and their unborn child. He even saves her life against his fanatical enemies!This novel gives us a  Simon's history which takes place in Elizabethan England and it shows how he and Alcuin became deadly enemies.Baker's novel  has gruesome scenes of battle between vampires and bloodletting. Simon is still a monster but in Baker's capable hands he becomes sympathetic...	2002-06-22
US	52693037	R2ET23CPNGUSD7	0971855056	484500374	Reflections of a Vampire	Books	5	18	21	N	N	sexy, witty ghoulish fun!	those are the adjectives that come to mind when I turned the last page of this incredible vampire novel! Damion Kirk has created a memorable anti-hero in the vampire Arnaud St. Laurue, a thousand year old vampire who must enlist some minions to protect him while he takes a millennium rest that all ancient blood drinkers do and he decides to write his memoirs too! Our rather \\"evil\\" hero's mission is jeopardize on two fronts: one is shadowy organization of shape-shifters called Daemonion Council who believe that St.Laurue is passing a deadly aids-like virus and the other is possessive vampire father who has his own agenda.Kirk's gruesome vampire saga has it all:characters like Brigitte, St.Laurue' sister who helps him and battle the council and their father. Fury- a teenage St. Laurue selects to  become his minion, Elke another would be vampire that St. Laurue wants and who has some deadly secrets of her own! Bevan Preston, a book publisher who's life is turned upside down by St.Laurue. This novel gives us a rather chilling \\"bat  and mouse\\" game between the vampires, shape-shifting agents and wily retiring homicide det named Solomon Wiese.Gruesome scenes of bloodletting carnage will shock you as St.Laurue lets nothing stand in his way and pity the poor mortal who knows too much.St.Laurue is character who does some truly horrible deeds but still very likable and charming!the plot twist are ingenious because in St.Laurue's world nothing is what appears to be and appearances could be deadly and last surprise awaits you on the last paragraph that should \\"I hope\\" lead to a sequel.	2002-06-10
US	52693037	RPA1RN1NCH75T	0312872399	719563321	Kushiel's Chosen (Kushiel's Legacy)	Books	5	24	28	N	N	Erotic  Swashbuckler!	Jacueline Carey has done something few writers can attest to:<BR>She wrote a sequel that is just as good as it's predecessor!Carey returns us to the kingdom of Terre D'ange, the land of holy prostitution and lethal intrigue.Kushiel's Chosen leads off where the first book ends, with the mysterious escape of archvillianess, Melisandre.Phedre, our heroine is determined to find out the traitors who helped Melisandre escape from prison and when she gets cloak sent by her enemy as a challenge she takes it upon herself to find Melisandre. Phedre's obession with her enemy will pull her back into her holy order and it will strain her relationship with her lover, Joscelin.Phedre's adventure will take her sun-drenched villas of La Serenissima<BR>where she will uncover Melisandre's sinsiter conspiracy to gain the crown and a deadly assasination plot against queen Ysandre! <BR>This novel has all of the ingredients that made the first one such a smash hit: lyrical prose that sings upon the page; outstanding world-building that makes Phedre's world come alive <BR>sweeping action sequences  like daring escape upon island prison that holds our heroine and unforgettable swashbuckling swordfight between Joscelin Queen Ysandre's would be assasin! The characters of this epic novel are also a wonder like blood-cursed pirate Kazan Atrabiades who rescues Phedre and helps her at her cause.I love Phedre and her world of dark desire, darker intrigue and swashbuckling adventure! Bring on Kushiel's Avatar!	2002-05-27
US	52693037	R1WBQQC8T14V0J	0671882708	900352545	Nocturnas	Books	5	2	2	N	N	nonstop thrills and chills!	A American reporter doing a story on the fall of communism in Romania makes a terrfying discovery.Vampires have taken over<BR>the country's dread secret police and start a reign of bloody terror of the populace.The only one that can stop them are the<BR>Reporter who's family background makes him ideal in fighting vampires and harb-boiled female rebel leader.This novel has<BR>nonstop action and chills and boast a sinister villian in Jarek Calnelian, the sadistic and ancient vampire leader who makes<BR>Dracula look like a sissy.Nocturas also has memorable characters such Silas Freeborn, the charming and ruthless crimelord<BR>who later employs Calnelian and soon learns to regret it.Clavin Asaro, the DEA agent who is obessed in catching<BR>Freeborn.This is a chilling saga of revenge and bloodletting that spans two continents and leads to memorable climaz.	2002-05-21
US	52693037	R22OXEFYNM7EAD	0786015004	31468867	The Fixer	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Hard-boiled vampire noir	Fixer is kind of book that you just can't stop reading!Merz's debut novel is awesome dark fantasy adventure with unique and unforgettable hero, Lawson. Lawson is the fixer.Fixers are vampires charged with the duty of executing rogue vampires who break the balance.The Balance is the line between humans and vampires and it's what keeps the world of vampires hidden from humanity.Lawson is great as what he does which is good as he must face again his archenemy, Cosgrove.Cosgrove is a truly evil vampire who seeks to destroy the vampire council raise a vampire god; all in his plot for world domination! Lawson must use all of his wits, strength and agility against enemy who is stronger than him and he is falling in love is human assasin named Talya who also wants to Cosgrove dead! Merz's novel gives us a scenic tour of Boston as our hard-boiled hero with the help of retired, fixer named Zero must stop Cosgrove's conspirary.The plot twists are brilliant as our hero finds that he doesn't know who to trust and including his heart!Merz's action sequences are great as  he describes hand to hand combat, chases and some unique weapons.Fixer is also great because the author has the ability to destroy some of the myths concerning vampires like: they are not immortal but they live for centuries and they can walk in daylight.Merz's also does his research into the world of assasins and spies. I want the next Lawson's adventure!	2002-05-08
US	52693037	R1WLB6K39TKH77	0786014164	700436451	Crimson Kiss (Pinnacle horror)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Anne Rice should watch her back with this newcomer!	I was very impressed by the story-telling abilities of Trisha Baker. Meghann O'neill, a young woman living in 1940s' is seduced and transformed into a vampire by the evil Simon Baldevar. After being manipulated  and controlled by him for 13 years she kills him and escapes but only to find years later he<BR>didn't die and now wants her back! Simon starts to target Meghann's friends like would be vampire-killer Jimmy Delacroix, meghann's human lover, and her vampire friends:gay vampire charles and priest vampire Alcuin. Thus begins a cat and mouse game of seduction, hate and love that spans decades.Baker's debut novel has all of the ingredients you would want in a vampire horror novel: gruesome scenes of bloodletting, torture and murder, magic and black magic, erotic and sensuality also play in the part this story. Meghann, called maggie by her friends is very resourceful heroine who seeks to help the mortals she was trained to feed on and kill.Simon Baldevar is one of the most sadist and vicious villians to ever grace print page who's obessive love for Meghann is quite chilling in it's intensity.Another thing I love about the novel is Baker's willingness to change some of the myths about vampire such as their vunerability to crosses and religious objects and vampire can also eat the foods of humans. The scenes of maggie using magic also were gripping and also the ability of vampires to travel astral plane. Maggie also has a love/hate relatinship with Simon which she tries to control as he seeks to humble her and take her back. this stunning vampire novel ends with a suprising conclusion that bodes well for future installments.	2002-05-04
US	52693037	R1YUZVYG6FZ72R	0786013095	644628445	Daughters Of The Moon	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Terror to sink your teeth into!	Kudos to Joseph Curtin in writing this sexy and gruesome vampire horror novel. In this shocker he resurrects Elizabeth Bathory, the true blood countess who murdered countless young women in the 16th century to gain her youth.Elizabeth called Lizabeth is now a vampire in the 20th century and she turns a young woman named Chloe into her vampire servant.They prey upon people until Chloe falls in love with a drummer and all hell breaks loose in this unholy love triangle. Curtin's debut novel <BR>is one of the viscerally shocking vampire novel in recent memory as he gives us chilling scenes of Lizabeth's capacity for sadism and evil as she brutally kills her prey.Unlike the Anne Rice books the bloodletting in this novel isn't erotic but gruesome.Chloe is memorable character who seeks to escape from Lizabeth with Johnny Coltrane the man she falling in love with.<BR>Curtin also gives us some great supporting characters Like Vinnie who is seduced into Lizabeth's web of evil and Dave Hannon, who discovers Lizabeth's terrifying secrets and lives to regret it!Curtin's chilling  vampire novel ends with one of the most <BR>memorable final confrontations between Lizabeth and Chloe!So pick up this book and enter Lizabeth's world of terror and desire! Your blood will run cold if it's not drained yet!	2002-04-29
US	52693037	R1IIMTT40N3FBB	1892065428	962143082	Chains of Freedom	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Get Ready for a Hell of a Ride!	The only thing this book need was some hot butter popcorn!<BR>Rosen has written a awesome sf thriller pitting RJ, genetically-engineered super warrior against the Reliance, a brutal military galactic dictatorship. This nonstop novel begins with a bang when RJ hooks up with david grant who just escape from the Reliance's labor camp and they join forces to overthrow them.They are helped by Whitey, a giant mercenary who is hopelessly in love with RJ, mickey, a midget pickpocket and Levits a former Reliance starship pilot. The action and plot twists start from the first page with unforgettable scenes of brutal hand to hand combat, laser gunbattles and unbeliverable chases and escapes.Another thing that makes this book good it <BR>Rebellion might unravel because of the egoes of our heroes and <BR>betrayal and treachery from the inside.The heroes and villians of this novel are wonderful! RJ- the most formidable heroine since David Weber's Honor Harrington and she is can break your heart and quickly as she can break your neck! David Grant- a charismatic mouthpiece for the rebellion who's ego and bad judgement of character of other people almost destroys him.Jessica Kirk-the Reliance senator who's total obession is to kill RJ and who shares secret that ties them together.So strap on<BR>your blaster and let Rosen, RJ david grant give you the right of your life! I sure did and love every minute of it!	2002-04-03
US	52693037	R3OLN0UXM8JOX1	0756400473	163457578	The Eyes of God (Daw Book Collectors)	Books	5	4	8	N	N	The First Great Fantasy novel of 2002!	I've been a Marco fan ever since I read his classic Tyrants<BR>and Kings series now he creates all-new epic saga that has all of the ingredients that made his previous one so memorable:<BR>flawed heroes like Lukien, the bronze knight who is tore between the loyality and friendship he has toward his King Akeela who  treats him like a brother and his love for Akeela's wife Cassandra. King Akeela-a once good ruler who's betrayal by his best friend and wife turns him into a mad despot who seeks only power and revenge! Cassandra-the queen who will turn two men into enemies and who's dying with cancer and can only be saved by a magical amulet called the eyes of God.Marco's gifts of world-building hasn't been lost as he creates a city of so-called freaks who are protected by powerful ancient spirits and<BR>a mysterious woman called Minikin.Marco's villians are also classic like the poor Akeela who's tranformation from a kind man to a cruel king is quite chilling and the evil Will Trager, Lukien's hated rival.What makes the book so powerful is the theme<BR>of choices that people make that can save or destroy them and sometimes even heroes can feet of clay and can do deeds that will haunt them for lifetime.Marco can describe a battle scene in<BR>a cinematic quality and the brief and tragic love affair between Lukien and Casandra will break your heart.I've had read a few reviews stating that Marco is rewriting the Arthurian legend with Lukien as Lancelot, Akeela as Arthur and Casandra as Guinevere but the similarities are few and far between. Other characters I found memorable is crippled boy Gilwyn who helps save the city of Grimhold, the place of \\"monsters\\" and the gruff<BR>but brave Baron Thorn.Consider this epic novel another feather in Marco's cap and if he reads the review I have only one thing to say: WRITE FASTER!	2002-03-18
US	52693037	R3CWTVQ6GT9520	0821722557	453310303	Smoke	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Where there's Smoke there's terror!	Jensen once again has produces another quietly chilling tale of the supernatural in this shocker, Ellen a seven year old girl unwilling unleases a ancient evil in the guise of genie! This creature which appears as smoke commits a series of gruesome murders that follows Ellen and her brother Joey and older sister Beth from L.A. to Dallas.Jensen is one of the few horror authors<BR>who can bring back the fears of childhood and paint them in a sinister new light.The fears of the dark, monsters and other terrors of our youth she can resurrect to gives us chills.This novel has scenes of terror as this creature murders women in truly horrible fashion  and the sense of menace is so palpable  you can almost feel it and it leads to a surprising but still creepy climax!	2002-03-15
US	52693037	R1U4IKRLZRD67X	1885173857	907024722	Sparrow's Flight: A Fantasy	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Flight of the imagination!	I was truly in awe of the story-telling ability of Craddock<BR>as he spin a saga of herorism under fire and two unlikely heroes:<BR>Sparrow-arrogant young nobleman and Kisha-blind swordswoman and princess who is haunted by a single act of cowardice.Both of them are flawed individuals who must conquer their own personal demons to save their homelands from a terrifying invasion of the host of the immortal Hezra-thrall and his army which is fueled by the darkest of magic.Few  epic fantasies will stir you as Craddock's vividly described scenes of bloody battles and sieges<BR>as you watch Hezda-thrall's sorcerer, Durthe who raises the dead <BR>to battle our heroes and Frost his unstoppable swordsmaster who can defeat whole armies by himself! Craddock's superior world-building skills shine on every page of this novel as you will really will care what happens to the characters of this war-torn world. Kisha is the most memorable warrior woman I seen since Moon's Paksnarrion and Sparrow will surprise as he grows from spoil young man to a true hero who seeks to help others.Craddock's credit that he can write sweeping stand-alone epic fantasy complete with truly chilling evil in Hezda-thrall and abominations as he spreads his soul-corrupting curse to plague the land and terrifying monsters that Durthe creates with his twisted dark magic.So take a flight of the imagination with two unforgettable heroes!	2002-03-11
US	52693037	R3Q43T8MTXQ1PQ	051513175X	59736501	The Descent	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Jeff Long sent me to Hell and I loved every minute of it!	Yes you read the title of this review right. Long sent me<BR>and other lucky readers to hell and we loved it! He created a terrifying epic adventure about human race meeting their match with the denizens of the underworld and their fearsome creator we call Satan.This novel is about our battles with frightening race of proto-humans who come from the bowels of the earth to enslave and devour us.The creatures called Hadals by the characters are semi-civilized beings who live at the center of the earth where we would think hell resides.Long's chilling novel has scenes of eerie beauty as you watch a ill-fated group of scientists and mercenaries try to explore and conquer this dark world for mankind and meet their match with it's inhabitants.This novel also gives us thoughts about the nature of evil and the being we call Satan.Long's characters in his novel come alive like brave and resourceful Dwight David Crokett<BR>who was a slave to Hadals and now uses his experiences their to save the scientists. Ali-the young ex-nun who ability to read languages will take her to a adventure that will shake her faith and endanger her life. Long's novel combines the adventurous spirit of Jules Verne with terrifying horror of Stephen King in depicting this sinister world and inhabitants and their effect upon humans.Parts of this novel is mot for the squemish or the easily frightened or shocked.Finally you will get a shocking surprise as Long introduces us to Satan and his identity! So Go<BR>to Hell and get the ride of your life!	2002-03-05
US	52693037	R2A5OHF0SICCEN	1587219085	921144090	The Last Gate	Books	5	1	1	N	N	I didn't want it to End!	The best measuring rode of the quality of a good book is that when the last page is turned and you come to the final word of the last sentence;you will regret ending of the book.It is like <BR>saying goodbye to a friend.I thought that way when I finished this unforgettable achievement of the imagination:The Last Gate!<BR>Merz's debut novel has all of the assurance of a master storyteller and her world-building skills are incredible as she takes you to the world of the Ver dala Ven, a magical race who's purpose is to guide people in wartorn world.You will enter a world of memorable cast of characters who's dreams, loves, conflicts and  hatred will be as real as your own or as real as the latest tragedy on the evening news. You will enter the powerful country of Jantideva who rules this planet. You will fall in love with characters like freedom-fighter Shonti, Shelon who battles Jantideva to free his people from slavery.Coba-the Verdala Ven who is prophecized to finding the massing star that will heal his world. Gella, the Shonti woman that loves Shelon and shares his dream of freeing their people. Bail and Jishni  <BR>the dakas,which are the rulers of Jantideva who can make decisions that affect their citizens but cannot stop the fragmentation of their family. Taen-the son of Coba and Jishni<BR>a cruel and ruthless young man who seek power and revenge against his own family.Bailin, the son of Bail and Jishni who falls in love with Shonti bid of independence that will put him in  odds with his family.Merz's imaginative world is so realistic and so like our in it's age-old conflicts, hatred and tragedies I could almost swear I felt like she visited there herself and chronicled all of the scenes in this book! Another I loved about this novel is that the author's ability to have you sympathize with some of the more villianous characters of the novel and have characters you might admire say or do something that will shock you.The Last Gate's plot twists, action sequencesand heartwarming romance with have you turning pages through the night! Unforgettable experience awaits you between the pages of this book so enter Coba, Shelon, Gella's world of intrigue, romance, adventure!	2002-02-26
US	52693037	R3AX0PP2O2S19K	1892065037	904953442	I Dare (Liaden Universe Novel Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Don't Mess with Clan Korval!	Those Liaden heroes:Val Con, his lifemate Miri and his cousin<BR>Shan and Priscilla are back! They their and cousin Pat Rin must take their battle to their enemies:Department of Interior, a ruthless liaden intelligence agency that makes out CIA and the former KGB look like choir boys!Sharon Lee and Steve Miller once again seduce back to their liaden universe of lovers, spies Clutch turtles, romantic assasins and honorable gangsters.The authors combination of intelligent world-building, witty dialogue,romance and action as you watch Pat Rin use his pilot<BR>and a sexy lady assasin to take over gangster-controlled world,<BR>and the rest of Clan Korval arm themselves against their enemies.<BR>This gripping and romantic space opera ends with our heroes attacking the department of Interior from the land and space! <BR>One of the things that is great about the series is how the authors make such memorable characters who readers will instantly<BR>fall in love with and their adventures you will never forget!	2002-02-16
US	52693037	R3JIFOT0ACE2LA	034544244X	689036035	Wit'ch Gate (Banned & the Banished)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	My Only regret is turning the last page!	Once again James Clemens transported me to the Land of Alansea.<BR>Where the witch Elena and her allies  must destroy the dark lord's sources of power:the Weirgates. Clemens's world building skills are awesome as ever as he shows more sights of his world.<BR>He will show us scenes of elven city in the clouds, sharks who travel in river of sand, ghoulish creatures called Grim who possess bodies. this novel's action sequences have cinematic quality to them. You will watch as our heroes battle d'warves soldiers and monsters. You will bid bittersweet farewell to comrades who will not survive this latest adventure and be astonish as another character who died will be reborn!All and all another demonstration of Clemens's story-telling ability as he shows us magic, menace and wonder of the land of Alansea and the heroic beings who dwell there!	2002-01-21
US	52693037	R2BKODHJLILMVH	0312875827	667527293	Enchanter (The Wayfarer Redemption Trilogy, Bk 2)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Magical and sweeping sequel!	Sara Douglass who has me enthralled with wayfarer redemption:Battle-Axe has done it again even more so with the sequel:Enchanter.Once again she takes her reader to her war-torn world of dark magic,prophecy, revenge and romance.Axis, who is the Starman seeks to reunite all of the people so they can defeat the evil Gorgrael.Axis's obstacles are many as he must win the trust and the respect of the Iscaii people, battle his  cruel and vicious half-brother Lord Borneheld and his backers, the ruthless<BR>Seneschal.Axis also has conflicts of a heart as he is torn between Faraday, the woman he is prophecized to marry and his growing love for warrior woman,Azhure who is also plays a part in the prophecy.Douglass'skills as a world-builder become more real in this volume as she describes plot-twists as our heroes must battle Gorgrael's monstrous Skraeling army, Borneheld's forces and a secret iscaii enchanter who seeks to manipulate the prophecy for his own ends.The Beauty of this world comes alive in Douglass' able hands and her descriptions of the land and people are so vivid you swear she dwell there herself! The battle scenes of the novel also are excellent as Axis takes the battle to his enemies:Gorgrael and Borneheld.Her characters are so memorable like the hero Axis who can command armies but cannot command his own heart.Azhure-the haunting warrior woman who beauty and courage impresses all who know her. Ruthless and corrupt Lord Borneheld who's obession to destroy Axis will threaten his own homeland.Faraday-Borneheld's wife who must stay married to man who she loathes while she waits to be free to be with Axis.Pick up this book and return to Axis and Azhure's unforgettable world of war,prophecy, dark magic and romance!	2002-01-14
US	52693037	R3TORCLQVVWZUI	081257639X	145563216	Faith of the Fallen (Sword of Truth, Book 6)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Goodkind is Back on Track!	After the disappointing previous book in the sword of truth<BR>saga:Soul of the Fire. I thought Goodkind has lost his edge.<BR>Never before have I've been happy to be wrong! In this volume:<BR>Faith of the Fallen, Goodkind's abilities to tell a rousing story are reborn!Richard is disllusioned with ruling his vast empire and decides to abandon it and his fight against evil imperial order and take ailing Kahlan into the wilderness. Our favorite fantasy couple's happiness is short-lived when Nicci, a young woman from Richard's part and now a sorceress in league with evil emperor Jajang puts a spell upon Kahlan linking their lives together and threatening to kill Kahlan unless Richard leaves his wife and comes with her!She takes Richard deep into the territory of the imperial order seeking to bend his will toward her see the error of his ways in fighting Jajang's righteous cause! Kahlan's bitter toward losing Richard takes up the cause of the Dharan empire in the battle against the Imperial order. What makes this novel so compelling is Goodkind's world-building skills as he takes us and Richard deep into the Imperial Order, a brutal communist-style regime where freedom and indivuality are crushed.Before We only saw the armies of the imperial order now we see the people who suffer under the tyranny.Richard becomes a symbol for the people to gain their freedom against their oppressors in creating a stature<BR>that symbolizes the nobility of the human spirit in face of tyranny.This novel also has sweeping battle scenes as Kahlan with the help of Cara rallies the outnumbered Dharan soldiers face millions of imperial order warriors. You watch as Kahlan commit shocking actions in defense of her homeland and her rage against imperial order!Kahlan is the most compelling heroine to ever grace a fantasy series and you do not want her as an enemy! One of the things I love about this series is the love affair between Richard and Kahlan. You almost can feel the heartbreak as Richardmust leave his wife that he loves to save her life from Nicci's terrible spell.They are the most romantic couple in fantasy genre.Once again my faith in Goodkind hasn't fallen but soared as he takes us into Richard and Kahlan's unforgettable world of magic,romance,conflict and sorrow!	2002-01-07
US	52693037	R3BCN46B0AR0AT	0553379194	541233613	Fortress Draconis (The DragonCrown War Cycle, Book 1)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Dragoncrown War Begins!	Finally, after a year and half long wait; Stackpole gives us the sequel to classic epic fantasy, Dark Glory War. Fortress Draconis is very impressive military fantasy epic set 25 years after the events told in the first book.A young thief, Will is caught trying to steal a strange artifact and is saved by two mysterious warriors: One is Vorquelf called Resolute who is determined to free his land from the tyranny of the evil sorceress Chytrine and the other is shadowy human warrior called Kedyn's Crow.Will finds out he is center of a prophecy where he will defeat Chytrine and her terrifying forces. This epic novel has unforgettable characters like Princess Alexa who is obessed in freeing her own homeland from Chrytrine. Kerrigan Reese, the young wizard who is born with powers far above normal humans but is also naivete on the ways of the world. General Adrogans, who's pompous outward personality hides a brilliant military mind.Stackpole's skills in the world-building department shine in every page as he gives you guided tour of his wartorn world and the various races that live there like Vorquelf elves who battle their ouw prejudices against wing-people called Gyrkyme<BR>who they share a tragic history with. The human nations who must rally together to battle Chytrine's menace. Stackpole also succeeds in his vivid and brutal descriptions of battles as you see our heroes fight the Chytrine's terrifying army of monsters like the dreaded Sullanciri, beings who were once human now are souless monsters created by Chytrine's twisted magic! Finally our heroes adventures will take them to fortress Draconis where they must stop Chytrine from getting a piece of dragoncrown in which she will use to control dragons! So pick up this book and travel will Will, Resolute, Crow and Princess Alexa as they battle for the lives against evil Chytrine and don't forget the surprise on the last page!	2001-12-26
US	52693037	R15FWUZ25RFX8B	0553110845	257407410	House Corrino (Dune: House Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Unforgettable Entertainment!	Kevin Anderson and Brian Herbert have pulled off a impossible feat: They have taken Brian's late father epic vision of the future and expanded the mythology surrounding the dune universe.This gripping conclusion concerns the House Corrino and in particular, The Emperor Shaddam IV who's lust to obtain absolute power will threatening the known universe!He and his chief henchman, the deadly count Fenring are hatching a plot with the sinister Tleilaxu to create a synthetic spice so he can control it's output and break the monopoly that the Guild has on the it. You will watch as mysterious Bene Gesserit Sisterhood will take Jessica away from Duke Leto who child she carries because the child is the subject of the Sisterhood's centuries old plot to create a superbeing.This novel has scenes of machivellian intrigues of the noble houses and spectacular battle scenes. You will wince in delight as the evil Baron Harkonnen tries in vain to change his terrible reputation he has in the Lansraad. Finally the novel ends with incredible battle scene upon the Planet Ix as Prince Rhombur has his change to free his people who have been  enslaved by brutal Tleilaxu  face dancers and harrowing kidnapping of Leto and Jessica's baby on the empire homeworld!<BR>The authors' world-building skills are alsways superlative as they show us  planets and the cultures of this feudal galactic society. Anderson and Herbert should give themselves a well-deserved pat on the back in expanding the awe and mystery the surrounds this classic saga.	2001-12-26
US	52693037	R1N1RZFHJBE3KC	0446609846	77070899	A Shadow on the Glass (View from the Mirror)	Books	5	1	5	N	N	stunning piece of world creation!	One of the ways I measure great fantasy is the extensive world-building by the author.The author's ability to create a living breathing world and make his world so believable that you actually think it exists! That's the opinion I got after finishing The Shadow on the Glass. Irvine's world-building skills are incredible.He gives us a world with competing races:Charon,Faellem, and Aachim.This epic tale is seen through the eyes of two memorable characters: Llian, chronicler who seeks to solve 3000 year old murder and Karan, a sensitive who comes to regret fulfilling a promise to make a dangerous mission for a friend.Karan is in possession a powerful mirror that gives the ability to see places at a distance and twist reality. Soon she and Llian will be hunted by ruthless mage,Yggur and his sinister minions called the Whelm! Irvine's novel has seen of lyrical beauty as he describes all of the exotic cities and ports of the lavish world.The other characters in this book also are memorable like Karan's friend,Maigraith who  embroils Karan in her mission to steal the mirror from Yggur and is tortured by<BR>fanatical Whelm.Faelamor-Maigraith's ruthless patron who will stop at nothing to gain the mirror for herself.Magister Mendark, cunning ruler of Thurkad who has ruled the city for thousand years! Another thing I love about this book is plot twists as our hero and heroine must escape from various forces that seek the mirror for themselves.Unlike other books that seek to retread tired themes of quests, elves, dwarves and dragons; Irvine writes a original fantasy where the lines of good and evil are blurred and heroes who can be selfish or cowardly and villians who can be sympathetic. So begin the journey to this fabulous world like I did and enchanted and enthralled!	2001-12-09
US	52693037	R2A3FB5QW0CLNC	0316693235	147933002	Violets Are Blue ~ Detective Alex Cross Series	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Alex Cross Vs. Mastermind! Who will win? Read and Find out!	Once again James Patterson and his unforgettable detective<BR>hero, Dr. Alex Cross plunge us into another chilling descent<BR>into twisted criminal minds.Cross once again must battle his nemesis, evil genius known as mastermind who taunts our hero with threats to kill him and his family.Cross must also balance this with his newest case: a pair of young killers who think of themselves as vampires and actually drink the blood of their victims as they brutally murder them!Cross with the aid of beautiful det. Jamila Hughes must hunt down these two maniacs as the leave a trail of bloodless bodies around the country and who think of themselves as unstoppable.Patterson is most adept when he juggles the narratives of Dr. Cross and how is trying to put his life back together after the breakup with Christina and the terror he feels when he thinks mastermind may harm his children or the burnout he has from years of  catching vicious killers.Cross is great hero because unlike other detectives he isn't cold cynic but passionate cop who uses his brains and heart in his case.We also getting chilling insight on why the mastermind hates Cross and why is obsessed in killing him and showing Cross he is smarter than him. The storyline of the two vampire killers is also memorable as Patterson goes into the minds of these so-called vampires as they seduce,stalk and murder their prey and their terrifying bloodlust that drives them to commmit these awful crimes.This novel also gives us a glimpse of fetish of vampirism and the misguided young people who inhabit underground where people actually believe they are vampires! This gripping thriller leads to heartstopping final confronation between Cross and Mastermind! A unforgettable masterpiece of psychological terror and suspense  that makes me believe in the realm of thrillers the true mastermind is James Patterson!	2001-12-05
US	52693037	R3RAP64AV94J79	0441008887	601344833	Dark Waters (Chronicles of the Unbinding, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Hunt Begins!	Stone's  gripping fantasy series comes to it's own in this<BR>novel his world-building skills are impressive as he once again takes us to a world reeling from a horrible mage war and how mages created a spell to take the magic out of the world and NOW a sorcerer called Madh and the assassin, Hain seek to undue the spell!<BR>Brandt Karrelian, the former spy turned Idustrialist is obsessed in hunting down the sadistic assasin called Hain who crippled his best friend.He is aided by childhood friend and thief called Marwick, the chaldean spy Elena Imbress and seasoned forest, Callom Pell. This novel has it all: plot twists as you see power-hungry chaldean general Amet Pale schemes to control the country.<BR>Our heroes must battle mythical monsters, bloodthirsty cult of immortal killers.Stone's action sequences are violent and mesmerizing as you see magical battles and scenes of brutal hand to hand combat and the final confrontation between Karrelian and Hain a top of a stone Island! I look forward to reading the next book and If Robert Stone is reading this review all I got to say is: Hurry up and write the next book! :)	2001-12-04
US	52693037	R3PSVBKN131VLT	0451458443	922158521	Grave Peril (The Dresden Files, Book 3)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Who you gonna Call?!	Harry Dresden, Jim Butcher's wise-cracking wizard gumshoe returns in this gripping adventure! This time Harry finds himself a reluctant ghostbuster who must discover who have stirred up the ghosts of the spirit world who are going on a terror spree in Chicago.Harry's adventures will take from escaping from seductive but manipulative fairy godmother who seeks to enslave him, to battle blood-thirsty vampires and finally to a terrifying ghost of a demon he has slain!Harry Dresden series is entertaining blend of magic mystery, mirth and mayhem as you watch Harry get himself into and of of trouble and who's sense of honor  is written in stone.The characters again come alive in this series like Harry's friend,michael a real knight who juggles saving the world with his responsiblities of his family.<BR>Bianca, the sinister head of the vampires in town and her equally menacing vampire hench people:Kyle and Kelly. Susan Rodriguez, Harry's on again off again reporter girlfriend. I love this series and you will to. So if you want excitement.Who you gonna call? Harry Dresden of course!	2001-11-14
US	52693037	R3KA5HG4GHIMSX	0312872356	54502094	The Ring of Five Dragons (The Pearl)	Books	5	7	11	N	N	A Masterpiece of World-Building!	One of the signs of a great writer is the ability to write something totally different from what you are familar with.Lustbader the man who wrote so thrilling Nicholas Linnear ninja books returns to fantasy in this lavish epic fantasy series called the Pearl. He takes us to the world of Kundalan where it's inhabitants have been enslaved for over a century by the brutal offworld empire of the V'ornn.The Kundalan people who use traditional sorcery and religion  see their society undermined from within by evil forces who seek to stop their use of magic.The only hope they have is prophecy of a messiah, The Dar Sala-at who is the only person who can wield the magic powerful enough to save their world! I was totally immersed in this epic saga! Lustbader's world-building skills are tremendous as he takes you step by step into his wondrous world in a story that is equal parts Dune and Wheel of Time.You will watch as  scenes of machivellian intrigues among the ruling V'ornn and religious Kundalann people as betrayal  and treachery are the norms of this war-torn planet.And you will be shocked by the sinister powers of Gyrgon, the mysterious rulers of the V'ornn.<BR>The characters come alive on through the pages of the epic saga:the twin sisters, Giyan and Batta who's destinies with the Dar Sala-at will put them at odds with each other.Eleusis Ashera, the kind-hearted V'ornn regent who's forward thinking policies for the planet seals his doom.The evil Wennn Stogggul, Ashera's most hated rival on the planet.and last but not least, Annon Ashera, Eleusis son, who's transformation will will decide the fate of this world!So pick up this book and be prepare to enter a realm of adventure, romance and intrigue that you will never forget!	2001-11-13
US	52693037	RJD8N4IPQWPHO	0812545346	270296894	Canyons	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Clever and gruesome!	Cacek had me totally enthralled with this witty and very violent<BR>werewolf &quot;romance&quot;. C.K. Moselle a tabloid reporter finds herself<BR>in one of her ridiculous stories when she is saved from being shot to death by drug-up juvenile by a werewolf!After her lycanthrope savior kills her attacker and flees, C.K. called Cat and her photographer,Ed; they discover that Denver is the battleground between two competing werewolf clans and one of them is terroizing Denver with some brutal murders; and she is the prize! Cacek's gripping horror novel slides from satirizing the sleazy tabloid business to gothic romance between Cat and her werewolf lover Lucius to full-blown graphic horror as the author describes the werewolf attacks in gruesome detail.The dialogue was especially funny as Cat sees her life become more like one of stories and she imagines the headlines about it! the characters also were great like noble Lucius as he tries to fight his attraction to Cat while protecting his Clan and clearing his name from the brutal murders committed by the rival werewolves!Ed-Cat's cynical photographer friend  a hilarious dirty old man with a few secrets of his own!Scooter, Lucius crippled twin brother who glides from sarcasm to self-pity. Fans of Laurell hamilton (like I am)is delicious brew of witty dialogue, gruesome gory and steamy romance!	2001-11-13
US	52693037	R39OZ4SWCADYU0	0786013915	16141461	Dawn Of The Vampire	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Nothing Will Stop Them Now! A Superior Vampire novel	This was a superior vampire novel about a group of childhood friends who's simple reunion becomes a terrifying battle to the death against a group of day-walking vampires! Troy Bane is searching for his friend Dillion, who has disappeared while investigating a local murder.What Troy and friends  do find is terror as they fight for survival against Von Damme and his army of day-walking vampires.Hill's gripping vampire novel has scenes of plot twists, sinister atmosphere and plenty of gruesome and bloody action sequences such as pitch battle between our heroes and some bloodthirsty wolves!Another thing I love is how Hill's plot twists like two sets of competing vampire groups. <BR>I also love how the author creates nearly unstoppable vampires who are not stopped by daylight or religious objects like crosses. I look forward to the author's next vampire novel!	2001-10-27
US	52693037	R27L4SQ5V416XL	0743417445	812373990	Entering Tenebrea Book One	Books	5	0	0	N	N	War and One woman's vengeance!	Kudos to Roxann Dawson and Daniel Graham in starting this<BR>gripping series about a young woman thirst for revenge against the backdrop of emerging interstellar war! Andrea Flores, a married young woman and mother of a infant daughter sees her life shattered; when offworld terrorists attack killing her husband and infant daughter! Now Andrea becomes a hardened avenger who seeks vengeance against the killers.Andrea must leave Earth and go to the alien Jod homeworld and join their elite military service called Tenebrea in the hopes of finding the killers! She endure a harsh training and prejudice of the Jod in her struggle and finally going undercover to the terrorists' homeworld, Cor Ordinate and lead a rebellion of clones! The authors have written superior military sf saga about a young woman who immediately gets our sympathy in her struggles to find justice for her murdered family. The authors' world-building skills are above-average in creating Jod civilization and fascist Cor Ordinate.I especially like the rugged scenes of the training of Tenebrea and finally gripping battle scenes upon Cor Ordinate.Bring on the next Andrea Flores novel, I want more!<BR>Cor Ordinate<BR>homeworld	2001-10-24
US	52693037	RMVKVGZ59JXGU	0671036092	861457833	Tenebrea's Hope (Tenebrea Trilogy #2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Better than the first One!	The writing team of Dawson and graham done it again in <BR>contuining Andrea's saga of war and revenge! This novel leaves<BR>off just where the first book ends as Andrea and the clones:<BR>Tara and Eric escape the fascist Cor Ordinate after destroying<BR>one of their cloning Institutes.They must return to leader of the Tenebrea, K'rin and give him the evidence of the Cor plot to <BR>create Clone killers in their attempt to attack the Jod.This novel has brilliant plot twists and scenes of political intrigue <BR>on the Jod Homeworld as K'rin must manuever among his enemies as he tries to warn his people of Cor Ordinate menace.This novel also has realistic and brutal action sequences like a assasination attempt against Andrea and her Jod friend H'roo Parh<BR>on Earth and bloody pitch battle between the clone rebels and <BR>Cor's army.The authors' world-building skills are  superior as usual as they create alien civilizations like Jod and Chelle.The characters are very memorable like our heroine, Andrea Flores<BR>and the brave clone resistance leaders like Tara and the hard-boiled Brigon. I can't wait to read the next book!	2001-10-24
US	52693037	R381XC0G9Q9P1B	0451204123	161070434	The Association	Books	5	1	4	N	N	The Real  Association is Bentley Little equals total terror!	Bentley Little, the modern master of horror is back at his <BR>subversive self in the creepy and terrifying tale, The Association.Remiscent of The Store, this novel is about Barry and his wife, Maureen made the fatal mistake of buying a house in exclusive neigborhood and joining the Bonita Vista homeowners's association.They soon will regret their decision as the find out the Association controls all of the homeowners with<BR>long list of rules and those who  break those rules are subject <BR>to heavy fines, brutal intimidation and worse! Barry and Maureen <BR>find out the hard way that no one fights the Association as they <BR>see their friends terrorized and murdered by the fascist Association.Your blood will run cold as you watch what happens to those who defy the Association. Some of the people are murdered and some  meet even more terrifying fate, becoming a stumpy! If you want to find out what I mean read the book!What makes this novel so frightening is that Little starts his story slowly as Barry and Maureen discover the sinister power of the Association and how they wield it with ruthlessly. The Association watches it's inhabitants with hidden cameras, armed guards and they decide who are your friends and gays and minorities are not allowed and the townies are subjected to having their pets poisoned and their children brutally murdered! While many horror authors retread plots with same old vampires, demons and serial killers,Little's novels are all original.The only thing they have in common is that they are all terrifying! So pick up the book find out with  Barry and Maureen welch all of the deadly secrets of the Association it's journey guaranteed to chill your blood!	2001-10-22
US	52693037	RMFXXV7JAAPLR	0812576365	254838749	Tangled Up In Blue (Snow Queen)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	far future Noir!	thank you Joan Vinge for returning me to one of my favorite<BR>worlds of SF, Tiamat. This sf novel skillfully combines the seedy nature of film noir and dazzling imagination of far future sf as she tells us a gripping story of corruption, murder and intrigue that threatens a interstellar civilization!Hegemonic cop, Nyx Laistree and his partners are vigilante cops who destroy property of criminals who are above the law but one of their raids go wrong and they are all killed except for Tree who loses his memory in the attack. He is suspended from the force and must try to figure out what happen that night.Tree only allies are by-the book sergeant Gundhalinu who hates him and mysterious shapeshifter prostitute with her own agenda.this novel is filled with scenes of deception and characters who motives no one can be sure of. This leads to a thrilling climax  and final denoucement against the villians.Vinge's world-building skills are still amazing as she takes us once again to her beautiful world of Tiamat with the ruthless Snow Queen, the honorable Hegemonic police, the sinister crime lord called the source! Gripping entertainment not to be missed!	2001-10-10
US	52693037	R2TI3ESVOLZNI8	1565048725	453422031	A Dozen Black Roses (Vampire - the Masquerade)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	She's Back!	Sonya Blue, Nancy Collins's unforgettable vampire slaying heroine returns in this very violent and gripping adventure.This time Sonya who is only known as The Stranger enters the sinister<BR>city of Deadtown.Deadtown is the bloody battleground of two competing vampire lords, Sinjon who has ruled the city for almost two centuries and Esher the utterly  ruthless younger vampire who wants the city for himself.They both traffic in drugs and use psychotic gangbangers as their armies.Sonya befriends Cloudy, a aging hippy and Ryan a young boy who's mother is controlled by Esher. Sonya decides to detroy both vampires, who are called Kindred in the novel.This short novel is filled with scenes of very graphic violence and visceral action sequences.The characters like the brave boy, Ryan are also very well drawn and the villians such as Esher and his sadistic vampire henchwoman, Decima also are memorable.My own complain of this book is that is really is a dark fantasy remake of two films: Yojimbo and Clint Eastwood's spaghatti western fistful of dollars.Once I knew the similarities between the book and those movies I guessed what would happen next in the plot and I was right all of the time.If u seen these movies you will remember what does happen in the novel as well.But other than that be prepared as Sonya Blue puts you under her spell as she puts the vampires dead under for good!	2001-10-05
US	52693037	R2D0MXOGRLY6R	0765341301	284373444	The Wayfarer Redemption: Book One	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Douglass is the wonder from down under!	Like the title of my review says, Douglass is the wonder from<BR>down under.I got this impression from finishing this stunning fantasy epic.Douglass has now added her name to likes of goodkind, Martin, Clemens and Hobb and other esteemed fantasy authors.She takes us to the realm of the Acharites, who are religiously devoted to their god Artor and loyal to his the powerful seneschal and  their god's intermediaies. The Archarites find their country attack by the evil Ice Lord Gorgrael and his terrifying army of flesh-eating monsters called skraelings.The only hope they have is in ancient prophecy of a savior called Starman who must unite the archarites with the people who they called the forbidden which include: bird-people called Icarii and nature loving race called Avar.This novel is filled with scenes of awesome beauty of this world, brutal realistic battle scenes and powerful magic.Douglass's skills in the world-building department are shown on ever page and her characters comes alive like the heroic leader of the Axe-Wielders, Axis who finds out how he fits into the prophecy on saving his people as he unraveles the mysteries concerning his birth.Faraday-the young woman who captures Axis's heart as she learns on her role in the prophecy and how she must marry Axis's worst enemy, his arrogant and cruel half brother, Lord Borneheld.Stardrifter, Axis's Iscarii sorcerer father who must unite his people and end <BR>centuries of distrust in the hopes of stoping Gorgrael.Wayferer Redemption also has themes of on how religious intolerance can create falsehoods that destroy a nation. Douglass's battle scenes are bloody and terrifying in the intensity as you watch as the bloodthirsty skraelings lay siege upon city of Gorkenfort.<BR>So stop reading this review and pick of this book and you won't be able to put it down!	2001-09-28
US	52693037	RTVS8FFEFMYVN	0312867506	54983475	Destiny: Child of the Sky	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Destined to be A Classic!	I just finished the awesome final to Haydon's epic fantasy trilogy,Rhapsody.Haydon saves the best for last in this saga.Our heroes: Rhapsody, Aschmed and Grunthor who are prophecized in ridding their world of the evil F'dor demon must round up all of the offspring of their enemy in hopes that their blood will locate the demon. Haydon's world-building skills are incredible as once again she gives you history of her make-believe world.This series has it all:lyrical prose that literally sings on the pages.Plot twists as you watch the moving love story between Rhapsody and Ash comes to it's conclusion.This novel also has some harrowing action scenes as f'dor manipulates various forces to his own ends.Another thing I love about this novel is that Haydon answers all of these questions like who is the time editor? You will find out and the answer will surprise you! Rhapsody's world comes alive in these pages like never before in scenes of haunting beauty and romance and scenes of unspeakable evil with those f'dor.Haydon also knows how to lighten up with some witty bandering between Rhapsody and lovable and also quite lethal Bolg, Grunthor.Unforgettable climax to a saga that is Destined to greatness!	2001-09-12
US	52693037	RCCUV3VZ4KNZ8	0786915749	486220975	Dragons of Autumn Twilight (Dragonlance Chronicles, Volume I)	Books	5	51	60	N	N	Now I can Say I've had a Dragonlance experience! I want More	I have to admit I was a little reluctant to read this book.<BR>I've had a little prejudice toward books based on gaming but now after reading this masterpiece, I'm hooked on dragonlance!Weis and Hickman have successfully transported me to the world of Krynn.When I first started the book, I thought this would be quick undemanding tolkenish fantasy read with your humans,dwarves and elves battling against evil.I was wrong! Weis and Hickman's novel, Dragons of Autumn Twilight is more complex than that.You have a diverse group of friends: Tanis-the noble half elf/half human who is a great leader and who is torn between two women: warrior maiden, Kitiara and elfwoman, Laurana.<BR>Sturm Brightblade-the knight of Solamnia who seeks to bring back honor to knighthood.Flint Fireforge, the gruff but lovable dwarf.<BR>Caramon-the giant warrior with the heart of gold.Tasslehoff Burrfoot-the comical kender and last but not least, Raistlin.<BR>Caramon's dark twin brother who is powerful but secretive mage.These heroes come together in what they thought would be a peaceful homecoming but instead they meet up chieftain's daughter, Goldmoon and her lover Riverwind.Goldmoon carries a powerful blue crystal staff with awesome magical powers.These heroes soon find themselves battling sinister draconian soldiers and terrifying dragons to save their homeland from a invasion from evil minions of the queen of darkness! The authors have created a stirring saga of loyality of friendship.The passion of true love and passionate fight against evil.The world building skills are considerable as you get a history lesson of this beautiful but troubled world.A the complexity of characterizations are outstanding.Characters like Raistlin, the dark mage who quiet and who seeks power through spells even after his obession destroys his body and distances himself from his friends and Tanis a quiet but effective leader who can lead his friends into battle but cannot make decisions of the heart.This novel alsohas scenes of fierce battles, witty bantering between tass and Flint and touching romance between Goldmoon and Rivewind.A unforgettable saga of adventure awaits you in this book so turn the first page and be enthralled!	2001-09-07
US	52693037	RLTXOKSX2PT2I	1857988604	762174729	Dawnthief	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Truly Heroic Tale!	Three cheers for Barclay in creating this truly heroic tale of a group of mercenaries who must work together stop a terrible evil from destroying their land! Raven, a cynical band of mercenaries find themselves allies with a sinister college of dark magic to cast a powerful spell to save their world from the vast army of barbarian wesmen who are lead by shaman and evil Wytch Lords.Barclay spices his epic novel with brutal and realistic battles scenes and powerful images of magic and sorcery.He also has splendid plot twists and not scared to kill off favorite character.Unforgettable reading experience!	2001-08-18
US	52693037	R1627JE0HLV6K3	1565049004	732895713	Midnight Blue: Sonja Blue Collection	Books	5	24	28	N	N	Vampire Terminator	If Buffy is the slayer and Anita Blake is the executioner then Sonya Blue is the vampire terminator! You will get that assumption when you finished the unforgettable epic dark fantasy book chronicling the bloody exploits of one Sonya Blue a young woman who once a rich young heiress by the name of Denise Thorne until she was raped and drained of blood by a vicious vampire by the name of Morgan.Now as Sonya blue she hunts down other vampires hoping to find and destroy Morgan.She must also contend with her alter-ego a sadist demon called the Other that shares her mind and who gains pleasures from killing and pain.In the first book:Sunglasses after dark.You first meet Sonya as she  escapes from a mental hospitol and battles a sinister lady televangelist who also is a telepath.She tells you in her own words on how she became a vampire and how she decides to hunt other vampires called pretenders and their human psychic slaves called renfields.The second book:In the Blood sonya with the aid of private eye goes after Morgan.This book gives you more of understanding of Sonya and her terrifying world that invisible to normal humans.A world of vampires,demons, werewolves and succubus.The last book:Paint it Black Sonya finally accepts herself as a vampire as she continues her vendatta against Morgan.Collins has introduces us to unforgettable heroine who is witty and sexy,violent and who still holds our sympathies even after she commits shocking deeds.She also gives a some great characters like private eye-Palmer who agrees to help sonya is her battles and soon regrets it.Anise-the doomed vampire/hybrid who used by Morgan is his attempts to create a master race of vampires.Pangloss-the powerful vampire who made Morgan and now seeks to destroy him.Lethe-the daughter of Anise who transformation will change the world.Collins's Sonya Blue novels are the best dark fantasy since Anita Blake series and filled gruesome scenes of monsters,magic and menace as Sonya takes us guide tour ofher frightening world!	2001-08-13
US	52693037	R3B0TJPNNGMIFI	0441008372	532343744	Hazard's Price (The Chronicle of the Unbinding, Book 1)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Very good Debut!	Stone has written a very good novel that combines the genres of sword&amp;sorcery with spy thriller. Long ago a terrible war was fought between two nations:Chaldus and Yndor and it was fought by mages to prevent another war of magic from rising up a spell was woven.The spell took most of the magic from the world.This was called the binding.Only a selective few ministers from these countries know the words to undo the spell.And Now someone is killing these ministers and torturing them to gain the words for that spell.Galatine Hazard, a rich businessman, who has a dark past as a thief and spy is being framed for those murders.He must stop the assasin before he brings two countries to war and unlease the powers of that spell! Stone's novel has some gripping scenes of intrigue, magic and action.This novel also has some memorable characters like Hazard who finds out that you cannot escape your past.Taylor Ash-the courageous head of Chaldean Intelligence.Cain-Hazard's best friend and business associate.Aston-the wily retired head of chaldean intelligence and wizard.Hain-the sadist assasin who is hired for the murders. The only that prevented me from giving it five-stars is Stone takes too long to get Hazard on the trail of the assasin and this novel is another ... (sigh) series in the making because there is a cliffhanger.But all and all a impressive debut.	2001-08-07
US	52693037	R24OJ5NVPDOYLM	0451458125	54721316	Fool Moon (Dresden Files)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Even Better than the first book!	Harry Dresden returns in this gripping fantasy thriller! This time Dresden must help the police to stop werewolf who is terrorizing Chicago with some gruesome murders.Once again our wizard gumshoe finds himself in a deadly squeeze play between cops, trigger-happy FBI agents, shape-shifting motorcycle gang members and his old enemy, the ruthless mobster john Marcone.Butcher is very good in throwing you tidbits of the earlier life of Harry and his plot twists are quite ingenious.I also loved the bloody action sequences as you watch as the werewolf decimates the chicago Police department and final and gripping showdown in Marcone's estate.But beware this novel is twice as violent as the first one.Once again he gives us some memorable characters who help or hinder Dresden in his case.Tera- the sexy and mysterious shapeshifter. Denton-sinister FBI agent and Susan-a reporter who falls for Harry. Bring on the next Dresden adventure!	2001-08-04
US	52693037	R2JEEV1SEIY5GT	0451457811	823834280	Storm Front (Dresden Files)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Spirtual Soulmate for Anita Blake!	You could call the hero of this impressive novel,Harry Dresden a spirtual soulmate for Laurell Hamilton's Anita blake.Harry dresden the only wizard you will find in the Chicago's yellow pages is asked by police to help solve a brutal double-homicide done by dark magic.Dresden soons finds himself in a deadly web of  dark magic, murderous mobsters and of course murder as he desperately tries to solve the murder before the white council of wizards executes him for the crime! Butcher introduces us to memorable hero who is no master wizard or detective but everyman hero,Butcher also gives Harry some memorable friends and enemies like Karrin Murphy, Harry gruffy police Lt friend, John Marcone-the dapper but utterly ruthless mafia boss, a spirit that resides in talking skull who is only thinks about sex,a vampire Madam! This novel was witty combination of hard-boiled detective genre and fantasy.	2001-08-03
US	52693037	RKG646XFU4EH3	0441008356	824019804	Revelation Space	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Dark Space Opera!	I just got done reading in my humble opinion the best sf novel of the year,Revelation Space. Reynolds has estabished himself with this grand and mostly chilling space opera set in the 26th century.He has the ability to tell diverse storylines and have them come together in cohensive and gripping fashion.Dan Sylveste, a obessive scientist on the colony world of Resurgam seeks to find the answers for why the planet's original inhabitants,the Amarantins a avian race was wiped out eons ago. But Sylveste doesn't know it but he and his simulation of his dead, father calvin are being seek by cyborg crew of starship Nostalgia for Infinity to cure their captain who suffers from nanotech plague.Sylveste isn't aware that one of the crew,a lady assasin, Khouri is contracted to kill him!The tension of this novel is so palpable you can almost cut it with the knife.Reynolds also knows his plot twists, as he illustrates that in the future technology changes but human nature doens't as he gives scenes of machivellian manuvers among the crew of Nostlagia.Characters in this epic novel also are not what they appear to be like the brave and sometimes ruthless Volyoya who seeks to save her captain from the nanotech plague. Khouri the assasin who must kill Sylveste in order to be reunited with her husband.The deadly Sajaki who agendas on the ship no one knows.Reynolds how to create memorable worlds and aliens like engimatic intelligence called the Shroud and how those who enters it are changed. The atmosphere of the creepy ship, Nostlagia very memorable as the crew battle each other and deadly stowaway called Sun Stealer.Reynolds also gives a answer why there are few intelligent civilizations found in the universe.the reason will terrify you!The author's ability in universe-building puts him in the same league as David Brin, Greg Bear, and frank herbert as he tells a epic saga that transcences space and billions of years in the history of the universe.Reynolds also knows how tell a storywith hars science in a way that doesn't confuse the reader or take away from the human element of story.Reynolds knows how write action sequences as he describes in relish as the ship battles the defenses of the machine planet,Cerberus and terrifying escape from the menace of the Sun Stealer.This was the best space opera I've read since Peter Hamilton's Reality Dysfunction series and bodes well for Reynolds future in the genre!	2001-07-27
US	52693037	R339QW2JJNUBGC	0312872380	615549012	Kushiel's Dart (Kushiel's Legacy)	Books	5	7	11	N	N	A Darkly erotic epic fantasy!	Great epic fantasy is successful when it takes you to places you have never entered before.Authors like George Martin,China Mieville, Robin Hobb, Steven Erikson and Goodkind are examples now add Jacqueline Carey name to this esteem list. &quot;When Love cast me out,it was Cruelty who took pity upon me.&quot; These words help start up this dark erotic epic fantasy that will take you to the kingdom of Terre d'Ange, a country born of angels where prostitution is a holy act and court intrigue is most lethal.You will see this through the eyes of unforgettable heroine,Phedre who is sold  to the engimatic Delaunay to be trained as a courtesan and schooled in foreign languages and is to become Delaunay's spy.She will learn her nation's darkest secrets and deadiliest conspiracies.Phedre's adventures will take her to the beds of her country's most powerful men, to be sold to slavery to a barbarian king and savior of her homeland from a brutal invasion! This lavish epic fantasy is filled with scenes of disturbing sexuality as Phedre who gets sexual pleasure through use of pain, court intrigue as she uncovers a treasonous plots to overthrow the king.This novel also boasts casts of characters like the warrior priest,Joscelin who vows to protect Phedre as he loses his heart toward her.The Noble Anafiel Delaunay, Phedre's owner who teaches her to become a master spy for his agendas.Hyacinthe,Phedre's kind-hearted friend who is the prince of travelers and to save his homeland will make a heartbreaking sacrifice and the power hungry Skaldian warlord, Waldemar who seeks to conquer Terre d'ange and the brilliant but utterly ruthless villianess, Melisandre who use machivellian manuvers in quest for ultimate power.Carey has the ability to tell scenes of disturbing sensuality and sweeping battle scenes.Carey's world-building abilities are excellent.So pick up this book and enter Phedre's world of dark desire and darker intrigue.You will never forget the journey!	2001-06-29
US	52693037	R20FF2GTJMI08E	0821739026	990633231	The Reckoning	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Gruesome Tale!	Once again Jensen has produce another skin-crawling sensation that only a master of horror can do.A small town with a rash of child disappearances is suddenly plagued by a group of mysterious children who look like the children that have gone missing through the years! The origins of these children and what they do to this town will chill your blood! A classic tale of terror will linger in your mind and maybe in your dreams!	2001-06-01
US	52693037	R2G3BFW6SROHBD	0451452429	555749751	Blood and Honor	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Green can do no Wrong!	Once again Simon Green has given us another of his long line of very entertaining stories.This one concerns a down on his luck actor who agrees to become through magic of course to be stand in for ailing Prince Viktor.The actor,Jordan soon regrets his decision as he enters the sinister Castle Midnight where the real battle the terrifying unreal and he must match wits with Viktor's evil brothers, Lewis and insane sorcerer Dominic and their various henchmen.This novel has scenes of terrifying menace as the characters battle monsters and other creepy things thrown at them from barriers of the Unreal and there are scenes of lethal court intrigue and machivellian manuvers as each brother plots against one and another and no one is what they seem to be and no one can be trusted! A gripping fantasy novel set in the same world as Green's Blue Moon Rising.This novel also has ingenious murder mystery as you try to unravel who killed King Malcolm to gain the throne.The various villians like murderous Prince Lewis and dangerously insane Dominic were quite memorable as with some of the female characters as brave steward, Catriona Taggart, ruthless Lady Elizabeth and Viktor's ambitious Lady Heather were also great.Add this novel as feather in Green's cap as one of the most entertaining sf/fantasy author in the market today!	2001-05-30
US	52693037	R32C6O9WGF4PW6	0671721046	824659762	The Deed of Paksenarrion: A Novel (Baen Fantasy)	Books	5	19	21	N	N	I love Paks and You will too!	I just got done reading one of the best epic fantasies I've read! Like the medieval ministrels Moon tells us a tale of great deeds, tragedies and truimphs of a unforgettable heroine, Paksenarrion, or Paks to her friends as you will soon be as you read her story. You will follow Paks as she decides to defy her father and not marry a pigfarmer and follow her dream to become a great warrior.You watch her as she joins a mercenary company of the leadership of the noble Duke Phelan and see the world.And what is Paks world you might ask? Paks'world is place with it's own set of myths and legends,beauty, great evil and greater good.You will watch Paks as she grows from a starry-eyes young private to a seasoned veteran in scenes of battles and wars.Moon's description of life of a medieval fantasy mercenary so realistic you would swear she was one herself.You will also see bit by bit Paks true destiny which is to become a Paladin knight in the service of Gird.Another thing that makes her endearing is that Moon makes Paks a real person.She is no unstoppable Xena clone but a real flesh and blood person with her own fears which she must conquer to reach her great destiny.Moon's world-building skills are quite impressive as you see Paks' world through her eyes.You will watch as our heroine battle great evil like followers of the sinister gods like Achrya the spinner of webs and Liart the master of Torments.The book is one of the most deeply spirtual fantasies I've ever read because there are scenes where Paks is tortured by her enemies and only her faith of her god and Gird are her only weapons.Finally you will watch as Paks fulfills her destiny by restoring a king to his kingdom and help defeat the forces of evil.I implore Ms. Moon to write another Paks novel because I want to read more of her adventures and see more of her beautiful and unforgettable world through her eyes!	2001-05-23
US	52693037	RR7UVGU5F445Q	0553812173	599137545	Gardens of the Moon	Books	5	8	16	N	N	Rival for George R.R. Martin!	Yes you read it right! George R.R.Martin, the man who has written my favorite fantasy series,Song of Ice and Fire has rival to his throne!Who is the Rival you may ask? The rival's name is Steven Erikson and his saga is called Gardens of the Moon. This epic fantasy novel was unforgettable masterpiece! Erikson's world-building skills has launch him into the ranks of Martin,Hobb, Clemens and Goodkind in this novel.Gardens of the Moon concerns a terrible war being waged between Malazan empire under brutal reign of Empress Laseen and immortal Anomander Rake and his formidable Tiste Andi.This war is fought with both armies and magic.This novel concerns the epic battle between these forces for the city-state of Darujhistan. This book is filled with scenes of brutal combat, sinister intrigue and powerful dark magic and sorcery.Unforgettable characters inhabit this wartorn world like Sergeant Whiskeyjack and his squad of bridgeburners who serve the Empress Laseen and not knowing that she plots to betray them and have them killed.Paran, a young nobleman sent by Laseen and her ruthless Adjunct,Lorn to betray the noble bridgeburners and who insteads helps them.Anomander Rake, a immortal being fighting the Malazan empire for his dying race.Crokus younghand, a teen thief of Darujhistan who finds himself unwilling pawn this battle.This novel also has scenes of scheming and menacing gods  who possess the bodies of mortals  and manipulate the world to the own ends.And did I mention the action sequences? There are fight scenes in here to put the Matrix to shame! Plot twists as you see betrayal and treachery are the norms in this world where noble soldiers are targeted for death by their own rulers and young woman who can become  souless killer.Erikson's world is a intricate and complex as our own as he slowly gives you it's history and his magic system is also very unique as he gives you scenes of conjuring of demons and ancient evil to do bidding of various sorcerers, assasins andpowerful gods.I can't wait to get my hands on the next book in the series:Deadhouse Gates to see if this series will beat Song of Ice and fire as the best fantasy in print!	2001-05-21
US	52693037	R1KX8YFJL9JZZN	1894063007	374275778	The Black Chalice	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Rich Tapestry of dark magic, erotic obsession and betrayal!	I was very impressed with this novel! Jakober has written a rich epic of novel of dark pagan magic,sexual obession and betrayal!A  aging monk tells a story of when he was squire to a great knight and how that knight was corrupted by wiles of beautiful but evil witch and help start a civil war in early 12th century Germany.As he writes he visited by that witch and she compells him to tell the truth story on what really happened.This novel is gripping saga of one cynical knight who with the help of erotic sorceress stops his duke from stealing crown of Germany.This novel has scenes of eerie magic and sorcery, brutality and betrayal as you see the events through the eyes of his squire, Paul who resents the power the witch has over his master and seeks to betray him.Jakober knows her myths and legends well as she weaves this stunning tapestry.This novel is not only about the battle of the knight Karelian and sorceress called Raven against power-hungry duke Gottfried but it also about the battle between christianity and waning but still potent forces of paganism and magic in the world.Jakober's knows medieval history with it's church politics, shameful treatment of women and cold brutality of it's nobility.I was also impressed with her lyrical prose which gave this novel a gothic feel as she describes in great relish scenes of necromancy as Karelian rides with army of dead knights to do battle, shape-shifting and other eerie sights.My only complaint in this novel was it was too short and I wanted it to be longer!	2001-05-12
US	52693037	R26O09FQGM2BYJ	0553380702	556587642	Summerblood	Books	3	2	3	N	N	good but not great!	This was decent fantasy novel but I thought it was probably the weakest in the series.Once again Deitz takes us to the war-torn land of Eron where Avall the war hero and reluctant young king must try to find ways rule his country by keeping the various clans happy.But Avall's problems become worse when a fanatical clan called the Priest cult plots to overthrow him and seize the magical jems that Avall used to defeat Ixians in the war.The problem I had with the book is that the characters behaved in stupid matter and even though the priest cult was suitable fanatical in the aims they were poor villians in comparision to  King Baraxx from the previous two books.	2001-05-09
US	52693037	R2YO3D4NXM4V9B	0786012382	630081209	Night Thunder	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Creepy to the Max!	Jensen continues to astonish me with her quietly eerie horror novels! This one is no exception as she tells of a town that unwillingly awakens a sleeping evil that seduce and destroys whole families with the promise of eternal life.Does this sounds like Vampirism? If you say yes your answer would be dead wrong, it's worse!This evil is the guise of physically beautiful people prey upon families to kill their children so they can resurrected to become  members of their unholy church and join their &quot;nuclear&quot; family.Jensen knows how to chill the blood in the truly sinister novel.	2001-05-05
US	52693037	R31FB8E3F2PDMN	0345443020	981903971	Perdido Street Station (Bas-Lag)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Unforgettable Feast of the imagination!	This novel was a feast of the imagination!Mieville has created a world that combines the terror of the unknown like H.P.Lovecraft and gritty neocyberpunk of authors like William Gibson and Bruce sterling. Mieville transports us to the city of New Corbuzon vast city of humans,khepri-part human part insect, and other nonhuman races.Isaac Dan der Grimnebulin, a brilliant undisciplined scientist is visited by flightless bird man who pleads with him to help him regain the ability to flight.Lin,Isaac's Khepri artist lover is employed by a hideous gangster.But poor Isaac has more pressing problems, one of his experiments, a strange moth escapes from capitivity.This creature feeds upon dreams and consciouness of other beings.This one moth becomes four and is a  menace so terrifying that even the agents of hell are fearful of it! Mieville has extraordinary skills in world-building department and he has uncanny knack of conjures up images from our wildest dreams and darkest night!mares.Like slath-moths who prey upon minds, criminals who are transformed into horrifying remakes.City Officials who traffic with agents of hell and my candidate for the most original character of the year,An interdimensional giant alien spider called The Weaver.I might be wrong in saying this early but this novel is one to beat for fantasy novel of the year!So if you are tired of elves, dwarves and sword of this and Wheel of that;then open up this book and prepared to be transported to a place you will live in your imagination for alltime!	2001-04-11
US	52693037	R3NOTSN5LJ0S9Q	0821727850	361459296	Death Stone	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Well-told chiller!	this is the second time for me of reading a book by Jensen.The first book I read The Haunting was lackluster horror novel so I was very surprised with the quality of this novel.nine-year old Greta is out playing with her cousins when they find a ring down a old well and a skeleton! Greta decides to keep it for herself and soons regrets her decision for when she puts her ring on she is terrorized by a evil force that beckons her with whispers to kill her family!Greta's family one by one falls victim of this evil force in the guise of a formless black shadow.This quietly eerie horror novel combines supernatural menace with a murder mystery as a policeman in the neighborhood tries to catch the killer of the person in the well.Both storylines  converge into a chilling and surprising conclusion!Jensen has written a chilling story of one family who has some skeletons in their own closet and their fatal and terrifying experience with the supernatural.	2001-04-09
US	52693037	R3B9N8BC4VX5OV	0451200284	499799834	Scavenger	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Another  Sinister  Shocker!	Tom Savage, the literary Alfred Hitchcock does it again with this sinister tale of serial murder and deception.Best-selling  author Mark Stevenson is given a golden opportunity to discover the identity of a brutal serial killer called the Family man who  years ago slaughtered whole families and who has never gotten caught!He is given this chance by a mysterious fan called Scavenger who has devised a cunning little game where Stevenson must look for clues around the country to the whereabouts of this killer.This novel like Savage's other classics is masterpiece of psychological suspense where nothing is what appears to be! You will watch as Stevenson soon regrets his decision to participates in the macabre little game.So join Mark Stevenson in this chilling scavenger hunt as he discovers the grisly secrets of serial killer and you will discover as I did that Tom Savage is the master of suspense!	2001-03-31
US	52693037	R3QM37BSJCZ1H7	0553381016	542045977	The Dark Remains (The Last Rune, Book 3)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Spellbinding story-telling ability	Once again Anthony had me spellbound with story-telling ability! This is the third in his soon to be classic Last Rune series.He takes us right where he left off with the last one. Grace and Travis take the severely wounded knight,Beltan to Earth.There they must stop a sinister corporation that with help of dark magic seeks to kidnap Beltan in their quest to get to Eldh and exploit it! Meanwhile on Eldh Baroness Aryn and her witch friend Lirith aid the goddess Melia and immortal bard Falken stop a powerful evil that is killing gods!Anthony's world-building skills get better in each installment of his series.He is able to bring more focus to his world of Eldh and it's history and mythology.He also knows how add more interesting characters such as Marji, a kind-hearted transvetite and lethal lady assasin,Vani a woman so tough she could give Xena a run for her money!Anthony also knows how combines chills with his thrills with descriptions of unrelenting evil as deadly golden spiders who bite kills in seconds and some terrifying ape-like monsters terrorizing our heroes on both worlds! Anthony also puts a little X-file type conspiracy with this one with it's sinister corporation,Duratek and the mysterious group called Seekers.But a word of warning to everyone: this novel does end with a cliffhanger other than that  your hands will be glued to the pages of gripping fantasy novel with it's memorable cast of characters, chilling scenes of evil and nearly nonstop action and suspense!	2001-03-19
US	52693037	R239BGUWAM79ZJ	0553380230	181257346	The Saints of the Sword: Book Three of Tyrants and Kings (Tyrants and Kings, Bk 3)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Very Impressive!	You could probably name this novel redemption of Biagio because this epic conclusion to Marco's impressive fantasy saga is about how Biagio, the sometimes cruel and Mad emperor of Nar tries to change his evil ways and save his empire from invasion BUT he needs the help from some unlikely sources:a boy who is the son and the grandson of the men who are trying to overthrow him and who has magical powers to heal;a group of rebels lead by a charismatic priest and Biagio's nemesis, Richius Vantran, aka the Jackal. Biagio must also betray his old friend Admiral Nicabar by using the Lissans and a Naren sea captain who once idolized Nicabar.Marco's themes of war,revenge and redemption echo through this novel and his world-building skills are still above-average and descriptions of battles on the sea and land are a wonder to behold.I hope he returns to world of empire of Nar! It was quite a journey.	2001-02-24
US	52693037	R3UZAFCT93S2BS	0553106635	549456361	A Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Storm is Coming and it's Awesome!	I first start this review with the statement I might learn to hate George R.R.Martin! Why? you may ask because he gets us hooked on his drug, A his saga of A Song of Ice and Fire and now when you finished the last page; a terrible realization hits you.You won't be reading another book in the series for at least a year in a half and now you must suffer through less authors like Jordan.Now I've gotten that off my chest here is my review. Martin has transport us back to Seven Kingdoms, a beautiful land torn with brutal warfare, sinister intrigues and terrible dark magic.Three kings still struggle for power: King Joffey, a spoil and cruel boy who holds the irone throne, King Robb of the north and King Stannis.All scheming and struggles for power will come to naught because barbaric wildings are planning to overrun the kingdom and most terrifying of all a army of the undead are poised to invade the Seven Kingdoms and nothing can stop them! You will watch in awe as Martin's plot twists in every conceible direction as characters you hate like Jaime Lannister and clegane nicknamed the hound find unexpected nobility.Martin has the ability to shock with violent deaths of beloved characters and he knows how to described a battle scene in a cinematic quality.This novel is what I describe is realistic epic fantasy, in that take away the magic from in and you have easily had real medieval history with tangled politics, bloody battles and people who are neither good or evil but are trying to survive.The lyrical prose of the novel heightens the tension and atmosphere.So pick up this book and return to the place of dark magic and darker deeds where noble imp Tywin Lannister battles his corrupt family for survival, and brave jon Snow goes uncover to the wildings and lose his heart and his innocence and treachery can come from the most happiest of places and of chilling revenge.	2001-02-12
US	52693037	R3A64L96YD9D58	0345417097	871184330	Wit'ch War (The Banned and the Banished, Book 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Dark and Lavish!	This series is tied with Martin's Song of Fire and Ice as my favorite! Clemens once again puts us under his spell as Elena and  her allies take their fight for freedom to the dark forces themselves in pages and pages of bloody battles, narrow escapes and plot twists.Clemens's Alansea is a masterpiece of world-building as you go further in history of this war-torn  land.The cinematic quality of this series atonishes me as Clemens gives you descriptions of battles on the sea and land, magic both  awesome and terrifying and the sinister atmosphere of A'loa Glen as they seek thr blood diary held by evil Shorkan!Unforgettable fantasy saga! Don't Miss it!	2001-01-18
US	52693037	R30UYZB1ODGY86	0451457730	898233857	Stardoc	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Medical Space Opera!	This novel was a promising start to great series!Mix in a spunky lady doctor,a colony world filled with different sorts of alien races add in xenophobic humans, romance, nasty epidemic and plot twists.Dr. Grey Veil was one of the most endearing heroine I've come across since Festina Rampos(the unforgettable heroine of Expendable)You will see Cherijo have confronations with her overbearing father, battle a deadly virus that threatens the planet and carry on a interspecies romance with a dashing alien pilot.I do agree with a previous reviewer in that Viehl does have a bleak view of humanity and how we will probably deal with alien races if we have in contact with them.Viehl has created some imaginative alien races in her debut novel and her world-building skills are above-average.So hope aboard a spaceship with Cherijo and take a adventure into outer reaches of space and inner reaches of the human and the not so human heart.You won't regret the journey, I sure didn't!	2000-12-20
US	52693037	R2EEQUZKJ3M7U7	0671721720	65617579	The Honor of the Queen (Honor Harrington Series, Book 2)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	I feel sorry for the Peeps!	As I stated in my title I feel sorry for the Peeps as once again they are pitted against our very formible and lovable Honor Harrington.Honor Harrington this time must stop them from conquering the peaceful but backward planet of Grayson and she and Nimitz  foil a assasination attempt on Grayson's leader in a gripping and very violent action sequence.This novel like the other ones in the series has all the right ingredients:above average universe-crafting and characterization.Weber's military action sequences  are first-rate!	2000-11-30
US	52693037	R2OWR6P7O6LBH3	0451201744	232812399	The Walking	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Little puts you under his spell again!	Bentley Little, my favorite horror author does it again with this truly chilling horror novel.Little can take a old horror cliche: walking dead and breaths new life to it(no pun intended. A town of witches, walking dead and evil curse from beyond the grave are some of the elements in this terrifying novel.Little's novel sinister atmosphere is so palpable you can almost feel the evil and the terror.Another classic of true fright!	2000-11-23
US	52693037	R221N94PYV2Z3Y	0316693251	319187092	Roses Are Red (Alex Cross)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Chilling ride!	Patterson, the master thriller author does it again with new alex cross shocker.Cross faces his most terrifying opponent yet, evil criminal genius called mastermind who has engineered deadly string of bank-robberies and the cold-blooded murders of the hostages.I defy anyone to start this book and not want to finish it in one sitting! Patterson is the master of suspense as he takes you into the mind of his villian and you worry as Cross's personal life seems to unravel as he battles the mastermind.The plot twists of this novel are fiendishly clever and Patterson says the best for last with a final denoucement on the last sentence that will surprise and chill you!	2000-11-23
US	52693037	R25PUSQOAG5C6L	1892065010	823146766	Partners in Necessity	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Now I'm hooked!	I now consider myself a liaden universe fan! This was a gripping and sometimes heartwarming space opera.Lee and Miller's world-building is great as they gives us conflicts,romances and  between terrans, liadens, and those wonderful alien turtles! I also love how they meld espionage, military sf, romance and some witty dialogue into a cohensive saga.When you start this book prepare to fall in love with it's characters and their adventures  you will never forget!	2000-11-23
US	52693037	R1X2YE711X25ET	0312890044	10648165	Moonheart	Books	5	19	20	N	N	gripping and magical!	I was very impressed with De Lint's novel, Moonheart.Now take a great portion of celtic and native american myths, stir in  unrelenting suspense and just hint of Xfiles style conspiracy and you have the making of modern fantasy thriller.De Lint's has a great talent in bringing ancient magic into the modern world in such a way that you can help from turning pages in eager anticipation. I also love his characters  like the reformed biker, Blue, Sara Kendall, and RCMP cop, John Tucker.De Lint knows how to turn the screws as he puts his heroes through the ringer as they battle a endless onslaught of monsters and dark magic.I look forward to reading his next novel!	2000-11-06
US	52693037	R10MFK1MIZT6KG	0553103237	331407913	Ship of Destiny (Liveship Traders, Book 3)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Atonishing climax to unforgettable saga!	I just finished Hobb's classic Liveship epic.As I close the book I just let the images of her series set in my mind.Hobb's talents world-building, characterization, pacing are impeccable.In this novel you will learn the incredible secret that binds the liveships, dragons and sea serpents together.You will see characters like Malta Haven grow from spoil girl to a courageous  young woman and you will the fate of Kennit, the ruthless pirate king.Kennit himself is a great achievement in that you have a man of great charisma, iron-will who does deeds both good and evil and is driven to a tragic destiny. Kennit is a character of almost shakespearian briliance!You will learn the connection between him and the tragically madship paragon.Another character that I loved was engimatic dragon,Tintaglia  who can be both manipulative, charming and menacing at the same time!Hobb is also master of suspense as she describes vivid sea battles in great detail and her love and knowledge of the sea is very  evident.You will also see how Young Winstrow grows into a able seaman and you will wince at the cowardly and weak satrap.A great ending to seafaring fantasy and another feather in Ms. Hobb's hat!	2000-10-31
US	52693037	RZ7QS1NQBV5NL	0312867514	915491164	Prophecy: Child of Earth (Symphony of Ages, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Powerful sequel!	Haydon continues to enchant and enthrall me with her powerful sequel to Rhapsody.This novel has scenes of lyrical beauty, witty dialogue(especially from Grunthor, one of the most memorable characters to every grace a fantasy novel) and scenes of unspeakable evil.Haydon's world-building skills are above average, characterizations  are also great.This novel answers some of the questions of the first novel and she moves her heroes one step closer to fulfilling their destiny in defeating the evil F'dor.You will also learn Ashe's real identity in this novel as well and how he fits into the plot of the novel.Few writers I know can switch gears from scenes of beauty and romance and take you into some graphic depictions of evil and soul possession. The only thing else I can say is Bring on Book 3!	2000-10-12
US	52693037	RMMBI8UUIIS6	0553378643	607990015	Springwar (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	gripping fantasy!	I really enjoyed this sequel to Bloodwinter.Dietz returns us to his  fantasy world of conflict and magic as forces both good and evil vie  possession of the magical gems. Ixia's brutal king Barrax invades Eron and  sinister priest clans plots treason.Dietz's atmospheric writing style is  evident in describing use of this magical stones and some gripping battle  scenes.Now bring on book 3!	2000-09-19
US	52693037	R3BI0NK9L7PJ2G	067157793X	616051317	On Basilisk Station (Honor Harrington #1)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Grand Military Sf Epic! I love Honor Harrington!	Honor Harrington is my favorite sf character. Think Capt Kirk cross with  Xena! This novel is a introduction to one of the best sf series ever  written.We find our heroine consigned  to Basilisk Station after she  &quot;steps of a few political toes&quot; and must stop a attack from  People Republic of Haven.This novel has one of the most vividly described   space battles ever put on page and execellent world-building and  characterizations. All in all the most intelligent space opera series on  record!	2000-08-28
US	52693037	R3NRMWLDGUHVVS	0451450957	529934329	Blue Moon Rising (Hawk & Fisher)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	What a rollercoaster ride!	Green has done it again! Few better known authors has his story-telling  ability.I don't know any other author that has a book that can swing from  clever satire to bloody action and court intrigue without missing a  beat!The hero: Prince Rupert reminds me of another Green hero,Owen  Deathstalker in that he a reluctant warrior who must rise to the occassion  for honor and duty against overwhelming odds.This novel has it all: clever  satire that spoofs cliches in fairy tales and fantasy novels with honorable  goblins and friendly dragons and courageous moat monster.This novel also  has terrifying scenes of battles against demons and monsters and some tense  court intrigue.I loved the atmospheric darkwoods and I could fear the evil  that dwelled there.Green knows how keep the suspense high and plot twists  coming.I laughed at the witty banter and my heart was in my throat over the  gruesome scenes of battles and escapes. Two thumbs up! What a ride!	2000-08-28
US	52693037	R15CAOSQ8PZVGL	038081093X	604551094	Excavation	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Simply Dazzling!	This book was one rollercoater ride!Rollins was able to combine: Lost civilizations, hard science, modern-day spanish Inquisitors, monsters and a abundance of thrills and chills into a classic science fiction thriller.I  also love his writing style that was atmospheric and cinematic in  describing  action sequences and the supremely creepy lost Inca city and a  army of  albino tarantulas had my skin crawling!All the ingredients are  here in this potboiler: action, wonderful characters,sinister villians, and  shocking last plot twist on the final page.Great Entertainment and I can't  wait for the author's next book!	2000-07-31
US	52693037	R1M8DHJYHQB8FQ	0886779197	767329176	Godslayer / Shadow Climber / Dragonrank Master (The Bifrost Guardians)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Very Entertaining!	This was a very entertaining norse-myth fantasy.I really liked the characters: Al Larson, vietnam soldier transported to norse-myth oriented world in a body of elf and his battles with evil dark elf sorcerer.I also  enjoy Taz the noble thief as well. This book was easier read than most of  Reichert's novels. Bifrost Guardians is less convoluted not as depressing  as her other norse myth series:Renshai and has more light-hearted humor as  well.	2000-07-28
US	52693037	R41KTG0BN8F8X	0812507436	420903217	People of the River (The First North Americans series, Book 4)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Prepare to swept away!	Once again the Gears have successfully transported me to another time and place where man was one with nature.This novel has everything a novel should have: war, romance, mysticism and even a happy ending.I love the  characters like Badgetail, the reluctant warrior who must follow orders of  his sadistic and mad sun chief, Tharon.Locust-the fierce warrior woman  badgetail loves but can never have.Nightshade-the powerful dreamer who must  communicate with Mother Earth to save them from Tharon's  folly.Unforgettable entertainment that also teaches us as well. Forget Auel  because these authors are the masters of prehistoric fiction!	2000-07-24
US	52693037	RIGVBI5B8J1HA	0812507479	298755796	People of the Lakes (The First North Americans series, Book 6)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	mystical and magical adventure!	Kudos to the gears for writing such magical novel! We are know from history classes what happened in ancient greece and Rome and medieval europe BUT we don't know what happened in our country a thousand years ago  but thanks to the Gears and their considerable storytelling abilities  we  can  imagined what happened in this country.This novel  has scenes of eerie  mysticism, romance suspenseful adventure and witty dialogue to create a  novel with memorable characters like black skull, deadly warrior with a  painful past, feisty Pearl and mysterious sorcerer  midget named the Tall  Man and the hunt for the sinister mask was gripping! Two thumbs up for this  novel!	2000-07-14
US	52693037	RLCEV9QNVGQHG	0446608378	270870625	Thunderhead	Books	5	0	0	N	N	fascinating,chilling ride!	Kudos once again to Preston and Child as they give us another intelligent well-told thriller.This time they give us fascinating,atmospheric adventure about the anazazi empire and what happen to them.This novel has scenes of  the beauty of western US and details of archaelogy,plot twists  and just a  touch of the macabre.The Authors' research is incredible as they give us  facts about  anazazi's society and native american occult pratices.All and  all this is a sinister adventure filled with memorable characters  especially Dr. Nora Kelly who's obession in finding a lost anazasi city and  the fate of her father will take  to the discovery of lifetime and deadly  peril!	2000-07-11
US	52693037	R2020W2WKP0U6N	0812590090	259905454	The Shadow of Ararat (Oath of Empire, Book 1)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Empire Lives Again!	I really enjoyed this book! Harlan has skillfully  combined &quot;what if&quot; quality of the alternative history genre with scope of epic fantasy and created a sweeping saga of magic and war detailing the brutal  conflict between two great empires: Rome and Persia in which will be fought  with both armies and magic.This is seen through the eyes of some  unforgettable characters: Prince Maxian-roman prince and healer who dabbles  in magic and finds out of a sinister curse against the empire.Thyatis Julia  Clodia-a lethal young centurion/spy sent behind enemy lines.Dwyrin-a young  hiberian student of magic sent to the legions.Harlan has a talent in  describing battle scenes in cinematic quality that you can visual in your  head and his magic system is both fascinating and chilling especially in  detailing scenes of necromancy.Great entertainment!	2000-07-03
US	52693037	R1C62P3ZZ2CB2C	0553380222	57830925	The Grand Design (Tyrants and Kings, Book 2)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	An Intense fantasy saga of War and Revenge.	This was one of the most intense novels I've every read! Marco returns us to war-torn world Of Richius Vantran called the Jackal by his enemies. The first novel explores the themes of love,duty and war.This novel's themes of  how war changes individuals and the destructive effects of revenge.Our  Hero, Richius seeks revenge against the evil count Biagio  for ordering the  death of his first wife and Biagio who wants vengeance against Richius for  betraying his emperor.This epic will shock as you watch otherwise good  people do acts of evil for what they is a good cause or their what they  think is justice.Marco also gives us a glimpse of the Island Nation of Liss  and how the cope with their after effects of their war with Nar.Marco gives  us another memorable character with Archbishop Herrith a fanatic who  battles Biagio for Nar empire and commits acts of brutality for his  god.This novel's heroes and villians are realistic in that no one is black  or white but are shades of grey.Marco's lavish detail as he describes acts  of treachery,bloody battles  are execellent! I can't wait to get my hands  on the next novel in the series!	2000-06-17
US	52693037	R1IWQ5ZTZZWKU8	0446600415	619563221	The Day After Tomorrow	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Heart-stopping thriller!	A american doctor in Paris sees the man who murdered his father twenty years ago.A American cop is helping Scotland Yard solve murders where the victims' heads have been surgically removed.These are the threads to a  sinister conspiracy that spans two continents and fifty years.This thriller  has more murder,intrigue, mayhem than three novels and it has one of the  most memorable last lines in suspense genre history.In other words, be  prepared for suspense novel that will shock and thrill you and you will  never forget!	2000-05-31
US	52693037	R1W3N0JX4Y6A5Z	0446603961	241932975	Extreme Denial	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Extreme thrills!	Morrell is my favorite author of international intrigue.This novel is great illustration as he combines his trademark:violent chase thriller format with noirish suspense and moving love story.This novel has it all:  spies,gangsters, terrorists,romance and violent action.	2000-05-27
US	52693037	R12WJIFSU4AVME	0345417070	942543009	Wit'ch Storm (The Banned and the Banished, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Darker and Nastier than the first novel,I love it!	This sequel to witchfire returns us to this war-torn world of awesome good and truly terrifying evil.Our heroine moves closer in fulfilling her destiny as her land's savior and the dark forces against her are more  determine than ever in stopping her.Clemens has written a rich tapestry of  magic,terror and wonder and his world-building skills are first-rate.Like  the first book Clemens has a knack for describing action sequences in  cinematic style that makes it easier for the readers to visual it in their  heads.This novel has creatures straight out of your worse nightmares.Two  words of warning: Be prepared to be shocked by a character brutal's demise  and for those readers who suffer arachnophobia might want to steer clear of  this novel.	2000-05-25
US	52693037	R3H9CJ7LJ3BRCW	0345417062	746275344	Witch Fire (The Banned and the Banished, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Stunning blend of Stephen King and Tolkein!	This was a great fantasy about a young girl blossoming into womanhood and who is prophecized to free her land against a ancient evil that has enslaved it for five hundred years.She is pursued by the terrifying minions  of that evil and she is aided by a motley band of heroes and outcasts.This  novel's action scenes have a cinematic quality to them and the evil that is  descibed is truly terrifying!Great combination of dark and epic fantasy  genres.	2000-05-25
US	52693037	R3KFLTD5DJKN08	0425150976	700718419	Rules of the Hunt	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The Hunt Begins!	Our Hero Fitzduane thought his war with terrorism ended with the defeat of the hangman but in the world of international terrorism nothing is forgotten! He and his family are targeted for death by the hangman's  sadistic lover,a female japanese terrorist.Fitzduane must take the battle  to her on her own tuff which is Japan.This novel gives us scenic and very  bloody tour of Japan as our hero battle terrorists, yakuza(japanese  gangsters) and lethal betrayal in his own ranks.Another great atmospheric  spy thriller!	2000-05-24
US	52693037	R3H49ZTGB1VJ2E	0425134563	547744947	Games of the Hangman	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A very lethal game!	This unforgettable thriller pits a war photographer/veteran against a ruthless leader of a world-wide terrorist organization.This brutal cat and mouse thriller starts in Ireland and through other parts Europe and ends in  a bloody battle between our hero and hangman's fanatic terrorist  army.O'reilly does his research well in depicting frightening world of  international terrorism and the brave men and women who combat it.The  hangman is one of the most terrifying villians ever written who directs his  acts of terrorism not for idealogy but for profit.This novel was a bloody  action-packed ride!	2000-05-24
US	52693037	RS8679I8SGXFW	0451404289	722711011	Duchess of Milan (Onyx)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Lavish Epic!	Kudos for Mr. Ennis in transporting us 500 years in the past to that opulence,lavish, and very deadly world of 15th century Italy where two young noble women battle for love and power.This novel has  everything:political intrigue,lust, love murder and betrayal in beautiful  and sometimes terrifying time period in italy's history.One of the best  historical novels I ever read!	2000-05-22
US	52693037	R116UA9COVSW9M	0345417070	942543009	Wit'ch Storm (The Banned and the Banished, Book 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Darker and Nastier than the first! In other words I love it!	Usually the second novel in a fantasy series is the weakest.This rule is  broken in this sequel to witchstorm as Clemens returns us to his world of   awesome good and terrifying evil!Our heroine come one step closer to  fulfilling her destiny and dark forces against her are more determine than  ever to defeat her.The author introduces us to more characters and one  scene a character is killed in a most shocking manner! Word to the  wise:this novel has depictions of creatures straight of nightmares and  those who suffer arachnophobia might steer clear of this novel.Other than  that pick up this book be prepare for another dark,twisted and  unforgettable ride!	2000-05-13
US	52693037	R3V0ASAYEBK06V	0380792648	724743548	Subterranean	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Modern day Jules Verne!	Rollins may be the modern day jules verne  with this science fiction/adventure thriller details a group of people discovering the find of century  and must battle for their lives against prehistoric  monsters,deadly pigmylike savages and ruthless saboteur in their group.Mr.  Crichton should watch his back! This novel has cinematic quality to it's  action scenes and is very imaginative.I was happy to find out from the  author himself he also writes under james clemens, author of Witchfire and  witchstorm.So be prepare for unforgettable reading experience in which ever  name his novels are under.	2000-05-13
US	52693037	RTO689IT0KXLI	0345421043	46634992	Heroes Die	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Get ready for the ride of your life!	I've always love books that can cross genres without any efforts.That is why I loved this book! Mr. Stover has created a novel which combines a dark high tech future with tolkeinish fantasy world and spy thriller type action  sequences.Our hero  has two personas: a actor on ridge caste future earth  and lethal assasin on a fantasy world must save his enstranged wife from  death against  ruthless employers and a brutal emperor.This novel has  scenes of brutal hand to hand combat, techological advances,magical battles  and plenty of plot twists.So like I said in my title of this review: get  ready for ride of your life!	2000-05-13
US	52693037	R2NR9531BLHMWC	0345417054	746275344	Wit'ch Fire (The Banned and the Banished, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A unforgettable cross between Stephen King and Tolkein!	Kudos to Mr. Clemens in creating awesome combination of epic and dark  fantasy genres.This novel has cinematic quality to it in depicting scenes  of terrifying true evil, magical battles and sinister atmosphere.You  fingers will sweat as you turn the pages of this new novel.Plot twists,  frightening villians,great world-building all equal to a reading experience  you won't ever forget and some images might find it's way even into your  dreams!	2000-05-13
US	52693037	R3OQ9HEWLECIUV	0449005836	990014722	The Right Hand of Evil	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Southern-fried Gothic Horror!	This was a very good horror novel.Saul's novel is modern gothic horror novel in the vein of Edgar Allan Poe in depiction of a one family's terrifying bargain with evil.Alcoholic Ted Conway moves his family to his  late aunt's house and soon will regret it as the house and evil entity that  dwells their take possesion of Ted and his teenage son, Jared and pits them  against wife,Janet and Jared's twin sister,Kim.Saul's novel has decent  twists and chilling atmosphere in describing scenes of occult and voodoo.	2000-05-12
US	52693037	RNCOBKM400E26	0451187482	960178130	Dominion	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Ancient Mythology+Modern Terror=Unforgettable tale of horror	Little has written another cold-blooded classic of horror.This is the only horror novel I know of that combines ancient greek myths and supernatural evil and creates a tale of terror that you will never forget.While other  horror authors try to  go mainstream Little sticks to what he knows best:  scaring the hell out of his fans and with that he has no peer!	2000-05-11
US	52693037	R2DJ4Y8GJ2T48B	0312867522	953091978	Rhapsody: Child of Blood	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Dazzling Debut!	Rhapsody is astonishing debut fantasy novel and I suspect the author will have a bright future in the genre.This book has very original story with memorable characters, lyrical writing, and witty dialogue.I especially like  Grunthor, fire bolg who is one of the most colorful and hilarious character  every made!He is equal parts mirth and menace.Haydon has consirable skills  in the world-building department as she and her characters give you a guide  tour through this fabulous world and it's beauty and wonders! I can't wait  to read the sequel!	2000-05-11
US	52693037	R1ZTFJS4MSPSK4	0553110616	737842842	House Atreides (Dune: House Trilogy Book 1)	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Grand Sf epic! Frank Herbert would be Proud!	Kevin Anderson and Brian Herbert have skillfully taken frank herbert's epic vision of the far far future and given us a unforgettable novel set decades before original Dune.They take us on a tour of the planets in the  Imperium:Arrakis,also called Dune home nomadic fremen people,where spice is  mined.Caladan:home of the noble house of atreides.Giede Prime-home of the  cruel and depraved house of Harkonnen and Kaitain: Home of Imperial home  world of this galactic empire where Prince Shaddam will plot to murder his  father to gain the throne.You will be shocked by lethal  intrigues,machevellian manuvers used by the great house of the Imperium as  the struggle for power in this brutal system.You will be atonished as the  bene gessit sisterhood comes one step closer in their bid to create a  superbeing a kwisatz Haderach.A masterpiece of world-building and my humble  opinion the best sf novel of 1999!	2000-05-11
US	52693037	R1XM5RE2WFCK8I	0449223795	616758950	The Homing	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This book will make your skin crawl!	This terrifying horror novel about teenage girl who finds herself guinea pig in a madman's chilling experiment will make your skin crawl and chill your blood! This is most frightening book Saul has ever written and you  will about this book any time you see a bee!	2000-05-11
US	52693037	R2HF5OJYQ2S2ZQ	0553575635	333696092	Ship of Magic (The Liveship Traders, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Unforgettable sea-going fantasy	I been a fan of Hobbs since I read her assasin series so I was thrilled that she was going back to her fabulous world but in a different area.This  novel introduces us sentinent ships made by wizardwood,terrifying sea  serpents and bloodthirsty pirates.Hobb's world-building skills are  execellent as usual and her characters are fully described like charismatic  but ruthless pirate named Kennit.Great start to a series.	2000-05-06
US	52693037	RZBZC3T0JW5DA	0553378635	701009232	Bloodwinter (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	gripping and atmospheric	bloodwinter is a imaginative and gripping fantasy epic that will take you chilly world of warring kingdoms,sentinent beasts and powerful magic.It is remiscence of the much superior caven of the black Ice by J.V. Jones.This  novel gives us exotic winter world and some memorable characters and some  atypical villians.No classic  but decent entertainment.	2000-05-06
US	52693037	RQ7EKB9DG2S4E	0553379844	272365831	The Jackal of Nar, Book One of Tyrants and Kings	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Powerful and stirring epic!	I was in awe of the story-telling abilities of John Marco.Jackal of Nar is sweeping military fantasy epic with three-dimensional characters, and a powerful statement of the horrors of war.Unlike tolkeinish fantasies where  heroes battle the forces of evil and war is like a grand adventure this  novel shows no such illusions in it's depictions of war and the politics  around it.This novel sweeps you away to war-torn world of a reluctant  hero,Richius Vantran called the jackal by his enemies.A young man who must  choose to serve the ancient ruler of an empire that conquers his country  and following his heart which is a young woman of the country he is  battling.This novel has scenes of trench warfare where poison gas is used,  dark magic and sinister intrigue.When you enter Vantran's world of dark  magic and war you will never forget it's images. Terry Goodkind and Jordan  should watch their backs with the new author!	2000-05-06
US	52693037	R34A679WWF6PKL	0886778247	174499108	Green Rider (Green Rider Trilogy Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	thrilling Ride!	Britain has written a thrilling ride from start to finish pitting a headstrong young heroine who must warn her king against a sinister conspiracy against him by natural and supernatural forces.This novel has  memorable characters, chilling scenes of dark magic and nonstop action. I  also like that this story is contained in one novel but the author can  write other set in the same world.A refreshing change from ongoing series  tradition in the fantasy genre.	2000-05-06
US	52693037	RAGZFWXVZXAXG	0553108034	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Sinister,Lyrical, Unforgettable	These adjectives come to mind when I think of this epic sequel to Game of Thrones.Martin returns us to his world of dark magic and darker deeds where intrigue and betrayal rules.This novel has scenes of lyric beauty,base  treacheries and horrific slaughter.He also boast a cast of characters who  live and breath through the pages of this book.Tywin Lannister,called the  imp.A man born with a small body and a brilliant mind who intrigues for his  family who loathes him and whose loses his heart to a prostitute.Sir  clelane, a cruel nobleman called the hound who disdains knightly virtues  and who's only joys comes from killing.Robb Stark,who finds himself the  king of the north at the tender age of fifteen.Sansa Stark who is married  to the heartless young king who ordered her father's execution.This novel  will take you a gritty medieval world where brother plots against brother  and large-scaled battle scenes.All I got else to say is bring on book 3!	2000-05-06
US	52693037	R27ARKZ9LS266D	0451200152	728640065	The Town	Books	5	6	8	N	N	another classic chiller!	Little has done it again! He has written another  in his long line of chilling horror novels.This one has a russian-american who wins the lottery and takes his family back to his hometown where he grows and soon finds out about ancient evil preying upon his town and it's citizens.Little also  brings in themes of religion and intolerance  in this novel and how hate  and violence of the past can stir up evil that threatens the present.All in  all another macabre classic of small-town fright from the only man I know  who can who writes novels that make Stephen King's look like bedtime  stories	2000-04-30
US	52693037	R3QRTMY46V54L5	0451404033	985205723	Fires in the Mist	Books	4	2	2	N	N	gripping myth-weaving!	Dolan has skillfully retold the famous tale from celtic mythology of Lugh-the long hand and how he has came to royal heritage and help defend his adopted homeland from brutal invaders.This novel has scenes of touching  romance, brutal battles.This is one of the best celtic fantasies  with it's  blend of memorable characters and the author's own talent for  storytelling.I look forward to her next book.	2000-04-19
US	52693037	RAE4Q0MXECRYC	9992647892	19369889	The Court of the Lion	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Transport yourself to Ancient China!	This novel transports you to 8th century China and  fall of T'ang dynasty.This novel has everything: lethal intrigue,murder, erotic sex scenes, and exotic splendour.I especially like the chief enunch who uses his wiles to save his ruler from  the ruthless machinations of the prime  minister, one of the most sinister villians I've ever read about.	2000-04-19
US	52693037	R3MA09DBEGJUDG	0671669613	319631916	Gondar	Books	5	2	3	N	N	old-fashioned swashbuckling adventure!	the ingredients of this epic adventure novel: two royal african twins sold into slavery,a beautiful princess fleeing from a evil priest who takes over her land and daring young scottish adventurer who aids her.This novel has  all the ingredients of classic epic adventure story with raiders of the  lost ark style action,old-fashioned heroes and ravishing romance!I hope the  author writes again because he has alot of talent!	2000-04-19
US	52693037	R1Z6R4EB5LNU5L	0345395190	153782965	Orion Arm: The Rampart Worlds: Book 2	Books	5	0	2	N	N	another action-packed ride!	May brings back unforgettable hero,Helmut Icicle aka... Asahel Frost riverboat skipper and corporate supercop.Helmut is thrust once again in a life or death struggle of against sinister alien menace and lethal  corporate conspiracy threatening mankind.Helmut is enjoyable hero who is a  reluctant James Bond who always find himself in deadly danger from his  enemies when he only wants to be left alone!May's Rampant world series has  all the trademarks her works: vivid world-building,memorable characters,  lyrical prose and  gripping action.I also love the witty toughguy dialogue  and aliens species and worlds which she describes in detail.I look forward  to Helmut's next adventure because this one like it's first one:Perseus  Spur is a real corker!	2000-04-10
US	52693037	R3U3B1FJDYH50Z	0312890559	771783313	In Legend Born	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A new Talent is Born!	After reading this epic novel of magic, revolution  romance and heartbreaking betrayal I almost wanted to be transported to the land of Sileria and pick up a sword for the cause of freedom.Resnick makes  a passionate case for the the land of Sileria and their fight for  independence from the brutal empire of Valada.She creates memorable but  flawed heroes and heroines willing to face death for freedom of the country  and gives us stirring scenes of battles, romance,magic and stunning  treachery!One of the best first novel I've ever read that reminds me of  Kay's epic novel Tigana.	2000-04-06
US	52693037	R325AGIG1W9MTY	0671024817	332301994	Wither	Books	5	3	3	N	N	chilling brew!	Mix in a small new england town with a history of witchcraft combine that with a naivete young college student who dabbles in the supernatural and drop in a large dose of ancient evil and you have all the ingredients of  classic horror novel and this book delivers in all departments with equal  doses of sinister atmosphere and gruesome horror!I also liked the novel was  set during halloween which of course is appropiate.Wither is a classic  chiller in the stephen king vein:small new england town, supernatural evil  and memorable characters.I look forward to the author's next book.	2000-03-01
US	52693037	R3QFKHK0UK29AH	0553379569	333060504	The Keep of Fire (The Last Rune, Book 2)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Another gripping masterpiece!	Anthony has written another gripping fantasy in his darkly magical epic saga of his world of Eldh. One again Travis Wilder and Grace Beckett must saved this medieval world from a deadly plague that makes it's victims  literally burn to death!This novel like Beyond the Pale has scenes of dark  magic,suspense,plot twists and dripping with atmosphere.The only thing else  I can say is bring on book 3!	2000-02-12
US	52693037	R3NMVKKC2VF54T	0553379569	333060504	The Keep of Fire (The Last Rune, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great Book and write faster!	I read both books in the series and they were great! Anthony has all the talent to be someone to reckon with in the fantasy field.These novels are the real deal and has all the trimmings for a major fantasy  epic:magic,intrigue,menace and it is dripping with atmosphere.While other  fantasy authors write continue to crank out books that are clones to the  original(like Robert Jordan) Anthony's books are unique to each other and  only share the same characters.Do yourself a favor and read these books!The  only thing else I have to say  I hope the author writes faster because I  can't wait to get my hands on book 3!	2000-02-03
US	52693037	R1J168542SA8X8	0425132048	380888601	Eyes of Prey	Books	5	40	41	N	N	Creepiest villian since Hannibal Lector!	Lucas Davenport,Sandford's unforgettable cop hero (think Dirty Harry with more intelligence) match wits with two psychopaths:one is a disfigured actor and another is handsome but twisted doctor  and manipulator who has a  obession with all matters of death and murder.Dr. Michael Bekker is one  most sinister villians that has ever been created and this novel has  nonstop action and chills!	1999-11-28
US	52693037	R39AW5HFPVTNSC	0312965257	796214569	Brandenburg: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	atmospheric  thriller!	this is a classic thriller that pits a international policeman,a lovely reporter against  evil conspiracy to start the fourth reich.Meade's sinister premise is backed with exotic atmosphere, violent action, plot  twists and some really nasty villians that leads to chilling conclusion  that will make you pause and think!	1999-11-15
US	52693037	R5ZEWM6ZSPJHH	0451188454	582723746	The Bone Collector: The First Lincoln Rhyme Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Chilled to the Bone!	this is a bone-chilling shocker about a deadly game of wits between a physically crippled but brilliant criminologist and diabolical and brutal psychokiller who is terrorizing New York City.In lincoln Rhyme,the  criminologist Deaver has created a flawed but unforgettable hero and the  villian:Bone Collector he has a killer to put Hannibal Lector to shame!This  novel boast up to date knowledge of forensics and chilling details as the  author goes into the twisted mind of his villian.Excellent thriller but not  for the faint of heart.	1999-11-09
US	52693037	REDH0VAGSXLPL	0451198484	743095882	The Inheritance	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Gothic chiller you will Never Forget!	Savage is the master of the twisting thriller and this shocker is one of the reasons why.When Holly Smith finds out she is a inheritor of the vast Randall estate and must live with her new family she enters a web of murder and betrayal where nothing is at it seems.This chilling novel of murder, greed and betrayal will keep you guessing and shocked with it's sinister atmosphere,fiendish plot twists that don't end till the final page!A true Gothic chiller that you will never forget. Hitchcock would had been proud to film this novel.	1999-10-20
US	52693037	R39OTX9WE5IV6N	0312963815	151456505	Birds of Prey (Courtney Family Adventures)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Ahoy Matey! Set Sail for High Adventure!	Smith has written swashbuckling epic adventure  of pirates, revenge and romance in the 17th century.The Courteneys:Francis and his teenage son Hal prey upon Dutch ships for England until they are betrayed by a greedy rival  and Francis is executed by the dutch.Hal swears revenge and his adventures  will lead him from sea battles to africa and finally to the court of  Prester John the christian ruler of Ethiopia.This novel combines scenes of  bloody sea battles, romantic  interludes and lyrical descriptions of  Africa; it also has great heroes to cheer for and suitable villany.	1998-11-18
US	52693037	R3N5S6733ZMPZ8	0812524020	702304132	Footprints of Thunder	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Crichton Move over!	Crichton better watch his back! This novel makes his Jurassic Park seem  like a fairy tale.Because of our detonations of nuclear weapons; time has  been turned back millions of years.Dinosaurs now walk the earth again and  man is their prey!This novel is told thru the eyes of few characters  who  must try to able to survive. This novel boasts action, terror and little  romance.	1998-10-15
US	52693037	R3PO3F4TG4HW3U	0553575813	740373561	The White Tribunal	Books	4	1	2	N	N	chilling saga of sorcery, revenge and romance	Volsky has done it again! She tells a story of land where magic is feared  and a reign of terror is installed by a fanatical group called the white  tribunal.When a boy is falsely imprisoned and his father and brothers are  executed by the white tribunal.After spending thirteen years in hellhole  type prison he escapes. The young man sells his soul to dark powers so he  can exact a terrible revenge against his accusers.In shades of Dumas's  Count of Monte Cristo, Volsky has written a haunting saga of hate, revenge  and magic that can only be conquered by love.	1998-09-23
US	52693037	R1F8HUBE5M375J	0886777631	634336906	City of Golden Shadow (Otherland, Volume 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Ultimate cyber conspiracy begins!	This is a excellent epic sf thriller.I usually don't read cyberpunk novels  but this a gripping read. You have a sinister cabal of powerful men who  creates a brilliantly realized cyber universe and will kill to keep  secret.Against them are a african teacher named Irene(renie) who's brother  falls victim to the brotherhood, her bushman friend, a dying boy and W.W.I  soldier who lost his memory and is trap in the cyber universe. This novel  combines science fiction, conspiracy and mythology, history.	1998-09-11
US	52693037	R2V2FEW0D1TF01	055329198X	418037966	Wolf Moon	Books	5	3	3	N	N	a truly dark fantasy	This is excellent horror fantasy novel about a young woman who is a victim  of a family curse to turn into a werewolf. She is the only one that can  save her friends and the man she loves from cabal of satanists bend on  destroying them all! This novel boasts scenes of eroticism and black magic,  gruesome violence and a truly wicked final twist.	1998-09-05
US	52693037	RVUHEW03TJWHR	0312853963	629033060	Lord of the Isles (Lord of Isles)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Epis saga of magic, mysery and mayhem begins!	This is one the most gripping fantasy novels I have ever read.Drake begins  this saga with a  aging sorceress who after thrown a 1000 years in the  future because of a magical upheaval.She  is befriended by some young  people in a seaside town.They embark on a danger-filled adventure of magic  and romance.This novel is has chilling scenes of sorcery, plot twists and  plenty of action. I really enjoyed the characters of Garric, Casmal, two  young men who find out of their magical destinies.This is novel also boasts  more scenes of monsters, demons, and other assorted nasties that you see in  most fantasy novels.	1998-09-03
US	52693037	R21OZKU3W1UB2A	0451192192	260699170	The Store	Books	5	0	0	N	N	terror is open for business!	Little has done it again!He has written a classic  tale of terror with a novel twist. A mysterious department store has relocated to a sleepy arizona town and slowly takes it over.Little minimizes the gore and maximitzes the terror.This is one of the most chilling books I've ever read.The terror just creeps up on.The novel's sinister premise is back up with creepy atmosphere and a sense of dread that you can almost feel.You will never forget the store and especially the night managers..	1998-06-12
US	52693037	R3JR7NIQ4N14NY	0515120464	825166939	Tainted Blood	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Madness, murder and dark family secrets!	This is a excellent psychothriller. When Pete Cochran decides to move his family to the small mining town of Buckthorn,Oregon. Cochran will soon regret it. The town has been terrorized for almost two decades by a sadistic serial killer who has been targeting the young men in town.This novel has great plot twists,terror, and a truly chilling surprise ending.If you like psychological thrillers with some nasty twists, violent shocking conclusion you will enjoy this shocker.	1998-04-13
