US	52706437	R170DUZ7FE9D2L	1566915236	933456403	Rick Steves' Rome 2004	Books	1	9	10	N	Y	Ridiculously inaccurate and absurdly cursory	This guidebook is hopelessly inaccurate in its details and too cursory about what it does cover to be of any use whatsoever to any reasonably thoughtful tourist.<br />As to the inaccuracy:  I took this guide book on a recent trip to Rome.  Despite the fact that it is dated 2004, it is either wildly outdated or reprehensibly sloppy.  One of the highly recommended restaurants was closed, and from the looks of it not recently.  Another of the highly recommended restaurants was responsible for the worst dinner we had in Rome.  Anyone foolish enough to try to use the guide to find the Steves-recommended minibus tour of the Appia Antica will look in vain for a green kiosk in the Piazza Venezia.  While we eventually found a tour, it was no thanks to Rick Steves!<br />In terms of information content, the guidebook gives the tourist much less information for the weight than, say, the Michelin or Lonely Planet guides.  Do not waste precious luggage space on the Rick Steves guide--it is simply not worth lugging around.	2004-06-17
US	52706437	R2KQSX2FA9KGC2	0743471148	294380928	Do Me, Do My Roots	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Engaging and well written	This is an astonishingly good book.  It is well written, and the reader is drawn into the lives of the characters.  It made me laugh, and it made me cry as well.  The emotional content rang true to life, and I was deeply impressed by how well the author handled the very serious emotional progressions through which her characters moved.<br />In addition to covering some very serious emotional topics, including widowhood, aging parents, cancer diagnoses, and single parenthood, the book made me laugh.  I loved the hair diary entries that began each chapter.  I also loved the chapter titles, an unusual thing to notice in a novel.  <br />This book is absolutely excellent.  While it shares a couple of attributes of &quot;chick lit,&quot; such as its dating plot-lines, to classify it as &quot;chick lit&quot; would be to underestimate its status as a novel worthy of attention from a range of readers, from those who enjoy chick lit through those who like to read novels of emotional growth.	2004-05-27
US	52706437	R13R3Q64XAZZQS	1589392647	612444332	Excessively Diverted: The Sequel to Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice	Books	1	11	18	N	Y	Excessively poorly edited	I adored Pride and Prejudice, and tend to be fond of the various sequels.  Alas, I found this sequel completely unreadable due to the truly terrible punctuation.  Poor punctuation can be distracting, but this went well beyond that. <br />There are two possibilities for the ineexcusable punctuation in this book.  The first is that neither the author nor her copy-editor (if any) is capable of using commas correctly, with some effort apparently being expended in using them as incorrectly and obtrusively as possible.  The other is that the author was endeavoring to use commas as she felt Jane Austen used them, in which case her efforts were for naught, as Jane Austen would never have used commas so ungrammatically. Indeed, the latter would be both an insult to Jane Austen's writing and a poor reflection on the intelligence of the author of this journey into grammatical unacceptability. <br />If you want to learn how not to use commas, I recommend this book highly.  If you are punctilious about comma usage, avoid this book, as you will not be able to enjoy it.	2004-05-17
US	52706437	R1V8S4E6JWMPPS	0312327994	709427910	From Here to Maternity: A Novel of Total Exhaustion	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Delightful view of life with a baby	The plot of this book is thin, but that does not matter.  The core of this book, and what makes it so delightful, is the view it gives of life with a new baby.  Everything it says rings true, from the feeling of parental astonishment that a hospital would send a baby home with a parent who has no idea of how to give it a bath to the looks of dread on the faces of fellow airplane passengers as one enters the plane, baby in arms. This book is an excellent view of life with a baby, with all the love, fun, trials, exhaustion, and moisture that having a baby brings in to the life of a parent.	2004-04-12
US	52706437	R244TFTGNA0IWB	0312324987	456410336	Much Ado About Jessie Kaplan	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Delightful tale, beautifully crafted	This is an absolutely delightful book.  The plot is engaging, and the writing is elegant.  Ms Cohen truly has a way with words, and the book is loaded with expertly crafted turns of phrase.  The writing is Austen-esque, with its superb portrayals of the minutiae of daily life and its detailed look at the comedy of manners that is the life of its characters.  The humor is engaging, drawing snorts of laughter and of recognition as situations arise that are, at least by analogy, part of my own life.<br />This books deals impeccably and elegantly with several themes of the human comedy.  These include:  the rite of passage into adulthood that is the bar (or bat) mitzvah (fabulous portrayal of a twelve-year-old girl here), several rites of passage for adults, including maturing into true adulthood, mid-life crises, and coping with aging parents, and the rite of passage that is aging itself (we should all be as lucky as Jessie!).  <br />This is a wonderful book, and a worthy second novel (not a sequel) to the glorious Jane Austen in Boca, Ms Cohen's first novel.	2004-04-09
US	52706437	R2PFWJJ94CCZLY	037325024X	723714698	Out of the Blue (Red Dress Ink (Numbered Paperback))	Books	1	4	8	N	Y	Boring and infuriating	This book combined two attributes rarely seen together in the same book:  it was both boring and infuriating.  The boredom inhered in the slow movement of the plot and its utterly predictable contours once it started moving.  The infuriating aspect of the book lay in the denseness of its heroine.  She was so impervious to hints--hints that caused me to figure out what was really going on hundreds of pages before she did--that it made me want to shake her.  The heroine was credulous and shallow, and lacked any of the charm that can redeem novels like this even if the plots are contrived and ridiculous.<br />The plot of this book is thin to transparency, and its characterizations are charicatures gone wrong.  Everyone in it is shallow beyond belief.  In short, do not waste your time and/or money.	2004-02-23
US	52706437	R5T5BJMDP9V71	0618381368	955735475	Diary of a Wombat (Ala Notable Children's Books. Younger Readers (Awards))	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Best book to come along in ages!!!!	This is a glorious children's book that parents will enjoy reading to their children over and over again.  The text is hilarious and the illustrations absolutely ravishing. It is a picture book that can be read at a lot of different levels and by a lot of different age groups.  Small children will love it for its illustrations and deceptively simple text.  Slightly older children will learn a lot from it about the world of cause and effect as seen through the eyes of an enterprising wombat.  Children who are slightly older still will learn about drawing inferences about what is really happening when the literal-minded wombat (for example) bangs on the large metal object or finds an amazing source of carrots.  I purchased a copy for my fifteen-year-old daughter, and she absolutely loves it because it is adorable and because the wombat bears a striking resemblance to our dog, who goes through similar exercises in regulating those around him. (I bought copies for everyone I know with a small child, too.)  <br />Buy this book for all the children in your life!	2003-12-04
US	52706437	R3MUITO9OYNEOW	0553801309	768428518	A Place of Hiding	Books	1	12	12	N	Y	Boring	I never thought I would encounter an Elizabeth George mystery as bad as this one.  Her prior books have been riveting page-turners that kept me up all night and then gave me nightmares when I finally went to sleep.  This book, in stark contrast, was, in a word, dull.  I got about half way through it, and skimmed the rest.  The characters were both boring and improbable, and there were no flashes of intriguing domesticity to hold my interest.  The relationship between Simon and Deborah is absurd; not only does their marriage seem doomed, as far as I can tell there was never any reason to imagine that it could have been anything else.  <br />This is a poorly thought-out, poorly conceived, and poorly written book.  I hope that Ms George can redeem herself in her next book; otherwise, it will the last one I buy in hardback (or, indeed, at all).	2003-09-15
US	52706437	R2F3ZP32RGFK1	031298667X	673748871	A Week in Winter: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Touching, engaging, and elegantly written	A Week in Winter is an engaging book.  The story of several people whose lives intertwine around a Cornish farmhouse, it is elegantly written and paced.  There are sadness and joy, marriage and death, but somehow the various loves of the various characters carry them through a period in their lives that is perhaps excessively filled with emotional action.  The one weakness in the novel itself is its slightly pat plot--but I would have been most perturbed if the lives had not worked out so well!<br />The only drawback to this book, and the reason I nearly missed the pleasant experience of reading it--was the truly ghastly cover borne by the mass market paperback edition.  I think  that the cover is to blame for the book's presence in the Romance secion of the bookstore, and not on the fiction shelves where it belongs.  It is not a bodice ripper--indeed, there is no explicit sex whatsoever in it--and it should have received better treatment from the publisher than its lurid and misleading cover.  While it is romantic, there is much more to it than romance.  <br />I have read numerous books on the claim that they are like Rosamunde Pilcher's work.  Thus far, only one author has come close.  It was wonderful to find another.  A Week in Winter will very much please all Pilcher fans.  And I will buy Ms Willett's future novels, no matter what terrible cover they receive.	2003-05-27
US	52706437	R39MR0WQ91L7FC	155166674X	912752366	Between Friends	Books	2	9	13	N	N	Predictable and prosaic	Even as I enjoyed reading this book, I wondered why.  On the plus side, it is engagingly written.  It is also a fast read, a plus for a beach book, because there is so little content, a minus for any book. I stayed with the book because it was not really worth stopping, and because I was curious as to whether I could accurately predict the next set of events.  I am basically a contemporary of the two main protagonists.  Thus, much of what the book covered was highly familiar to me, and I wanted to see how it turned out.<br />Its predictability made the book both frustrating and familiar.  The moment a character has plans to attend the Legionnaire's Convention in Philadelphia, I knew that he was doomed to die of Legionnaire's Disease.  The moment a character went to fight in Viet Nam, I knew he would die, too.  When another character started receiving blood test results with high levels of cholesterol, I knew he would (a) have bypass surgery, which was new at the time, and (b) eventually die of the disease.<br />Is this starting to sound familiar?  I eventually realized that I was reading a bowdlerized version of Forrest Gump, largely in the form of correspondence between two intelligent women. <br />Instead of packing an emotional punch, this book is just trivial.  The correspondence that is included hints, tantalizingly, at other exchanges between the chief characters, but does not include them.  Indeed, the author seems to avoid the need to write difficult scenes (or even correspondence), replacing possible turmoil and emotional upheaval with a tamer aftermath.  (It also becomes repetitious, as the characters repeatedly congratulate each other on bravery in adversity without ever conveying just how hard it was.)  <br />As an attempt at realism, the novel is a failure.  As a beach book, it is a success.  After all, I did keep reading.	2003-04-30
US	52706437	R1I0108WVD8F65	0312980426	410770424	Off Balance	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Thoughtful and sensitive	I absolutely love this book.  It is beautifully, even elegantly, written (except for a few phonetic errors such as &quot;poured&quot; instead of &quot;pored&quot;).  The scene is vividly and appealingly set, and the characters finely drawn.  Quite simply, I want to live in the world of Isobel and Giles and those around them. I want Isobel's spirit, her equanamity, her capacity for loving, her energy, her dog, and her household help. This is very much a testament to Ms Sheepshanks' evocative writing skills.  I did not want the book to end.<br />What truly sets this book apart, however, are the twins, Edward and Amy. It is rare to find such wonderfully handled ten-year-olds.  Amy is brilliant, loyal, challenging, and musical, and clearly feels all the pressure to succeed that the gifted sibling of a disabled person is bound to experience.   The portrayal of Edward is perhaps the most sensitive and understanding portrait of a handicapped child I have ever encountered.  There is no attempt to sentimentalize him nor to get inside his mind, something no one would be capable of doing. But he is so beautifully depicted that he becomes real in a way rare in any writing.<br />I am desperate for another novel by Mary Sheepshanks.  I love all four of her books, and I REALLY want to find out what happens when Lorna drops her bombshell on Giles and Isobel.  I do not hope for a sequel (although I would love one):  another skill mastered by Ms Sheepshanks is her ability to tell her readers what has become of the characters in her earlier books even while she is writing about different people.  For example, one learns about Flavia, the heroine of Facing the Music, in Off Balance, in which she is a relatively minor character.<br />Please, Ms Sheepshanks, keep writing your fabulous novels!	2003-04-09
US	52706437	R132ODYY2ZTLD9	0312291000	940891709	A Presumption of Death: A New Lord Peter Wimsey/Harriet Vane Mystery	Books	4	14	17	N	Y	Engaging novel, short on mystery plot	I very much enjoyed this book, primarily for its insights into Wimsey home life.  The mystery plot was thin and a bit facile, but the book is well-written and engaging.<br />There are, however, a couple of flaws that prevented me from giving the book a higher rating.  There are anachronisms sprinkled through the novel, particularly in the form of phrases that I cannot imagine Harriet Wimsey (or, indeed, anyone else) using in 1940.  The use of prior Sayers novels is also a trifle heavy-handed.  Ms Walsh must know that her readers have  read all the Sayers/Wimsey books, probably more than once.  Given this fact, her fairly constant tendency to include and summarize materials from the other novels can become oppressive. Would Harriet Wimsey's train of thought upon seeing Miss Twitterton really include a total recall of her contact with Miss Twitterton on her (Harriet's) wedding night?  It is now four years later, and I cannot imagine that Harriet would have no more recent memories of Miss Twitterton upon which to call.  To summarize this criticism:  there is too much of Busman's Honeymoon in this book.<br />Despite these criticisms, I did enjoy the book.  It is worth reading.  Moreover, the print is so large that those who are compelled to wait for large print editions need not do so:  they will probably be able to read this one just fine.	2003-03-12
US	52706437	R3PBVAT28N52VP	0345458486	109136189	Death in the Family	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	a superb book in an excellent series	A Death in the Family is an absolutely terrific book.  It is beautifully written (as, indeed, one should expect in a novel whose chief protagonist is so particular about his use of language).  Its plot is excellent and laden with suspense.  Its characters are superbly drawn.  What more could one need?<br />One of the aspects of series detective stories that I enjoy most is getting to know the repeat characters better as the series continues.  I also like to watch them develop.  A Death in the Family is wonderful from both of these perspectives.  The reader learns more about Lloyd, including his first name, and more about Judy Hill as well.  Indeed, one of the most successful aspects of this highly successful novel is the evolution of Judy Hill's maternal feelings from terror to love.  <br />The mystery plot of A Death in the Family is riveting and, while sad and even tragic, does not leave the reader devastated (as some competing authors are wont to do).  I cannot point out the moments of joy without giving away too much of the plot, but they are there!<br />A magnificent book.	2003-02-19
US	52706437	R1FPKI2PPQ55ZB	0553802291	865601768	Unhinged	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Excellent entry in this series about Eastport, Maine	Unhinged is an excellent read for several reasons.  First, the book provides a real flavor of Maine, and is clearly written by someone who loves Eastport. The descriptions are vivid and authentic; the author never portrays Eastport as paradise (to the contrary), but one can almost smell the docks and hear the waves crashing and the foghorns blowing.  Second, the characterizations in the book are a joy to read.  Sarah Graves manages to convey the characterizations as her first-person detective and heroine, Jacobia, perceives them.  This gives the reader the same sense of discovery that Jake feels when she learns more about the people involved.  Third, the plot was enjoyable.  I figured out quite early on who was behind the nasty events in the book, particularly in light of the periodic implicit references to Occam's Razor (the simplest solution. . . .).  I did not figure out why, though, so there was some suspense left.  (I cannot say any more without giving too much away.)  The plot, while enjoyable, was perhaps the weakest aspect of the novel; I periodically wanted to smack Jacobia who seemed to be missing the most obvious clues.  But I am more than willing to forgive some weakness in the plot to get that flavor of Maine and the characters in Eastport!<br />I am also willing to forgive the excessive use of colons.  Colons should NOT be used to end paragraphs.  But I ignored them in my general delight at this book.<br />One last positive attribute:  I loved the home-repair piece of this book.  I live in an old house, not old by Eastport's standards, but old enough to allow me to appreciate the bottomless need for repairs that such houses generate.  Sarah Graves manages to be funny and wry, at the same time conveying the general sense of despair that a house can cause in its owner, as every repair generates the need for more, and more serious, action.  <br />This book was an excellent read and I recommend it highly.	2003-01-05
US	52706437	R39KX0O54165RW	0312877919	146624840	Liberty or Death: A Thea Kozak Mystery	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A superb book from a superb series	Liberty or Death is a superb entry in the excellent Thea Kozak series.  This book, like the rest of the series, is a fast-paced, well-written and suspense-filled tale of an interesting and inspiring woman who leads her life her way, often butting heads with the world but always emerging triumphant, albeit bruised (or shot, or something).  The relationship between Thea and Andre is always riveting as they work out a life together.  Realistic portrayals of relationships between two control freaks are rare, and Kate Flora brings it off to perfection.  <br />I recommend this book highly.  But do not start it unless you have plenty of time at your disposal--you will not want to put it down!	2002-12-20
US	52706437	R46KBI87KPT6M	0670031380	293390331	The Terra-cotta Dog (Inspector Montalbano Mysteries)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Absolutely superb	I very much enjoyed The Shape of Water, the first in this series, so was delighted to find that The Terra-Cotta Dog had been published.  It is even better than its predecessor.<br />The Terra-Cotta Dog is beautifully written.  Andrea Camilleri has one of the smoothest writing styles I have come across.  I sat there completely absorbed in the book, and the next time I looked up it was substantially later in the day and I had read 100 pages.  The writing--the plot, the characterizations, the language--flowed so well that I did not notice turning pages or the passage of time.<br />If I had to come up with two adjectives for this book, they would be &quot;elegant&quot; and &quot;evocative.&quot;  These cover the characterizations, the writing, and the plot.  I will not go into the plot here; it is complex and, as good as it is, it is almost secondary to the seductive nature of this book.  Andrea Camilleri puts the reader into the brain of his detective, and one can almost smell the smells his detective confronts.<br />You must read it for yourself.	2002-11-19
US	52706437	R6MVWR0V96EVH	0312290888	476184743	Jane Austen in Boca: A Novel	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Absolutely delightful	This is a rare book in modern fiction.  It has an elusive element that many authors seek but few attain:  it has charm.<br />Jane Austen in Boca is a Pride and Prejudice novel set in a modern-day Jewish retirement residence in Boca Raton.  Unlike many efforts to borrow Jane Austen's plot lines, this book successfully translates the plot into its setting.  The characters are witty, sometimes funny, sometimes poignant, but always interesting.  Even though I knew perfectly well how it had to come out, I read as though I were in a genuine state of suspense.  In other words, the book lured me into its world and into the minds of its characters with enormous success. If only life were really like this! <br />This book is a delightful read.  It is elegantly written and beautifully paced. Without Jane Austen's acerbity, it was nonetheless both compelling and comedic (in the classical sense of the term).  I look forward to more fiction from this author.	2002-10-18
US	52706437	R381PH0Y23VG8L	0345428927	307114705	Heart and Soul	Books	2	0	6	N	Y	All too convenient	Although the vast majority of the books I read are fiction, I also love reading about pianos and pianists.  I was delighted to discover this book, which at least purported to be a novel about pianists. Alas, it was not really about piano playing at all.  Instead, it was a rather trivial novel about a set of relationships some of which happened to involve piano playing. A novel that really focused on the talent of the heroine would have had to provide more of a basis for her excellence; instead, she emerges as a brilliant pianist almost from nowhere.  There is no sense of the sweat and tears of learning to play piano at that level.  The only inkling of the scope of the heroine's endeavor comes when we find out that the heroine suffers from intractable stage fright, a fright she overcomes with surprising ease when the perfect partner discovers her.  <br />The romance aspects of this novel are also weak, as is the sense of the passing of time (almost none seems to pass).  Solutions to problems--such as the long-term care needs of the father--leap out of the woodwork.  Everything comes much too easily to the heroine, including her discovery of the love of her life waiting in the wings (where he has been for 22 years) when her piano partnership ends.  Her traumas do not last long, and are all easily resolved, whether by a sudden and surprising injection of money, friendship or love. <br />Life is just not this easy, and a novel in which it is this easy almost inevitably lacks a sufficient sense of drama to be successful.  This novel is no exception.	2002-10-07
US	52706437	R237YSWWFAN164	0151314535	967052865	Flambard's Confession	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Absolutely superb	Flambard's Confession is an absolutely superb book.  It is the story of Ranulf Flambard, an important government official under William II (Rufus).  Flambard has been identified by Thomas Costain as one of the greatest villains of English history, an assessment which, while not necessarily accurate, is not far from the truth. Flambard's Confession takes the form of a first-person account of Flambard's life, and is abslutely masterful at handling the contradictions and challenges posed by writing the autobiography of someone who is at least villainous, if not a thorough-going villain.<br />I stumbled on this book, and loved it.  I read an enormous amount of historical fiction about the Middle Ages, and did not know whether my feelings about the book were, at least in part, attributable to the fact that few novels have been written about William II and his period.  To test this, I passed the book on to several other people, none of whom is a medievalist, and all of whom thought it was one of the greatest historical fiction novels ever written.  <br />I have no idea why this book did not receive more attention when it was written.  SOMEONE NEEDS TO REPUBLISH IT.  It is a marvelous book, and would sell well with the audiences who read Sharon Kay Penman, Dorothy Dunnett, and all similar authors.	2002-09-23
US	52706437	RSEZF8K7UL28V	0553109731	177332054	And Justice There Is None	Books	5	6	9	N	Y	A gripping and superbly written novel	I am a fan of Deborah Crombie, and I pounce on her books the moment they become available.  To my astonishment, because her books are so good, this book is even better, something I did not believe was possible.<br />In this novel, Ms Crombie combines terrific characterizations with suspenseful plot.  She handles the difficult literary device of the flashback with immense skill, giving out enough hints to allow the reader eventually to figure out who the characters in the flashback are but making the flashbacks, and deciphering them, work with the plot to perfection.  The overall plot was so suspenseful that could do nothing else until I had finished the book.  Her characters are absorbing and always act true to character, giving the book an integrity that few novels of today succeed in achieving.  The relationship between her two detectives continues to deepen, and provides a fascinating framework for the book.<br />Series novels about the same characters have a tendency to become weaker as the series continues.  Ms Crombie is a notable exception to this:  each of her books, excellent in itself, is still better than its predecessor.  (In this respect she is similar to Elizabeth George.)  <br />Read this book IMMEDIATELY!  If I could give it more than five stars, I would do so without hesitation.	2002-09-04
US	52706437	R1NII603AJ21S8	0553109731	177332054	And Justice There Is None	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Absolutely superb, her best novel yet	Deborah Crombie is one of my favorite authors, and I pounce upon her books (or order them through Amazon) the instant they become available.  This book is her best yet.  It is gripping, well written, and all too plausible.<br />Ms Crombie handles the difficult literary device of the flashback with immense skill, integrating them beautifully into the current story and giving the reader sufficient hints so that he or she can figure out who the characters in the flashbacks are.  Her two main characters are superbly drawn, and I continue to be riveted by the developing relationship between the two detectives.  She cleverly figured out a credible way for them to work together in this novel, even though they are no longer in the same district. (This will pose a challenge in future novels.)  The London setting of this novel works to perfection, and the minor characters are both beautifully described and appealing.  Everyone acts in character in this novel, a truly remarkable achievement.  This consistency is probably what gives this book its completely absorbing nature.  The suspense was so great, and the need to find out what became of everyone so strong, that I was incapable of doing anything else until I had finished the book!<br />Ms Crombie is an unusual author:  each of her books is better than the one before.  Usually, particularly with a series, the books have an unfortunate tendency to become weaker.  That is not true of this author.  She goes from strength to strength.	2002-09-02
US	52706437	R20EAF72TV924I	0767913000	194950981	Fourplay: A Novel	Books	3	10	22	N	N	Pleasant and frothy	Fourplay is a pleasant and frothy summer read.  The heroine is basically likeable, and her dilemma, choosing among four men, at least two of whom (Martin and Conor) are spectacular, is an enviable one.  Indeed, for a novel that begins with what is at least in theory a devastating divorce, there is remarkably little sadness to be found, either in the ex-wife or her children, who adjust to the changes in their lives with record speed and equanimity.<br />While I enjoyed this book, I gave it the relatively low rating of three stars. There were several reasons for this.  First, our heroine recovers from her divorce with breath-taking speed.  No sooner does she become available than four men materialize, all of whom want her on a permanent basis.  While it would be nice if life worked like that, it does not.  Of course, in romance novels life is not portrayed realistically, but this was excessive.<br />Second, while our heroine has two children, I have never dealt with children who were as unobtrusive in daily life as these.  In Fourplay's world, baby sitting is readily available, and the children seem almost pathologically happy at all times.  Dream on!<br />Third, the author (or editor) has a verbal tic that I found very irritating.  Somewhat unusually, as the problem tends to be the opposite, there are not enough commas in this book.  When one is addressing someone, the person being addressed should be surrounded by commas.  For example, it is correct to write:  \\"I love you, Jane.\\"  It is not correct to write:  \\"I love you Jane.\\" This distracting error appears throughout this book, usually at a rate of several times per page, as there is a lot of conversation.<br />The fourth reason lies in the inclusion of a couple of unnecessarily graphic sex scenes, accompanied by unnecessarily foul language.  The scenes are only a couple of paragraphs long each. They are wildly inconsistent with the rest of the book and completely gratuitous.  I have no idea why they are there, astheir message could have been conveyed with greater subtlety and enhanced romantic aura without the X-rated content. Even more unforgiveably, they are completely out of character for our heroine.<br />All in all, though, this book was enjoyable.  For her future books, however, it would be wonderful if the author could learn the correct use of commas.	2002-08-02
US	52706437	R1JO4LJQSEBICA	067003097X	76651271	Girl from the South	Books	1	5	8	N	N	Joyless, Dispiriting and Dull	I am a fan of Joanna Trollope, so I was looking forward to her latest book.  Alas, I was sadly disappointed, for several reasons.<br />In this book, Ms Trollope engaged in a favored literary device of lazy authors:  most of the action takes place off-stage, as it were, and the reader is confronted by various faits accompli and is left to guess at how they came about.  Perhaps the most conspicuous of these is the relationship between Gillon and Henry.  When we leave them, they are not a couple.  When we return to them, they are.  There is absolutely no effort on Ms Trollope's part to reveal how this came about.<br />Not only are they a couple, they are the most joyless and passion-free couple I have met in many books.  Their relationship seems to provide no happiness to anyone.  Certainly there are unhappy relationships in fiction, but this relationship is not unhappy either.  As far as I can tell, it isn't anything.  It isn't even dull.  It's nothing.<br />Ms Trollope's world is indeed a bleak one, from its absence of strong emotion to the essential dullness of the people in it. All the characters in this book were dull, and I would not be interested in getting to know any of them.  They are adrift in a world of boring indecision, and seem to have no spark at all, even to battle this world, that would give the novel any kind of movement or interest.  There is no happiness, no tragedy, no feeling of any kind.  Just a gray kind of world that belongs to the days of Sartre and Camus, and not to the kind of writing I am used to from Ms Trollope.	2002-07-10
US	52706437	R29O6KNLXBOA2E	0375726683	222700091	The Dorothy Dunnett Companion (Volume II)	Books	5	71	72	N	N	Indispensable resource for Dunnett fans	Dorothy Dunnett's profound erudition and unprecedented ability to incorporate information into her novels set her apart from many, if not most, authors of historical fiction.  The fact that her novels are so packed with information (as well as plot) is one of the reasons I love her books so much.  I read her books, I devour her books, and I always want to learn more about the time periods she evokes so effectively.<br />That is where this book comes in.  The novels provide tantalizing glimpses into a rich and complex world; the Companion allows the interested reader to pursue these glimpses into the labyrinthine world of Renaissance life and politics.  The Companion (and what I say here applies to both Volumes I and II) is organized alphabetically and makes it possible for the reader who wants to do so to learn more about the multitude of historical figures who are so beautifully woven into the novels.<br />The Companion also provides the means for tracking down the quotations and other rhetorical devices that appear in the novels.  The Companion carefully provides enough information to educate the reader, but not so much as to give away any of the plots of the novels.  This is a delicate task, but is accomplished beautifully.<br />We all miss Dorothy Dunnett.  May her novels long survive in print, and may the number of her fans continue to grow.  Books like the Companion will help to make sure that both of these exhortations remain reality.	2002-04-25
US	52706437	R15WMH2FU6MI0A	0802733670	180591260	To Perish in Penzance (Dorothy Martin Mysteries, No. 7)	Books	1	9	12	N	Y	wooden dialogue and improbable coincidences	This latest entry in the Dorothy Martin series is characterized by wooden dialogue and improbable coincidences.  It completely lacks the charm of the earlier entries in the series.<br />The married couple whose unlikely detective antics are at the center of this series are dull and preachy in this book.  Their activities are farfetched in most of the books, but their charm and the atmosphere of their village make the books enjoyable.  Unfortunately, this book lacks both charm and atmosphere.  Instead of the glorious side of Cornwall, we see Cornwall as a center of illegal drug activity.  Instead of charming interplay between Alan and Dorothy, we see preaching and the discussion of topics which most married couples (or even dating couples) would long have exhausted between them.  There is an awful lot about Alan that Dorothy does not know, ranging from how he feels about criminals and capital punishment to what he did in the military. How could they not have discussed such topics?  Alan is often patronizing to his wife, and Dorothy for the first time seems relatively unintelligent.<br />The mystery itself is the real weakness in this novel.  It is based on the most unbelievable set of coincidences.  This string of coincidences begins with the fact that Dorothy proposes a trip to Cornwall to try to solve a mystery that Alan had failed to solve thirty years earlier, and they (by chance) end up staying in the hotel with the daughter of the murder victim. Help!<br />I kept reading, and finished the book, but I do not recommend it. The characterizations in it are as superficial as the relationship Alan and Dorothy apparently have, and the plot is absurd.	2002-04-11
US	52706437	ROI913IBEFZIK	0380978431	901899275	The Body in the Bonfire: A Faith Fairchild Mystery	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Not great, but not bad either	This latest installment in this series has a lot going for it.  It is centered in a New England boarding school peopled with interesting characters, many of whom the author does a better than usual job of portraying.  Our intrepid heroine gets lots of opportunities to be intrepid, including engaging in some conduct that is moderately indefensible (such as wholesale room searches).  The plot is a bit on the unconvincing side, given that it depends on the confluence of two (and, depending on how you count, maybe three) entirely independent sets of events.  <br />The editing job on this book is also better than usual, with the exception of a couple of name mistakes.  (Thomas Moser cherry furniture is fabulous, but the book unhappily corrupts the name to Thomas Mosher, an entity of whom I have never heard.)<br />The primary down side to this book is that I bought it in hardback and read it in a couple of hours.  I would be happier about spending the money for the hardback if the book had supplied a longer period of absorption.<br />As I said, not a great book, but a pleasant one.	2002-03-19
US	52706437	R1OMQI4YLPK8I5	0451198182	388649260	Belonging	Books	1	5	5	N	N	poorly written with a worse editing job	I was very disappointed by this book.  I adore Scotland, and I also love Rosamund Pilcher's books about Scotland.  Having read all of her books, I was looking for an author whose books would take me to Scotland as vividly as Ms Pilcher's did.  Alas, I was disappointed in Belonging.<br />The real problem with Belonging is that it does not have a book-length plot, although it is not a short book.  This means that there is an enormous amount of repetition.  Since very little actually happens, the repetition centers around feelings. This makes for very boring reading.  One can only read about an identical episode of emotional tumult so many times without becoming impatient.  Ultimately, the two main characters have identical sources of emotional upheaval, which adds wild improbability to the mix of unattractive attributes of this book. It just does not ring true.  <br />It is, of course, the case that Ms Pilcher's books are not particularly probable, but they are beautifully written and the reader is eager to enter into the world they depict.  Belonging simply does not accomplish this.  Actually, what I longed for in reading Belonging was a red pen and the opportunity to edit it, both for the truly astounding number of typographical errors and for the rampant repetition that made the characters sound silly instead of thoughtful or perplexed.	2002-02-07
US	52706437	R35RAUPIMT77IZ	0312971842	91020937	An Ocean Apart: A Novel	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Enjoyable, but with some irritating linguistic quirks	I am a fan of Rosamunde Pilcher, so I thought I would give her son a try.  This is an enjoyable book, but not up to Rosamunde Pilcher's standards.<br />The plot of this book is engaging, but its hero is so improbable that the book fails to exercise quite the seductive charm that Ms Pilcher's books exude.  While her books are improbable, they draw the reader in to their world, and the reader can positively delight in their very improbability.  Robin is not quite at that level.  The hero of this book is just too heroic, too much of a superman, to exert the charm that romances like this require. He is brilliant at everything (except barbecuing, a minor flaw) from tennis to giving preteens a powerful new sense of self-worth.  <br />In addition to some deficiencies in characterizations, Robin has some verbal mannerisms that can be quite annoying and distracting.  Ms Pilcher has some too (such as using the word &quot;mouthful&quot; when most writers would use the word &quot;sip&quot;), but one can forgive them in the gentle flow of her writing.  Robin's are more oppressive, partly because some of them are grammatical errors as well.  He has a tendency to allow phrases to dangle.  One such appears on the back of the paperback edition:  &quot;Dispatched unexpectedly to New York, David's family hopes. . .&quot; I was taught in junior high school to watch subjects:  it is David who is sent to New York, not his family.  (His family goes there eventually, but this sentence refers to his business trip.) I would have happily blamed this faux pas on an editor, assuming that Robin had not written the blurb on the back, but this is a mistake that recurs in the novel itself. He repeatedly uses the word &quot;minute&quot; to mean &quot;moment,&quot; as in &quot;at the minute&quot; to mean &quot;at the moment.&quot;  He uses the word &quot;flocks&quot; to mean &quot;phlox.&quot;   Not major problems, and ones that a good editing could easily correct. But they are distracting.   <br />Anyway, this was an enjoyable book.  There is room for improvement, but it is an excellent start, and I look forward to more books from this author.	2002-01-21
US	52706437	R1YNHTLE2XKOWC	0553802283	79309767	Wreck the Halls (Home Repair Is Homicide Mystery)	Books	2	18	24	N	Y	Distracting punctuation and fragmented plot	I am a fan of this series, and have very much enjoyed the four preceding books in it.  This one, however, was a disappointment. First and foremost, the author has developed an extremely quirky use of colons.  This may sound unduly fussy on my part, but the appearance of the colons is more than just a misuse of a punctuation mark:  the author uses colons in this book as a substitute for appropriate paragraphing and sentence structure.  The ubiquitous colons make the work read in a very fragmented manner.  I prefer paragraphs and complete sentences; the colons seem almost lazy, and prevent the language from having any flow to it.<br />Second, the characterizations and the plot were both fragmented. Like a Russian novel, numerous characters were introduced, but without enough about them to enable me to remember who they were between appearances.  Perhaps this problem is related to the first one I mentioned, in that the abrupt writing style of this book distracted me from the content.<br />I am looking forward to more books in this series.  Coming out so soon after the fourth in the series, this one might have been a bit rushed (releasing it in the summer would have been infelicitous).  I am more than willing to forgive this lapse in an otherwise very enjoyable series.	2001-12-14
US	52706437	R1SQCC4H3OEHDE	0375410716	565162123	Old Men at Midnight	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Not up to his usual high standard	This book is not really a novel at all.  It is three novellas, each told by a different man to Ilana Davita Chandal Dunn, the heroine of Davita's Harp.  I would much rather have had a novel about Davita's life after the prior novel about her than have her as as the fairly invisible ear for the three stories.  In fact, I was frustrated at the glimpses of her life this book gave!<br />The three stories are well written and riveting.  I gave this book three stars, though, because the three stories were all highly derivative.  It is true that they were reminiscent of Potok's own earlier writing, but this detracted from their originality.  In style they were similar to the stories in Zebra; in content they borrowed from several of his other books (most notably, The Book of Lights).  <br />Potok is one of the great writers of our time, with The Chosen and In the Beginning as true classics, and with all of his other books at a profound level of excellence as well.  (I except I am the Clay, which was far below his other books in quality.) I will look forward to his next book!	2001-12-01
US	52706437	RDFQNZJCW28QE	0375411453	479991747	The Good People of New York	Books	1	9	17	N	Y	Disappointing and elliptical	I bought this book based on the excellent reviews it had received on Amazon.com.  I wonder if I read the same book as the reviewers.<br />This book, billed as a novel, was not really a novel at all; rather, it was a series of vignettes.  The important action happened off stage.  The characters would be brought to some form of turning point, the chapter would end, and the next chapter would begin some time later, with the issues neatly resolved.  The book was like a portrait without features and hands, just outlines of the head, shoulders and upper body.  The characters never had to wrestle with difficult decisions, because they were all made between the chapters and were never dealt with in the book itself.  <br />Because of the complete absence of difficult or intriguing content, this book was one of the fastest-reading books I have come across.  The only challenge to the reader was to figure out how much time had passed between chapters, and even this was not difficult because the author always told the reader to what grade Miranda had progressed.  This book was too easy to read and comes across as too easy to write as well.<br />I gave the book one star instead of none because I did keep reading it to the end.  This was probably in the hope that something interesting would happen.  Nothing did.	2001-11-12
US	52706437	R2DLYRBXUXDF6Q	157566691X	937302518	Christmas Cookie Murder (Lucy Stone Mysteries, No. 5)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	My faith in this author is restored	After reading the very disappointing Back to School Murder, I was a bit hesitant to try another Leslie Meier mystery.  I needn't have worried.  This one was excellent.  While the mystery plot was a bit weak, with the solution a little too easy to find for our intrepid detective, the rest of the book more than made up for this.  The characterizations were strong, and the small-town aura very seductive.<br />An excellent installment in this series.	2001-11-11
US	52706437	R3OJYJ4A0KZ8U1	1575663309	201513742	Back to School Murder (Lucy Stone Mysteries, No. 4)	Books	1	4	5	N	N	Heavy handed hints give the mystery away	I very much enjoyed Mistletoe Murder and Tippy Toe Murder, so happily settled down to read this mystery, armed with a free afternoon and a cup of coffee.  That is the best way to read Ms Meier's books--a cozy afternoon and a cozy book.<br />By the time the bomb went off, somewhere around page 5, I had figured out who had set it and why.  It seemed too obvious, so I checked the end of the book, and I was right.  The hints (which I will not reveal, because it might not be obvious to some readers) were glaringly heavy-handed--not really hints at all.  <br />I stopped reading, my cozy afternoon coming to a premature end.  I am not usually particularly adept at guessing who did it, so this book must have been extraordinarily obvious.<br />The author is, however, at two successes to one failure, so I plan to keep reading.	2001-11-08
US	52706437	R2LS8105R3RGG5	0312278187	303328000	Killer Stuff (Jane Wheel Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Beautifully written, slightly weak plot	This is a beautifully written book.  In today's mystery world, an astonishing number of books appear in their first editions with grammatical errors and proofreading mistakes.  I find this distracting.  This book, however, had none, a remarkable achievement.  Thus, I was able to pay attention to the content.  <br />And what content it is!  Our intrepid heroine and her friend find themselves in the middle of various murders and other heinous activities in the antique-hunting world of house and estate sales.  No wonder I never found anything at such sales--there was no way I could compete with the professional pickers and searchers for any nice items that might be available. <br />I found the atmosphere of the book and the characters of the detectives (amateur and professional) more compelling than the mystery plot itself, which ended up with an excessively convenient solution.  I look forward to more in this series, but PLEASE get our heroine back together with her husband!	2001-11-06
US	52706437	R33Z09DQ3EYGW0	0312284454	484787719	Shades of Murder: A Mitchell And Markby Mystery	Books	2	4	5	N	Y	Not up to standard	I am a fan of Ann Granger, and I was looking forward to this addition to her Meredith-Markby series.  Alas, I was disappointed.  The book is fragmented and ultimately unsatisfying.<br />This book deals with two murders that took place approximately 100 years apart. There is no real effort to integrate the two; despite some connections, their presence in the same novel seems largely coincidental.  The earlier murder is reported, not analyzed or studied, and certainly not detected.  The later murder is the real subject matter of the detective portion of this story.  Unfortunately, the solution is excessively pat, and the reader is given no way of knowing how Meredith arrives at it.  It just sort of seems to strike her at the end of the book.  As far as I could tell, there were few clues and no analysis--just a conclusion.<br />This book did have some highlights.  The head Scotland Yard detective assigned to the mystery (Markby is off the case, as he is too close to the characters involved in it) turns out to be an interesting addition to Granger's usual characters. I would have liked to get to know him better, though.  The victim, however, was dull and artificial.  It is hard to believe that anyone, even two elderly ladies (themselves wildly improbable), could have taken him at all seriously as a threat, and the explanation of why they did so does not hold water.<br />Overall, a disappointing addition to this otherwise sound series.	2001-10-10
US	52706437	RTXUGLZG0JK9B	0751525332	310118650	Cruel Habitations	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Elegantly written and riveting	For reasons I cannot figure out, if there are any, Kate Charles seems neglected in this country. Her books seem made for those who like classic English mysteries with a darker side to them (although not as dark as Elizabeth George, for example). Her characters are fascinating people with multifaceted personalities: they give the feeling that they have lives outside the mystery itself. To achieve this multilayered effect, Ms Charles has a long lead-in to the mystery in which she introduces her characters and their lives before any real mystery receives their attention.<br />The emotional lives her characters lead seem based in a genuine perceptiveness. The flip side of the &quot;village mystery,&quot; a side that allows the claustrophobic nature of village life to intervene, appears strongly in her books. Ms Charles manages to convey this claustrophobia without adversely affecting the anglophilia which her readers no doubt share. Ms Charles also comes across as a trifle high-church, but again she combines this with a warmth that allows it all to remain appealing.<br />Unlike the classic cozy mystery, Ms Charles' books are emotionally complex views of English village and church life, and I enjoy them immensely. Her lead characters have a slight tendency to submissiveness, but this contributes to the sense of realism that one can maintain while reading these excellent books.  In this book in particular, one can cheer on her lead character as she leaves behind the cult to which her family had belonged.	2001-09-17
US	52706437	R3F5JQSNO1MBD	0312280335	99979221	Corpse de Ballet: A Nine Muses Mystery: Terpsichore	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A superb overture to what I hope will be a long series	Corpse de Ballet is an excellent book.  Its mystery elements are a bit weak, but that does not matter.  The book's virtue lies in the fact that it is both extremely well written and a remarkable portrait of the world of ballet.  One rarely gets any trip behind the scenes of a ballet production, let alone the vivid excursion this book involves.  So well-written is this portrait that the reader cannot tell whether the author loves ballet for its art and beauty or hates it for the terrible physical and emotional tolls it imposes on its practitioners.  One must surely call into question the value of any art form that requires that its adherents be both anorexic and cut-throat and that ultimately physically and emotionally destroys those who choose dance as a career. <br />Another aspect of this book worthy of note is the relationship between the two detectives.  I will enjoy watching what is clearly an incipient romance develop.  Ellen Pall is clearly experienced in the art of creating a convincing romance.  Indeed,  so well-written. .... .... ....	2001-07-02
US	52706437	R3GUVFRMAJ605U	0312280335	99979221	Corpse de Ballet: A Nine Muses Mystery: Terpsichore	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A superb overture to what I hope will be a long series	Corpse de Ballet is a superb mystery.  It is extremely well written.  The mystery aspect is a trifle weak, but that does not matter:  the characterizations and non-mystery content give this book its excellence.  The world of ballet is a fascinating one, and the author is so subtle that the reader cannot tell if she loves it for its artistic aspects or hates it for the truly terrible emotional and physical crippling it inflicts on its disciples.  Football players have it easy by comparison.<br />I enjoyed this book so much, and it was so well written, that I instantly headed for Amazon to try to obtain some of the romances that Ellen Pall wrote under the name Fiona Hill.  Imagine my consternation when I found out that they are ALL out of print.  Some publisher out there needs to wake up and smell the sales!	2001-07-01
US	52706437	R11ONJJUYMQE18	0060197722	850670214	Country Matters: The Pleasures and Tribulations of Moving from a Big City to an Old Country Farmhouse	Books	1	23	31	N	N	Conspicuous consumption in the country	I love books of the city-dweller-moves-to-country variety, provided they are interesting, practical, humorous, and well-written.  This book fails all of these, although I kept reading to the end, largely to see if anything of interest was going to happen.<br />Basically, the book may be summed up as follows:  our fearless protagonist, an eminent editor and author, buys a farm in the country.  He hires the entire neighborhood to work for him in various capacities, lavishly redecorates his house, builds a house for  one of his employees, buys a Ferrari to become &quot;one of the guys,&quot; supplies his wife with endless numbers of eventing horses and pieces of farm equipment, builds an indoor riding arena (or rather hires someone to build one for him), and, in case you hadn't gotten the message, leads a nice life.  His efforts at humor tend to sound patronizing, particularly when they are at the expense of his neighbors, and his fund of wealth is truly staggering.  (I thought that it was only in Regency romances or Pygmalion stories that the heroine would receive a choice between a diamond bracelet and an indoor riding arena, but I was wrong.)  The person whom I would most like to be in this book is his wife, who leads a life of wealth and privilege that passes belief.<br />In spite of the fact that Mr. Korda is an eminent editor, the book was loaded with grammatical mistakes, some of which were so consistent that they cannot be called typographical errors.  One example, appearing throughout the book, is Mr. Korda's use of &quot;that of,&quot; which is supposed to replace the possessive.  But the possessive remains.  For example (not a quotation, but an example of what I am talking about):  &quot;the horse was grayer than that of Mr. Korda's.&quot;  This phrase should read:  &quot;the horse was grayer than that of Mr. Korda.&quot;  <br />I plan on passing my copy of this book on to someone else.  Mr. Korda does not need any more royalties.	2001-06-01
US	52706437	R286NWOTHR1M4S	0375503048	877647320	The Piano Shop on the Left Bank: Discovering a Forgotten Passion in a Paris Atelier	Books	5	45	49	N	N	A charming look into a usually hidden world	The Piano Shop on the Left Bank is a beautifully-written book that will appeal to three different, although probably overlapping, audiences.  The first audience is comprised of people who love playing the piano as adults.  I recently resumed lessons after an interlude of half a lifetime, and Mr. Carhart's book expressed many of the feelings through which I have progressed in returning to pianos and to piano lessons, albeit far more elegantly than I could ever express them.  <br />The second audience is comprised of people who love pianos.  I also fall into this group; I love pianos for themselves.  They are unsurpassed musical instruments, and this book gives you a glimpse at their history as objects as well as their existence as music-makers.  <br />The third audience for this book is comprised of those who love to get behind the scenes in Europe, viewing a lifestyle that is hard to find (although it can be found) here in the United States.  Luc, the primary craftsperson in the book, is immensely appealing both for his craft (and art) and for his perspectives on the world.  He runs his piano shop as he feels it should be run, and because his customers appreciate his worth, he can do so successfully.  Mr. Carhart manages to become part of the shop's world, and vividly takes the reader with him.<br />In short, this is an immensely appealing book that makes the reader eager to rush out and find a Luc for themselves.	2001-04-23
US	52706437	R8KJ6BUJEEZ0D	1929145012	70063107	The Piano Book: Buying & Owning a New or Used Piano	Books	5	28	28	N	N	The new fourth edition is the best one yet!	The new fourth edition of Larry Fine's Piano Book is the most informative one yet.  I have enjoyed the three preceding editions immensely, but the fourth surpasses them all.<br />To me, the most valuable part of Larry Fine's book is the information on new pianos (although he supplies lavish information on piano mechanics,used pianos, piano care, and piano shopping as well as the information on new pianos).  His book is unique in its effort to describe and explain the different brands and what sets them apart from each other.  While the first three editions were all packed with useful information, the fourth edition adds an informal (but enlightening) rating system that ranks the new piano brands.  This new rating system represents an extraordinary effort at an unbiased review of the different new brands, and it provides an extremely useful comparison among brands. <br />The rating system breaks new pianos down into general categories, providing a basis for the reader to use in comparing pianos within categories as well as between categories.  Within each broad category, the rating system ranks the various brands.  While many of the brands end up with similar ratings, this highly useful fact in itself provides the reader with enough knowledge for an educated evaluation of claims made by dealers in rival brands.  The dealers should note:  as Larry Fine points out, it is poor selling technique to try to sell pianos by criticizing the competition!  Larry Fine's rating system highlights the unwisdom of this critical approach.  <br />Educated by Larry Fine, a piano shopper will have a much more enjoyable experience than he or she might otherwise have had.  You may agree with what he says, or disagree with it.  You may find an individual piano that transcends the category into which the average piano of that brand seems to fall, or one which does the opposite.  But at least you will be in a position of greater knowledge when you shop.  Moreover, the book is well written and fun to read.  A truly remarkable collection of attributes!	2001-02-07
US	52706437	R26PCXXFNKXF8Y	0802733476	930730761	Killing Cassidy (Dorothy Martin Mysteries, No. 6)	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Enjoyable and engaging mystery with minimal violence	I have enjoyed all of Ms Dams' Dorothy Martin mysteries, and so was looking forward to this one.  I was not disappointed.  My favorite aspect of this series is the interaction between Dorothy and her husband, Alan, and this book has more of this interaction than any of its predecessors.  <br />Dorothy and her husband return to the United States pursuant to the will of an old friend of Dorothy's.  Dorothy discovers that much about her former home town has changed; thus, introducing Alan to her home town involves some emotional pitfalls.  The mystery is more of a backdrop to what I viewed as the main plot, the developing relationship between Alan and Dorothy.  Thus, I did not mind that the mystery aspects of the plot were not particularly strong.	2000-11-13
US	52706437	R2Y9EF2NO6J79I	0312970404	556758831	My Body Lies Over the Ocean (Sarah Deane Mysteries)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	An enjoyable book marred by mistakes	This most recent paperback adventure for Sarah, Alex and Julia was enjoyable.  I liked the interplay among the chief characters and the picture of life on a cruise.  I have to say, though, that the vast majority  of the entertainments (excluding creeping around spying on crew and/or  fellow passengers) sound absolutely terrible, and any plans I may have had  for a cruise have been put on hold.  I hope that the author was being  facetious.<br />I agree with other reviewers that the plot was weak, and the  motivations more so.  Everything was very convenient, and the interaction  among the various police departments of different countries struck me as  wildly improbable.  <br />My major complaint with the book ties in with the  substandard copy editing job it received.  While the grammar and spelling  were largely fine, the punctuation was not, and a tendency to forget to  insert quotation marks at the end of a character's remarks was particularly  distracting. There were also some factual errors that the characters would  not have made (one example is that a fan of Brother Cadfael notes that  those books took place during the thirteenth century; the books are largely  set during the war between Stephen and Maude, which took place in the  twelfth, not the thirteenth, century).  Another example is that the piano  on board is referred to as a Beckstein; the correct spelling is, I believe,  Bechstein.  But these are minor matters; the quotation mark problem was  not.  I hope corrections can be made for subsequent printings. St. Martin's  Press is a wonderful press responsible for most of my mystery reading;  typographical errors should not interfere with its image.	2000-07-05
US	52706437	RUP62KNQ0WFKX	1581820879	756613356	Murder Most Medieval: Noble Tales of Ignoble Demises	Books	5	21	24	N	Y	A superb anthology	Murder Most Medieval is the best anthology of detective stories I have ever read.  What makes it unusual is the uniformly high quality of the stories it contains.  Each story is superb, beautifully written and  skillfully plotted.  Yet each story embodies its own author's style.  The  stories also differ from each other in in content; they are about different  periods in time, about different kinds of person, about different ways and  walks of life.  I rarely like anthologies, but this one is truly  extraordinary.  The authors deserve much praise; most of the stories make  me want to rush out and find other works by those authors unfamiliar to me.   The editor deserves much praise as well for putting together such a  unified and excellent work.	2000-06-16
US	52706437	RYIN2YN18HZHY	0312973144	195592683	Light Thickens	Books	2	11	15	N	Y	Strong on theatrical detail, weak on mystery plot	I have enjoyed Ngaio Marsh mysteries in the past, and I am interested in Macbeth, so I was looking forward to this book.  Unfortunately, as a mystery it was disappointing.  The lead in to the murder took the first two-thirds of this confusingly over-populated book, with the murder itself  almost an afterthought.  The plot centered around the production of  Macbeth, and not the victim or criminal.  I cannot reveal the weakness of  the plot without also revealing the ending, but the solution was so  excessively convenient that I wound up very frustrated.  The identity of  both the murderer and the victim seemed largely a matter of coincidence and  not of fate.	2000-04-27
US	52706437	R2K6DV3XYJ137D	0439063353	519913749	Snail Mail, No More	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Two spirited girls sharing very different lives	I loved P.S. Longer Letter Later, so I was looking forward to this book.  I was not disappointed.  The book is well written and riveting; the reader cares about the two girls and their families.  Some very challenging (new  sibling) and difficult (alcoholic father) family situations are discussed  with sensitivity and skill, as are the beginnings of interest in romance.   I could really hear the voices of the two protagonists as they begin to  confront the issues that face all young teenagers today.	2000-02-24
US	52706437	RWJIA5CTHR2D1	0684862670	971281319	Queen's Ransom: A Mystery at Queen Elizabeth I's Court Featuring Ursula Blanchard	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	Fair historical atmosphere, wildly improbable plot	I was disappointed in this latest Ursula Blanchard mystery.  It is not really a mystery; it is more of an adventure story replete with highly improbable feats, both by Ursula and others.  There were also significant  gaps in the action.  Many of the characters portrayed were so shallow as to  become two-dimensional.  This book does not really work either as a mystery  or as a novel.	2000-01-10
US	52706437	R3RWWU3VEL6R7B	0786706554	230650282	Gerald Durrell	Books	2	9	13	N	N	This book contains little new information.	I have always loved Gerald Durrell's works, and thus was looking forward to learning more about him as a person.  I am now bogged down half way through this large biography, and must report that I have learned little or  nothing new of any significance.  Indeed, the first half of the book  consists largely of material from Mr. Durrell's own works.  After pointing  out several times that Mr. Durrell's writings were often inaccurate, Mr.  Botting's reliance on them for his own biography seems somewhat  inconsistent, to say the least.  One can obtain the same information more  enjoyably and more informatively from reading Mr. Durrell's (and, indeed,  Jacquie Durrell's) own works. The essence of Gerald Durrell may be found in  his own writings; it will not be found in this biography.	1999-10-05
