US	52707081	R3U6P4899FTZEP	0735615772	448067113	Active Directory® for Microsoft® Windows Server® 2003 Technical Reference (Pro-Technical References)	Books	3	18	18	N	Y	Good information, much of it available elsewhere	When Windows 2003 was first released, if you were shopping for an Active Directory title, it was to solidify your administrative abilities with the emerging technology prior to implementing what at the time was a new platform.  Today, if you're looking for an AD book, you are probably looking more for a reference guide to facilitate either advanced configuration and troubleshooting, or to enhance your understanding of the more \\"behind the scenes\\" aspects of the AD.<br /><br />In 2002 (when this book was published), I could have recommended this title.  Without a doubt the book gives good historical information on where AD came from, and provides a solid foundation for the systems AD relies on (DNS), as well as planning your AD configuration, deployment in either a clean or migrated environment, security configuration, and AD object management.  Much of the information presented in the domain design, deployment, and security sections however, are either direct reprints or consolidations of already posted (and free) Microsoft documentation, from such titles as Windows 2000 Server Domain Migration Cookbook, Windows Server 2003 Active Directory Domain Rename Tools, Step-by-Step Guide to Kerberos 5 (krb5 1.0) Interoperability, and several other cited Microsoft KB and \\"Step by Step\\" articles.  These references are not hidden, but mentioned in side-bars throughout the text, and you are quite often encouraged to read those texts in addition to the information in this book.<br /><br />The layout of this book lends itself well to those learning or solidifying the basic to intermediate points of the technology.  Although the title would suggest that this is a good reference, references allow one to look at the index or table of contents for the information they need, and get the answers without having to cross-reference many other topics.  Picking a topic, such as application partition creation and management, shows that the information on this is not in one location and in fact requires the reader to have read the preceding topics in order to get a clearer picture.  This is not detractive to the value of the book, but a better classification for this would be textbook.<br /><br />Today, the 2003 AD has been out for many years, more professionals have mastered the topic, and better books are available that provide a less Microsoft-centric take on the AD, as well as proven experience in management in more standard implementations.  Instead of this title, look at ISBN 0321228480 \\"Inside Active Directory Second Edition\\".s the reader to have read the preceding topics in order to get a clearer picture.  This is not detractive to the value of the book, but a better classification for this would be textbook.    Today, the 2003 AD has been out for many years, more professionals have mastered the topic, and better books are available that provide a less Microsoft-centric take on the AD, as well as proven experience in management in more standard implementations.  Instead of this title, look at ISBN 0321228480 \\"Inside Active Directory Second Edition\\".	2005-10-10
US	52707081	R1MTES40SZ4LQ2	0321245458	239104624	Hands-On Microsoft Access: A Practical Guide to Improving Your Access Skills	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Worth the Time	If you are new to database concept and design and are looking for a title to teach you about Microsoft Access as your database solution, then this is a good book.  Readers are not expected to initially know much more than how to open Access and poke around, and are guided thru database construct concepts, table development, table relationship organization, and basic queries, to the application development utilizing internal forms and reports.  The chapters logically build on themselves so you always have a working foundation for the next concept introduced.  Information is presented hands-on, requiring the reader to develop the sample database as they read the book instead of relying on either the Microsoft provided Northwind database, or an author provided finished solution.  Chapters are concluded with \\"case examples\\" where you are able to step by step further apply what was just covered, helping to solidify the information.<br /><br />For a book of this size, the information is fairly complete for the beginner, and by the end of the book one can understand and create relatively complex Access database applications.  To be fair, if you are looking to \\"specialize\\" in Microsoft Access, this will not be the last title on the subject you buy.  What you will not find in the chapters is a complete overview of the Access flavor of SQL, in-depth coverage of advanced query types (they are introduced), in-depth macro development (macros are discussed), or VBA development.  All of this is fine as they are complex topics and go beyond the scope of this book.<br /><br />It is important to keep in mind that this is a book on Microsoft Access-specific database application development, and not on databases in general, not in programming, not on the industry standard SQL language, not in using Access databases in web pages or other applications, and not a \\"secrets\\" style book where you might expect to be shown the secret handshake that makes Access into something more powerful than it is.  Purchase this book if you're goal is to learn and master the basics of Microsoft Access; the information is there, well presented, and well worth the time to study.l than it is.  Purchase this book if you're goal is to learn and master the basics of Microsoft Access; the information is there, well presented, and well worth the time to study.	2005-09-24
US	52707081	R3G906OASACOEM	0735621675	997040096	Microsoft® Windows® XP Professional Resource Kit	Books	4	21	25	N	Y	Whatever happened to Supplements?	Am I the only one that remembers when instead of re-issuing the entire RSK any time a service pack was released that significantly changed the OS, a supplement to the primary RSK was sold?  This supplement being much smaller, *cheaper*, and used in conjunction with the original release which still contained 90% valid and current information.  Maybe someone will remember this when/if Microsoft releases XP SP3 and spare us from purchasing the entire XP RSK - a fourth time.<br /><br />My rant now over, the newest edition maintains the usability and necessity of the RSK, amending the already well re-written, must-have second edition with changes introduced in XP SP1 and XP SP2.  These additions include new sections on wireless networking, Windows Firewall and software deployment.  There isn't a specific What's New listing anywhere, so if you are supporting a mix of Pre and Post XP SP2 desktops, you might consider keeping the RSK's second edition for a while to avoid any confusion.	2005-09-19
US	52707081	RPO6E6VFP6BC7	0201791064	754949385	The Ultimate Windows Server 2003 System Administrator's Guide	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Start to Finish and Beyond	Often I pick up an \\"administrator's guide\\" and find myself staring at 300 pages of screenshots explaining how to insert the CD-ROM for installation and resize the task bar for better time/date viewing, written by someone who appears to be learning the topic while writing the text.  Rarely do I encounter a resource such as this book that not only intelligently covers the basics but successfully tackles advanced topics as well, leaving the reader's intelligence un-insulted and providing a reference guide that will serve you well long after your initial read.<br /><br />The foundational information is here, from planning out the network on paper to installing and configuring the basic domain services.  The deployment information is here, from server deployment to remote OS installations.  General administration, including AD design, IP addressing, DNS, replication, user and group management, and group policies are all thoroughly discussed.  More complex systems, such as VPN, security certificates, disaster recovery, terminal services, and indexing are also presented with just as much detail and knowledge as all other topics.  Beyond what you would otherwise expect from this style of book are advanced topics that are typically not covered and therefore overlooked by many administrators.  Such things as extending the AD schema, real-world security issues and solutions, clustering services, message queuing services, and a very extensive commands and utilities section are demystified, easily adding them to your skill list and making them a real possibility for inclusion in your environment.<br /><br />The title also provides an introduction to Microsoft SMS, Microsoft MOM, and the Windows Script Host (WSH).  These sections are there to inform you of their role within a network, not to provide a learning guide or reference for the technologies.<br /><br />Those that have never administered a network before in their life, and are looking to this title as a student textbook should look elsewhere.  Time is not spent covering the rudimentary basics that qualified IT professionals already have.  Although a Windows background is very helpful, administrators of non-Windows networks looking to crossover will find this title inclusive of the background information they need to understand the Windows environment and to apply their current network administration knowledge.  Every intrinsic Windows 2003 topic, from planning and deployment to management of core services, are covered in a logical and educated manner, providing you the information quickly and efficiently.  Sections and appendices are well labeled and organized to make this not only an educational guide, but a desktop reference that will last you thru the life of the product.  This is a must have for Windows 2003 administrators.Time is not spent covering the rudimentary basics that qualified IT professionals already have.  Although a Windows background is very helpful, administrators of non-Windows networks looking to crossover will find this title inclusive of the background information they need to understand the Windows environment and to apply their current network administration knowledge.   Every intrinsic Windows 2003 topic, from planning and deployment to management of core services, are covered in a logical and educated manner, providing you the information quickly and efficiently.  Sections and appendices are well labeled and organized to make this not only an educational guide, but a desktop reference that will last you thru the life of the product.  This is a must have for Windows 2003 administrators.	2005-08-30
US	52707081	R2GYE6HZQ3M51H	0735619816	877979089	Microsoft® Windows® Scripting Self-Paced Learning Guide	Books	2	32	34	N	N	Not even if they gave it away	I struggled with how to start this review.  How do you describe a book that attempts to teach scripting to (and I quote) networking consultants, network administrators, MCSEs or anyone familiar with \\"basic Windows Server administration\\" yet spends time telling you how to use Notepad to open a script file?  How about making up your own name for script sections that no one in the industry will understand if you ever say it to them (\\"Worker information section\\" for example)?  Worse yet, a book that attempts to teach you the basics of the language by using external COM object references from the very first script instead of solidifying the base language with the base language first?<br /><br />After reading dozens of self-paced learning guides on scripting as well as designing and teaching my own course work on the subject, I have a good idea what will make someone new to a topic frustrated and confused.  As an example, demonstrating a script on page 5 that reads from the registry using an external COM object followed by a long table on page 13 that lists registry locations where readers can pull such information as the Exchange 2000 domain user, but NEVER formally covering the object used to read from and write to the registry - is a great way to aggravate and alienate a student.<br /><br />What readers new to VBScript and Windows scripting will never find in this book is a straightforward introduction to the language, coverage of the Windows Script Host (WSH) itself, or a good reference for the native objects commonly used for Windows scripting.  A dedicated reader may find that the book does introduce them to scripting, but most will find that they will need to purchase a second book to fill in the missing pieces and/or to use as a language reference later on.  The author obviously knows the topic, but fails to efficiently convey that information to his readers.	2005-07-30
US	52707081	R2L3ZKTGTR5YRA	0735621667	240924018	Microsoft® Windows® Administrator's Automation Toolkit	Books	3	37	37	N	Y	A fair kickoff point for the subject	Windows automation books come in two styles - Recipe Book, where the reader needs only a remedial knowledge of scripting and has been given hundreds of task-based scripts, and Development Guide, where the reader is only given the tools and training to create the task-based scripts instead.  This title falls closer to the first than the last.<br /><br />Although the reader is presented with a quick overview of scripting concepts, you are not assumed to know how to script but have enough technical ability to look at the scripts and understand the gist of what you are reading and make small changes if needed.  All scripts presented in the book (and found on the accompanying CD) are written in VBScript (sorry jscript users) and for the most part wrapped in the WSF XML format.<br /><br />The first 35 pages which make up Part One are overviews of the principals of automation, general syntax and usage of the Windows Script Host, security thru digital certificates, and networking and remote considerations.  From there, the remainder of the book presents the toolbox scripts in a fairly straightforward manner, with each task section listing a description of the task, how you would do it manually, example usage of the provided script, the usage syntax of the script, a general overview of the part of the script that accomplishes the task, troubleshooting for the particular task, and a \\"go here to learn more\\" section.  A very broad array of toolbox topics for Windows administration are presented, including both client and server settings and management, hardware and software inventorying, password management, services and processes management, file and disk management, as well as network-specific services management and some IIS 6 tasks.<br /><br />The included CD contains all the scripts and script components presented in the book with a companion help file, a PDF version of the book, a PDF version of a different Microsoft scripting book titled \\"Microsoft Windows Scripting Self-Paced Learning Guide\\", and a video presentation of \\"VBScript Essentials for Windows Administrators\\", which is an overview of how to script VBScript (sorry jscript users - no luck).  A quick watch of the videos reminded me why I hate video learning, what with only fair sound quality and a small display size.  Readers seriously interested in learning how to script are much better served reading \\"Microsoft Windows 2000 Scripting Guide\\" (ISBN 0735618674).<br /><br />It is unfortunate that half-stars are not permitted; I would rather have given the title 3.5 stars.  This title is not a resource to teach you the tools you need to fully script and automate administration on your network.  As a toolbox, the provided scripts are very useful but fall short of being a very complete resource.  The tasks the author has opted to include are indeed found in common use, but the true abilities of the underlying technology is really only lightly touched upon.  Administrators already advanced in the area of task automation will not find this title useful.  Beginning to intermediate administrators can gain value from this, but it most likely will not be your last purchase on this topic.e\\", and a video presentation of \\"VBScript Essentials for Windows Administrators\\", which is an overview of how to script VBScript (sorry jscript users - no luck).  A quick watch of the videos reminded me why I hate video learning, what with only fair sound quality and a small display size.  Readers seriously interested in learning how to script are much better served reading \\"Microsoft Windows 2000 Scripting Guide\\" (ISBN 0735618674).    It is unfortunate that half-stars are not permitted; I would rather have given the title 3.5 stars.  This title is not a resource to teach you the tools you need to fully script and automate administration on your network.  As a toolbox, the provided scripts are very useful but fall short of being a very complete resource.  The tasks the author has opted to include are indeed found in common use, but the true abilities of the underlying technology is really only lightly touched upon.  Administrators already advanced in the area of task automation will not find this title useful.  Beginning to intermediate administrators can gain value from this, but it most likely will not be your last purchase on this topic.	2005-07-11
US	52707081	RUSFTRP0JHPAE	0735622175	558039414	Microsoft® Windows® Group Policy Guide	Books	5	19	20	N	Y	Group Policy Bible	At over 700 pages, everything you want to know about Group Policies (GP) is at your fingertips.  Covering every aspect of GPs from concept introduction to advanced troubleshooting on all supported Windows platforms (including Windows Server 2003 SP1), any administrator of any level will walk away from this book with a more clear and advanced understanding of the information than what they started with.<br /><br />Along with foundational GP concepts, everything you need to know about deployment, client hardening, user and computer management, software deployments, and troubleshooting are here.  The information does not stop with just configurations for the Windows platform, but covers the Microsoft Office suite as well.  Beyond the in-depth administrative information, complete overviews of add-in security templates, creation of custom GP templates, and GPMC scripting are also well documented.  The included CD-ROM has every template and tool discussed in the book, as well as many very useful utilities not directly mentioned but of value.<br /><br />Don't let the size of the book discourage you.  Although large, the topics are well presented, well labeled, and what you're looking for is easily found from the table of contents or the index.  What makes this book even more usable is the in-page topic links.  In every chapter, ever time a concept is presented where you need to understand the foundation, a \\"More Info\\" box is presented telling you where in the book to turn for the underlying principals.  That little addition makes this book not just a start to finish text, but an as-needed reference that you will keep readily available.<br /><br />Any administrator of any level that works in any way with Group Policies should pick this up.	2005-06-19
US	52707081	R3QOATM5XXGANV	0596009399	159129762	Don't Click on the Blue E!: Switching to Firefox	Books	3	15	22	N	N	Blatant IE bashing and Very Basic FireFox Info	I don't consider myself a big IE fan; I know the standard browser is bloated, horribly tied to Windows, and has some serious security issues especially for those not on XP SP2.  Even so, this title has a lot of biased IE bashing, one-sided arguments, and unfair feature comparison.  I often felt like I was reading politics-inspired anti-Microsoft propaganda rather than a Benefits of FireFox book.<br /><br />From the standpoint of an average computer user brand-new to FireFox and who has never installed or used the browser before, this title is just OK.  Being the third book on FireFox I've read in the last month alone, I found this title provides the least intermediate / advanced information and the most fluff and filler.  Chapter 2 is dedicated to graphically showing you how to install FireFox, with a page-length section dedicated to web sites the author thinks you might want to bookmark.  Chapter 3 walks you thru the basic interface; things like the menus, toolbars, the on-line help file - with several notes and stand-alone sections telling you what search engines the author likes, some definitions of common internet-related terms, general comments. etc.  Chapter 4 deal primarily with extensions and plug-ins you can download and install.  The author gives you an introduction into \\"how\\", then continues page after page with overview of his favorites extensions.  The last chapter is reserved for covering intermediate level browser features (some of which are native, some of which are downloadable extensions), as well as changes to the browser itself you can make by directly editing configuration files.<br /><br />An appendix is dedicated to Other Web Browsers, none of which are IE-based IE replacements (Avant Browser, SlimBrowser, etc.) that can provide a more robust and secure environment, giving you built-in popup blockers, ad-blockers, tabbed browsing, etc.  If you are going to dedicate space to tell the reader about other browsers in a Switch To FireFox title, some acknowledgement of IE alternatives would have gone a long way in making the title less one-sided against Microsoft technology.<br /><br />While not a bad title, the information is really only for those that have yet to download and use FireFox on their own.  Anyone who has the basics of FireFox down already will probably not find much more information about the base-browser than what they already know.  Although an easy and enjoyable read, one is left feeling like this title is capitalizing on current browser marketing trends more than anything else, and the mud-slinging and anti-IE jabs get annoying.  Other introductory titles for FireFox (like ISBN: 0131870041) present the same basic information in half the space, while still other intermediate titles (like ISBN: 0596009283) provide the basics in one chapter and then really educate the user on advanced FireFox usage.tle, some acknowledgement of IE alternatives would have gone a long way in making the title less one-sided against Microsoft technology. <br /> <br />While not a bad title, the information is really only for those that have yet to download and use FireFox on their own.  Anyone who has the basics of FireFox down already will probably not find much more information about the base-browser than what they already know.  Although an easy and enjoyable read, one is left feeling like this title is capitalizing on current browser marketing trends more than anything else, and the mud-slinging and anti-IE jabs get annoying.  Other introductory titles for FireFox (like ISBN: 0131870041) present the same basic information in half the space, while still other intermediate titles (like ISBN: 0596009283) provide the basics in one chapter and then really educate the user on advanced FireFox usage.	2005-05-14
US	52707081	R1BOQU7AZI1SBE	0596008813	957380087	Developing Feeds with RSS and Atom: Developers Guide to Syndicating News & Blogs	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Good General Development Guide	Both individuals who know what RSS/Atom feeds are but need information on how to develop and implement them, as well as intermediate users already publishing a feed and looking for more progressive information, will find value in this title.  Advanced users will most likely not find anything they don't already know.  Covering RSS 1.0, RSS 2.0 and Atom .05, readers are walked thru the basics and intermediate concepts of implementation starting with a general background history, end-user reader requirements and options, and syntax usage for each version.  The book then concludes with more intensive topics, such as usage of industry standard RSS modules, development of custom RSS modules, syndication thru services or direct publication, as well as third-party utility scripts and resources.<br /><br />A few items set this title apart.  First, the author has not dedicated this only to those who wish to perform serious syndication.  Time is spent both showing how anyone regardless of skill level can publish a feed without programming, and teaching them how to use various styles of feed readers and the etiquette behind subscribing.  For those who wish to go beyond basic feed development, the author dedicates entire chapters to things such as RSS modules (by RSS version), programmatically developed feeds, creating feeds which self-publish data from other web sites or databases, and publishing your feed for various platforms.  Readers should be aware that the majority of scripts presented within the title are in Perl or PHP, and either a working knowledge of those languages or of any scriptable language will be needed if you intend to go beyond the beginning / intermediate level; not having this knowledge does not detract from the overall value of the book.<br /><br />This title shows that RSS/Atom feeds are not just for the minority any more.  Complete chapters are dedicated to all three formats, presenting all material in and easy to read and understand format without wasting your time with fluff or thinly disguised plugs for 3rd party products.  This is a good general guide that will maintain value after your initial read.wasting your time with fluff or thinly disguised plugs for 3rd party products.  This is a good general guide that will maintain value after your initial read. <br />	2005-05-10
US	52707081	R1OR133YEQSI7H	0131870041	269145243	Firefox and Thunderbird Garage	Books	4	34	35	N	N	For Beginners	Ever since software stopped shipping with printed user manuals, users new to a software package typically look for an introductory text to familiarize themselves with the program if that program is not self-explanatory.  For those new users to FireFox and Thunderbird, this title provides just such an introduction.  For the most part, this title overviews the programs from the perspective of the user, covering the basic interface and dialogs spawned by toolbar and menu items.  Readers should not expect to get any deeper into the applications than what is immediately available within the Options dialogs.<br /><br />In regards to the FireFox section of this title, showing the information they do in a straight-forward manner would have resulted a text one third as long as what they printed.  To flesh this out, the authors have both taken the position that readers are not only new to FireFox, but new to internet browsing in general, and have added both very remedial information as well as a huge amount of filler.  For instance, an entire chapter appropriately titled \\"Websites to Waste Your Time With\\" does nothing more than provide you eight solid pages of links to web sites that you can - waste your time with.  Another chapter appears to be a dedicated advertisement  for a blog managing extension download.  And as a last example, one chapter has a two page table that covers what each toolbar button does, including a picture, name, and description (such as \\"New Window: Does the same as the File | New Windows command\\").<br /><br />For the Thunderbird section, much of the same fluffed up information as presented in the FireFox section can be found.  However, as an email client is a more complicated application than a browser, this section can serve as an excellent Wizard (if you will) for guiding the user thru the often difficult task of account setup and migration, as well as learning how to use the Thunderbird interface instead of your current email program.<br /><br />Only those that are looking for a beginners guide for FireFox and Thunderbird should consider this title.  The book definitely covers the basics of the applications and does so in a way that is easy for the reader to understand and follow.  Those that just want the facts and would prefer not to have to sift thru fluff and personal opinion may find this text trying at times, but will get the information they need.  Much of the information presented in the book is also presented for free in the on-line help included with both applications, but readers will find value in the extra programs and links presented throughout the chapters./> <br />Only those that are looking for a beginners guide for FireFox and Thunderbird should consider this title.  The book definitely covers the basics of the applications and does so in a way that is easy for the reader to understand and follow.  Those that just want the facts and would prefer not to have to sift thru fluff and personal opinion may find this text trying at times, but will get the information they need.  Much of the information presented in the book is also presented for free in the on-line help included with both applications, but readers will find value in the extra programs and links presented throughout the chapters. <br />	2005-05-03
US	52707081	R27U54XKQU1HIH	0596009283	158094626	Firefox Hacks: Tips & Tools for Next-Generation Web Browsing	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The Missing Manual	I'll start this review with my conclusion: get this book.  General users and network admins alike will find great benefit in this title.  It is the missing manual that serves not only to introduce you to the product, but teach you the ins and outs of actually taking control of the browser and all of it's actions for not only yourself, but if your in a deployment position - for distribution to, and remote management of, others.  Separated in to two parts, the entire text completes the FireFox picture for both developers and end users.<br /><br />When it comes to how inclusive this title is, I'm not talking about the half-hearted attempts other like-books make for applications, where the reader is shocked to realize that 80% of it is graphical hand holding of the native menus and dialog boxes, rewording the tool-tips and associated help file when needed - this book really delivers.  The first 100 pages are dedicated to making sure the reader understands the browser's makeup, understands, identifies, and can edit the configuration settings for native behaviors (quite often, when applicable, showing the one to one relationship with the graphical dialog or interface and the configuration setting), and setup / manage FireFox within a network environment.  The remainder of the book deals popular browser extensions for both users and developers, CCS and DOM development,  XML development, and the interaction with third-party tools and utilities one comes to expect from the \\"Hacks\\" series.<br /><br />Don't think that just because FireFox is free and comes as trimmed down as possible, that there is nothing to it other than the obvious.  A development goal was to make the browser's actions as transparent and accessible as possible, and the information available to the public.  This title proves they succeeded, and you will find that this is the only book you will need to read to get the absolute most out of the browser.	2005-04-12
US	52707081	R10MVU7C01YE98	0321290933	503722624	Designing Effective Database Systems	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Excellent Information for Anyone	Realistically, software developers are not the only only people who utilize databases.  Any person who professionally works with computers deals with databases whether they know it or not.  The database may not be a physical entity like a SQL or JET file, but something more subtle or conceptual such as your computers file system, the registry, the Active Directory, etc.  The ability to understand and leverage databases is of great benefit to all IT professionals, and this book is a great place to start.<br /><br />Despite what the title implies, the focus of this book is not in developing any specific database system or learning a specific development platform, but rather to intellectually understand what makes a database a database, how a database should be structured, the steps needed to design an efficient database for the situation, how to pull data from the database in a meaningful way, and even the steps to take to develop the user interface.  This is accomplished by walking you thru each concept and building on the information gained prior.  Information is provided as clearly as it can be for the topic, and there is no shortage of visual aids.<br /><br />The fact that the author uses two Microsoft products (SQL and Access) to demonstrate concepts is more out of convenience than anything else.  Both products install with an excellent relational database example (Northwind Database) which is used as the foundation for the concept demonstrations.  As the focus of this book is informational a not hands-on lesson driven, and as database design and query structures are universal and not vendor-specific, readers using other database providers will have no difficulty following along and will find the presentation of equal value.  Conceptually, however, it would have been nice to utilize an open-source and free database system, and provide demonstration databases as a download.<br /><br />Without a doubt, this is one of the best titles for learning database design and systems development.  Concepts are clearly presented, easily understood and real-world applications demonstrated.  Any person with an interest in databases can find value in this book and walk away with the ability to utilize the information gained.sign and systems development.  Concepts are clearly presented, easily understood and real-world applications demonstrated.  Any person with an interest in databases can find value in this book and walk away with the ability to utilize the information gained.	2005-02-15
US	52707081	R2HYC81EB3UVUC	032122874X	498658206	Learning Exchange Server 2003	Books	4	40	41	N	N	Your Exchange 2003 Start to Finish Guide	Books teaching you a Server product always seem to fall into one of two categories; the Cram for the MCSE test (in which you get the information needed to pass the test and not really administer the product), or the Mastering style (in which you are stuck with an 800 page book that assumes you already have an environment and are only interested in over-covering the advanced or obscure features).  I was pleasantly surprised to find that this title actually provides hand-held walk-thrus for the uninitiated, and continues the education process to cover basics, intermediate and advanced skills.<br /><br />The author starts the title by ensuring that everyone has the same lab environment by way of an environmental setup walk-thru.  This includes not only the Exchange portion itself, but hints and tips on how to minimize the hardware needed and build your environment with mostly trialware so as to keep the costs down for those who are reading the title outside of a corporate environment. From there, time is taken to introduce legacy and modern email protocols and formats in the context of the email client.  Once covered you are taken deep inside the Exchange 2003 environment, starting with the service architecture and moving you thru server management, recipient / distribution list management and publishing, private mailbox and public folder health and control, message routing and finally Outlook Web Access.  All of these topics are presented without undo references to how it was done in 5.5, which is a pleasant change from so many other titles that attempt the same level of Exchange education.  Once you have become comfortable with the Exchange system itself, time is spent teaching you how Exchange is integrated with the parental network.  This includes distributed architecture planning, Exchange 5.5 migration (which is separated out as a single chapter and easily skipped if you do not need it), and finally partner services, such as anti-virus and spam control mechanisms.<br /><br />What really sets this title apart, is that time is taken to ensure that the Exchange specific terminology is defined clearly and that you understand what the components are before you find yourself 70 pages in and realizing that what you just read doesn't mean what you thought it did (or if you're like me, you've reached a point where you can no longer just skip over the word pretending that it isn't important).  Although covering technical aspects, it is written neither so dryly nor so technical as to put the reader off; the author enjoys the topic and passes the enthusiasm along.  If you are looking for a title to teach you to Exchange 2003 administration - pick this up.ms.  <br /> <br />What really sets this title apart, is that time is taken to ensure that the Exchange specific terminology is defined clearly and that you understand what the components are before you find yourself 70 pages in and realizing that what you just read doesn't mean what you thought it did (or if you're like me, you've reached a point where you can no longer just skip over the word pretending that it isn't important).  Although covering technical aspects, it is written neither so dryly nor so technical as to put the reader off; the author enjoys the topic and passes the enthusiasm along.  If you are looking for a title to teach you to Exchange 2003 administration - pick this up.	2004-12-08
US	52707081	R1NO21E32BMAMT	0596005121	386527935	SQL Pocket Guide	Books	3	32	37	N	N	Not Bad, not Great	Its a pocket guide on just the data manipulation components of the SQL language for the 4 major versions (Oracle, MySQL, MS SQL and DB2) - you can't judge this as a complete reference or learning guide.  As SQL data manipulation has only a finite set of keywords and a fairly strict syntax, its hard to go wrong.  Like most pocket guides, only people that already know the topic should purchase.  As this title only covers data manipulation and not definition language control language (for example, page 112 does list the CREATE TABLE keywords, but as a secondary example and not a true reference), if you are looking for a complete reference guide to all things SQL, this is not your title.<br /><br />The biggest problem I had with this book is it's organization and layout.  Unlike other keyword guides that organize keyword references alphabetically, any time you need to refresh your memory on a specific keyword you have to find it first in the back index as this guide organizes by topic (Inserting Tables, Deleting Data, Predicates, etc.).  The topic-oriented structure would be better served in a learning text, or as a secondary table of content for a larger reference guide.  Once you do find your keyword's page, the actual layout of the text can make it difficult to quickly identify the topic, keyword, and target vendor.  If you're going to run everything together in very similar font sizes and weights without a page break, a few horizontal lines and inverse text won't kill you.<br /><br />Definitely a useful reference book if you're on the go and need to carry a reminder with you, but as a day to day desktop reference, there are other guides which provide more complete reference as well as better formatting.	2004-11-20
US	52707081	REQ9CBLJGR0O8	0596007779	976323122	CSS Pocket Reference (Pocket Reference (O'Reilly))	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Perfect Companion	A mistake so often made is judging a pocket reference guide in the same way you would judge a full size text.  Pocket guides should only provide a quick reference for a technology you already know, and not be looked at as a learning tool.  This reference is a boil-down of selected sections from the author's larger definitive title on Cascading Style Sheets, and there is no question that the information provided within is as informative and exact as is covered in the larger book; the light-weight pocket guide is much easier to carry when you need to verify something with CSS.<br /><br />The guide is designed well, with a structured table of contents which breaks the styles up into logical groups, and even an index for those quick find needs.  Each style entry provides the information needed without wasting space on the cautions and extras that a larger text typically provides.<br /><br />If you already own \\"Cascading Style Sheets: The Definitive Guide, 2nd Edition\\" (ISBN: 0596005253) that this pocket guide companions, this is a good addition to the set.  If not, obtain both as there are no better references.	2004-11-08
US	52707081	R27TKIZ9BUGSHY	0596001258	859982840	Ipv6 Essentials	Books	4	27	27	N	N	Excellent for Engineers	If your day to day involvement with IP consists only of managing WINS, DNS, DHCP and subnet configurations, then this book is not for you.  Don't get me wrong, there are many interesting sections worth reading that go far in introducing administrative aspects of IPv6, and no time is wasted reading them.  This title, however, is for those of you who daily get really dirty with IP and want to know everything there is to know about the new version, the differences between the versions, the features and behaviors of IPv6, and the new tools for configuration, management and tracking.<br /><br />The book starts of with a very brief and concise history of IPv6, and then jumps right into well explained sections on packet structure, addressing, and ICMP.  Each of those sections are written clearly and interestingly, make good use of figures to visually illustrate the information being discussed.  Once the structure and hardware-related management points have been driven home, the author provides many chapters that serve as an excellent reference guide and will prove useful well after your initial read.  Chapters on IPv6 security, QoS, Upper-layer and routing protocols proceed extended reviews and demonstrations of real-life networking design aspects, protocol version interoperability, co-existence configurations, and toped off with platform specific utility demonstrations.<br /><br />If you are planning on moving your environment to IPv6, increasing your understanding of the technology for more informed decisions, or looking for a reference guide to assist in your current administration of an IPv6 environment, this is the title for you.	2004-11-07
US	52707081	R3W07WHW7Y9ZM	0201616130	791626214	Developing WMI Solutions: A Guide to Windows Management Instrumentation	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Excellent For .NET Developers	On the back cover, one bolded line sums up this book nicely: \\"...[this title explains] how easy it is to write powerful management applications thru WMI on the .NET platform\\".  If you are an experienced enterprise application developer working on the .NET platform and interested in what WMI can do to replace legacy solutions such as SNMP, this book is an excellent choice. Just enough attention is given to the history of WBEM, the overview of the WMI/CIM environment, the elements of the SDK, and the query methodologies of WMI, before spending the remainder of the book creating a solution to an example scenario, that anyone ready to \\"take the plunge\\" will not be disappointed.<br /><br />Another quote on the back cover, as well as within the introduction section, states that \\"...[this book] is an essential companion for network administrators, software developers and team leaders looking to become proficient with WMI\\".  Well, one third of that is true.  I can't image what network administrator would find this title beneficial, as network administrators leverage WMI in automation and data gathering scripts or within applications such as SMS 2003.  This title is not only not a traditional reference for the individual elements of WMI, nowhere in the title does it even cover the scriptable aspects of WMI.  As for team leaders, if the team leader needs and introduction and administrative overview of what WMI is and what WMI's capabilities are, again, this is not the right title.  For those two users I would recommend starting with Microsoft's free on-line WMI Scripting Primer (Microsoft Windows 2000 Scripting Guide) as it is straightforward, uncomplicated, and easy to understand.	2004-10-12
US	52707081	R1VAAI2NXXMDGP	1555582664	888750612	Understanding WMI Scripting: Exploiting Microsoft's Windows Management Instrumentation in Mission-Critical Computing Infrastructures (HP Technologies)	Books	3	10	11	N	Y	Unnecessarily Complicated	I'll start by saying that there are are some very valuable chapters in this text and I'll be keeping the book; but it will never be a primary resource.  I'll grant you that WMI is a complicated topic, but when you're goal is to produce a book designed to introduce you to WMI scripting, you should really find a way to present the information in a straightforward and uncomplicated manner.  One problem with writing a how-to book on WMI scripting is that your work is inevitably compared against someone else's.  The author of this book without question brings complete understanding and vast experience, but has presented (somewhat dryly) so much dense information in the way of origin, concept, theory, aspects, etc (and none of it presented in a graduating fashion), that someone looking at this title as an introduction and guide to WMI scripting will probably be turned off (you're at page 267 before any actual scripting starts).  The required information a developer / scripter needs to understand to utilize WMI within their environment has already been shown by Microsoft's Scripting Guys in their free on-line WMI Scripting Primer (Microsoft Windows 2000 Scripting Guide) to be straightforward, uncomplicated, and easy to understand.<br /><br />If you are interested enough in scripting to think of adding WMI to your development repertoire, then it stands to reason that you know how to script.  Despite this, the author has chosen to include a remedial beginning scripting overview that takes up the first 118 pages.  As with many titles that tack on an introduction to scripting, it will not leave the newly indoctrinated with a solid foundation.  Once you move into the WMI section itself, the technical information and examples are quite often delivered in a way appropriate for product documentation, but difficult for a learning text.  Take the introduction of MOF files as an example.  The reader is only 25 pages into learning anything about WMI (you're in the history and overview section), and before you're taught how to even programmatically access the default environment, the author explains how to extend it with customized classes.  10 sentences to cover what a MOF file is, followed by 4.5 pages of a MOF file example.  It also needs to be understood that this is a two part text.  The author has written two books in this series, and this is the first of them.  It is pointed out numerous times within the chapters that such and such is covered in the other text.  Lastly, none of the SDKs, utilities, or scripts used in the text are provided.  You need to download them from both the author's web site, as well as the URLs printed in the specific chapter's summary section.<br /><br />That said, this title is worth the purchase for some of the reference tables and sections within it.  Overviews of WMI SDK tools and how to leverage them, a guide to the WMI Query Language, and many of the (relatively lengthy) WMI extension script examples make this title a good advanced \\"reminder\\" reference.  But if you're looking for a true introduction to WMI scripting, start with the Microsoft WMI Scripting Primer then focus on titles that provide administration using WMI before picking up this book.ew section), and before you're taught how to even programmatically access the default environment, the author explains how to extend it with customized classes.  10 sentences to cover what a MOF file is, followed by 4.5 pages of a MOF file example.  It also needs to be understood that this is a two part text.  The author has written two books in this series, and this is the first of them.  It is pointed out numerous times within the chapters that such and such is covered in the other text.  Lastly, none of the SDKs, utilities, or scripts used in the text are provided.  You need to download them from both the author's web site, as well as the URLs printed in the specific chapter's summary section. <br /> <br />That said, this title is worth the purchase for some of the reference tables and sections within it.  Overviews of WMI SDK tools and how to leverage them, a guide to the WMI Query Language, and many of the (relatively lengthy) WMI extension script examples make this title a good advanced \\"reminder\\" reference.  But if you're looking for a true introduction to WMI scripting, start with the Microsoft WMI Scripting Primer then focus on titles that provide administration using WMI before picking up this book.	2004-10-08
US	52707081	RISU3YMIGCVXF	0321228480	6293121	Inside Active Directory: A System Administrator's Guide (2nd Edition)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent Resource for Administrators and Developers	There really is something to be said about second editions.  The kinks have been worked out and the authors have just that much more experience to enrich the new text with.  Refreshingly this title also doesn't assume that you have forgotten the existence of operating systems less than 2003 or that your experience is only within the Windows World;  throughout the text are clue-ins for Windows NT administrators as well as those with a Novell background (both types displayed as bonus text and if you have experience in neither, you don't miss a thing).  Without a doubt, if you are in charge of any aspect of the Active Directory (AD) - this is a must have.<br /><br />It is amazing in what is included in this book.  For administrators there is the most comprehensive overview of the AD you could want, covering everything from domain planning to single AD object creation.  Included with general text are graphics and summary tables, so you're never having to dig for that needed quip of information you're just sure you read 50 pages back.  Like to see the tie-in between the interface and where the data is stored in the registry, file system, or schema?  It's in there.  A bonus for administrators are chapters dedicated to topics such as LDAP/LDAP Searches, new Microsoft RSK utilities relating to AD and Group Policies, and even an administrative scripting overview with samples (not a scripting tutorial, and not all-inclusive of ADSI, but an excellent introduction and possibility revealer).  For developers (and admins alike), everything you would want to know about the schema, from explanation of the schema and classes to extending the schema, is very well documented and demonstrated.<br /><br />Unlike some titles where the information is a rehash of Microsoft White Papers, on-line help, or the authors own initial discoveries while learning the previously unknown system, it is crystal clear that the authors know the AD inside and out and have refined the presented experience in a very concise and easy to read manner.  Anyone who must administer the AD should read this book - regardless of experience.  Long after you've discovered new aspects you didn't know existed, this title will server as an excellent reference.nce in a very concise and easy to read manner.  Anyone who must administer the AD should read this book - regardless of experience.  Long after you've discovered new aspects you didn't know existed, this title will server as an excellent reference.	2004-10-05
US	52707081	RMNXU3DIPL3IQ	0596007116	74513645	XML Hacks: 100 Industrial-Strength Tips and Tools	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Do [Task] with [Other Object]	Nothing irritates me as much as the industries gratuitous use of the word \\"hack\\".  I won't say more on this topic other than to advise you that any time you see the word \\"hack\\" in this book, substitute it for \\"tip\\", \\"task\\", or \\"how to\\".  Once that is understood, this title takes on a whole new feel and its usefulness is made clearer.<br /><br />Anyone not already familiar with XML, its creation and use, should probably not pick up this book.  However, if you are using XML documents a lot, the chances are that this book will yield a resolution method for most of the XML file transformation, modification or parsing need you may have.  This method, however, typically requires the use of a third party utility, application, or script (a great many of the tips are titled \\"Do [something] using [something else]\\").  A quick flip through the table of contents reveals at least 35 different utilities required to the complete the associated tasks - which is OK if you don't mind incorporating \\"black box\\" solutions into your environment.  There are also many \\"see this book\\" notations within this title as well, so if you find a solution to a need, but require more than what the tip tells you, you may need to make additional purchases.<br /><br />Overall, a good read for anyone that already knows and makes heavy use of XML; you're sure to walk away with something new.	2004-10-02
US	52707081	R4KEO1JM1COEE	0596003838	709964659	Content Syndication with RSS	Books	3	12	14	N	Y	A Little Misleading	For the most part, industry standard RSS is a very short list of simple XML elements.  Standard RSS Readers only look for those standardized tags to create the display.  You can verify that by opening almost any public RSS XML document and just looking at it.  RSS is simple enough that you could probably pick it up by just looking at a well formed sample file and reading the short syntax document provided for free by the creators (UserLand Software for RSS 2.0 or the RSS-DEV Working Group for RSS 1.0 - FeedValidator.org has links to the documentation). After reading this title, I am a little confused as to whom target audience is supposed to be.<br /><br />The first issue I had with the book is the coverage of versions.  The author has chosen to write not only about the two current versions (1.0 and 2.0 - two companies, two separate tracks of standardized tags), but the preceding versions for each.  I don't buy a Word 2003 book to learn about Word 6.  The layout could serve as a reference guide for the tags when you're done, but again, the vendor provided syntax guides are easier to reference.  Next, the author makes some assumptions that aren't publicized; you should be really (really) familiar with XML to understand many chapters in the book, and you should also develop in Perl (as there are numerous, lengthy Perl scripts used as demos).  I've created many RSS Feeds for both company Intranets as well as Internet sites, and given the simplicity of RSS, I can tell you that you don't need either to create a feed on your own.<br /><br />The back cover claims the book is a \\"step-by-step guide to implementation\\", but it really isn't.  The author has written a very nice book on the general history and specs of standardized RSS, but then fills the remaining pages with a general syntax overview of other commonly used RSS XML namespaces (not really demo-ing them), ideas for extending RSS with your own XML namespaces (which is great, but really just produces a customized XML document that industry standard RSS reader's won't know what to do with) , and then transforming other site's RSS Feeds into your own conglomerated XHTML page with various Perl conversion scripts, SOAP tie-ins, etc.<br /><br />For the percentage of people that already know RSS and are looking to really go into advanced manipulations - this is a great title and I recommend it.  For everyone else who just want to quickly learn the very simple syntax, this is a misleading title and I would recommend saving your money and reading the vendor's free syntax guides, or talking a quick on-line course.  You'll find RSS easy enough without this book.ized XML document that industry standard RSS reader's won't know what to do with) , and then transforming other site's RSS Feeds into your own conglomerated XHTML page with various Perl conversion scripts, SOAP tie-ins, etc.   <br /> <br />For the percentage of people that already know RSS and are looking to really go into advanced manipulations - this is a great title and I recommend it.  For everyone else who just want to quickly learn the very simple syntax, this is a misleading title and I would recommend saving your money and reading the vendor's free syntax guides, or talking a quick on-line course.  You'll find RSS easy enough without this book.	2004-09-26
US	52707081	R1DUNIRCP7G797	0321200985	613727786	Windows Forensics and Incident Recovery	Books	4	10	14	N	N	Very Informative Read	I see three types of people reading this book: 1) People who make a living in network security, 2) Advanced users who *really* want to know areas where hackers can get in, and 3) Wanna-be \\"hackers\\" (learning what not to do by studying what people are looking for).  Every chapter is filled with revealing information and \\"see for yourself\\" proofs.  The book is easy to read and understand, regardless of your previous Windows Security experience.<br /><br />I only have two issues with the book.  The first is that the author almost exclusively uses Perl as the scripting language for all the proof of concept and utility scripts in the book (all very conveniently located on the accompanying CD-ROM).  This is understandable in that Windows native scripting languages may not provide the same functionality as easily (if at all) as Perl, but Perl isn't native to the Windows environment.  A great many of today's Windows Administrators started off with Microsoft Platforms, and use Microsoft languages to perform tasks.  It would have been nice if the author had presented some of his script in Windows native languages, so as to afford those without Perl experience the same level of experience.  Secondly, and again understandably, the book makes reference to many utilities only available for download from various third-party web sites.  If web sites were permanent, reliable, static resources, this wouldn't be a problem - but when you attempt to download a mentioned utility only to find that the web site no longer exists, or the download removed, it detracts from the value of the book itself.  This is not to say that book is full of broken links, only that the nature of the Internet is dynamic and things change over time.<br /><br />Overall, a welcome addition to your technology library, and well worth the time invested to read. Anyone reading the book will take away something to improve the security of the systems under their charge.	2004-09-15
US	52707081	RTIJWSFT2OL04	0596004648	417093744	Active Directory Cookbook for Windows Server 2003 and Windows 2000	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An AD Administrator's Must Have	So often with &quot;cut and paste&quot; solution titles, the reader is given a book that assumes no experience on behalf of the user, and wastes a great deal of print on telling you how to open notepad or the command prompt and very little time answering many of the &quot;but wait...&quot; questions that arise from implementing their solution without knowing what you're doing.  I was pleasantly surprised to find that this isn't the case with this book.<br />Don't pick this up unless you are familiar with the environment you are using; the author makes the assumption that you understand Windows and the Active Directory already.  Formatted exactly as needed, this reference book (find what you need, rather than a cover to cover read) provides solutions which 95% of the time are native to the &quot;out of the box&quot; environment without need for additional downloads or installs.  When you do need a download, its a Microsoft provided add-on and not a third party shareware.  The solutions are usually provided as a GUI walk-thru, command line overview and a VBScript example, making this title much more useful than others as it does not alienate administrators of various levels.<br />With over 320 solutions in 17 different areas, this is recommended Active Directory reference addition for applicable administrators.	2004-07-04
US	52707081	R31FSLRI8TL99Y	0735613540	872733118	Microsoft Windows Server 2003 Administrator's Pocket Consultant (Pro-Administrator's Pocket Consultant)	Books	5	40	40	N	N	Excellent	Exactly as described, this small form book provides a one-stop administrator's reference for the administration and maintenance of Windows 2003 without the need to break out the larger tomes available out there.  Not for use as a learning guide for the OS, nor really designed as certification study guide, this is a must have for anyone on the job.	2004-06-02
US	52707081	R2RV0IQ4I8886M	0735618887	869781065	Microsoft® Systems Management Server 2003 Administrator's Companion (Admin Companion)	Books	4	17	17	N	Y	Must have addition for administrators	There is no question that if you need to implement or administer SMS, this is a must own.  The book covers everything needed to plan and configure your back-end environment, as well as to setup a good administrative model for IT support, application management and end-users control and deployment.  This title will also serve as an excellent day to day resource long after you have implemented SMS.<br />Although I completely recommend this title, I found that this book isn't enough completely on it's own to truly cover all the ins and outs of SMS 2003.  Microsoft provides two free downloads which I recommend you read and use in conjunction with this title; &quot;Concepts, Planning, and Deployment Guide&quot; and &quot;Operations Guide&quot; (The SMS 2003 Microsoft website also has many other resources for administration).	2004-06-02
US	52707081	R2VPHX1DXORLGV	0735619743	997040096	Microsoft Windows XP Professional Resource Kit (Pro-Resource Kit)	Books	5	36	41	N	Y	Redeemed	I was duped into buying the first edition - and can therefore fully understand anyone's &quot;once bitten, twice shy&quot; feelings towards this RSK.  Put your fears aside, this edition delivers exactly what you would expect.  Practically re-written from the ground up, and packed with additional utilities, this edition is well worth the purchase.	2004-05-26
US	52707081	R2BINNKLGQTB	0735617902	948775478	Microsoft Windows XP Power Toolkit (Bpg-Other)	Books	2	6	6	N	N	Call it Windows XP Marketing Toolkit	It used to be that when you picked up a book with the words &quot;Power Toolkit&quot; in it, you were getting a collection of utilities, scripts, and advanced information to really take you to the next level of mastership over your environment.  In those days, had I purchased a utility book and discovered that one of the &quot;power tools&quot; recommended and covered was Sound Recorder (page 179-180) I would have demanded my money back.  Evidently those days are long gone, replaced instead by titles such as this.<br />Three authors wrote the book and three sections separate the environment.  The first section would have been better titled &quot;An Overview of the Accessories Menu&quot; as it serves little more than to educate the user on how to use the basic OS tools to manage their environment and really shows itself off as a continued marketing strategy to convince everyone that XP is the multimedia platform pre-equipped with the best tools out there.  It does follow itself up with a few chapters devoted to listing the syntax of many networking and TCP/IP command-line utilities; handy but a strange combination of things to cover in one section.  Did I mention the plug for Microsoft Office? The second section spends 113 pages telling you why you should use spend time on the Microsoft XP Downloads page for (usually not free) add-ons such as Tweak UI, Windows Media Bonus Pack, Microsoft Plus!, and Microsoft Producer.  You then get a lesson on the Windows Messenger and .NET passport use, before they go back to the Accessories menu.  The final chapter is for third party software.  220 pages dedicated to plugging multimedia-enhancing shareware, virus protection, and security enhancements.<br />Teaching users how to become proficient with the OS and its bundled software and features is a good thing and I think everyone should learn it.  There are many better books out there to do that (ISBN 0782140769 or 078214067X for example) than this one.  Arming users with advanced knowledge and tools to configure and administer then environment is also beneficial for users already familiar with the OS; again better books (ISBN 0782141145, 0596004168 and 0735619743).  In short, keep looking.d knowledge and tools to configure and administer then environment is also beneficial for users already familiar with the OS; again better books (ISBN 0782141145, 0596004168 and 0735619743).  In short, keep looking.	2004-05-26
US	52707081	R12BPIV248GH4	0596004168	513382659	Windows XP Annoyances	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Nice for its size	Any quick search for XP customization books and you quickly see that there are several around the 1000 page mark and with high user markings.  Given this, there is only so much you can expect from a book half that size.  However, despite other people's opinion on the information covered in this book, if you are looking for a fun and faster read which does actually target the portions of the operating system that most home users would like to cover, this is a perfect choice.<br />The biggest appreciations I have for this title is that the word \\"hack\\" never appears, the customizations are not 100% dependent on shareware or freeware downloads, the user is not sheltered from the realities of configuring the OS, and the range of configuration varies from novice to advanced - keeping the reader from stagnating at a particular level.<br />To weigh in on the decision to purchase this title, consider that not only does the title give you the ability to alter your environment, the author has dedicated space to educate the reader on how to identify and troubleshoot problems - a skill really needed and a topic quite often skipped by other titles.  The book also ties in with the authors web site, which makes mentioned downloads easily accessible to the user, adding value to the static text with dynamic content.<br />Although this title differs slightly in overall feel from previous \\"Annoyances\\" titles (advancements in the OS are bound to reduce the need), this stands on it's own and is a very good addition to your XP library.	2004-05-23
US	52707081	R9070UFZC4IJ5	0596005113	538774854	Windows XP Hacks	Books	2	30	33	N	N	Save your money	This book is a perfect example of an OK idea presented in a bad medium.  Had the author chosen to make this a web site or a magazine article, I don't think anyone would object to the rudimentary information provided within.  Instead, the author presents 100 &quot;hacks&quot; comprised entirely of overviews on quickly-dating shareware and freeware downloads, as well as step by step instructions on how to use the intrinsic Windows dialogs to change properties and settings.  Little presented here could not be as easily discovered by Googling &quot;Windows XP tips tricks&quot;,  browsing popular computer magazines, or using the internal Help.	2004-05-22
US	52707081	R2UAVNTIDY7RHY	0321213343	191833182	Managing Windows&reg; with VBScript and WMI	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Excellent Primer	This is one of the best VBScript (utilizing ADSI and WMI) primers for Network Administration I have seen.  This title is for any administrator who is not a programmer/scripter but wants to leverage the intrinsic Windows management features to reduce administrative time and automate routine tasks.  Written in an easy to follow and understand way, this title can take you from never having scripted anything to implementing solutions to networking and user management tasks.<br />The book starts of with 4 chapters of scripting introduction (what you can expect to gain from scripting) followed by a 9 chapter VBScript primer.  Once the basics have been learned, or these chapters skipped if you don't need them, the author presents scripting using ADSI and WMI well presented for non-developers and geared towards network administration.  Following this, the author spends time showing how to leverage the new found information in other mediums such as ASP, and to augment your toolbox with additional standard utilities and components.<br />Along with the numerous cut, paste and tweak examples generously supplied through the book to assist you in hands-on practical learning, the last 4 chapters are dedicated to providing you with ready to run scriptlets - all of which are also included on the CD-ROM.<br />Any network administrator interested in harnessing the free, intrinsic capabilities of Windows to simplify tasks will find value in this title.  Used alone, or in conjunction with the Microsoft Windows 2000 Scripting Guide will result in a solid basis for network scripting and more free time.	2004-04-27
US	52707081	R30UXZLQ2CYX7Q	1932111875	108421738	Windows Admin Scripting Little Black Book, Second Edition	Books	3	24	24	N	N	A Good Secondary Addition	This book is a very useful addition, when used in conjunction with, and after a review of, other books on scripting and Windows administration.  Throughout the book you will find cut-and-paste scriptlets written in a variety of languages and organized in a relatively easy to find manner.  When you aren't looking at scriplets, you will find an abundance of command line syntax references and third-party solutions for very specific issues.  As a general administrator, if you know what you want to do, and you don't need a lot of hand-holding or further information, you will probably find it here.<br />That said, lets discuss the annoyances of this title.  First and foremost, a very healthy portion of this book is dedicated to regurgitating the command line syntax (what you get from /? ) from the many utilities referenced (most of which are available from the utilities themselves or the included documentation).  The book also includes a lot of command line syntax /  usage printouts of 3rd application suites, such as PowerQuest's Drive Image Pro, Symantec's Norton Ghost, LiveUpdate, pcANYWHERE, and Norton AntiVirus, Microsoft Office and WinZip to name a few.  It is hard to tell if they were included as a paid endorsement or not, but the author seems to feel that everyone has them, they are your only choice, and does not include a CD-ROM of evaluation software.  The book also makes heavy use of non-native scripting languages (KiXtart primarily) as the scripting language of choice to show many of the cut-and-paste solutions; despite it being a foreign command interpreter to the Windows OS and not the industry standard for administrative scripting.<br />You won't truly learn how to script with this &quot;Admin Scripting&quot; book.  You won't learn the in's and out's of the administrative components you are trying to control.  You won't be informed about all the ways to accomplish a task if a 3rd party solution is utilized.  You will, however, find yourself with a quick reference &quot;idea&quot; book which will come in very handy when you just need the answer to something quickly.eference &quot;idea&quot; book which will come in very handy when you just need the answer to something quickly.	2004-03-02
US	52707081	R1TSEK79C2Q8KI	0735617880	802650731	Microsoft Windows XP Registry Guide (Bpg-Other)	Books	5	49	49	N	Y	Registry and More	Anyone who administers XP should get this book.  All one has to do is try to manage multiple computers and it quickly becomes obvious that the GUI is not the easiest way to go.  This title does an excellent job of mapping standard system policies and Tweak UI settings to specific registry settings giving you the ability to manipulate outside of the standard interfaces.<br />Beyond the policy mappings, the book also covers topics associated with the registry, such as creating your own group policy templates, managing deployments of user profiles, managing the way systems such as Office XP and the Windows Installer work, and providing recommendations as to ways to manage these settings via scripting.  That said, keep in mind that the purpose of the book is to provide information on the registry and configuration settings, not to be an introduction to management utilities such as Resource Kit components or the WSH.<br />The appendices are an extremely valuable resource, providing at-a-glance table reference of user and computer settings, group policy mappings and file associations.  Very handy.<br />The book is not meant for casual users of XP, or those that do not administer XP desktops, but for Administrators and developers, this is a recommended title.	2003-09-30
US	52707081	RNQZ2QZZP4IRC	0735618968	563070574	Insider Power Techniques for Microsoft® Windows® XP (Bpg-Other)	Books	3	28	28	N	Y	Gross Misuse of the phrase "Power Techniques"	If this book was written about cars, their \\"Power Techniques\\" would include how to set your radios pre-sets, reset the trip odometer, and roll down both the driver and passenger power windows by using two fingers to work both switches at once.  Knowing how to use your OS as a proficient user is not a utilizing \\"field-proven secrets of the pros\\", as the back cover would have you believe.<br />The first section of this book is devoted to teaching you how to configure, find, and launch control panel applets (mostly using the GUIs - really), followed by an overview of the Tweak UI add-on Microsoft provides as a standard free download.  Another section includes an overview of how to open and read items within the registry (using the standard registry editor) which does not go into any specific configurations or tweaks, but rather on an explanation of what you are looking at and a warning about messing with it.  Subsequent sections cover such things as controlling which applications start up, managing local users, installing devices, configuring the Explorer, configuring the Windows Media Player and ?getting the most of the Internet Explorer?.  None of these sections include anything which is not done through the Microsoft provided interfaces and which wouldn?t be covered in an \\"Introduction to XP\\" style book.<br />The book also includes an entire section \\"devoted\\" to scripting Windows (30 pages).  Like so many other books that cover scripting, the section is not going to leave the reader with the ability to script anything and is more likely to confuse and ?turn off? any desire to learn more.<br />Essentially, there are many excellent titles which serve to introduce a new user to Windows XP (such as ISBN 0782140769), as well as titles which will actually teach \\"power techniques\\" to a user (ISBN 0782141145 and ISBN 078214067X).  This title is misleading to users already familiar and comfortable with Windows XP and better titles will prove more useful to any user who really wants to master the OS.lly wants to master the OS.	2003-09-30
US	52707081	R2ZWAI82AD3UMO	0735618674	168242151	Microsoft® Windows® 2000 Scripting Guide	Books	5	10	11	N	N	THE Scripting Guide to own.	This is an incredible tool.  Any administrator wishing to do anything from basic scripting to complex Active Directory or remote computer control needs to pick up this book.  For those starting out in administrative scripting, this title offers plain English and easy to understand primers in VBScript and the WSH.  For administrators already familiar with the core language, the primers section continues with ADSI and WMI - both written so well as to completely demystify the process.  After the primers, a vast amount of information is given on scripting standard production environment tasks, making this title useful regardless of your need for the primers.<br />The true wealth of this title is the ability to get more information out of it than is printed. Besides the abundance of script snippets which are easily used in any production environment, is the printed links to outside information and utilities on Microsoft's web site, as well as the CD-ROM which contains not only an on-line form of the book but many additional tools for generating scripts.  As a point of interest, the on-line version of this book is completely free and on Microsoft's web site as well.  Search for the title on their site to find it.<br />Certainly not the last purchase you will make for WMI and ADSI scripting.  I've found inconsistencies between Microsoft's information and information published by others (usually resolved by the third parties information), which made me glad I had the other titles.  All in all - the title is a must for all system administrators.	2003-06-16
US	52707081	R1GMXA4P1NSSEM	0596003161	520797446	Dynamic HTML: The Definitive Reference (2nd Edition)	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Invaluable Reference	Certainly not a cover to cover read!  After owning and using this book, I have to agree with the cover when it brags to be the Definitive Reference.  Despite its immense size, information is so well organized that I have yet to have difficulty finding exactly what I need in a quick and efficient manner.<br />The book provides complete references for HTML, XHTML, DOM, Events, CSS and JavaScript/Jscript.  It is a shame that the Table of Contents is not presented as that truly shows how complete this title is.  Luckily, the TOC is presented on the publisher's web site and I recommend a visit there to see for yourself.  Each element reference is complete with information on properties, methods, examples and explanations in a straightforward arraignment.  Beyond the references are sections dedicated to explaining how to use the technologies. These sections are not designed as a learners guide, but do provide the information necessary to implement the technology.<br />I could not imagine my web development without this title.  It has been a constant presence on my desk since the first release.	2003-03-03
US	52707081	R2PQQALSTKY8Q7	1861005598	368917029	Beginning XML	Books	5	14	16	N	Y	Best XML Introduction	I've read several 'Introduction to XML' books, and this one is by far the best for users with at little more than a basic understanding of HTML beyond a WYSIWYG environment. Unlike other shorter titles, this book spends a great deal of time covering the basics of XML (without spending many a dry page in theory) and a host of accompanying technologies which make up the family XML belongs to.<br />There is no shortage of information, examples, screenshots, or explanations. Shortly into Chapter 2 you begin a hands-on approach to learning, using freely available editors and parsers to create XML data files and documents; all in a graduated learning fashion, each example building on the skills gained from the last. Don't want to type it? The code is readily available for download and the book shows the results within screenshots.<br />Beyond the main body of the book itself are appendices which can provide greater context for you as to how to implement XML in different environments, such as application and web development. These appendices can be skipped without hindering the over-all learning environment.<br />As described, the title is quite lengthy. However, XML is typically not a stand-alone language, and to truly harness XML you need to understand the other technologies XML uses - and this title gives you that knowledge in a very reader-friendly fashion. What you will gain from reading this title is well worth the time invested.	2003-03-03
US	52707081	R2RRDFPNY2FTNS	0596000464	191725993	Learning XML	Books	3	126	134	N	Y	Suggested New Title: Anatomy of XML	By page 177 I realized that I was never going to touch a keyboard while reading this book.  I can't speak for everyone, but when I pick up a book expecting to learn the topic, I need theory, reference, examples and structured \\"assignments\\".  This title offers the first three, but I never get to apply what I am learning hands-on in a graduated fashion.  When I am finished, I have little more than the ability to recognize the components of XML.  Just because you can recognize all the foods in a grocery store, and know the origins of all the spices on your spice rack, doesn't mean you can cook; the same principal applies here.  I am fully aware that XML is comprised of many different elements, and many of the XML development environments are very expensive, but many are free and could have been used to teach the concept clearer.<br />The title also has many errors, so the errata list on the publisher's web site is important.  The book does not include any of the source code, so if you want that, you have to download it.  Even then, it is not complete and file titles in the book do not always match the provided code file names.<br />If you are looking for a hands-on book to learn XML, this isn't the title.  If you know XML and are looking for a reference, again - not for you.  However, if you are interested in it from more of an administrative overview position, then the title is worth the read.  It can provide many answers and give a good base of information without the need to actually write any XML on your own.	2003-03-02
US	52707081	RZJRRMO7JPMGY	0072122056	922847293	Windows 2000 Design & Migration	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Solid Foundation to Build On	With only a basic understanding of Windows 2000, you can approach this book and have it assist you in advancing your understanding and skills of the Windows environment, understand and prepare for the migration process, and deploy a successful network design from server to desktop.<br />The book is structured in an easy to follow manner, designed to be read both from cover to cover as well as used as a reference for topics as needed.  Diagrams and illustrations where needed complement the plain English writing style.  There is even a great \\"pull-out\\" section which gives you examples of network topologies and a base timeline of the migration process which is easily customizable to your own environment.  Beyond migration and deployment information, the book covers such things as general user management, Windows 2000 optimization and Terminal Server services<br />This is an excellent resource for anyone looking to deploy Windows 2000 in their environment.	2003-02-20
US	52707081	R3T5XPPCIZ1O17	1893115674	245646601	Managing Enterprise Systems with the Windows Script Host	Books	4	13	13	N	Y	Great addition for any Administrators toolkit	There are so many book on the market for the Windows Script Host (WSH) that making a decision on which one is right for your own environment can be very difficult.<br />What this book is: This is a recipe book for network administrators who have at least a solid beginners experience with the WSH and writing scripts in the XML and VBScript format. This book is full of completed scripts, with each script containing a flow from problem identification and script answer to run-time expectations and script component flow discussion. The book is logically organized into easy to find sections, with a useful table of contents.<br />What this book is not: This is not a reference guide for the VBScript language. This is not an ideal reference guide for script developers. This is not a learners guide for the WSH; there is no overview of the language or of the scripting object elements. This is not a guide for those only familiar with JScript.<br />The book gives excellent VBScript script solutions utilizing the native WSH objects (WScript.*, FSO), WMI and ADSI and can complement any administrators toolkit. The reading can be a bit dry, but as the book is not really designed to be read cover to cover, it is not an issue. The author is part of the Microsoft Scripting Technologies Team, and the writing style of the book reads very much like most Microsoft documentation, so be prepared to re-read a few things here and there. The author discusses many of the Microsoft scripting tools available from their web site, so be sure to visit Microsoft to download these before reading about them as the author does not introduce a source of the utilities prior to discussing them and assumes you already have them installed. My only other minor issue with the book is that no CD-ROM was included; you need to visit the publisher's web site and download the code from there.<br />All in all, this is a very handy title and a recommended addition to the toolkit style of books on the WSH.	2003-01-23
US	52707081	R1DSLQ6YGDYFLA	0789727013	785882541	Special Edition Using Microsoft Project 2002	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Best overall Title for Project 2002	I approached this book knowing nothing about Project 2002 Professional or Server, and have yet to run into an issue with Professional that this title couldn't answer for me.  Information is presented in a through, easy to understand manner with pictures and illustrations when needed.  Almost all information one needs to create efficient Project timelines and collaborate the data with others is easily found using the very filled out table of contents, index and page section markers.<br />The book also advertises coverage of Project 2002 Server and Web Access, and although it does present the material, it does so in roughly 130 pages out of the 1123.  The content on the server installation/configuration tends to be light and does not cover much more than the Project Server 2002's on-line help and read-me, whereas the content covering web access and the web project center were better than other books coverage that I looked at and were sufficient to answer many of my questions and get me underway in the right direction.<br />Overall, this book has fulfilled the cover's promise of being \\"the only Project 2002 book you need\\".  There is no doubt that it will answer all your Project 2002 Professional questions, and completely get you going on the server and web sections.	2002-12-31
US	52707081	R2WNYW1KUYGKUQ	1928994296	199751170	Configuring ISA Server 2000	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Only Title You Will Need	I wasted a lot of time with ISA Server using the intrinsic help, and another ISA title.  Neither of those resources answered questions I had, resolved issues that came up, or could adequately serve as a spot reference.  This title does.<br />The authors of this book have obviously spent a great deal of time with the product, and they pass the information on to you.  Extras throughout the pages alert you to undocumented features and issues, security repercussions, and situation workarounds that would be very time consuming to have discovered on your own.  The book is presented in such a way that it is useful no matter what stage you are in, initial installation, configuration or support.  Thus far, every support and configuration question that I have had regarding ISA has been answered clearly and efficiently by this title.<br />The book also comes with a CD-ROM which has the book in electronic form, which is great for quick reference, but has a horrible search feature.  Other than that, I really wish that I had picked this title up at the start of my ISA project - it would have saved countless hours of work and frustration.	2002-12-26
US	52707081	RQXMA5R8ZTLF5	0764548050	209060375	Microsoft ISA Configuration and Administration	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Alright - I guess	Before I ever even thought of installing ISA, I read the book from cover to cover.  Once completed, I installed ISA and referred back to the book for additional guidance.  I'm still looking for the additional guidance.<br />This title does a great job of introducing ISA to the reader.  It spends chapters of time covering the ISA concept, architecture and Microsoft Minimum Requirements.  From there, however, the book gets a little more glossy and sales brochure like.  Deployment scenarios, installation and (very) basic configuration are covered, but the author has chosen to really only cover the installation of ISA in an enterprise / array configuration, leaving the stand-alone server installation out in the cold.  Past the installation, the author tour guides you through the basic setup of the server (which actually was very handy and without this it would have taken me quite a while to figure it out) and then moves on to briefly cover some of the major selling points.<br />What is really missing from this book is any specifics, or even an in-depth, point by point reference covering of the interface and components.  For example, the author covers setting alerts for Intrusion Detection, but instead of explaining the configuration choices for each of the five actions, the author tells you that \\"Depending on your selection, a different window will appear that enables you to configure the option you selected.\\"<br />The title is helpful, and I am glad I read it.  But I find myself looking for a more in-depth reference that I can really learn ISA from.	2002-11-19
US	52707081	R2SFAVBNRQXBYE	0782128777	319297212	Mastering Visual Basic .NET	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Must-Have for any VB.NET Programmer	No matter who you are, Visual Basic .NET is as new to you as it is to anyone else.  Even those of us that have explored it since it was first released to the public for beta testing find new things in each release.  This title, just like it's VB6 predecessor, is the perfect instructor to anyone wishing to learn VB.NET.  The author presents the material on Visual Studio .NET, Visual Basic. NET and the .NET framework efficiently and informatively, giving the user something to take with them from each and every page.  Regardless of your prior experience with VB6 or VB.NET (or even programming in general), this title will give you the understanding of programming within the .NET framework and the ability to immediately create in VB.NET.  The book and accompanying CD-ROM is a must-have, valuable tool for the VB.NET programmer, and one that you will hold on to as a reference long after you have finished reading it.	2002-11-08
US	52707081	RA4PI2LMTR6WX	0782122728	8575711	Mastering Visual Basic 6	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	All inclusive learning/reference tool	No matter what your Visual Basic learning level is, from needing a beginner's introduction to wanting to move up to a more advanced level, this is the book for you. Don't let the 1285 pages scare you. The read is neither dry nor boring, and each page hands-on teaches you something you can take with you. Topics cover the Visual Studio environment, the intrinsic toolbox tools for VB, plus expands into additional components and references, making this a one-stop learning reference. You can not go wrong with this title.	2002-08-31
US	52707081	R1IB0T6GZ99PQP	0072123281	831644820	Administering IIS (5)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Nothing Beyond the Surface	Although this title does cover what it promises to cover with daily administration and configuration, the book never presents more information other than what you could have learned from reading the on-line IIS help file that is provided by Microsoft when you install IIS 5.0.  It is nice to have the reference in print and it is very comprehensive in that it does cover the aspects of IIS, from configuring each of the major services (WWW, FTP, SMTP and NNTP), to using the Index Service, SSL, ASP (an introduction to the concept) and adjusting performance.  But it never goes deeper than explaining each component of the dialog boxes IIS gives you and the general information needed to understand how the section relates to IIS as a whole.<br />If you're looking for a comprehensive introduction into IIS 5, this is a great place to find it.  But If already know the basics, and are looking for something that will help you master IIS 5, you should look elsewhere.	2002-08-10
US	52707081	R1F988WUVILDHJ	0782128815	212854538	Windows 2000: Group Policy, Profiles, and IntelliMirror (The Mark Minasi Windows 2000 Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent Resource	So many times you pick up a title like this and as you read, you get the feeling that the authors first exposure to the material was as they were writing the book. Complete opposite feeling as you read this title. The material is presented in a knowledgeable, accurate way, with hints, tips and watch-outs thrown in that only someone who has worked with the product would know about.<br />The author has extended a considerable amount of information on: -- Group Policy Objects, from in-depth explanation to interacting and troubleshooting; -- IntelliMirror, including interaction with Group Policy Objects and client configurations to software deployment using MSI and ZAP files; -- Working with down-level clients (NT / 9x); and more.<br />There is a chapter in the book on Remote Installation Services, which will introduce you to the technology, but is light on content and a little beyond the scope of the book. Despite this, it is still informative and in no way detractive from the remaining content.<br />This is a title that you could pickup, read, and upon completion feel very confident in your ability to manage and implement Group Policies and work with IntelliMirror; an excellent addition for any administrator's Windows 2000 library.	2002-08-08
US	52707081	R2AR53E3DLX3Y3	0782128858	711132416	Windows® 2000 Automated Deployment and Remote Administration (The Mark Minasi Windows® 2000 Series)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Like a City Map for Tourists	For anybody who has to do an automated deployment, you're looking for a reference that lays out the technology like a Thomas Guide map - but this title is more like a Chamber of Commerce Tourist Map; it will show you all of the main points of downtown, but not much more and nothing in extreme detail. Within this title, the author attempts to cover automation theory, automated deployment (scripted, sysprep, and RIS), application deployment via GPOs, VBScript, WMI, ADSI and even a mini-course in HTML; All that in a little over 500 pages.<br />For the automated deployment sections, the book does present accurate information, but similar to how a Cliff Note covers a classic. Microsoft's Windows 2000 Resource Kit contains a 1000 page book called Deployment Planning Guide which covers these technologies deeper, clearer and is a free download from their web site. There is, however, a section within this book that provides general configuration and syntax information for the RIS OS Chooser menus and structure. It's a poorly documented area by Microsoft, and this book does spend a fair amount of time presenting the general information and OSCML tag reference. Again though, the information presented neither covers all the nuances of RIS nor it's OS Chooser menu structure, and there is a free Microsoft White Paper that covers the same material as presented in this title.<br />Scripting is invaluable to any administrator and well worth the time to learn. The sections in this title dedicated to VBScript, WMI and ADSI will go no further than to show you some of the potential these tools can provide you. To really learn any of these three topics would require a text dedicated to just the single topic.<br />So although this book would be a good read for someone who needs an introduction to the topic of automated deployment and would like a reference point of where to go next, I don't feel that the title is in-depth enough to allow an administrator to close the cover and start their project. The book has tried to show more information than a single title of this size should, and other resources cover the same information much more in-depth, and many times are free.r project. The book has tried to show more information than a single title of this size should, and other resources cover the same information much more in-depth, and many times are free.	2002-08-04
US	52707081	R2NVB4FH94O48K	0782141145	614603128	Mastering Windows XP Professional	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Great Skill Advancing Tool	Over 900 pages of information designed to advance an intermediate Windows XP Professional user to the limits of advanced use.  By the time you close the cover on this title, there won't be any unfamiliar areas to you.  The author has done a great job of extensively covering the majority of the OS without crossing the line from advanced user to IT Administrator.<br />Ninety six pages of full color screenshots marks the beginning of the book - all before you even start Chapter one.  The full basics of the OS are covered, along with most of the standard Windows XP bundled software, such as Media Player, Internet Explorer 6, Outlook Express, CD Burning and more.  So much more than just the how-to of the interface is detailed - providing just enough technical information to make it interesting and to let you \\"get it\\", without turning into a dry textbook.  Hardware installations and troubleshooting, Internet connections and ICS/NAT, LAN/WAN connectivity with TCP/IP and IPX/SPX, performance monitoring and MMC/System Policies are just a few of the area that this title covers that many others gloss over or miss altogether.<br />A well mapped out Table of Contents and a 54 page index assist in making this not only a start-to finish read, but an easy find what you need reference.  Although I can't recommend this title for anyone looking for a study guide towards certification, this is certainly a great choice for user who want to know Windows XP Pro inside and out as well as for desktop administrators who want a reference for their user's interface.	2002-07-29
US	52707081	R16ZF12XCI5UWS	0782140769	677541397	Dan Gookin's Naked Windows XP	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Quick Reference Guide for the New User	Despite the \\"intermediate user\\" level claim, this book is better crafted for people who either have never seen any Windows NT/2000/XP version before, or who have used Windows 9x/ME briefly and need a tour of the XP environment. The author has done a good job of creating a User Interface Guided Tour, laid out in such a fashion as to introduce the right step at the right time. After the Windows interface itself, the author also introduces many of the staple/included applications, such as the Internet Explorer, graphic programs, and e-mail.<br />Although providing technically accurate information, and upon completion a new user to Windows XP will feel comfortable in the environment, I had some trouble with the read itself. The book is written in a \\"for Dummies\\" format, but throughout the text, I felt the author tended to be a little too \\"witty\\" in the presentation of topics and included more extra fluff in the side-bars than needed.<br />All in all, if you need a fast-reading introduction into Windows XP, and your goal is to work more efficiently with the OS itself, this is good choice.	2002-07-27
US	52707081	R34SQN3QXF3R26	078214067X	516005953	Windows XP Power Tools	Books	5	59	61	N	N	Excellent definitive reference	Regardless of your Windows XP level, professional systems administrators using XP Professional to first time home users using XP Home Edition can find value in this title. The author has succeeded in putting together an easy reading and comprehending, one-stop reference that puts Microsoft's Windows XP Resource Kit and Step by Step books to shame.<br />The book does an excellent job of addressing the needs of users where Windows XP is their first OS away from Windows 9x, while not bringing the information level down for seasoned NT/2000 administrators who need a source of information for the features so poorly documented by Microsoft.<br />The printed portion of the book covers everything from Windows Shortcuts, Policies, the Recovery Console and EFS to slipstream deployment of service packs, designing network topologies, web mastering with IIS and VPN Connections. The included CD-ROM includes many useful shareware/professional utilities and tools (and unlike some other included CD-ROMs, many of the titles are used quite frequently within the industry). A nice note about the CD-ROM and the book is that the author hasn't written an 800 page advertisement for the utilities - the CD-ROM can stay sealed in the pouch, never seeing the light of day, and the book will still stand on it's own.<br />The back cover says it's a must-have. I've used Windows XP since it was in beta, deployed the release to my network users, and certified in the OS by Microsoft - and I couldn't agree more.	2002-07-02
US	52707081	R3GHDA3EM72S6T	0782127681	287877088	MCSE: Windows 2000 Migration Study Guide Exam 70-222 (With CD-ROM)	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	OK Conjunctive Reference	If someone was only looking for a guide to introduce them to the correct ways of migrating from NT to 2000, and their main goal was not taking the Microsoft Exam, then this would be a great title.  The author does a good job walking you thought the general terms and concepts, planning, pre-migration preparation work, how to migrate and troubleshooting techniques.  It's like a step one in a five step process.<br />The title, however, serves only as a secondary tool for studying the 70-222 exam.  The Microsoft exam is very exacting.  There are precise guidelines and rules to follow for any of the three types of migrations you can do.  Unfortunately, the author quite often conveys information which contains his personal opinion on the way it should be done, or leaves you with a hazy feeling of `well, which way is it supposed to be done?'  Many parts of the book are a little bloated in that the concept for the whole chapter really could have been summed up in a paragraph while still conveying the information correctly.  Looking back over the book post-exam, I notice that many heavily tested on components are either not mentioned, or so briefly as to not supply the information needed.<br />In summary, it's a good introductory title for users wanting to know how to migrate their networks and worth the read.  For test preparation, the reading should be in conjunction with Microsoft's Domain Migration Cookbook white paper and the help file for the Active Directory Migration Tool.	2002-04-03
US	52707081	RN1JH2AYIFH0R	0735614601	287718713	MCSE Microsoft Windows XP Professional Readiness Review; Exam 70-270 (Cpg-Other)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Exam-study or not - Very Enlightening	I was very surprised when I used this book and the associated practice exam system (both in the book and on the CD-ROM) in the amount of information about the XP OS that I learned. I've used XP since it was in beta, read the Resource Kit, read other Microsoft Press books on XP and still I found reference to items in this book that I had not read anywhere else. Granted, the book presents the data in very brief summary statements and if you really want to learn more than what is needed to get the practice exam answers right you will need to use the on-line help in XP, the Resource Kit and the Microsoft Web Site. But the knowledge gained after reading the book and following up with the additional resources was well worth my time.<br />My only complaint about the book is that much of it was obviously the Windows 2000 Professional Exam Prep, and whoever performed the global search and replaced missed quite a few 2000 references.  It can sometimes be a little confusing when they are giving you a scenario involving Windows 2000 and Windows XP, and the answer does tell you to boot from the Windows 2000 CD-ROM to correct your Windows XP installation.<br />Regardless of whether you are studying for the MCSE exam or not, if you want to delve into the Windows XP OS and learn about things that may not have been obvious, this is a great book.	2002-03-03
US	52707081	R1UBZ73VSAG3I3	0735614857	22353332	Microsoft® Windows® XP Professional Resource Kit Documentation	Books	3	24	25	N	N	Disappointing for a RSK	I've read the RSKs for Windows 95, 98, NT4 and 2000, and this one is pretty disappointing.  As a user's guide, this would have been fantastic, but as a resource to system administrators that need to know the nuts and bolts of the OS, it leaves a lot to be desired.  On many occasions I have found that information I really needed to know about was not covered sufficiently to solve my problem or answer my question, and I had to resort to the Microsoft Knowledge Base or other on-line articles for the answers.<br />The publication also seems very rushed, and perhaps completed before the release version of the OS was finished.  Many screen shots depict tabs that aren't there and informational paragraphs reference components that don't exist or were merged with something else.  The organization seems a little rough, and the index does not always prove helpful.<br />Perhaps one of the problems was that unlike most RSKs, there are no additional resources/tools that come with this one.  The included CD-ROM contains nothing more than the book in their HTML Help (CHM) format.<br />If you're looking for something that shows you how to use the OS, this is a great title.  If you're looking for something that will really get your hands dirty and let you perform serious administration, you may want to look elsewhere.	2002-03-02
US	52707081	R1R5BSRAG73TIP	0735614296	959143358	MCSE Training Kit (Exam 70-270): Windows XP Professional (MCSE Training Kits)	Books	2	47	48	N	Y	A far cry from a study aid	It's a given that no one study guide will give you the understanding to pass the associated MCSE exam, but this barely qualifies as a study guide.  For someone who has never worked with Windows before and has never seen XP before, this might be a good \\"Windows XP for Dummies\\"-like book.  It does quickly gloss over most of the basics of the OS, how to network it and even how to deploy it, but falls short of even being a How-To for people looking to support and not wanting to study for the exam.  A good example of just how much information this book lacks is to take the practice exam off the included CD-ROM.  Less than five questions into the practice exam, the information needed to get the question right is not even covered in the book.<br />My suggestion would be to anyone who is looking to prep for the exam is to read the XP Resource Kit, the on-line help, and Microsoft's Readiness Review for XP - and leave this book on the shelf.	2002-03-01
US	52707081	R27076IZVLNVFE	0782129471	255620907	MCSE: Windows 2000 Server Study Guide (2nd edition)	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Could have been better	Like most people, I purchased this book as a study aid for passing the Microsoft exam.  I have to say I was disappointed.  The book did serve as a good starting place, but once reviewed and compared against other exam prep materials (and then finally the Microsoft Exam itself), the book failed to be a decent reference point for study.  The very basic material was covered decently, but the more complex material (that the test is actually based on) was either not covered, or covered so quickly that you would never have gotten the answers from this book.  I've used other Sybex books in the past, and this one falls short of their norm.	2002-02-27
US	52707081	R3POYTEWP6815I	1565929438	78144441	Managing The Windows 2000 Registry: Help for Windows 2000 System Administrators	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Fun for all levels	Regardless of your experience with the registry, this book can be of value to you.  Despite the title, there are references in almost every section of the book on the Windows NT 4 registry, which can be helpful if you are working in a mixed environment or are coming from the NT 4 side of things.<br />The author starts the book by assuming you have no previous experience with the registry, and takes you on a 5 chapter tour, covering topics such as the history of the registry, how to navigate, what each part does, how to back it up and restore it, the different editors you can use, etc.  From there, the book progresses for a couple of chapters on configuring policies - using the Policy Editor and GPO/OU policies within Windows 2000.<br />The author does include a surprising chapter in the middle entitled \\"Programming with the Registry\\" (Chapter 8) in which he covers many of the API calls for the registry and the Shell Utility, and then gives demos in C/C++, Perl and Visual Basic.  My personal opinion is that that chapter is a little advanced for the book as a whole, but if you're not into it, it can be skipped without much loss to you.<br />The book also spends 2 chapters covering administration and tweaks (plus a great index section on the Group Policy Objects), and the final chapter documents what each hive in the registry does.<br />All in all, it's worth a read.	2002-02-15
US	52707081	RPF6KZ3LHKN91	1565927443	503249845	SQL In A Nutshell (In a Nutshell (O'Reilly))	Books	4	0	1	N	N	The Casual Users Reference	Reviewers seem to be pretty mixed on this book; Casual SQL users like it, SQL Programmers don't. From reading the book, I would agree. If I were a SQL Programmer, this would be a terrible reference, as it does give the basics for MS-SQL, MySQL, Oracle and PostgreSQL (which does tends to look a little muddled for those of us who scan a lot). But I am not a SQL Programmer. I am a casual SQL user, who writes the occasional query for Access and MS-SQL databases. I know the general syntax and base language (which this book did show me), and any time I get in a jam, I've been able to solve my issue using this reference. It was worth the purchase and has never let me down.	2001-12-03
US	52707081	R2S98JZ4G8FAWT	1578702607	308805508	Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI)	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Perfect Administrative Introduction to WMI	For administrators who wish to have a greater control over Windows NT-based networks and were looking for a way to do it without having to learn a million different programming and scripting languages, the WMI is for you - and this is the perfect starting point.<br />Designed and written for system administrators, the focus of this book is to introduce you to the WMI from a VBScript scripting perspective.  Regardless of scripting experience, the authors guides the reader in both theory and hands-on scripting from the basics of the VBScript language (a full chapter introducing you to VBScript and scripting in general, which is completely skip-able if you are already familiar with VBScript) to the scripting WMI API, covering a healthy percentage of the WMI objects and their use in easy to understand scripts.<br />The authors have written neither a recipe book of pre-created scripts, nor a true reference-only guide.  If you are looking for the 2 minute answer, or are already proficient in the WMI, this isn't for you.  Instead, the authors have written a text designed to give you a firm foundation of the WMI and the ability to quickly enhance your environment with no more than what they have provided, while still leaving room for you to confidently continue your learning of the WMI from other sources.<br />This is the second WMI book I've read, and although this one did not come out first, I found it a much better starting point than the others.  You do need to make the time investment, and there is as much reading as there are activities, but you will find it well worth your effort.	2001-10-20
US	52707081	R3DMIQGHLX4QDP	1576108821	620520458	Windows 2000 Registry Little Black Book, 2nd Ed.	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good General Reference Guide	If you are a typical system administrator, and need more control / automation over a Windows 2000 computer than the provided GUI will give you, you will find this reference book useful.<br />The format of the book leaves a little to be desired in that the goal was to be a reference book, but the target audience is from novice to advanced, so much of the references are padded with &quot;how to get there&quot; information.  This style will annoy the advanced administrator right off - a feeling quickly shared by the novice who spends even a small amount of time in the book.<br />However, once you get past the formatting, you will find a great amount of information from Administrative tools and General Networking, to IIS, Transaction Server and Microsoft Office.  Some of the data is a little out-dated; an entire chapter is dedicated to Internet Explorer 4.....  They provide a well organized Table of Contents, an extensive Index and external visible page formatting for quick scanning and searching of sections.<br />Overall, a handy registry info guide.	2001-10-03
US	52707081	R1LPOF2Z16IFDD	1861002653	158945211	Windows Script Host Programmer's Reference	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Not quite a reference book, not quite an instruction book	I expected it to be a reference guide, but it really requires a lot of deduction to pull anything together. The book isn't clear on which version of the WSH it is using, doesn't provide usage code examples for all listed commands in both Java Script and VBScript, and either lightly touches upon, or completely skips major concepts. It reads pretty dry, and really should make the source code readily available right in the book, instead of having to navigate through Wrox's site to find it. Might be a good &quot;additional information&quot; type book once you buy and read a real instructional or reference book for the WSH.	2001-08-12
US	52707081	RP629COW5ZU20	156592665X	656903407	CDO & MAPI Programming with Visual Basic:: Developing Mail and Messaging Applications	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Very useful reference	For the size of this book, it does a good job of covering the MAPI/CDO (both Win32 API and ActiveX) objects at an intermediate-programmer level - presenting the objects and object models with enough information that you can begin to use them right away, but not getting so technical that you lose interest or begin to only understand the minority of what you are reading.<br />The author does include sample code for most of the objects that are covered, although many of those sample codes are spread out over a page or more and separated by paragraphs of explanatory text which can cause a little delay for readers that skim, or jump directly to topics, as back-tracking is often needed to find the start of the desired code.  The publisher's web site does provide a download for some of the sample code - but the download only includes the full projects the book goes into, and not most of the smaller projects or snippets used in the bulk of the book.<br />I did find that the author had included many unnecessary screenshots for a book aimed at intermediate to advanced programmers; it was also frustrating that many of the screenshots the author choose were of related topics but only used to explain how to `point-and-click' through making settings changes, rather than how to perform the task programmatically. One such example is the Mail control panel applet, where the author showed how to add an information provider to the selected user's profile (in the book's case the Personal Address Book service was added) but did not cover how to do it through programming.  In fact, it was never mentioned if the task could even be performed programmatically.<br />Overall, the book is a great reference for MAPI/CDO objects and will come in very handy for anyone needing to generically access the common e-mail functions and folders (inbox, calendar, contacts, etc.) quickly.	2001-08-09
US	52707081	R1OZ2YQ9QJA3KO	1861002432	19603414	Visual Basic 6 Win32 API Tutorial	Books	3	7	7	N	Y	Not as useful as I though it would be	I bought this book about a year ago when I had a need to learn how to use Win32 API.  I read a little, then started to skim, then skip sections, then put it aside completely where it collected dust while I found my answers elsewhere.  I eventually picked it up again after I had become casually familiar with the Win32 API and realized that my remorse over the purchase wasn't the book's fault - rather it was my expectations of what the book was going to deliver.<br />The Win32 API is vast and complicated.  A casual glance at Win32 API books that go over just the Functions and Types (in only 4000 pages) will prove it.  Any programmer looking at this book to solve a specific problem for them should keep looking.  The book does not cover that many specific API situations, but rather explains syntax and structure, how's and when's, etc (metaphorically explaining what the abbreviations for a cup or tablespoon is and how to read a recipe card rather than how to cook any particular dish itself).  I recommend the book as either your first introduction to the Win32 API after you have got VB6 down but before you actually need the Win32 API, or as a refresher for those who know the general gist of how to use the Win32 API, but want to fill in the gaps of what some things are, why they are used, and when to use them.	2001-07-27
US	52707081	RH2IBTY4LJCWX	0735709750	314663823	Windows 2000 Deployment and  Desktop Management	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Essential for Deployment	In preparation for deploying Windows 2000 for my company, I bought the Windows 2000 RSK, and I read the 1100+ pages of the RSK's Deployment Planning Guide.  I spent many a frustrated day in the lab pawing through all of the dry reading Microsoft provides in the RSK, the on-line help and the KB - and then I discovered this book.<br />The book assumes you're an administrator and have experience in integration - and that Windows 2000 isn't a stranger to you.  Almost every question you run into while you plan and test your deployment is answered in the 375 pages - in plain, simple English. When you move past the section devoted to deployment planning, strategies and options, the book delivers a great section on post-deployment policies and administration.  To add the final touch, the reference section provides an invaluable resource for such things as the syntax to the automated install answer file and even common file extensions.<br />My only regret is that I didn't read this book first.  I could have saved myself so much time.  The knowledge this book delivers to you is essential and will assist you in a successful deployment.  If you're planning a Windows 2000 rollout - you need this book.	2001-07-05
US	52707081	R19XXPWNSNVLRT	067231374X	331182784	Sams Teach Yourself Windows Script Host in 21 Days	Books	4	13	15	N	Y	Good learning tool - but you really have to want it	The biggest problem with the WSH and VBScript is that it is marketed as being a powerful but simple &quot;macro&quot; language. Nothing could be further from the truth. VBScript is essentially VB without the forms and graphics. VBScript is just as powerful, has the same controlling capabilities, and uses almost all the same commands and syntax as VB. To think of writing scripts for the WSH as anything less than programming is a mistake.<br />When I first got this book, I read a ways into it, decided I didn't have the time or energy to go on, and put it aside. Had I written a review at that point, it would not have been favorable. Then I learned more about the WSH, what it was and what my expectations should be, what a person could do with it - and I picked it back up, and really applied myself. And apply yourself you must for this book. The first 154 pages of this 600 page book teach you the syntax and structure of VBScript (and some JScript). It's a little dry, and easy to get lost in. But once you have that down, the rest of the book can really open things up and show you quite a bit.<br />Besides an introduction to the language, the book covers &quot;upgrading&quot; your old batch files, writing logon scripts for users, automating network tasks, SQL server, IIS server, as well as showing you how to use ActiveX objects for the file system, CDO, ADO (Database), etc. The book even goes so far as to touch on ADSI scripting for Windows NT and Windows 200 Active Directory.<br />Even though at this point in time the book is a little out-dated (written in the Windows NT 4 time), it is still a good learning tool. Not so unlike other &quot;... in 21 days&quot; books, the average person won't complete the book in that time, and you learn just as much correcting the errors in the code and doing the workshop material as you do from the actual guided lessons. If you're looking for a scripting solution that is quick and easy, WSH and VBScript isn't it, and neither is this book. If you're looking for a powerful automation tool for network and services automation, and you're willing to spend the time it will take to complete this book, then this could be the title for you.ok. If you're looking for a powerful automation tool for network and services automation, and you're willing to spend the time it will take to complete this book, then this could be the title for you.	2001-07-03
US	52707081	R5QKT45U7A6UH	1576108813	36803690	Windows Admin Scripting Little Black Book: A Concise Guide to Essential Scripting for Administrators	Books	3	15	16	N	Y	A Little about a Lot	This book is a lot like a smorgasbord.  You walk up to the counter, and before you are tons of dishes and you get to sample them all.  It isn't long, however, before you realize that the items from each style of food are few and simple, and you wish they had a different type of this, or an expanded selection of that.  This title has 14 chapters, 353 pages, more scripting languages than you can shake a stick at (most with code samples), plus many scattered references for command line switches on quite a few OS applications (from Defrag to Media Player) - and when all is said and done, you will be exposed to a lot, and wishing for more detail.<br />This book can open many doors and show you many great things.  I don't think that anyone at any administrative level can read this book and not discover something new.  The only problem is that this book was a monumental undertaking.  You are introduced to a concept, given the general gist, and moved right along regardless if you get it or have questions.  You are often left wondering how to get it to work on your computer and where to turn to get clarification.<br />When all is said and done, this book is a good buy.  Read it with the expectation of being an introduction to many topics, but don't expect it to be your primary reference book, or to master any of the presented material without additional reading.	2001-07-01
US	52707081	R3HA5UAQOXQDST	0672314096	133463680	Sams Teach Yourself Database Programming with Visual Basic 6 in 24 Hours	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Great kick-off point for beginners	OK - some of the code examples have bugs (the publishers web site has an errata for a lot of the issues), and like every other 24-hours style book, performing the workshop and quiz material will double your time. For a programmer who wants to learn about database programming, likes to experiment on their own, and learns just as much from trial and error as they do from having the information set forth for them, this book is great. I learned more from going off on my own and solving some of the book's bugs and expanding on their workshop exercises than I would have from an error free environment.<br />The book is easy to read, written in plain English, has many pictures and diagrams, a lot of code examples and even has a small reference section - delivered in a small enough book (350+ pages) that you don't feel overwhelmed before you open the cover. It touches on a lot of concepts, some a little too brief for my tastes, but gives the reader a wide enough exposure to allow you to move on in your desired direction once you have finished. By the end of the book you will know if you like database programming (without having spent a fortune for the book) and be able to implement many of the learned skills right away as you go on to intermediate and advanced levels via other training materials.	2001-06-28
US	52707081	R1C39OBK7IM96C	0764546848	790362884	Windows Scripting Secrets	Books	3	50	51	N	Y	The Secret is - He does it all in Visual Basic	Many things about this book I enjoyed a great deal. There is an abundance of dialog giving you tips, hints and help, great script examples showing proper scripting syntax and form, many sections that open you up to new possibilities with scripting by showing you COM object usage, as well as some invaluable development tools on the included CD-ROM.<br />However, the books primary focus is on using VBScript as the control mechanism for other objects (ActiveX, COM, etc.). This is, of course, an important part of VBScript and without it one might as well script BAT files. But so much of this book is dedicated to teaching the reader how to use the many custom ActiveX control the author has written/included on the CD-ROM, as well as creating your own (using the Microsoft Visual Basic Control Creation Editor), that the book appears to be more of a manual for the ActiveX controls than a book on scripting. An ideal script is one where the script is a stand alone file and can run on a large number of computers using industry standard components when needed - not a script that requires you to create your own ActiveX components to do all of the work and distribute all of it with an installation package before it will run. So many of the author's &quot;solution scripts&quot; provided  said solutions by calling Visual Basic controls rather than actual scripting - that at some points it would have been simpler to just write an application in VB and be done with it.<br />The book does touch on some industry standard objects, such as Internet Explorer, File System Object, WScript object, ADO, etc., but falls short of being a reference for the demonstrated objects, and at times raises more questions than it answers.<br />To sum up, the book is handy, a great resource for learning how to use ActiveX / COM objects in your scripts, and does have a lot of valuable information and included tools. I would not recommend this book if your goal is to learn more about the base language itself, but if your looking for a book that will teach you about using objects, this is a great title.but if your looking for a book that will teach you about using objects, this is a great title.	2001-06-07
US	52707081	R1I5R6IH185G3D	1578702194	7431625	Windows NT/2000 ADSI Scripting for System Administration	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Unbelievable in what it covers	This book is truly impressive.  Over 700 pages of information presented in as clear of a fashion as the ADSI is going to let an author.  An incredible amount of informational documentation about most of the ADSI processes, but never running off into useless stories about the authors childhood and such.  Fully functional script examples appear on almost every page, with a hundred page appendix showing nothing but cut-and-paste code snippets.  Code examples and documentation in the book cover not only creating ADSI programs in Visual Basic, but in VBScript / ASP as well.  The one minor issue I found was that there are some references to, and examples for, ADSI 2.5 scripting that is not supported in version 2.5 of the ADSI.  These out-of-date examples are very few and far between (I've only run into 3 out of hundreds), and having reviewed Microsoft's on-line documentation, it appears as though those items were going to be supported, and never made it to the released version.  The code referenced in the book is easily downloaded from the publishers web site.  The book isn't light reading, but the author presents it very well and you don't find yourself bored after a few pages.  The time I have put into reading this book and working with the examples, was worth every minute.  I find myself  with multiple copies of this book so I can reference it from any of my working areas.	2001-02-05
US	52707081	R9Z907VS3A75D	0782127452	681151661	VB/VBA Developer's Guide to the Windows Installer	Books	3	9	10	N	Y	Printed version of the SDK	I originally was looking for any book that would explain a little more about MSI technology in an easier fashion than the Microsoft MSI SDK help files.  This book doesn't quite do it.  It is nice to have the information printed out for browsing, and he does give a few examples of VB code that can be used to assist in gathering data for the MSI - but there isn't anything in this book that actually new, fresh, innovative or enlightening.	2001-02-04
US	52707081	R24X3GG957AG8F	186100169X	65504812	Adsi Asp Programmer's Reference	Books	3	6	7	N	Y	Out of date - but a good secondary tool	This book was written when Windows 2000 was still in beta, and is specifically geared towards ADSI 2.0 - not ADSI 2.5, which is what is out and in use today.  Given that, this book makes reference to, and shows examples for many commands no longer supported by Microsoft and no longer in use on Windows 2000 (as well as never having been utilized in NT4).  The book is a little light, being only about 300 pages, and could use more example code, and fewer background / history lessons.  Unlike typical reference books, this book is presented in much more of a mini guide-to-lots-of-stuff, with the true reference-style documentation being primarily in the appendix.<br />Although I have used this book as a learning tool, it remains a secondary book to me, and I can see it sitting on the shelf neglected as there are better true reference books out there.	2001-02-02
US	52707081	R3H1CH3VFGTLT6	1565928431	16187947	ASP in a Nutshell: A Desktop Quick Reference (In a Nutshell (O'Reilly))	Books	5	9	9	N	N	I've worn out the cover.	I purchased this book to be both an introduction to ASP as well as a reference guide.  I was not disappointed in either.  For an introduction, the book is definitely geared more as a reference guide, so it assumes you have some scripting (or programming) background; VBS and/or VB being an advantage.  Having both of these, I was very pleased to find that the sections of the book used as an introduction/mini-tutorial kept to the important information and did not stray off into personal stories or lengthy (yet ultimately pointless) explanations.<br />As a reference guide, I use it constantly.  It is one of the few books that actually reside on my desk.  The reference sections are divided into logical sections, and clearly give syntax, rules, explanations and (when appropriate) examples.  The reference section even goes so far as to cover ADO; I found some did not, or if they did, they skimmed it.  This reference guide provides excellent ADO references.<br />This guide has allowed me to jump very confidently into ASP scripting, and has yet to let me down.  I have recommended this book to my peers, and I recommend it to you.	2001-01-07
US	52707081	R2H26FHHFQHYK8	1565927206	926253130	VBScript in a Nutshell: A Desktop Quick Reference (In a Nutshell (O'Reilly))	Books	5	11	12	N	N	How did I manage this before?	This is the best VBScript I have ever read.  Explanations when appropriate, examples where needed, and a virtually complete reference section, formatted exactly as a reference book should be - command, syntax, parameters, returns and examples.  Easy to find exactly what you are looking for.  This book has save me a considerable amount of reference time, as well as giving me the info I needed when I needed it.  My hat off the authors, this book is worth every penny I paid for it - and then some.	2000-10-14
