US	52708799	R3CKHHAXVJNRV5	1843600900	362772551	The Switch	Books	4	20	22	N	N	A thoroughly enjoyable erotic tale	The Switch was my second Ellora's Cave ebook and still holds a special place in my heart. Sean and Beth, two lovers looking for something a bit special in a relationship.  Beth is a sexual Dom, struggling amid cultural restrictions and family expectations.  With her oriental background, her family expects her to settle down like a good submissive bride and husband.  She is way too fiery for that. Sean is trying to figure out his sexuality.  He has been raising his son alone for years, and now that he is closing in on an empty nest, he wants to broaden his horizons.  He's always been interested in DBS&M but never quite knew how to fulfill his needs.  Running into Beth one day at the erotic book section of a small bookstore, these two instantly connect. Beth has been swamped with feelings of ennui lately, and is looking not only for a good sub, but someone who can dominate her as well...a Switch. <br /> <br />The story follows these two characters, delving into their psyche as well as into their sex life.  I really enjoyed seeing Sean's point of view, something a reader doesn't get to see often. Their story is poignant and hot.  Well written erotica is not easy to come by, and Ms. Whiteside has done a fantastic job blending fantasy, real life, sex and a lasting relationship. Down to earth, realistic and fun, I thoroughly enjoyed reading The Switch <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-08-20
US	52708799	R2529OQAT0JJ40	0843951702	243266322	The Only One	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Three 1/2 stars over all.	I have been a long time fan of each of these authors. For the new fan who wants to taste each of their works, I am not sure if this is the place to start.  All three stories are related to other stories and if you are not familiar with them, you might not be able to follow along smoothly. I did not love the stories in these books.  For the fans of these authors, you will probably want to read these stories to keep up with what is going on in the series.  For all others, I might steer clear of this book.<br />Dark Descent: (3 star) My least favorite of the three books. I like Ms. Feehan's Carpathian series, but felt that this story was too short and tried to do too much in the confined space.  If this was a full length novel, then the story would have worked much better.  The last few books show that Ms. Feehan wants to take this series in another direction (or two) and I have no problem with that, I am just not sure this was the right medium to introduce the next level. <br />The Star Queen: (3 star) This story was ok.  It felt very rushed to me, and like Feehan's story, I think would have been better served if it were a full length book, not a short book in an anthology.  There is a bit of back story that if one is not familiar with the other books (Star King, Star Prince, etc) might confuse the reader.  I thought our hero and heroine were pretty well defined characters, but would have loved to have seen more depth.<br />Sacrilege:  (4 star) I enjoyed this story the best out of the group.  Again, Magda's story follows from Squire's Sacrament and if one is not familiar with that story, they might be confused.  This book is written with more depth than the others, and I think holds up the best on its own.  My biggest problem with this book is that I never got close or felt like I got to know our hero.	2003-05-02
US	52708799	R3QNQUXN9AFOY5	1551666685	263953863	Embrace the Twilight (MIRA)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Not as god as the others	I usually like Ms. Shayne's stories, and have particularly enjoyed her vampire series.  I have been awaiting Sarafina's story ever since reading about her in the previous books, especially Dante's story. Where this book has the potential for a good plot, I felt that it and the character development fall very short.  Willem is a strong character, one you would need to go up against Sarafina, and they were well matched, but they just didn't get to interact much.  Willem's dreams, and their connection was interesting, but where in the other stories the relationship between the vampires is expounded upon, we are never quite sure what is going on between Willem and Sarafina.<br />On Willem's side, he has known about Sarafina for a very short time.  He's put to the test of believing in vampires, fighting bad guys and falling in love in a very short time (with a bum foot to boot!).  Between dreams and meetings, I think they see each other six times before they fall helplessly in love.  That stretches my imagination to its limit. They have an interesting relationship, but one I fear is not explored deeply enough.  The vampire/human paradox is also another thing that was not given enough attention.  It is mentioned that Sarafina is immortal or at least very hard to kill and Willem will die as a mortal will.  But nothing is resolved with this issue.  Does that mean it will be handled in another book or are we left guessing how they handle this problem?<br />The bad guy, who has been haunting the vampires in all of these books, is getting a bit stale too.  He does some things in this book that ensure we will see him and this series again, he just seems to be mechanical at this point.  He must also be getting a bit old, knowing how the vampires age, Amber Lily's age, and how long he has been torturing the vampires.  If you have been reading this series, you probably don't want to miss this one, otherwise, there is not much here to recommend this book.  More writing (smaller font, smaller margins), and about 100 pages would have helped.	2003-04-22
US	52708799	R33VJFA7ZHN88O	0451208153	976461395	The Iron Rose	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Interesting character roles	Marsha Cranham has long been a favorite author of mine.  Her attention to detail and ability to weave a story within history (as opposed to being an outsider looking in) is incredible. I really enjoyed The Iron Rose, though it is not my favorite Cranham book.  Let me start with the characters and what I feel is the strongest part of the book.  I really liked meeting Juliet and Varian.  Juliet is a very strong character and makes the reader stop and think many times at our preconceived ideas of what a heroine in a romance \\"should\\" be. There are a lot of \\"feisty\\" heroines out there, but Juliet seems more realistic.  She lives on a ship of privateers and is very comfortable with herself. She appreciates a good looking man and is not a simpering virgin.  She makes no excuses about her previous lovers and has no problem enjoying Varian.  Varian on the other hand is a fairly strong male lead, just against Juliet, he seems a bit...uhm...weak. He never really gets to \\"win\\" against Juliet, and after a while I started to feel sorry for him.<br />It was also hard to see Varian spread his wings against a male like Simon, Juliet's father.  That was probably my biggest gripe with the book (which really isn't saying much), poor Varian got sandwiched between a lot of very strong characters and barely is able to keep up, though thankfully, to some extent, he does.<br />I do not know if the situation that Ms. Cranham sets up is historically accurate or a figment of her imagination, but it was very well done.  I believed it, felt that it was plausible and was interesting.  I felt like I was there, on board the ships during the fights and during the planning stages. A great book, that is a bit out of the ordinary.	2003-04-22
US	52708799	RMNSP80T13PRQ	055358314X	203220708	Come What May	Books	3	7	7	N	N	I would have liked to have seen more.	In the past, I have enjoyed Ms. LaFoy's writing style.  I felt that Come What May fell short of her other stories. Devon and Claire are interesting characters, or would be if they were written in a bit more depth.  They spend so little time together, that I do not get the feeling that they get to know each other.  Forced to marry, they spend some time together and learn to respect and eventually fall in love with each other.  Then they separate.  The problem being that very little time elapses in all of this (except their separation).  The set up and scenario does not feel genuine to me.<br />The plot itself seems to move along from one situation to another.  No scene is in the story unless it is significant to further the plot. The reader moves from one big scene to the next to the next.  So much happens to these two that after a while I wondered what grey cloud they were living under so I could avoid it at all costs.  The family members are a bit over the top and to me, unbelievable as well. <br />I do give credit for writing about Colonial America and giving a decent rendition of the political atmosphere in Virginia and the other colonies at the time.  Where there is not much attention give to day to day life in 1774, Ms. LaFoy does dig into the political situation and how American and British views would have been perceived.  I wish I could score higher, but I just didn't feel that this book was above average.	2003-03-25
US	52708799	RJUUMJXL7T3YN	0380811073	751978069	Worth Any Price (Bow Street, Book 3)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Sensual, though could use some more depth	Let me start by saying I enjoyed Nick and Charlotte's story.  They are well developed characters whom I really enjoyed getting to know.  That said, I was disappointed in the lack of depth in the story.  I would have liked to have seen smaller font size and another 100 pages of writing.  This book is Nick's story, and although I appreciated his story, I felt a bit cheated at not getting a more in depth version of Charlotte's story.  We know much of what happened to Nick from Lady Sophia's Lover, and nothing really new was opened in that Pandora's box.  The guilt that Nick carries around, though justified, seemed a bit over done considering who he was and what he had done being on the wrong side of the law for so long.<br />Charlotte had an interesting story that was underdeveloped.  I liked her character a lot. A no nonsense lead, strong, yet with doubts and reservations.  She is very patient with Nick and exactly what he needed.  I liked that she knew who he was up front and chose him anyway.  I did find her decision between marrying Nick or the earl to be a bit, uhm, weak, for a better word.  I think anyone in her position would have married the earl, no questions asked. (That said, I hope he gets his own story).<br />The sensuality rating on this book should be very high.  Wonderfully written love scenes and very believably done.  I can find no fault in that aspect of the story.  As I said, I enjoyed reading the book, and found the characters engaging.  I only wish there was a bit more plot and depth to it.  I am not a fast reader by any stretch of the imagination and finished this book in 2 days. I would recommend this one, especially if you have read its predecessor and enjoyed it.	2003-03-21
US	52708799	RIO5627509WW3	0312978405	691874366	Love Lessons	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Good, steamy read	James and Abigail are two very well matched main characters. It is nice to see a no nonsense heroine, even if she is still a virgin.  She is the only contact for her younger sister, and wants to make sure Caroline has enough, and correct information before making a choice for a husband.  In order to give her accurate information, Abigail must find out herself.  Thus enter our hero.  These two have sparks flying from the first time they meet.  <br />There was very little about this story that detracts from it.  I liked all aspects of it.  The characters, the plot, the depth.  Abigail's position in society and James's lack thereof and how they are entwined in the story.  James has a lot he needs to overcome in regards to his \\"family\\" and I really liked that whole part of the story.  The secondary romance is charming as well.  <br />All in all this is a great book.  Well written, well thought out and very sensual.  Pick it up and enjoy!	2003-03-21
US	52708799	R113P8DSP9I6AT	0399149368	309604858	Prince of Lost Places	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Could have used a little more	The story of a desperate woman who wants to protect her son against all ills.  After a tragic bomb/death in her son's school, Martha kidnaps her son and lives out in the desert to protect him from the outside world.<br />While reading the story, I liked the writing style, though I thought that it was a bit light on the details. This was quick reading, easily finished on one setting.  170 pages, written in a big font, big margins and a lot of blank pages, I think the reader would have been a little better served if we had some more details and less white space.  There were some details, parts about being a mother and what that means and little things that mother and son do - bonding - that liven the story, but I would have liked to have seen more.<br />I have a hard time reconciling the main character, who insists that she is the sane one, and what she actually does.  There are times in the story, like when Duncan climbs the cliff, where Martha realizes that her son can never truly be safe anywhere, but by taking him to the desert and the ultimate choice she makes, it is only to the detriment and danger to her son.  I guess that I am left walking away from this story wondering what exactly Ms. Hepinstall is trying to get across to her readers.  That it is OK to be crazy to the point of paranoia and run off and that ultimately, this is better than living the structured \\"real\\" world?  <br />A good book that got me thinking, but could use a little more depth.	2003-01-29
US	52708799	R23GGK7KZBGMDN	0505524856	599101636	The Shadow Prince (Heartspell)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	I did not like as much as her previous titles.	To start, I realize that this book was written as a fantasy/sci-fi story but I had a hard time reconciling this fact when reading.  There is a note from the author about being interested in a battle that took place in the 500's BC, in the region which is near present-day Afghanastan.  Because of this, I was confused as to whether this story was supposed to be loosely based on fact or was pure fiction.  That being said, most of the weapons and some of the clothing sounded much more Medieval than ancient and again, I had a hard time reconciling everything as I was reading.<br />Adrik and Lorienne were interesting characters, but I never felt like I really got to know them. They rarely talked to one another, so when did their relationship grow? Time passes but not much is said and done.  Many opportunities were lost to develop more engaging characters.  So on the romance side, there seemed to be a lot lacking.<br />The fantasy/sci-fi element was done fairly well and what kept this story at three stars for me. The premise of the story is very promising.  Ancient curses, magic (from the Magii tribe), wickedly shallow and mean enemies and a damsel in distress.  Not a bad mix.  There was one surprise at the end which I did not anticipate, and enjoyed as well.  This is not the best book I have read from Ms. Zimlich, but if you are looking for an OK read to pass the time, this is not a bad choice.	2003-01-08
US	52708799	R1OG8XPWSKLHB0	0440237556	77429998	The Dark Highlander (The Highlander Series, Book 5)	Books	3	15	16	N	N	Held so much potential	Dageus and Chloe's story had the potential to be a truly amazing story, but ended up for me, as only average (if even a little below average - 2 ½ stars). To begin, let me say, that I found Ms. Moning to have an incredible imagination. The idea for the story is great, it is the execution that I had trouble with. First, Dageus has these 13 miserable, evil, desperate, lonely, frustrated, grasping souls trapped in his body. What great possibilities this could have opened up. Instead it is pushed into the background as just something that Dageus has to fight in order to keep himself \\"good\\" and not dark. These entities did not impress me as being so strong and all powerful (which they were supposed to be) if Dageus could keep them under control for so long. (I mean really, how long can one Druid hold out against 13 of equal power?) They really did not DO anything, they were just there, a temptation of sorts (for Dageus to use magic - which I didn't understand either, since his brother in the previous book could use magic with no ill effects, why should using magic for Dageus push him farther to the dark side?)<br />The story itself seemed a bit short to me. I would have liked to have seen a longer and better thought out climax/end scene and thought that as the reader, we would have been better met with about another 100 pages of story. Everything got very choppy with short groupings in the end few chapters, jumping between the different parties of the story. Chloe was an interesting character, but seemed very similar to Gwen in the previous book (small, \\"not perfect\\", gutsy, smart, etc). Although very convenient, I could appreciate that Chloe was a historian with a Celic background, but it did almost seem too \\"pat\\". The romance between Dageus and Chloe was decent. Seeing their attraction grow and Dageus's \\"nobility\\" in staying away from her sexually - even though that sexual release would have helped him was touching. Their first love scene was, uhm, a bit much, especially since Chloe was a virgin, but hey, I'll suspend my beliefs on that one.<br />On a side note, I found the imagery with Dageus's eyes quite interesting. Overall, this was an OK, book, though I suspect you will appreciate it more if you have read Kiss of the Highlander and were waiting for Drustan's brother's story.	2002-12-13
US	52708799	RHOBIEF90X6IM	0804119902	884146767	Prairie Moon	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Engaging story, though a bit slow paced	This story of two hurt and broken souls, James Cameron and Della, is an interesting and poignant read.  It is hard to actually write a review for this story without giving away too much of the story.  James Cameron is a lawman/bounty hunter in the West following the American Civil War in the 1870's. He's running from his past and more importantly, himself.   War changes people and after a close up killing during a battle, James is determined not to kill any more and fix things as best as he can by being a lawman and upholding the code of what is right.  Unfortunately, this means that he has a lonely existence and really does not care whether he lives or dies (and ironically ends up killing more people because he has such a quick draw and is a legend).<br />Della lives in Texas and has also had a hard time of things.  A Northerner trapped in the South during the War, she marries a young Southern gentleman.  His family/mother never accepted her and was abusive towards her.  She is young, lost and scared when she writes her husband that she needs him and that she hates him.  He dies with that as his last communication from Della and she is racked with guilt about this last correspondence.  <br />James carries around Della's picture for ten years before coming to talk to her. Thus basically STARTS the story.  The books centers around their growing feeling for each other and a \\"quest\\" for Della to face her in-laws and regain custody of her daughter.  James is quiet and does not talk much, but what he does have to say is incredible. My only criticism with the story is that it is a bit slow paced until the end.  I like the idea that these two get to spend time together and have their relationship grow slowly, but to me, at points, the story dragged. But, with its wonderful character building and excellent writing, I thoroughly enjoyed Ms. Osbourne's newest release.	2002-12-11
US	52708799	R15NSFDRZG4HPK	0312978413	965871915	Total Surrender	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Titillating and engaging, though still lacking	Michael and Sarah's story engaged me from the beginning, though with some reservations throughout. I will start by saying that this story is HOT with strongly explicit love scenes.  I thought they were very well done and more lifelike or realistic than most scenes I have read. This is the second book, in a series, and I did not feel uncomfortable by not reading the preceding one.<br />The parts keeping this from being a 4 or 5 star rating from me are as follows:  First, Michael was so unapproachable for the entire story, that I did not warm up to his character until the last chapter, and even then until the last few pages.  I did not understand his total about face, and the final confrontation between Sarah and Michael was brief and disappointing.  I would have liked to have seen them work through their problems, not just fall into bed and figure that was enough.  The other issue I had with the story was the abandoned open threads.  What happened between Michael and his parents?  Pamela?  Are these threads that will be wrapped up in another story or does the reader have to make up their own ending?<br />Over all, a good read, and an explicitly sexual one. For erotic scenes, which are plentiful, the story is worth reading, though I would have liked to have seen some better plot development.	2002-11-21
US	52708799	RW5VWAC6RTSIO	0446611107	632431094	The Rogue	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Well written, but didn't engage me.	Ysabelle and Merlyn's story was a well written story, it just did not motivate me to want to read it. Done in an overblown gothic feel (which I didn't mind too much), I never really engaged my emotions while reading this story. The beginning of this book, written in Ysabelle's POV, kept emphasizing the fact that Merlyn was a cheat and a liar. Ysabelle did such a good job maligning our hero, that I never fully came to like him, even after everything was explained. Also, because the POV in which this book was written, Merlyn comes across as so completely mysterious, that I never felt like I got to know him.<br />There also seemed to be some glaring inconsistencies in the plot. Some of these were explained to a limited extent in the end, but they did not ring true to me. Without giving away too many spoilers to the story, Ysabelle relates the story as a peasant girl growing up in a village devastated by plague and war. No one seems to remember much of their over lords or what it means to live in a feudal society, and everyone else on the outside seems to have forgotten this area of Scotland. The reader sees that this is not true in the end, and that there are \\"outsiders\\" who care about this area, but this interest seems contrived to me, to make sure the plot continues. I guess if Ms. Delacroix was trying to show a lawless, dark time, filled with uncertainty or I would even call it apathy, then she succeeded. I just was not comfortable with the climate/atmosphere she built.<br />I know that I am now getting nit-picky, but the name of Meryln also bothered me. It was explained in this book that his surname was a predatory bird. Although spelled differently, why was his first name also related to a predatory bird? It seemed a bit redundant to me. Overall, I am giving this book 3 stars because I thought the quality of the writing very good; I just could not get into the story itself to enjoy the writing.	2002-11-06
US	52708799	R2NQ2YPK8KLOZ7	0843950366	28088750	Body Electric	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Enjoyable but with a few issues�.	Ok, I have to start by saying that I really enjoy Ms. Squire's writing.  Dangeld, Sacrament and now Body Electric are all interesting books with unusual twists and refreshing new ideas.  This book crosses many genres and should appeal readers of all of them: sci fi, tech thriller, and romance. To start, this book goes into great depth about the computer industry.  I have to assume whatever Ms. Squires is writing about is viable and true because I do not have a deep understanding of computers, programming, and other related fields.  <br />Let me move on here to the characters.  I had a real problem in the beginning of the story.  Vic was just so far out there that I had no sympathy with her at all. It took a long time to drag me back around to appreciate her and even then, in the end, I am still not sure that this was accomplished.  Jody on the other hand was an incredible character.  Every scene he was in, he stole the show.  I kept reading to see his character develop and mature. <br />My biggest problems come about with the relationship that grows between these two characters. It kept crossing my mind that Vic looks at this relationship as a mother/child one. (At least at first). That they get romantically involved, brings up some issues I was a little uncomfortable with.  I have to say, if nothing else, this book is thought provoking.  I enjoyed reading it... Star Trek meets Free Jack.	2002-10-30
US	52708799	R1PW7PVEBFM3R0	0743437845	922629044	No True Gentleman (Sonnet Books)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Great read!!!	Serious and determined characters, thoughtful plot and interesting reading. I have yet to read one of Ms. Carlyle's books and be disappointed. I have always favored deep plots and deep characters. Both are present in this book and although this is loosely part of a series of books, it stands perfectly well on its own. Catherine, our heroine, is honest and down to earth in her outlook, as are most of Ms. Carlyle's heroines. She was happily married and then widowed and memories force her to a change of scenery. She loved her husband, but it was time to move on. Practical, and what I would consider realistic in her thinking, Catherine really doesn't want to get married, but if an interesting lover should happen to fall at her feet, she wouldn't be adverse to that either.<br />Max, whom the reader would have met in Ms. Carlyle's other books is a truly interesting and multi-faceted hero. Many times in romance books, I find that the hero is lacking in depth because the (usually) female author can't seem to get into their psyche. Not so with Max. He comes from wealth and even some nobility in his background, but forever considers himself No True Gentleman and lives life simply. He is a police officer (well, that is how he sees himself, though Catherine and others might differ). This is probably the only sticking point for me and why I only gave the book 4 stars. He is so sure that he is outside of society and thus no good for Catherine that after a while I got bored with that excuse. If she didn't care, than what difference did it make? Besides the fact, he DID have a title in his own right, it was just French.<br />In any event, I enjoyed the plot and the characterizations. Where I usually find strong heroines an anomaly (a 20th century woman placed in the 19th century), Catherine felt true to her time. A little unconventional, since she was willing to go outside the rules and probably be shunned, but realistic. She realizes what her \\"limits\\" are and would decide to breakthem or not. Enjoy this one!	2002-08-23
US	52708799	R1XRX5B6YX10R5	0515132500	599575925	Ever a Princess	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Disappointing	Giana and Adam's story could have had so much potential but I had to suspend my beliefs so many times for so many things, that I found the book flighty and not enjoyable.  If this was supposed to be a fairy tale type story it might have worked better, but it was not.  The story takes a princess and puts her in situations both unrealistic and contrary even in its own writing style.  A princess is sunk to the level of cleaning out fireplaces as a maid, but her lady's maid can't lift a finger except to fix the princesses hair, watch her dog and get her food. Or when Giana and Adam's second in a duel kill the opponent (they shoot him) because he was about to kill Adam.  Woah!  I thought that was considered cheating in a duel.<br />Giana was so focused on being a princess that she does not know how to act \\"normal\\".  How it takes Adam so long to figure out something was going on, or why he did not fire her the minute he walked in and found her sleeping in his bed (and unwilling to leave it for the night), I'll never understand. I never got the feeling that these two characters communicate or relate to one another.  Where did the relationship come from? The villain's reasons for acting as he did, did not fully make sense either. Adam and his story fare a little better, though they stretch they realm of comfortable with me as well.<br />All and all, the only aspect of the book I liked was the  Marquess of Templeston's role in it.  I enjoyed his story in Once a Mistress and was happy to see him again.	2002-04-09
US	52708799	R2SF4OW227IUN5	0505524724	402574196	Sacrament (Candleglow)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Very good, if a little drawn out.	Well, Ms. Squires 2nd book, although very different from her first one, is a great read. I had some issues with the story, but all in all, thought that it was very well written.  I find that her imagination and ability to tell a story is exceptionally skilled.  To start, her characters are deep, well defined and interesting.  No cardboard cut outs in this story. Julian is cynical, dark, aloof and detached from the world.  We feel his ennui, and learn to see why he is the way he is (if you've lived as long as he has, I suppose that is reason enough, but Ms Squires brings you into his mind to see this).  Sarah also has her own issues.  We see her grow and mature as the story progresses.  She is a strong character, though not perfect. Sarah has weaknesses and a touch of naiveté that she needs to overcome and accept.<br />The vampire element is new and fresh and interesting to read (again, I comment upon Ms. Squires imagination). Here comes that \\"but\\"; but there were two elements that left me uncomfortable with the book.  First and foremost is Sarah's friend Corina.  There is a symbiotic relationship in the first half of the book, which skirts the realm of reasonableness to me.  This relationship is explained (and fairly satisfactorily) but Corina was SO dark it jerked me out of the story a time or two. The second element is the pace of the story.  It felt like we had 2 or 3 different stories in one. Maybe a division of Part 1 and Part 2 would have helped, but so much happens in this story (all of which is important to the main love story) that I felt my mind wandering at times. Either the book needed to be an epic (another 200 pages to expound upon important issues) or maybe two different books?  <br />Well, enough negative commentary.  I really did enjoy the story and the characters.  I was riveted to the book, unable to put it down until I finished it.  I am eagerly awaiting her next book!	2002-03-19
US	52708799	R2OBK33GI1Q8DF	0743419154	759611923	The Fire Inside	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Am I reading the same book as everyone else?	This book gets a grudging 3 stars from me.  I would normally give it only two, but Clay is such a great guy, I have a soft spot for him. First and foremost there was no plot to this story.  The little suspense we do get, happens at the end of the book for about 30 pages and is extremely predictable.  Where this is obviously a character driven book (verses a plot driven one), I found the characters weakly drawn.  Katt seemed like a lot of clichés tied together.  She has some issues, and I think the way Clay deals with them as being the only saving grace of the story. I got very bored reading about Katt's fear that Clay would never be faithful to her.  Every other page for the first ¾ of the book had this fear flit through her mind.  Meanwhile, Clay did nothing to deserve this fear.  If anything the poor guy went out of his way to gain Katt's trust. (For such a rake, Clay had the patience of a saint.)  <br />Katt and Clay knew each other before this story started and I liked that they had a background together.  They were always at odds with each other in the beginning, but that chemistry quickly wanes and I was sorry to see it go. The \\"philandering\\" hero was the only reason I kept reading, and to be honest, I thought that by the end of the story, he would have been better off without Katt.  He walked a fine line of getting too sappy in his feelings and deeds.    <br />Ah well, Ms. Martin obviously left it wide open at the end for Adam's story, I just have serious doubts as to whether I will buy it or not.	2002-03-08
US	52708799	R9V94GQPE6WSS	0440235227	407450033	Midnight Honor	Books	5	3	3	N	N	What a wonderfully colorful story	Depth.  That is what I have always loved about Ms. Canham's writing.  Her characters are three dimensional, usually with difficult issues to wrestle with and complex lives to navigate.  Midnight Honor, with Angus and Anne was no different.  I particularly liked our hero in this story.  Where many people might think he is the weak point of the book, I thought he was an exceptional character.  This story is set surrounding the Battle of Culloden in Scotland.  This is a theme (over) written about in romance novels, yet the way Ms. Canham makes this time come alive is extraordinary.  This was a bloody and barbaric time in Scot/English history and comes across as such.  Angus had many difficult decisions to make.  It is easy from modern perspective to chose the \\"right\\" path (or at least the path that would best serve the clan) but living through it would make those decisions less obvious. Usually in Scot theme books, the hero is a big and brawny Highlander, overbearing, charismatic yet extremely Alpha in disposition.  Angus was brought up mostly on the Continent and had more \\"refined\\" characteristics.  This is what kept the story fresh. Was he pro-Scot or wasn't he?  Spy or double agent? Fence straddler or chameleon? <br />Anne on the other hand was blatantly pro-Scot.  I was never quite sure how the British army could trust Angus with a wife who was so obviously Jacobian, but that is all part of the plot.  There were parts of her character I liked and others I did not, but they made for an interesting whole person.  I don't always have to like everyone I read about.  She had some difficult decisions to make, especially not knowing the loyalties of her husband.  There are some very remarkable relationships in this book. They are well done and powerfully emotional. We see some old friends from other books, but they are not overly intrusive in this story, and if you have not read their stories, you are not left confused as can sometimes happen.<br />Probably the best bookI read in 2001.  I give 5 stars rarely and felt this story deserved every one of them.	2002-01-30
US	52708799	R24ZOJB0SHTWEE	0553583131	797261660	Jackson's Way	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Hmmm...what to say?	I really, really, really liked this story.  The character development, intricate plot, secondary characters and overall writing style was superb. There is a bit of hesitancy in my review because at first I had a very hard time getting into the plot. First, I'll expound upon what I liked of the book and then I will give my reasons for what I didn't like.<br />First and foremost, I loved the relationship between our hero and heroine.  They are up front and honest throughout the entire story.  There are no missish airs, no mincing words, no real misunderstandings.  Lindsay has a \\"past\\" and although is ashamed of it, does not pretend that sex does not exist.  Jack is also forthright and honest in his outlook on relationships.  He has been burned and really does not want to go through that again.  He is attracted to Lindsay and makes no excuses for that.  They actually talk about their attraction like adults, as opposed to allusions, innuendos, or assumptions that lead to misunderstandings.<br />The plot was wonderfully complicated and I honestly did not figure out what was going on until it was all unveiled (an extreme rarity for me).  I can't compliment Ms. LaFoy enough on her writing skill on this book.  Thus saying, I did have a few issues with the story.  I felt that Lindsay was way to modern for 1838. Her character was well written, but might have been better set in the 1920's with the women's movement or in modern times.  To have a bold woman, free thinking and independent, (frank about sex), a business associate in a wheelchair, a maid without an arm (even though it is all explained) seems a bit modern and jerked me out of the story at first.  There are also euphemisms used, such as \\"looking at the world through rose colored glasses\\" that felt too modern in the context. These incidents all happened in the beginning of the story, which is why I had a hard time getting into it.  Once I got past these issues and suspended my beliefs a bit, I had a much more enjoyable read.<br />One last, quick, praise: KUDOS for writing about the Panic of 1838 and explaining the economic ramifications at the time.  Most people do not know this happened, let alone what effect it had on the people around the country.e read.<br />One last, quick, praise: KUDOS for writing about the Panic of 1838 and explaining the economic ramifications at the time.  Most people do not know this happened, let alone what effect it had on the people around the country.	2002-01-30
US	52708799	R3PQO23IKYGONO	0553583557	905022111	Lord of a Thousand Nights (Medievals)	Books	3	14	14	N	N	Good book,though not the best of Ms. Hunter	I can't tell if I liked this story or not. I loved the preceding four books and think I liked this book only because I was waiting to read it.  If I had picked this one up without reading the others, (By Design, By Arrangement, The Protector and By Possession) I do not think I would have enjoyed it quite as much.  We see the characters from the other books and actually continue the story of the retaking of Harclow for Morvan. I really enjoyed seeing \\"the gang\\" and often complain about other authors where  we never see characters from other stories. Unfortunately, I think it would be a bit confusing if you have not read their stories first.<br />That said, I thought the writing was well done and enjoyable to read. Our characters are deep, with complex histories.  The building of the story and how the plots intertwined was exciting and kept my interest keen.  I was glad that Morvan finally regains his birthright (as we knew he would), but I was a bit disappointed in how it effects the other people in the story. <br />I have always loved how Ms. Hunter brings the past to life.  She uses history and makes it seem, as the reader, that you were right in the thick of the action. I guess that is where my reservations of this book come from.  There was little history and descriptive passages of everyday life which was evident in her other stories.  Much of this book takes place during war and sieges in 14th century England, yet instead of feeling like I was a participant in the battles, I felt like most every other book I have read, like an outside observer.   Lord of a Thousand Nights is still an excellent book, just not what I have come to expect from Ms. Hunter.	2002-01-23
US	52708799	R1C5MTBU97I1MD	0505524759	577832052	The Promise	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A delightful story	What a delightful story.  Well thought out, deep characters, an intricate plot and all around enjoyable read.  I have a partiality for time travel stories, so this book caught my attention from the first time I picked it off of the shelf. Cara and Michael's story twists and turns, bending back on itself to make for a complete and satisfying reading experience.<br />One of the biggest potential problems for a time travel story is the element of the travel itself and how the protagonists react to the event.  Usually you have either the hero or heroine thrown back/forward in time and the other party has to deal with understanding this anomaly.  Ms. Dee avoids this trap nicely. The time travel is integral to the plot, and not just because it throws the lovers together.  I suppose fans of time travel and the ultimate paradox of changing history will be leery of this story, since our hero and heroine make no excuses for trying to change the past.  Thoughts of how this will change the future are not even addressed, and to me, makes for the weakest link in the story.  (You know, the problem that arises when something does not happen, then how could such and such have happened, and ultimately, how could you have been born to come back to the past?)<br />Loralee, Patrick, Arlee, Ginny, Pete, (even Jack the horse), and all of the other secondary characters are depicted beautifully and add much to the story.  I think my biggest reservation with this book is that there is so much depth and complexity to it, that at times it feels like the reader is skimming over some important facts. Some readers might get uncomfortable with the style the book was written, with concurrent threads, switching from one scene to another, all happening at the same \\"time\\".  Personally, I thought it was well done and was comfortable with it.  I would not (and do not) hesitate recommending this book as a good, solid read.	2002-01-23
US	52708799	R29R2BEUC75DRJ	0449004864	93203846	Desire (Notorious)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	5 stars for steaminess, 1 star for plot.	Lucian has got to be one of the most arrogant alpha males I have come across in a long time.  His biggest redeeming factor, and he does redeem himself, is that he (eventually) realizes what he has done and how it effected the heroine Brynn. There are elements of \\"The Big Misunderstanding\\" but they are handled well and took up a very small part of the plot, and actually enhanced it. (If I sound surprised, I am, because this is the first time I have ever thought that particular plot devise worked.)<br />The sex scenes were hot and well done, as Ms. Jordan is known for, though I found it a little hard to buy into how much they lusted after each other, especially since they really did not seem to like each other all that much for most of the book.  As the book progresses she does an admirable job showing how each lead develops their feelings towards the other, so I have no complaint in that department.<br />My problem with the story was how the \\"suspense\\" plot was handled. Lucian is an intelligence agent in Britain during the Napoleonic Wars (big surprise).  He is after a traitor high up in the aristocracy.  He has been chasing the traitor for some time and continues to do so throughout this book.  The problem is that this plot is not needed at all considering nothing is done to further it.  By the end of the book Lucian is no closer to catching the bad guy than he was in the beginning.  The only thing accomplished was setting up the scene for what I assume will be the next sequel.  I felt cheated with that.	2001-11-20
US	52708799	RAC3PZZVVBPOE	0515131091	173732316	Out of this World	Books	4	37	40	N	N	Be warned, not for everyone	(...)I would like to add a huge WARNING though. For 3 out of the 4 books, if you have never read the books in the series preceding this anthology, you will probably not enjoy these stories. I have read all of the authors and thought this a pretty good book, thus the 4 stars, but if this is your first experience with Hamilton, Shayne or Robb, move ahead cautiously.<br />J D Robb's (aka Nora Roberts) story was a good short story keeping in line with her ...In Death series. The characters are mostly all there and the plot is a good one. I suppose if you have never read her books, you could enjoy this story, but there is so much previous baggage from the relationships that it would seem to me that coming in on this story would be like watching the Return of the Jedi without watching Star Wars or The Empire Strikes Back first.<br />I could not even begin to imagine following Maggie Shanye's novel if I had not read at least Destiny, and probably Infinity and Eternity as well. Puabi was so evil in Destiny that it was quite hard for me to get into this book. If I had no previous knowledge of her earlier history, this book would not make much sense. So much revolves on how utterly evil she was and the lengths and time she spent trying to get her way.<br />I felt VERY cheated with Laurell Hamilton's portion of the book. As stated elsewhere, this is just a segment of Narcissus in Chains. I am a huge fan and would have bought her book anyway. I wanted something different, why pay for this if I am going to pay for the whole book anyway? VERY bad judgment call, whoever made it, the author or the publisher. If I had never read the Anita Blake series, this is not the way to be introduced into it. SO much has happened before this point (what 9 or 10 books worth?) that I do not think someone new to Ms. Hamilton would enjoy this story (or part of the story). The fact that this is just a few chapters with no beginning and no end, no real purpose besides sensual images, bothered me too.<br />I liked Susan Krinard's book very, very much. Maybe not quite as sensual at the other stories, but the ONLY story that was a stand-alone. I like Ms. Krinard's older books, and the imagination in this story reminds me of the originality found in them. We had the development of both a relationship and a fictional world that was done without relying on previous books. Kudos Ms. Krinard!	2001-11-20
US	52708799	R3O5V0A13CO4MO	0451202368	115576335	Lords of Danger: His Fair Lady	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Some good, some bad	I have followed Ms. Kirkwood's writing since A Slip in Time.  I loved that book and the premise for it.  There was a lot of originality and new twists in that plot which kept me thoroughly entertained.  I have found with the last few of her books, that this originality has waned.  In His Fair Lady, Royce and Juliana/Ana's story is well written, but I found the plot to be very formulistic.  It is very much the fairy tale, happily-ever-after story complete with demoiselle in distress (numerous times), striking hero to the rescue, nefarious villain, the \\"other\\" woman, etc.  <br />Juliana/Ana gets herself into so much trouble in the first half of the book, that all that was accomplished was to show the heroine as being a spoiled child.  After she reaches England, we do see her development and to a lesser extent Royce's, which is the only thing that kept this book together for me.  In a nutshell, I would describe this book as predictable.  Everything happens which you think should happen; there is no suspense or even interesting twists or turns to give the reader boost.<br />One interesting side note, I did find it unusual to see King John portrayed in a positive light (or somewhat positive light). History usually portrays him as a vengeful, grasping villain who usurped his brother's throne (Richard) while he was on Crusade. Overall, if you are looking for a sweet, fairy tale/romance, then pick this book up, it was well written.  If you are looking for anything different or with pizzazz, I suggest you forego His Fair Lady.	2001-11-16
US	52708799	R36OE9JKDOIYOQ	0743418395	95004538	A Falcon's Heart (Sonnet Books)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	I must be in the minority.	There were many elements of this story that I absolutely loved, but I could not get past the writing style itself.  While reading this story, my head was spinning between all of the scene changes, point of view changes and character relation changes.  I would be reading and all of a sudden a different character's thoughts would be introduced or something unrelated to what was being done arises.  It got to the point where I thought maybe I was missing paragraphs.  The transitions were just too abrupt to make for smooth, enjoyable reading.<br />As for the story and characters themselves, when I could understand their interaction with each other, I enjoyed them.   The fairy tale element of the story was a nice change, though I wonder if it was really needed at all. I think the story would have worked just as well without the supernatural element, and maybe even work better.  There was a lot of attention to details; the character's adherence to religion (which is often missed on fiction stories), early English king's relationships with their nobles, etc, which was great to read.  I guess this is why I was a bit disappointed when there was absolutely nothing mentioned about the Black Plague.  This story spans the decades of 1340-1355 yet there was nothing of the Plague. There is plenty of mention of the Crusades, which is good because it was also relevant at the time, but considering 1348 was one of the worst outbreaks, the lack is noticeable (at least to me).  Ah well, maybe I am being too picky, I just thought that Ms. Wylie spent a lot of time trying to make life in the 14th century come alive (and it does) yet she missed this crucial element. I think this is an OK attempt at a first book.  I will probably purchase her next book, though I hope it is a bit more polished.	2001-11-07
US	52708799	R2EN3HPSGB32MG	0505524236	626786836	Night Visitor (Timeswept)	Books	1	25	31	N	N	Just not worth it	Ok, I read hundreds of books a year, and in that time frame, there are about 1 to 2 books I just can't finish.  Night Visitor is my second one this year (and hopefully my last).  There were so many typos and glaring grammatical mistakes (two things I usually read right over) that I just could not get into the story. I got about half way through it, and found that the characters were dull, flat and wholly unrealistic.  I tried to suspend my belief because this is a fantasy (fairie story) but nothing I read made me want to continue on.  <br />A female photographer from the late 1800's, with a father who doesn't understand her and is patronizing coupled with a Scottish piper that has farie blood (oh yes, let us not forget the diluted fairie blood in our heroine as well!) sets our story.  The piper is killed for warning his allies about a trap set.  For this, his hands are cut off and he dies (supposedly bad luck for the killers since you are not supposed to kill a piper).  His pipes haunt the castle for 200 years until our heroine touches his newly uncovered bones and makes a connection to him. This is the first few chapters and the most interesting part of the story. Our heroine then goes to the past to rescue our hero. Everything else seems to rush past, with little description or depth.<br />I rarely do this, but I suggest you steer clear of Night Visitor, there are better stories out there.	2001-11-02
US	52708799	R1B947MJM0OX8G	0505524473	740687630	Dark Fire (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 6)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Better than the last, but I think could have been improved	Darius and Tempest are a breath of fresh air for these novels. Darius has not grown up with the rest of the Carpathians and their set ways, so he treats his lifemate differently (or at least as differently as he can). He is still possessive, overbearing and generally an ultra-alpha male, but that's what makes these books enjoyable. What changes a bit in this one is his willingness to sacrifice himself instead of making Tempest change. We have a more compassionate or at least understanding male than the last books.<br />What I did not like in this story was the swiftness in which it read. The story was not as involved as the previous ones and the plot was much looser or uncomplicated than the last books. I wonder if the typesetting and margins got bigger in this book. There just did not seem to be as much meat to this story as the other ones. I also do not understand the unwillingness to bring in some of the other characters from the earlier books into the fold. They keep talking about Michail, their prince, but never motivate themselves to meet him. Wouldn't this band be interested in meeting more of their kind? Same goes the other way, wouldn't Gregori or Michail WANT to meet this new band of Carpathians? Well, I will just have to keep reading to see if these reunions happen. (which I suppose is the point).	2001-10-11
US	52708799	R2YG4FD9GQTDX3	055357762X	903656164	The Prisoner	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A solid read	Genevieve and Haydon make interesting leads in this story.  I liked each character, and thought both were well written and well developed.  The secondary characters were warm and added a lot of depth to the story without distracting from it.  I suppose my biggest problem came with the plot itself and the various turns it took.  I am willing to suspend my beliefs in romance stories, but there seemed to be too many beliefs to suspend in this story.  Haydon is from the aristocracy, I find it hard to believe any judge or jury would convict him and sentence him to hang for killing a footpad, no matter what evidence or lack thereof. To then have the jail warden beat him over the previous beatings he received seems unrealistic.  This was just the first chapter.  Bring in Genevieve's situation, lack of money, abandonment of friends, fiancé, and everyone else I just had a hard time reconciling the characters with the story.<br />We hear the harrowing tales of how Genevieve had to struggle to survive, working herself ragged and looking after a half dozen kids.  Where would she get time to paint?  I think its great, and it is very important to the plot of the story, but when?.  I don't want to give the whole plot away, but every scene stretched my limits of credibility.  If I did not like the main characters so much, as well as Genevieve's misfits, the book would have fallen completely flat for me.<br />I have long been a fan of Ms. Monk's writing.  This is definitly not her best effort, but still worth reading if you like strong and interesting characters.  Just be willing to suspend your ideas of reality.	2001-10-10
US	52708799	R2ISRD4JR2M18E	0553582003	531722337	The Secret Swan	Books	3	2	3	N	N	More like a 3 1/2 star rating	There is a surreal quality to this book in the beginning, which I really liked.  Ms. Abe tends to have elements of the supernatural in her stories, and although there are none directly in this book, this feeling of unreality in the beginning brings some element of it to the reader.  Disjointedness, vague feelings and impressions work very well, since we start in a time of death from the Black Plague, and uncertainty from Tristan's long plight of being incarcerated.  As Tristan's health grows, so does the clarity of the story.<br />Tristan himself is an interesting character.  Although I thought his clinging to a memory of a girl whom he spent a week with (drunk and uninterested) for 8 years, a bit of a stretch, it makes the story work. This thread in the story would be what I found as the weakest link. Without revealing too much of the plot, I found Tristan's journey and rebirth written solidly. Many authors tend to rely on plot contrivances or the old tried and true plots.  Ms. Abe avoids many of these pitfalls and makes this story work.<BR> <BR>Amiranth/Lily's character(s) are another matter.  Whatever would have made Amiranth do what she did?  Why would she have stayed in an out of the way hellhole for 8 years?  She was a countess, wouldn't she have moved to one of her husband's grander estates?  I also (personally) have a hard time with the idea that someone can truly love someone from afar, without ever meeting them.  The idea that Amiranth fell in love with Tristan after seeing him a half dozen times from when she was 9 to 15 and never talking to him, just doesn't ring true to me.  That she could have any feelings for him after his treatment of her goes beyond my comprehension.  I realize that Tristan grows up/matures in his prison, but 8 years is a long time. <br />Overall, I enjoyed reading this story and felt drawn to the descriptions. There was some lack of dialogue, which I thought might have helped our hero and heroine understand each other better.  I also never quite understood the timing and age of the \\"bad guy\\" and the wrap up at the end just made it seem more implausible to me, but I still walked away from the story satisfied.	2001-10-05
US	52708799	RTDC4JYEZLCJV	0743412788	179923501	To Tame a Wild Heart (Sonnet Books)	Books	2	9	12	N	N	OK	Sigh, I don't know what else to write about this book in my one liner space except \\"OK\\".  The main characters, Colin and Sarah were likable enough, but I cannot garner any feelings of excitement for this story.  They never quite piqued my interest. Maybe it is because the characters could be any character from any story. <br />Sarah has some special abilities, allowing her to communicate with animals.  Unfortunately, the reason for this is never explored, and the one animal she needs to communicate with, she is unable to.  Why bother with this plot devise then?  Her relationship with Colin is also very predictable.  I hate you - I love you - I hate you - I love you. I think my main problem with this story lies in the fact that I can't tell if it is supposed to be a Regency (is that the time period it was set in?), a fairy tale, or a My Fair Lady/Cinderella story.  Instead of being a little of each, I didn't get a feeling of any.<br />Colin is your typical reform-the-rake lead.  He has two personalities, and of course the conscientious landowner wins out over the licentious socialite. Our vindictive scorned female adds nothing to the story and only adds to the predictability. I started reading Ms. Fobes' books with her first one, Touch Not the Cat and I loved that story.  In every subsequent book, she is losing my interest more and more.	2001-10-03
US	52708799	R1PBXTB8I087A7	0743412788	179923501	To Tame a Wild Heart (Sonnet Books)	Books	2	0	1	N	N	OK	Sigh, I don't know what else to write about this book in my one liner space except \\"OK\\".  The main characters, Colin and Sarah were likable enough, but I cannot garner any feelings of excitement for this story.  They never quite piqued my interest. Maybe it is because the characters could be any character from any story. <br />Sarah has some special abilities, allowing her to communicate with animals.  Unfortunately, the reason for this is never explored, and the one animal she needs to communicate with, she is unable to.  Why bother with this plot devise then?  Her relationship with Colin is also very predictable.  I hate you - I love you - I hate you - I love you. I think my main problem with this story lies in the fact that I can't tell if it is supposed to be a Regency (is that the time period it was set in?), a fairy tale, or a My Fair Lady/Cinderella story.  Instead of being a little of each, I didn't get a feeling of any.<br />Colin is your typical reform-the-rake lead.  He has two personalities, and of course the conscientious landowner wins out over the licentious socialite. Our vindictive scorned female adds nothing to the story and only adds to the predictability. I started reading Ms. Fobes' books with her first one, Touch Not the Cat and I loved that story.  In every subsequent book, she is losing my interest more and more.  After this story, I do not think I will be buying any more of her books, I'll try the library first.	2001-09-28
US	52708799	RB0FDT34QJL1P	0505524503	376574179	After Twilight	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Over all, a pretty good read.	Let me preface this review by stating that I usually do not read anthologies because I feel that the stories are not long enough to be fully developed.  Thus saying, Ms. Ashley, Ms, Feehan and Ms. Thompson do an admirable job in giving the reader some solid stories to read.<br />Amanda Ashley's story ranks with a 3 star for me.  It is a nice story, revolving around the Phantom of the Opera theme and a lonely vampire.  Loving the play, and knowing it inside and out, was helpful for me to understand a lot of references and to better like the story.  I felt that this tale was like so many of the other vampire stories out there.  Because there was nothing new or fresh to give the story life, it was just average to me.  <br />Christine Feehan's book ranks a strong 4 star for me.  I am a huge Feehan fan and have been disappointed in the past that she has not brought the characters from the other stories together.  There was a lot of background information of the Carpathians and interaction of old characters in this story.  Personally, I would have liked to have seen this as a full length story, but she did an excellent job in the short space she had.  I am not sure how well this story stands alone if you have not read her earlier stories.<br />Ronda Thompson's book is also a 3 star book for me,  (thus the overall 3 star ranking). Once again, there was nothing wrong with the story itself, there was just nothing outstanding about it either.  The end seemed a bit rushed, and the reader was made well aware of the fact that there will be a follow up book about the brother.  Maybe it was because we did not see much about the werewolf, just about the wild wolves and I never got to feel like I knew our hero as a werewolf (the story mostly takes place between the full moons). I guess my only other werewolf comparison is Susan Krinard and Laurell Hamilton, and this story did not do them justice.<br />Overall, I thought these stories were fun to read.  I would have bought (and did)the anthology for Feehan's book alone.	2001-09-26
US	52708799	R1YN99OQ3IMDHU	0440222095	442160446	The Marriage Prize (Medieval Plantagenet Trilogy)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Just did not live up to its potential	5 Stars for the historical elements of the book 1 star for the characters. I just could not like Rosamund or Rodger. Ms. Henley does a great job of weaving history together. I felt as if I was in England with the weak Henry as king, strong baron leader Simon de Montfort, and a charismatic, strong Prince Edward vying not-so-behind-the-scenes for power. The twists and turns of the nobles and their allegiance to either Simon or Edward was masterfully portrayed. The characterization of Rosamund had me desirous to pound her into the ground and throw the book against a wall. Her childish attitude and conversations with Rodger grated on me. It was like listening to an eighth grade fight. \\"Did too, Did not\\". Rodger's adolescent attitude towards her is no better. After running the first time, one would think that Rosamund would be smart enough not to try it again. The story surrounding Rosamund's youth, her brother's death and her traumatic reaction to it was well done as well. It was the dialogue that brought the book down for me. Conversations did not seem fluid or believable but sophomoric and contrived. If you've read the others in the series or enjoy history more than romance, you might want to pick this book up.	2001-08-24
US	52708799	R2560Q5HQRQ08V	0553583549	759987396	The Protector (Medievals)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Quite enjoyable, though not as good as her others	I am having a very difficult time rating this book, and although I do not think that it quite rates as a 4 star, it is definitely better than average (3 star).  Morvan and Anna's story is a compelling one, and very well written.  Ms. Hunter has real talent in drawing colorful and three-dimensional characters.  She then takes these deep characters and paints an in depth scene to put them in.  This is where my biggest criticism of the book comes from.  The lack of historical relevance throughout the story, that her other books had. <br />The beginning (and parts throughout the story) is filled with the destruction of the Black Plague.  Kudos for such attention to detail! 99% of the authors who write about Europe from 1300-1600 seem to forget about this deadly pestilence that wiped out up to ½ of the population and its importance to everything.  I found that the problem arises after this. Morvan and Anna get so caught up in their own struggle, that the historical relevance waned.  The struggle in Brittany, a type of civil war between British, French and Independents, seems to fall through the cracks. <br />Anna's character, though I am sure is modeled after other women of the time, seemed a bit extreme to me as well.  I liked her, and Ms, Hunter really is wonderful in depicting the psychological and physical development of her character, I just could not believe in her. This then turned me off while reading.  Morvan was a lot more believable and I found his character quite likable (even though he was ordering Anna around for most of the story).  His attitudes, although make me cringe as a 21st century woman, seem realistic in the Medieval setting.<br />Ms. Hunter is a wonderful author and I look forward to the retaking of Harclow.  She has a refreshingly honest and realistic voice in her novels and makes the time she writes about come alive.  If I found I did not quite like this one as much as By Design, By Possession or By Arrangement, it does not matter, because herwriting is still more enjoyable then 95% of everything else out there.	2001-08-22
US	52708799	RM5ICQU0HASJP	0449150291	731851054	A Light on the Veranda	Books	3	4	4	N	N	An interesting read	I think I would have given this book a 4 star if so much did not happen to our heroine so quickly.  I thought the writing was very well done.  The characters both in the present and past had depth and interest to them that kept me reading.  Both Daphne and Sim had their own emotional baggage that they had to work through, and did an admirable job in doing so.  This is a story of a growing relationship, not your typical, h/h meet and fall instantly in love story (though there are elements of that too).  Sometimes I thought they fell back on their preconceived ideas and previous habits too readily, but I suppose that is human nature and added some realism to the story.  Both were at fault during these scenes and eventually talked through their problems.<br />Although this story stands pretty well on its own, it does help if you have read its predecessor Midnight on Julia Street (Daphne's brother's story).  One of my smaller criticisms of the story is how dysfunctional this family is (as well as its ancestors).  Between the self-centered mother, apathetic father, \\"interesting\\" aunt, and psychotic jilted ex, I thought things went a little too far.  The only thing that brought it back to the credible and enjoyable for me was the tie-ins to the past.  There were just enough of these to keep the story interesting, but not enough to bog the plot down.  It is interesting how Ms. Ware does not have the present characters know the intricacies of their predecessors lives (which is what usually happens in these stories).  We realize that everyone knows and is related to everyone else, but the true meaning of the previous generation's stories was lost.  Some rumors came down through the families, but watching Daphne learn the true stories was interesting and well done.  There are no assumptions made and then proven, Daphne slowly unravels the past story and its significance today.<br />Ms. Ware obviously has done her homework on the Miss-Lou area and it shines through in her writing.  This a an enjoyable story to read, and I would not miss out on it, just be ready for a lot of going-ons.  I will VERY rarely say this, but I thought there was too much going on.	2001-08-13
US	52708799	R1VHW19ESBXXPM	0380789892	948054774	Midnight in Ruby Bayou (St. Kilda Consulting)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A good read	I enjoyed reading Faith and Walker's story, which was entwined with histories about rubies and mysteries, like all of the previous books in this series.  I thought that Ms. Lowell brings in the characters from her previous books, makes its so much more interesting to read.  Although you could read this as a stand alone; knowing Archer, Kyle, Honor, et al., brings life to the story.  We know that the Donovan clan is a close knit family who looks out for each other, and it is good to see this follow through in all the books, and not just dropped or hinted at here and again. We see just enough of the family that it is not overpowering, but thorough enough to keep us informed about what is going on in the siblings' lives.<br />I am not sure if it is because I am getting to know Ms. Lowell's style or it was \\"simplistically\\" written, but I thought the mystery was a little on the weak side. I figured it out pretty early on, but the writing is so well done, that the predictable plot did not bother me over much (but which kept this to a 4 star rating). I like the details Ms. Lowell put into her other books about Amber, Jade and Pearls, so the lessons on Rubies does not bother me in this book.  Actually, there was a lot less about them, than the jewels in the previous books.  <br />The characters (both primary and secondary) are well defined and a pleasure to read about.  We see and understand the leads weaknesses and how the other pulls their love towards a commitment. The Montegues were an interesting bunch, though I thought a little more depth to them would have been appreciated. They are the core of Ruby Bayou and we do not really get to see them until the last ½ to 1/3 of the book.  All in all, this was a good read.	2001-07-23
US	52708799	R1KMF05HZ60OHS	0151004536	271428762	Longing	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Hard to read	Let me preface my review by saying that although a lover of history, I have very little knowledge or familiarity with classical music/musicians.  I could tell you about the romanticism of the 19th century, the political atmosphere in Europe and dash in some flourishes of art/artists, but my education is sadly lacking in music.  Thus said, I found Longing both informative, and difficult to read. <br />In a purely historical, clinical way, I got more information on musicians and music than I will ever need.  The main problem I found was with the way the story was written. I expected a fictional story (based on fact), but this is not what I found. At some times I could have been reading a textbook (ok, a verbose textbook), while at others, I could have been reading the longwinded romance style in which this story was written about (i.e. Charles Dickens).  There were many times where I got lost in the landscape of meandering sentences.  <br />Many things were not written about, but alluded to.  For example, it took me a while to figure out the part where Robert loses the use of one finger.  We see him going to various doctors, and having to endure all kinds of treatments, but I never knew what was going on until later. (He was always going to doctors, this was nothing new).  Or right before Robert goes completely mad, there were scenes where Robert avoids conscription into various armies while revolutions break out in \\"Germany\\" (not a country until 1871: Prussia, Saxony, Bavaria, etc.). If I had not previously known about the volatile state of \\"Germany\\" in the mid 19th century, (or the rest of Europe for that matter) I would have probably been confused while reading this portion of the book.<br />While it was interesting to learn about other contemporaries or influential people to the Schumann's  (Schubert, Heine, Liszt, von Weber, Beethoven, Wagner, Haydn, Chopin, Paganini, Goethe, Chopin, Mendelssohn, Kierkegaard, Brahms, and Hans Christian Andersen) the passages between these people seemed detached. Many of the technical terms they were talking about, went above my neophyte head, though I suppose that is my problem, not the author's.  All in all, I felt like I had to plod through this story as opposed to being swept along the narrative. It is written for the well informed reader, who already knows the political landscape and musical landscape of Europe in the mid 19th century.	2001-06-13
US	52708799	R2SG1RZZJZMTCE	0312979444	539399007	Heartless	Books	3	7	9	N	N	An enjoyable read	Justin and Ariel are well-developed characters and thoroughly enjoyable to read about.  Justin is the cold, distanced hero who knew nothing of love growing up (except that of his grandmother when young).  He was born illegitimate, and although educated and not left to suffer, he was rejected by both mother and father.  He learned that it was just easier and safer to not care.<br />Ariel is the young, innocent peasant who wants nothing more than to break out of the life she has known. She strikes a sordid deal with the Earl, Justin's father to become his mistress if he provides schooling and clothing for her.  The Earl legitimizes his son and on his death passes Ariel's bargain on to him.  So sets the story.  Both Justin and Ariel's growth and maturing throughout this story are worth reading about.  <br />My biggest criticism was the \\"big misunderstanding\\" plot, which was WAY out of proportion to the rest of the story and its significance to the characters.  Justin's reaction seems to be severe in the extreme and Ariel's situation not realistic enough. Not wanting to give away the plot, that is all I will say, though it is the reason I have only given this story a 3 star.  The characters are great, the growth of their relationship was interesting to read, except the misunderstanding is too grave (though some form of this literary device is needed and does determine Ariel's prospective for the last 1/3 of the story).	2001-06-11
US	52708799	R33L8EJYVZSRBP	0352334983	611569697	In the Flesh (Black Lace)	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Not quite what I expected	I have read about ½ dozen of the Black Lace books, and this book was not what I expected.  I had heard such great things about Emma Holly that I suppose I was anticipating a 5 star erotic book, and this story just did not live up to its potential to me.  <br />I realize that erotica might not always be the topmost in literature quality, but I expect either great sex scenes or well-developed characters (preferably a lot of both).  I feel that I found neither in this story.  David and Chloe were interesting characters, but did not come alive for me or seem realistic.  Chloe needed to either be a strong, intuitive, manipulating female OR a submissive, non-confident, lackey.  Trying to combine these attributes in each half of the book, and throwing in a dose of amnesia, lost it for me.  Ms. Holly tried to show David as a first generation Japanese-American and I think on that level succeeded, but in terms of the story lost out.  David was too wishy-washy to be the head of a huge software game company.  If he exuded power in the boardroom, then I found it hard to believe his character with Chloe.  The only character I felt was true to the story and well developed was Sato, David's bodyguard.<br />Chloe's skeleton in the closet was far fetched and the relationship she had/develops with her sisters just did not ring true to me. I thought the scenes with the Seven Veil could have been better developed if the 3 main protagonists were not going to spend more time in bed.  I suppose I just did not get Chloe's character and with out that, the rest of the story falls flat.  What is her motivation behind what she does?  Not the worst book I have ever read, it just did not live up to the promise I thought was there.	2001-06-07
US	52708799	R31TAP33QBR6GW	0380812010	940072935	All About Love (Cynster Novels)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Very hard for me to rate	How to write a review that does not sound like all the others out there, that is the question. I really enjoyed Lucifer and Phyllida's story and if I had not already read the previous 5 stories, I probably would have loved this book and given it a 4 or 5 star rating. As is it stands, I would give it 3 1/2 not 3 if I were able. Most of what the other reviewers have said stands true: The stories have gotten a bit formulistic (though I do like the formula), where all the Cynaster males could substitute for each other (except perhaps Devil). Unlike some complaints, I liked the fact that we are taken outside London, and I liked the depth of the plot. The fact that there is a murder to solve and not a &quot;simplistic&quot; one at that, added a lot to the book. I did think that there were too many secondary characters who were too similar though, and I just mushed them all together in my mind.<br />I did find Lucifer's fall a bit fast (sorry about that pun), considering he was fleeing London to avoid exactly what happened. Although I like the fact that Lucifer and Phyllida spent a lot of time together, they still only knew each other for a short time before they fell in love and got married. Especially once we learn about Phyllida's aversion to marriage. Lucifer does a great job convincing her to marry him, but this should have happened over 5 to7 months, not 2. And although starting to sound nit picky, would Phyllida been allowed so much freedom and time to spend with Lucifer alone in 1820?<br />All in all, I really did like this book, and I would suggest reading it, especially if you have not already read the previous 5 books. The character development is strong and the book is more character and plot driven than sex scene driven (though there are plenty of those too) which to me makes for a strong read. Enjoy!	2001-06-06
US	52708799	R3U4NMA6YS2XGH	0505524090	703185720	Dark Challenge (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 5)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Average book, below average for the series	Ok, I'm taking a plunge here...I'm only giving this book 3 stars.  Let me begin by saying I did enjoy reading the latest Carpathian novel by Ms. Feehan.  I loved the idea that Deseri is a full-grown Carpathian female with substantial powers of her own.  The growth of Julian's respect and understanding of the females of his race is great to see. The yin-yang relationship between the male and his lifemate, and the incredulous dawning or understanding of what the female Carpathian can do is fascinating. (Most Carpathian woman were killed and only a very few young ones remain.  Therefore, the males do not know what the potential for the female is, they just assume they are weaker, when in fact they are not). This part of the book is what I felt kept the story up to a 3 star rating.<br />I found while reading this book, that Ms. Feehan becomes very repetitive.  We know from the other stories and after the first time she writes it in Dark Challenge, that male Capathians are protective of their womanfolk.  That's a part of the main appeal in reading these stories, seeing the alpha male. But over and over again we see this stated.  Once would be enough. We know that Julian is a loner (and learn why), but this is also drummed into the reader over and over.  I hate to say this about a romance novel, but I even found the love scenes repetitive.  I found myself getting bored at these scenes, and that NEVER happens to me.  Each scene was the same as the one before it.  There might have been 6 or 7 love scenes, but there may as well only have been one. <br />I also felt that this story ended a bit abruptly.  The whole book we are waiting for Julian's nemesis to appear.  He shows up and the story ends within 3 pages.  This all-powerful vampire was not so powerful and it was an easy kill for Julian.  Actually, the other vampires which threatened this \\"family unit\\" earlier in the book is more detailed and interesting to read about than the climax.  I also do not like the fact that we have little contact with the other characters from the other stories.  We have a brief contact between Julian and Gregori and once again we find that we don't see any of the other Carpathians.  I would have thought that Gregori or Adrian would have rushed to Julian's side.  Nor do we see a reunion between Julian and Adrian, (although it is briefly mentioned as something that will happen in the future). Very disappointing.  There were just too many things in this book which kept it from being truly a great book, it was only average.	2001-02-26
US	52708799	RQ7LE152P2JP2	0449006360	894257952	The Duke	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Wow, what more can I say?	I very rarely give 5 stars, and I have to say, The Duke deserved every one of them.  I have been following Gaelen Foley since her Pirate Prince came out and have never been disappointed in her writing yet.  She is a consistent writer with well-developed characters and sensual romance scenes. The only flaw in The Duke that I found was that the actual plot was a little thin. The interaction of the characters and their growth more then makes up for this minor complaint.  <br />When I read many romance novels, I realize that the characters are fictitious, and therefore the way they behave can be pardoned by literary license (most times a Duke doesn't act like a duke, but someone of lower rank, or peasants act of hirer rank than what they are - either way it is sometimes difficult for us democratic Americans to understand this philosophy).  Ms. Foley does a superb job in this story of showing how the different strata of social scales would have worked.  A Duke can't marry his mistress no matter how much he wants to.  This is an agonizing decision that they have to make, but both Robert and Belinda come to grips (to some extent) about this issue.  Seeing how they work through this (which is later on in the story) is heartwarming and heart breaking.<br />Bel's story and the decisions she must make are tough ones, but well thought out and executed. I do not want to give too much away of the plot, but Ms. Foley bends the traditional rules of character roles, so everyone does not behave like they do in other books.  The role Bel's father plays, is a perfect example of this.  Robert also goes beyond what typical romance heroes do.  He is not afraid to exact justice for his love, even putting himself above the law as judge, jury, and executioner.  Unusual to find in romance novels.  I wouldn't hesitate a moment to pick this one up!	2001-01-26
US	52708799	R350XEGU3LKHGN	051512902X	14576775	After Dark (Ghost Hunters, Book 1)	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Not up to her usual standards�	Not up to her usual standards...<br />I usually like Jayne Castle (in any of her pseudonyms, JAK or Amanda Quick) even though her stories tend to be very similar.  They usually mean a fun, light, quick read.  After Dark had many elements of her previous books, but falls short on the \\"good read\\" factor.  Emmett and Lydia are good characters, well written and Ms. Castle's typical yin-yang, ego-id couple. They have some great verbal sallies, but that is about the only thing that kept this book together.<br />There are so many loose ends; I don't know where to start.  Ms. Castle would lead up to some interesting points, and then lose that thread in the story.  What was Emmett's background? We got some teasers but no answers.  Lydia loses 48 hours of her life, and throughout the whole story, I was waiting for this to tie back into the plot.  Not only did it not tie back into it, we never learned what those 48 hours were about, just that she \\"lost\\" them.  An old antique curio cabinet brings Emmett to Lydia in the first place, what happens to it, what's in it, etc?  Lydia has some pretty deep-set prejudices against \\"ghost hunters\\" and guild bosses in the story (both of which Emmett happens to be).  For a smart lady, these prejudices make her seem pretty small minded and unintelligent.   <br />As can be seen here on the various reviews, there is some confusion about the location of this story too.  Yes, this is a planet that was inhabited by humans when the \\"curtain\\" was up, like the one in Zinnia, Orchid and Amaryllis, but this planet (Harmony) is not the same planet.  Similar paranormal traits are transferred onto these colonists, but they are not the same.  Because it is the same \\"curtain\\" as the previous books, it would be easy to assume that this is the same planet and same powers as her previous books.  This is not the case and leads the reader to some confusion.  Amber is the key to their \\"channeling\\" as opposed to another human like her \\"Flower\\" series or her Giftsof Gold/Gifts of Fire books. Overall, development was absent.  There was not enough background building, or world building for this to be a good sci fi, and the romance is strangely lacking in this story.  Not one her best efforts and I sincerely hope there will be a sequel to answer some of these questions...	2001-01-24
US	52708799	R2DNJO7QAT8I4T	0515123005	538238161	Once upon a Kiss (Magical Love)	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Not bad in a fairy tale sort of way	Aurelia and Baird's story is a light fairy tale type story, which works, if you like this sort of writing/book.   This Sleeping Beauty theme tries to be successful by using the juxtaposition of two people separated by1200 years. Our heroine falls asleep after pricking her thumb and after a 1200 year break (which is later explained), our prince charming finally awakens our princess.  Everything revolves around legends, prophecies and reincarnation, so if you do not like these explanations, or feel a book gets stale when everything has been prophesized, you will not find this plot a good one to read. <br />I liked the fact that Aurelia assumes that she had just awoken from a nap and judges everything that happens around her by her 9th century beliefs.  She looks for her father, whom she believes is prisoner of her enemy, Bard (Ms. Cross uses a slight change spelling on our hero and enemy's name) and explains all of the changes she sees by Bard's sorcery. In a society that had many conquerors and blended many different religious beliefs (Norse, Christian, Celtic and \\"pagan\\"), weird happenings could have easily been explained by magic, sorcery or witchcraft.  She holds everyone in the modern world to the customs of the 800's, and it is interesting to see how she interprets things.  Baird now owns the castle (which Aurelia assumes he got as Bard by conquering it, though he bought it in modern times to build a hotel) so when he talks to his interior designer, Aurelia assumes that \\"king\\" Baird is lavishing his largesse on his layman.  Why else would a woman dress like Marissa and be allowed to spend the kings money so freely?  There are many more such \\"misunderstandings\\" and I think that most of them are well done.  Like others though, my biggest criticism of the book is that it took Aurelia SO long to figure out what happened, especially since she knew the prophecy.<br />I am not so sure I liked the fact that our key players had selective memories, or some remembered allof the past and others did not.  Except for ease of writing the plot, there seemed to be no explanation why our villain would remember his past lives and our hero would not, putting him at a distinct disadvantage.  Baird could also have been a stronger character all around.  For a savvy, cutthroat businessman, he did not come across that way.  Probably not the best book I have ever read, but by far not the worst either.	2000-11-30
US	52708799	R1027D58CG36QN	0380804190	709286401	On a Long Ago Night	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Very difficult to read	I like the idea that we are taken from the present to the past in flashbacks, but the writing was not strong enough to make this literary devise work.  The time spent in the present and the time spent in the past went WAY too quickly (usually in 2-10 page increments).  Right when I was beginning to warm up to the story, we would switch time frames.  To me, this led to uncomfortable reading, not to interest.  We are also missing very important parts of the past to be able to enjoy Honoria and James/Diego's relationship in the present.  We are halfway through the book when we find out about their relationship, and then only to find out that they knew each other for 4 days.  After eight years of being apart, I felt like saying \\"get on with your lives already, it was a quick 4 day fling!!!!\\"<br />My next criticism is about the characters themselves. Who exactly is Honoria?  A country bluestocking, a passionate woman, or a spoiled brat?  At 26 years old, I think our heroine should have been past the temper tantrum stage.  She admits to her \\"spoiledness\\" and that she and her father spoiled each other, yet how can one be spoiled and self centered (part of the definition of spoiled) and yet so altruistic?  She meets weekly with local \\"causes\\" to see whom she should give her money to (being that she is a Duke's heir).   Her reaction to Derrick was quite believable, yet her reaction to James/Diego was completely illogical.  How does she also get herself finagled into a marriage?  There were too many conflicting attributes to Honoria to make her character believable or enjoyable to read about.<br />James/Diego was only a little bit better.  He at least has the excuse that he thought Honoria was a mere merchant's daughter and married to boot  He tried to forget her, truly....  Bah, if he really felt that way it should not have taken 8 years to go after her.  How do you form such a strong relationship after 4 days...can we say Helsinki Syndrome on Honoria's side and lust on Diego's?  Ah well, enough criticism.  I did not care for this book, but those looking for a \\"light\\" read may very well enjoy the writing and tone of this book, it just seemed too superficial and illogical to me.	2000-11-21
US	52708799	R3KE6863SAE98V	0553579231	197092805	The Legend Mackinnon	Books	3	11	12	N	N	So-so	The reviews for this book have really pegged Legend MacKinnon dead on.  It is a great paranormal book, with three very interesting premises for a combined story, but the actual execution of the book falls a little bit flat.  Maggie, Cailean, and Delaney, are three remotely related cousins, who are brought together by time, fate, karma, kismet, and their great-uncle Lachlan.  Unfortunately they seem to accept the fact that they are dealing with ghosts, immortals and time travelers WAY too easily. <br />The overall stage that is set up for the story is geared for a rushed story and conclusion. Our ghost (Duncan) only has 1 month a year to \\"be\\" and Maggie and Duncan are the first ones to meet. Consequentially, all of the other stories have to take place within this 1-month time frame.  Couldn't our ghost have had 2 months on earth or an extension or something, so each couple does not have to fall in love within two days of meeting each other? Destiny, faerie love, whatever; I have a tough time with the \\"love at first site\\" theme, especially 3 times in one book.  Alexander and Delaney's story gets cut REALLY short, and I am sorry to see that.  This story should have been longer by a few chapters so Alex and Delaney can get to know one another, or it should have been three separate books.  Each story truly could have been a full-length novel (not just a short book).<br /> I am not sure how she could have ended it differently, but Ms. Kauffman makes the ending come off a bit contrived and rushed.  The last little criticism I had with this book is the way everyone reads everyone else's expressions in their eyes.  Used once or twice, this is a great literary devise, used all the time, I cannot believe it and it becomes distracting. Can people really \\"read\\" other people that easily - their fear, hurt, anxiousness, etc?  Thus saying, and seeming to tear this book apart, I did love the thoughts and the ingenuity that Ms. Kauffman uses for the main idea of the plot.  The characters are fairly well developed (considering there are 6 main characters) and each of the matches that are made, are perfect, allowing for a fun read.	2000-11-16
US	52708799	RRABE5SAFE9OR	0515122874	225897943	Heaven's Time (Time Passages Series , No 12)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A heart warming story	Ever get a warm fuzzy glow after reading a special romance story?  That's me right now.  Although this story has some tough elements in it, child abuse being the most prominent, the way Ms. Plunkett handles these issues are wonderful. Melissa, the tough-no-emotions-military captain, fears nothing, not even death.  Being hurled through time gives her another chance to live life.  She is a very complex character, whose past has strictly shaped her.  This is why (ironically) being thrown into the past without a memory, forces her to grow and love in a way she never could have if she had retained her memories.  <br />Rory is a little too perfect for my tastes, and is almost too good to be true.  He is a great mind reader (knowing what is going on in Melissa's head even before she does), a gentle friend, ideal lover, and a compassionate person.  I wonder why he did not chose the church instead of architecture.  For the purposes of this story, Melissa needed such a paragon, but I might have given him a few flaws (besides his few bouts of self doubt). <br />Such tender moments with Rory and the children really make the story complete.  There is so much depth and interest generated in this story, that I was sorry to see it end.	2000-11-07
US	52708799	R38SJGCZYX939B	0515126551	198460595	Haunting Hope (Haunting Hearts)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	I really loved this story!	Have you ever read a book and it just bowled you over as a great story?  This is what happened to me with Haunting Hope.  Hope and Britt are two characters that I really wish I could know personally.  The story revolves around Hope trying to get past a bad marriage to an alcoholic.  Ms. Raina obviously did her homework about wives of substance abusers. She shows how Hope tries to overcome her self-doubts and become an \\"in your face\\" person instead of a \\"mouse\\".  Add into this struggle your resident I-have-always-fantasized-about-you, you-are-my-hero ghost, and poor Hope has a lot on her plate.<br />Britt is such a fun and great character, I do not even know where to begin talking about him.  A good, solid man in life, he becomes a lost and lonely ghost, never quite being able to do anything right with any human contact he makes.  There are strong feelings of guilt riding on his shoulders and loneliness.  Even with all this baggage, he can't help but to step in and help Hope against her husband (who happens to be a 5th or 6th generation relative of his).  All of this happens within the first 1/3 of the story.  The remaining plot is wonderful and inspiring to read.<br />This is not my usually choice of romance books to read, but I loved every minute I spent in this story.  Ms. Raina does and excellent job of reconciling the ghost/love interest thing and brings so much realism to the story that it almost made me believe in ghosts.  If there are such things, I wish they are all like Britt.  Although a fairly quick read, don't miss Haunting Hope.	2000-11-07
US	52708799	RJW5XDZ7S4MS3	0505523841	298297102	The Black Rose (Love Spell futuristic romance)	Books	3	17	17	N	N	A good sci fi/romance book	I enjoyed being introduced to the Dominion in Heart's Prey, and the continuation of this society in The Black Rose was fun to follow. Lucien and Alexandra are two pawns in the greater scheme of Dominion society, which is based loosely on \\"old Earth\\" customs.  This aristocratic/feudal society has been perpetuating corrupt governments and covering up \\"human rights\\" violations for thousands of years; ever since humans left Earth and started populating the universe.  <br />The Black Rose is a revolutionary, with secrets of his own, but who feels that everyone should have the choice of self-determination in government and less xenophobic tendencies.  One of the biggest problems I have found with science fiction stories (especially of the shorter variety) is that the descriptions of the societies and people and customs get lost or not explained.  The Black Rose, did a great job of making me feel like I was really out there, living in this corrupt society.<br />Lucien and his many disguises are fun to watch, never quite knowing what to expect. Seeing a heroine who is not directly related to the main focus of the story was a nice change of pace. Alexandra has her own agenda, but it is not the overthrowing of the repressive government (though there are undertones of her rebelliousness that would indicate she would not be adverse to some of the revolutionary's ideas). There is enough action, suspense, romance, fantasy (sci fi) to please most any reader.  The writing style is a bit \\"simplistic\\" (for the lack of a better word), which made this a very fast read for me.  I would have preferred a little more in the overall story, but in general, the secondary characters are interesting and keep the plot moving.  I sincerely hope there will be more books coming from Ms. Zimlich about this society in the future.	2000-10-25
US	52708799	ROLUFHV5QVPMW	0515127019	769969641	Magic by Daylight	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Would have liked to have seen more	I liked the premise of this story, as with the rest in Ms. Bailey's series, but I felt that there was quite a bit lacking to make this a great read. That Clarice and Dominic are mortals in a Fey/fairy world was perfectly executed.  Dominic's position in the fairy world is an interesting one and fits into the legend which we have all heard of fairies stealing children   Clarice and Dominic are likable characters themselves, though many times I was confused as to what made each of them \\"tick\\". <br />Dominic was trained as a warrior and Ms. Bailey tries to show how this would leave him with a lack of emotions.  In the beginning of the story this works well, but as he starts to have feelings for Clarice, I lost all understanding of his character.  How did he fall in love with her?  What made her so special that he started to have feeling, let alone act on them?  In the \\"real world\\" they avoided each other a lot and did not spend much time together so how did this love grow?<br />A great anomaly to me was also Morgain's position in this book.  Clarice relies heavily on her nephew (who is only 9 years old) and yet what was he doing there with her for such a long time?  Why would Clarice's sister and Blaic leave Morgain in her care and for such a long period?  He could conjure up all kinds of fantasy animals, have a map of the other world without ever having been there and do all of this mature stuff; yet besides the traveling scene, he had no real consequence to the story.  He was written about so much in the first half of the book and then he disappears.  Was he important or not?  <br />This is definitely a fantasy romance and a fun read if you have read its predecessors, but do not expect too much.	2000-10-18
US	52708799	RMYW30M33UO6U	157566450X	497871464	Captivated: Ecstasy/ Bound and Determined/ Dark Desires/ A Lady's Preference	Books	2	3	4	N	N	didn't keep me Captivated...	The reviews written so far for this book are right on track. First and foremost this is definitely erotica.  The stories went in this order, from best to worst: Robin Schone, A Lady's Pleasure, Thea Divine and Betrice Small probably tie and Susan Johnson's is the worst. Forgetting about the sexual content (though to do that with these books, leaves very little left) these books (with the exception of A Lady's Pleasure) held very little interest.  The characters were very shallow and the plots almost non-existent, though there were some very interesting premises for stories.  <br />Beatrice Small's story about a fully woman dominated society had great potential but fell flat. There were definitely some \\"creative\\" sex scenes, but since I did not get any feeling of interaction between the leads, the sex just seems gratuitous.<br />I'm not quite sure what happened to Susan Johnson's story.  Once again, the premise of the story sounds promising. A male playboy swears off of women.  Not two hours after this declaration he's abducted for &quot;stud services&quot;. I just didn't get when these two fell in love.  They hated one another one minute and loved one another the next. The story was way too rushed, no description used, and the reader was told what was happening instead of experiencing it. (Passive as opposed to active voice.)<br />Thea Divine's story was strictly about dominance. If you are into that, then you might enjoy this story but I just couldn't buy our dominant lead.  What made this guy tick?  <br />As with all of the other reviews, I just loved Robin Schone's story, and could only wish that it was a full length story instead of a novella.  The obvious passion, loneliness, description, feelings and wanting that our lovers felt were touching and enjoyable to read.	2000-10-17
US	52708799	R1UK1217Q2NZL2	0515123706	120005551	Some Enchanted Evening	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Great fun read	Ms. Alfonsi weaves a fun plot to read with an interesting twist on the Djinn story.  Sinjin, our hapless hero, is tricked into being bound as a djinn without understanding anything that this servitude entails.  There are actually key parts to his enslavement that he is unaware of, and I appreciate the use of this literary devise.  Most stories set the stage and the reader and the h/h know all of the rules.  Watching Sinjin and Jane going blindly through their two weeks together was a nice change of pace.  Only our villain knows the whole truth, and he is not giving much away throughout the book.<br />Sinjin was a pirate before his enslavement, so what better place to land him in modern times than Treasure Island, Las Vegas.  A great idea, that works perfectly!  Ms. Alfonsi has done her homework about pirates and drops some interesting facts about their lives on the open sea (as well as their counterpart the British navy).  From what I had read previously, Ms. Alfonsi paints a pretty accurate picture of nautical life in the 1700's.  <br />I think the weakest link in the book is Jane's character, and that is not so bad.  She's had some bad luck and is a bit wishy-washy, but when push comes to shove, she stands her ground.  (Who heard of someone not wanting any wish granted when you could wish for just about anything?)  A little too good to be true?  Sinjin is a self confident, arrogant male, but has an interesting history and is fascinating to watch his character's development.  The secondary characters also help to keep our interest.  I think my biggest criticism would be that the book was too short and could have used more detail.  Some scenes seemed abrupt and the climax happened in the blink of an eye.  Overall though, Some Enchanted Evening is worth reading if you are looking for a quick light read.	2000-10-12
US	52708799	R2Z29IHAE9N2R6	0515128864	173283697	Magical Memories	Books	3	8	8	N	N	I was hoping for more	After reading Sebatian, Ali, Sarena and Dagon's stories, I guess I was looking for a little bit more depth in dealing with Tempest and Michael's story.  This was a nice love story, but there was nothing exciting or no real plot to speak of.  It was great seeing the other characters and having them interact with Tempest and Michael (watching Sarena and Ali pregnant was very funny and added some great wit to the story) but that was the highlight to me.  Once you learned the premise of the story, (within the first 30 pages of the book), nothing really happens.  We see over and over again Tempest's doubts about Michael, but we are supposed to see her love for him too.  If love is the ultimate, end all, apex, zenith, etc, etc, etc, then there should have been no doubt in Tempest's mind about the outcome of her spell. It seemed to me, the only thing her doubts could have produced was to make Michael doubt himself and the choices he must make.  Actually, that is what I thought the moral of the story should have been, that it was Tempest's doubts that had to be overcome, not Michael's \\"dark side\\". <br />I felt much more empathy with Michael and liked the way his character was written better than Tempest.  I only wish there was a little more internal conflict shown. Because I do not want to give away the little plot that there was, I will not elaborate, but to say that I did not feel like there was ANY internal struggle. It seemed to me that Michael figured everything out pretty early on. <br />I did enjoy being sucked into the scenes, as if I was there in the room with our characters.  Ms. Fletches does a great job accomplishing this and on that level of writing, she succeeds wonderfully and made the book worth finishing (to me).  If you have read the preceding books, then I would pick this one up, though I did not like it as much as the other two.	2000-10-03
US	52708799	RQC5N3C1AM0ZO	0449004848	814349004	The Seduction (Notorious)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	I really enjoyed this story	Wow.  This story really grabbed me.  Damien is a great lead and Vanessa is his perfect foil.  In most \\"reform the rake\\" books, the hero seems to mend his ways quickly and just can't help falling in love with our heroine.  Ms. Jordan, it seems to me, writes a much more realistic or at least believable reform story.  Damien goes down kicking and screaming all the way, never quite understanding his feelings for Vanessa (until the end).  Damaged by his parents' horrific marriage and his father's obsession for his mistress, Damien has absolutely no desire to have a relationship with a woman beyond a quick affair.  (He even ignores his sister). Damien's lived a pretty debauched life (as shown in the first few pages of the story) and makes no apology for it. He is not really looking for a mistress, but Vanessa and circumstances involving plans of revenge fall in his lap, so he takes advantage of them.  <br />As happens in reality, Damien draws too close to Vanessa and pulls away, not understanding his feelings.   He just assumes that he is becoming obsessed like his father, and hates himself for this.  Vanessa, on the other hand is unusually pragmatic for a romance heroine.  She will agree to just about anything to save her family.  She had a disastrous first marriage and in no way wants to marry, or force her sisters to marry, for anything less than love.  Throughout the whole story, we never see Vanessa feel sorry for herself or give in to self-pity for the circumstances she finds herself in.  Although we, as the reader, know her heart is engaged in this affair (and she finally admits this to herself), Vanessa knows that Damien is not looking for a serious relationship. Not bemoaning her fate, she sets out practically to ensure for her future once her tenure with Damien is over.  <br />The whole plot and way it was written just seems like a breath of fresh air to me. This might seem unbelievable since there have been many, many books written along this same theme (the most recent that I can think of is Barbara Dawson Smith's, Seduced By A Scoundrel , which I did not like at all). There is no doubt that this is a HOT book, with many fairly explicit love scenes, (it is called The Seduction after all), though I did not feel that it was quite so far out there as say a Susan Johnson, Beatrice Small or Robin Schone novel.	2000-09-26
US	52708799	RYM1YFQFUTLNG	0449004848	814349004	The Seduction (Notorious)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	I really enjoyed this story	Wow.  This story really grabbed me.  Damien is a great lead and Vanessa is his perfect foil.  In most \\"reform the rake\\" books, the hero seems to mend his ways quickly and just can't help falling in love with our heroine.  Ms. Jordan, it seems to me, writes a much more realistic or at least believable reform story.  Damien goes down kicking and screaming all the way, never quite understanding his feelings for Vanessa (until the end).  Damaged by his parents' horrific marriage and his father's obsession for his mistress, Damien has absolutely no desire to have a relationship with a woman beyond a quick affair.  (He even ignores his sister). Damien's lived a pretty debauched life (as shown in the first few pages of the story) and makes no apology for it. He is not really looking for a mistress, but Vanessa and circumstances involving plans of revenge fall in his lap, so he takes advantage of them.  <br />As happens in reality, Damien draws too close to Vanessa and pulls away, not understanding his feelings.   He just assumes that he is becoming obsessed like his father, and hates himself for this.  Vanessa, on the other hand is unusually pragmatic for a romance heroine.  She will agree to just about anything to save her family.  She had a disastrous first marriage and in no way wants to marry, or force her sisters to marry, for anything less than love.  Throughout the whole story, we never see Vanessa feel sorry for herself or give in to self-pity for the circumstances she finds herself in.  Although we, as the reader, know her heart is engaged in this affair (and she finally admits this to herself), Vanessa knows that Damien is not looking for a serious relationship. Not bemoaning her fate, she sets out practically to ensure for her future once her tenure with Damien is over.  <br />The whole plot and way it was written just seems like a breath of fresh air to me. This might seem unbelievable since there have been many, many books written along this same theme (the most recent that I can think of is Barbara Dawson Smith's, Seduced By A Scoundrel , which I did not like at all). There is no doubt that this is a HOT book, with many fairly explicit love scenes, (it is called The Seduction after all), though I did not feel that it was quite so far out there as say a Susan Johnson, Beatrice Small or Robin Schone novel.	2000-09-20
US	52708799	R2WDN0FAJ7APH9	0505522772	221348912	Heart's Prey (Futuristic Romance)	Books	3	44	44	N	N	An excellent read for a &quot;short&quot; story	I usually stay away from books under 375 pages, but this book, and the  reviews given for it, peaked my interest.  I am a huge romance fan and  enjoy a good sci fi as well.  In Heart's Prey, you get a respectable  combination of both.  In the past, when I have read a sci fi romance, it  usually ends up with good fighting the evil over a heroic battle to  save/destroy the universe.  Heart's Prey has nothing to do with that  plotline.  <br />In a future world, there are clans spread through the  universe, originating from earth thousands of years before. Dax, our hero,  is a warlord of one such clan and holds himself responsible for many  planets.  In the scheme of things, Dax is one powerful warlord amongst  many, who all live together in the \\"Dominion\\".  So sets our story, either  in a Star Trek-like federation or a clan structure like historic Scotland.  Rayna, our heroine, is a \\"lowly peasant\\" on one of Dax's planets (Nirvana)  who is fighting Dax's encroachment onto \\"her\\" space (although Dax owns the  planet and has let the Lakotians live there under his sufferance).   There  are a lot of allusions and outright using of different ideas (Nirvana, the  perfect planet, the Lakotians a \\"primative\\" group living with nature like  their Native American namesakes, etc) that at first I felt uncomfortable  with: until I understood the whole plot. <br />Our two lead characters are  very well developed and enjoyable to read about.  Dax is a loner, courting  death with his outrageous stunts.  He lives his life for his clan and as  the story progresses, he realizes this and tries to live life for himself  as well.  Not an easy thing for a leader to do.  Rayna is untainted by  court life, but is not naïve or stupid.  She understands people and the  undercurrents going on around her.  The story starts with her hatred of  Dax, and his \\"evil empire\\" which she perceives as destroying her people's  way of life. Watching the growth of Rayna and Dax's feelings is what makes  this story so enjoyable.  Throw in some good secondary characters, some  paranormal/fantasy elements, and a fairly simplistic \\"bad guy\\" plot and you  have a nice read which is well written and worth picking up.	2000-09-12
US	52708799	R1DUPBW7GJY2UM	0553580213	671118415	Once a Wolf (Historical Werewolf Series, Book 2)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Picked up near the end	I have long been a Susan Krinard fan.  I absolutely loved her first books,  Prince of Wolves and Prince of Night, etc. and I also enjoyed reading Touch  of the Wolf.  For some reason, I did not get into Once a Wolf very much.   The ending picked up and brought the book up to a 3 star rating for me, but  I found the beginning and middle dragging by at a very slow pace. At one  point, I looked up and found much to my chagrin that I was already on page  178 and nothing much had happened yet. <br />The last 50 or so pages are much  more what I expected from a Krinard novel.  All of the pieces of the puzzle  came together and the characters all interacted beautifully. Six \\"main\\"  characters and many lesser ones (villagers and extras) helped to bolster my  interest.  Actually, throughout the story I was more interested in Weylan,  Esperanza and Sim then I ever was in Tomás or Rowena.  Cole was just WAY  too out there as a \\"bad guy\\" to empathize with at all.  I suppose absolute  power corrupts absolutely - or some such drivel, but he was really corrupt.  It was interesting seeing Weylan's struggle for justice and how he had to  handle his human and werewolf sides.  Whereas the whole story was dedicated  to explaining Rowena's coping with being a werewolf, it was Weylan I found  interesting and wanted to read more about.  Tomás just reminded me of a  spoiled little boy who has, needs, and wants no responsibilities.  Rowena  changes this, and that is basically the crux of the story but I did not  find it compelling reading.<br />This book is the second in a trilogy and I  hope Quentin's story has more connections to the other characters in the  other books.  I would like to see Esperanza, Sim and Weylan again and maybe  a larger tie to the werewolf community.  What about Brandon and the  European group?  They are briefly mentioned, but that is all.  I kept  waiting for Quentin to make an appearance (since he was supposedly in the  American West too) in this novel to help his sister, but to no avail.  I  like Ms. Krinard's writing, I just wished I liked this story more.	2000-09-06
US	52708799	R1AOJ9RBTNVW71	0440226309	786066422	McClairen's Isle: The Ravishing One	Books	2	3	7	N	N	Very disappointing	The Passionate One was enjoyable, The Reckless One was mediocre, and The Ravishing One was disappointing.  The writing was simple and very repetitive.  We are told over and over again Fia's history and why she has turned out how she has, but like her brother Raine before her, I do not see how she could have turned out so compassionate and \\"innocent\\" growing up in the environment that she did.  I think the premise for these stories was a good one, just that the execution was lacking.  The Ravishing One has the potential for an in depth, interesting tale but it comes across as shallow and empty.  Where are the descriptions?  The mechanics of everyday life?  All we see is Thomas and Fia circling around one another, and not very believably at that.<br />Thomas was a great foil in The Passionate One and all I see in this book is a pale shell of the character he was.  Where did this wishy-washy, love starved man come from?  And Fia.  She is made out to be this cold, calculating, manipulative [witch], but nothing she has ever done has given any justification for this reputation (except that she is her father's daughter).  It is true that in her younger days she was always at her father's side, but fairly early on she escaped that life and lived many years in seclusion in Scotland.  I never got the feeling that she was in London long or had the time to earn a reputation as a fast, wanton, grasping woman (which she wasn't).<br />These stories center around Wanton's Blush (originally Maiden's Blush) and the McClearen's reclamation of the land, I find it hard to believe that Carr would do what he did in relation to this property (I don't want to say more for those of you who will still read this story) and it was a let down to see it conclude in the fashion it did. After all of these negative things to say, there are two redeeming factors in this story.  First, we see Fia's brothers, Raine and Ash again, and learn more of their fates.  Second, there is one surprise twist at the end of the story which I didn't see coming. All in all though, these were not enough in my opinion to garner more than 2 stars for this book.	2000-08-31
US	52708799	R18BJMGIGQ89XT	1575665700	656376580	The Lover	Books	3	8	9	N	N	What to say?	I have really enjoyed Robin Schone's writings and writing style in the past.  She is forthright in her views on issues of sexuality and (dare I  say the word in today's PC society?) femininity.  The characters in her  stories explore their own sexual feelings, whether they are of inadequacy  or confidence and it is always absorbing to follow.<br />The Lover is no  different in that regard.  Michel/Michael and Anne are two people searching  for love and acceptance and find it in each other. (Unfortunately as a  casualty of the plot, they meet and fall in love in a very short time and I  am uncomfortable with the time frame).  The spinster and the whore, an  interesting combination, especially since both are \\"past their prime\\", Anne  in her late 30's and Michael in his early 40's.  It is not often that I  stumble upon a book with mature characters who actually act their age. The  love scenes are sexual and explicit, as one has come to expect from a Robin  Schone novel, but I did not appreciate their passions as much as I did with  our lead characters in The Lady's Tutor.<br />This book was very hard to read,  either in comparison to her other novels, or to other authors.  There were  cryptic lines thrown in and I never quite knew what they meant or what they  referred to.  Most were used by Michael and until the plot is summed up in  the end, I never knew what exactly he was talking about.  Unfortunately,  because a good portion of this book is about sex and making love, the plot  of the story gets very rushed.  Everything is entwined (literally and  figuratively) but there are some issues I still don't understand (mostly  having to do with Michael's friend Gabriel).  At many points in the story,  I had to go back and reread passages because I know I missed something  important.  It is this choppy style that made reading The Lover  uncomfortable for me and why I only gave it 3 stars.	2000-08-31
US	52708799	R2RL67HGC914SV	0380805707	446453224	A Secret Love (Cynster Novels)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Though many will disagree�	...I liked this story the best in the Cynaster series so far, even edging out Devil's Bride (although just barely).  The complexities of the  relationship and how Alathea and Gabriel work through them are  extraordinary.  Where Devil's Bride was a great story, A Secret Love digs  deeper into the characters and makes you think about what makes a  relationship work.  I was very wary in the beginning of this story  thinking, \\"Oh no, another OLD MAID/VIRGIN story, can't we think of anything  original?\\"  Man, was I in for a surprise.  <br />Alathea and Rupert/Gabriel  are long times friends. They, along with Lucifer (Gabriel's brother), grew  up together in the same neighborhood and share a long history.  This is a  key factor in keeping this story fresh.   Alathea and Gabriel clash at  every opportunity as adults, starting when they turned 13 and 14.  They saw  each other as brother and sister and as very good friends. It never  occurred to either one of them that there could ever be more to their  relationship than that, and that they were clashing because they were  attracted to one another. (Besides, circumstances take Alathea away on her  first year \\"out\\" and they see each other infrequently.)  Gabriel is  definitely a Cynaster male and has had (more than) his share of sexual  experience at the present time in the story. But at the time of their young  adolescence, he would not have known how to read the different signs nor  thought of them in conjunction with Alathea.<br />With a decent and realistic  plot to move the story along (not some far out fantasy adventure, but a  somewhat realistic scam) our leads get reacquainted with one another. The  first half of the book is sensual and gripping. When Gabriel arrives at his  epiphany about their relationship, it is truly spine tingling.  Alathea,  although realizes her feelings first, is plagued by doubts.  Knowing  Rupert/Gabriel so well, she knows that he would help them out and want to  marry her because of his Cynaster over-protectivism, not necessarily for  love.  It is because these two lead characters have such a long history,  that the plot devises work so well.  Friends first, lovers second, they  understand each other too well and can't get away with anything.  This is a  great book, and I do not give 5 stars often but I feel it deserves each and  every one of them.	2000-08-22
US	52708799	R2K9TMJ0LHHJS2	0886462142	709722953	The Handmaid's Tale	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Riveting Story�.	I had to read this book in high school (ahem) over 13 years ago, and it still sticks in my mind as one of the best books I have read.  We read this  story along with 1984, A Clockwork Orange and Heart of Darkness (with  seeing the movie Apocalypse Now as a modern comparison) and along with  1984, it gave me nightmares on what the future of society could look like.   I suppose the premise of a rightwing (very, very, very right wing) takeover  (which both books anticipate) seems scary because of the possibility of it  actually happening someday.  That is not to say that I believe that the  world population is becoming infertile and that women are going to be  reduced to a servile status, but there are many other portions of the book  that seem highly realistic as a future for an apathetic society.  <br />In a  society where something like 30% of the population votes in presidential  elections and a president is elected with 42% of that 30%, I could envision  a strong, charismatic person (megalomaniac) usurping power.  Just look at  Hitler.  Anyway, Ms. Atwood uses some interesting literary devises,  reverting everything to its lowest common denominator (like New Speak in  1984).  All signs are pictures as opposed to written words, little details  like that.  There are portions that could get confusing to the reader who  is not paying attention, and the ending is left as a bit of a cliffhanger,  but this was a fascinating book, contemplating society and what it  potentially can become.  <br />(AFTERTHOUGHT: for those of you out there who  have to read this for class, don't bother trying to watch the movie,  there's too much you'll miss....)	2000-08-16
US	52708799	R36348ATRDYF6O	0373834586	321239264	Rogues' Reform	Books	4	30	31	N	N	Hhhhmmmmm�..	I have mixed feelings about this anthology.  First and foremost I must state that Ms. Laurens is an excellent writer and an extremely consistent  one.  I have yet to read anything of hers that was out and out bad.  The  three stories contained in this book were well written and enjoyable to  read...(Here comes the \\"but\\")...but they were short Regency style stories and  not usually what I expect from her.  After reading and being kept  mesmerized by her Cynaster series, (all full length books), I was a bit  disappointed in the content of each of the Lester stories.  Each account  had some sort of MISUNDERSTANDING and I got very frustrated by this.  At  one point I just felt like screaming and saying, \\"damn it, just TALK to one  another and you'll solve all your problems! \\".  <br />The Lesters were  reluctant to marry and these are their stories, which are basically about  how to convince them otherwise.  This led to a bit of a monotonous  dialogue, and plotline. We had the three plotlines that could be written  about: the female who doesn't want to marry but a male suitor who needs to  start a family, a male who doesn't really want to marry but has to for  family reasons, and the male who doesn't want to marry at all but falls in  love nonetheless.  In each story the hero and heroine have a problem  communicating.  The plots are very thin, revolving around the marriage  issue, with a little suspense thrown in for good measure.  I am just used  to intricate plots and wonderful sensuality in Ms. Laurens books and I  found both lacking here.  <br />I had not realized that these were all  previously released stories and just rereleased in this anthology. By all  means, pick this up for short reading bursts (like at the beach or a trip)  because the writing is better than 95% of the books out there, just do not  expect the typical (later) Ms. Lauren's fare.	2000-08-16
US	52708799	R926GSOQDR5GW	0515128368	915534127	Then and Now (Time Passages)	Books	3	11	11	N	N	A great light read	Ginny and Sam are fun characters to read about and follow throughout their  story.    Ginny, lost in an unhappy marriage which she does not even  realize was a disfunctional one, loses her husband to suicide and is thrust  forward through time.  Like most time travel stories, the main force of the  story is guided by fate (or why else would they have traveled through  time?).  Because of this, there is the problem of keeping the story fresh  and eventful, convincing the reader that they want to continue reading.   Ms. Hix does a wonderful job of avoiding this trap, giving the reader bits  and pieces of the suicide until we learn the whole story.<br />In the present,  Sam and Ginny, with their supportive secondary characters, are amusing and  interesting.  Ginny adjusts remarkably easily to the present and Sam  accepts her time travel story relatively easily (a big pitfall of time  travel stories) considering he is a scientist.  I did enjoy this story, I  guess you just can't start thinking too much about the plot or else you'll  soon get disappointed.  For example, if Sam is so devoted to his work that  he can't even run such an important fund raising party for his mother, when  would he get the time to go out and see basketballs games (and become such  a big fan?).  Or how do you explain the return trip?  What happened to the  original Ginny?  There obviously were not two of them, but if Ginny returns  with her current memories the cycle can't work (I suppose that is starting  to get too technical and I've watched one too many Back to the Future  movies).  <br />I liked that Ms. Hix tried to keep Ginny as the Victorian  lady, even though she seemed to adapt to modern morals and standards a bit  quickly.  The informal dress and address of people, as well as the forward  thinking of women are all things Ginny is not used to. It was just a tad  hard to reconcile how much Ginny changed.  From being completely unaware of  her husbands life and her financial position, totaking over the running of  the modern house and its renovation. When all is said and done, this story  is better written than a lot of the romance fiction out there, and worth  picking up if you like this genre.	2000-08-07
US	52708799	R6AED26JTGF80	0505523892	406492827	Dark Magic (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 4)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	They keep getting better and better�.	Ms. Feehan weaves a great legend, interlocking this plot with her previous  tales.  I really enjoyed reading Gregori and Savannah's story.  Although  Dark Magic could be read on its own, I think the average reader would start  to get a little lost and would appreciate the story more if they read Dark  Prince, Dark Gold, and Dark Desire first.  It is a hard balance trying to  explain what our characters are (as Carpathians and vampires) and not  completely bore the reader who has been following the series while at the  same time not confuse and loose the new reader.  Ms. Feehan does a decent  job of accomplishing this.<br />Gregori is the epitome of the Carpathian male  (maybe even more so if that is possible, since he is one of the oldest and  strongest), being arrogant, over protective, and over bearing.  Savannah, a  young, though very competent lead, is able to work through these problems  her lifemate possesses and build a truly wonderful bond.  I was a bit  worried at how their relationship was going to be resolved, they had some  pretty big \\"issues\\" to hurdle over, but they do so admirably.  Gregori is  an immovable object and an unstoppable force all in one, against a young  novice.  With a great deal of humor (a new found trait for Gregori,  compliments of Savannah) and help from a new human friend, they are able to  do so. I was vastly relieved that although this story had the potential for  the \\"big misunderstanding\\" plotline, Ms. Feehan deftly avoided this trap.  These two characters talk through their problems and don't let them fester.  (Of course it is hard to NOT discuss them when you can read each other's  minds.)  Like her previous stories, Dark Magic leads the reader into the  next book, keeping them on the edge of their seat waiting for the next in  the series (a great selling device because it works!).<br />I have but a few  small criticisms (and wonder if they are worth mentioning).  The first is,  although we are given a few glimpses into the previous characters, I didn't  feel like there was enough interaction with them.  I really liked their  stories and appreciate the little tidbits we are given of them in Dark  Magic, but we rarely SEE them again.  My other criticism is the abundance  of times we get to see Gregori's \\"mercury eyes\\".  I suppose we do need the  description, but I think we see through or into those \\"mercury eyes\\" every  other page.  Ok, a petty thing.  I LOVED this story and the whole series  and am impatiently awaiting Julian's story (which I assume is next).he previous characters, I didn't  feel like there was enough interaction with them.  I really liked their  stories and appreciate the little tidbits we are given of them in Dark  Magic, but we rarely SEE them again.  My other criticism is the abundance  of times we get to see Gregori's \\"mercury eyes\\".  I suppose we do need the  description, but I think we see through or into those \\"mercury eyes\\" every  other page.  Ok, a petty thing.  I LOVED this story and the whole series  and am impatiently awaiting Julian's story (which I assume is next).	2000-08-07
US	52708799	RM7NP4HA9U9YA	0380789884	15055012	Pearl Cove (Donovan, Book 3)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The best in the series so far�.	I have always liked Elizabeth Lowell's writing style (in any of her aliases).   Pearl Cove is a wonderfully written, enjoyable suspense story, that keeps you coming back to read more.  Hannah and Archer's story might  not be the most in depth plot that Ms. Lowell has written, actually it is  fairly simple in comparison to her other novels, but the characters seem so  real that it is a pleasure to read.  We are reunited with the rest of the  Donovan family (and reminded that there are more of them, so there will be  more books) and updated on the previous stories (which is always nice).   Unlike many of the other readers/reviewers out there, I enjoyed learning  about pearls (or Jade or Amber - which ever story we've read).  To me it  shows great depth to the story to explain all the varied complexities of  the gem, its conception, its genetics and its manufacture.  If we have two  specialists, it would make sense that they will talk about pearls in great  depth, it is therefore, the author's job to make this discourse  interesting, and I think Ms. Lowell succeeds.<br />Hannah and Archer are well  thought out characters; with as much depth to them as the pearls they are  hunting.  Their backgrounds are explained, showing what makes each the  person they are.  Hannah has been hurt terribly by Archer's half brother  Len, and she just can't get beyond that.  In her mind they are too similar,  and she doesn't want to take the chance that Archer will completely destroy  her (finish the job that Len started.)  This is an old plot device, how can  you have love if you can't have trust, but the lovers slowly work their way  through this problem.  My biggest complaint about the story comes in the  reversal of Hannah's character.  Married to Len she is faithful to the  point of prudishness (her employees call her \\"Saint\\"), even though their  marriage had not been consummated for over 7 years.  All of a sudden her  husband dies and she is willing to have an illicit affair with her  husband's half brother.  On top of this, it is just sex, under no  circumstances will she marry him.  This is such a vault face that I had  trouble believing it (even though they were extremely attracted to one  another).  <br />The byplay between the family and the secondary characters is  interesting to read.  The secret world of spying and espionage and all of  its many layers are well laid out, even if our leads are not \\"players\\".  I  think it is because they are not players that the story held my interest so  much.  Most contemporaries written today are about the spy/marine/cop/fed  agent/private eye and seem to all be the same.  Pearl Cove barely skimmed  this literary device, keeping the story believable but not a carbon copy of  all the other books out there.  Enjoy reading this one!	2000-07-25
US	52708799	R3E1TVZGYSA9KI	0446605328	99776756	For Love Alone	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A good Romance, I'm not so sure about the "historical"	Ms. Busibee writes about interesting characters but somehow this story did not enthrall me. It is classified as a historical romance, but except for a vague tie to spying for Napoleon (with no specific facts about battles, troupe movements, military leaders, etc.) this is strictly a Regency. The mystery/spy does add to the plot, and most people will not figure it out too early on. After reading so many of these novels though, it seems highly unlikely that a woman who was married to a known lowlife, who was suspected of killing said lowlife as well as her uncle, would be welcomed into the TON. It would not have helped matters that her new husband just recently and unexpectedly inherited his title as well.<br />Sophy and Ives are good, solid characters, and I enjoyed reading about them (they had some depth to them, not just shallow literary stereotypes). It is their story that is shallow and flat. I actually applaud the fact that although Ives is sworn to secrecy about his being a spy, (and doesn't break that oath, even at the peril of his new marriage) Sophy is intelligent enough to figure out what is going on. She is not content to sit in the background and watch everything pass by. I appreciated that nothing is taken for granted in trying to track down the spy, there are false trails and various plots fail (as they would in real life) which is what kept the book interesting to read. The story just dragged a bit and the secondary characters, though plentiful and interesting, did not really add much to the plot. I would have liked to see more of Anne, Penelope and Marcus. They were on the periphery, and added some great quips, but they really served no purpose in the overall scheme.<br />As you can tell, I liked the characters and thought the book well written (enough in my mind to buy/read the story), I was just disappointed in the plot and its classification as a historical. If it was labeled just as a romance it would not have disappointed me as much.	2000-07-21
US	52708799	R2JDVYRETZ6G5Y	0515128007	824641136	The Morning After	Books	3	10	11	N	N	I was hoping for better from Ms. Forster	I enjoyed the overall premise of this book, but there were too many things that keep me from really loving this story.  First and foremost, this is a suspense/mystery not a romance story.  Those of you who have read and  enjoyed Ms. Forster's other romances will be disappointed if you are  looking for that, here.  The one romance scene (though depending on your  point of view there might have been 1 ½) included in this book is so tame  that the reader barely realizes what is happening. Did they or didn't they?   Mark exudes this sexy aura, but I never felt his and Temple's attraction  (with the exception of one scene by a pool). This leads me to my second  point of why I found this book dissapointing: what a confused and choppy  writing style. All of this mystic, Eastern philosophy that starts slowly  and then overshadows the characters and story is uncomfortable to read.   The plot and what happens to Temple is surreal enough, we do not need  anything else clouding the story.<br />Next comes the plot. Although I could  never see this happening, I liked the way Ms. Forster brings in current  science and twists her plot to fit that mold.  Tom Clancey meets  \\"Outbreak\\".  What I can't understand is how the people in the story could  have done what they did and how Temple accepts this.  I'd be a little more  than annoyed or hurt to learn I was pregnant, without my consent (my body  violated, maybe not rape, but violated nonetheless) and my whole life  played by someone else like an instrument. Temple seems like an intelligent  lead female and the events are taking place outside her ken (which does not  make her seems stupid, just naïve and uniformed).  I also have to assume  that artificial insemination is at work here (since this was never really  explained, Temple just woke up after 36 hours, married and pregnant).  I  was also very uncomfortable throughout the story, until the very end,  because I kept asking myself \\"why\\".  OK,OK, I'm an intelligent reader, and  Iunderstand exactly what is going on in the plot at all times, but it was  extremely frustrating reading Temple's story with that big \\"why\\" flashing  through my brain.  It is not until the end, when everything is explained  that I say \\"aaahhh, now I get it\\".  We were not given any clues as to why  what was happening to Temple happened.  No hints dropped or characters  slipping lines. Just the knowledge that all this is happening because she  is immune to this deadly virus. <br />Unlike other readers, I did not find  this book boring or hard to understand.  I just found it choppy and  frustrating because I wanted to know WHY what was happening to Temple was  happening. I also expected a romance (since Ms. Forster's other books have  been) and was disappointed at the lack in this story.	2000-07-11
US	52708799	R24BPL2R469004	0553577611	365055445	The Rose and the Warrior	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Ms. Monk delivers again, though with some reservations...	I thoroughly enjoyed the overall writing and witty dialogue of Melantha and Roarke's story. The bumbling McKillon clan has a lot of feisty characters that make sure a smile is always near the surface as you are reading. Magnus and Thor, two elders of the clan (though a bit repetitive in their speeches) spin such yarns and are so extreme in their beliefs, that after a while, as the reader, you WANT Thor to \\"hack the McTiers up and grind their bones for bread\\". I suppose the extent of Clan McKillon's ineptitude stretches the realm of credibility, but this is romance reading, right? <br />In the past, I have enjoyed Karyn Monk's novels because they are well written and are awash in historical detail. The Rose and the Warrior falls a bit shy on the level of historical detail. We see a time in Scot's history where there is clan warfare and where might makes right. It is, therefore, a bit of a stretch that the hero is able to change his attitude as much as he does. He has quite an epiphany, and I have a hard time buying his vault-face and going against everything he has believed in for 30+ years. Deep down, I really liked Roarke, and his role as our older, weary warrior/hero. He's tired and sore and just can't fight any more. You feel for him as he sits stiffly on his horse, wanting to ease his pain. Melantha is also a good character, well written, with a lot of depth. She has seen a lot in her short time, and Ms. Monk does an excellent job showing her struggle as she loses her mother, then her father, and is forced to look after her three younger brothers as well as try and help a starving and desperate clan.<br />What I can't understand is Roarke and Melantha's attraction to each other. (A 30-something-year-old and from what I can gather, a teen). They do not talk much, and when they do it is usually with an antagonistic bent. There is very little sexual tension; enough to whet the reader's appetite, but not enough to draw our leads together. So why and how do they fallin love? None of this is explained very well. Although I enjoyed the McKillon Clan and their personalities, I do have to wonder how they maintained their cheery, optimistic and oh so polite countenance. After being raided and nearly starving to death over the winter, I doubt they would have behaved as they did. This aside, I did enjoy this Robinhood tale and would suggest picking up a copy to read.	2000-06-29
US	52708799	R1HHZ7WXPMG6GS	0061042692	346341270	Ruby, The	Books	3	10	11	N	N	An average book....	I enjoyed reading Laurel and Cruz's story, but subtracted stars for the lack of depth in the over all plot.  Whether writing as Ann Maxwell, Elizabeth Lowell or with her husband as A E Maxwell, she usually gives the  reader a twisting and turning plot with deep insights into the location she  is writing about. Although an attempt is made to do this with Russia in  this story, I thought she fell a bit flat.  Instead of feeling like we were  living in a post-Soviet era, it seemed as if she turned to what we all  think stereotypically happened to the ex-Soviet Union, not necessarily what  did happen. Tell us, or make us believe what is going on today in the  ex-Soviet Union, don't give us a rehash of some old Cold War relics who  have no influence or power (or is that the whole point?).  <br />Laurel and  Cruz fall for one another very quickly and I am not sure I believe the  love-at-first-sight theme.  I am getting a bit inundated with all of the  ex-marine, ex-cop, ex-FBI, ex-CIA, ex-mercenary, etc, stories about macho  men who are tough as nails but as soft as kittens deep down.  Do you think  these men truly exist?  By the amount of books written about them today,  one would think that is ALL that exists in today's world.  <br />We get a bit  more character development of Laurel than we do of Cruz, but I felt that we  skimmed over both of them a little too much.  Laurel gets to make that  difficult choice between father and lover, and we see her struggling with  this decision.  Cruz has an interesting sounding past, but we never really  see into his psyche.  The secondary characters are crucial to the plot, and  Ms. Maxwell does a great job describing and using them.  All in all, not a  bad read.	2000-06-16
US	52708799	R1J8XVEYM2HDA6	0061087025	977373971	Touchstone	Books	3	8	11	N	N	A decent read, though nothing special	Touchstone is an average book to read.  There were no surprises and everything was pretty much spelled out as the story went along.  Houston and Rachel are luke-warm characters and I couldn't seem to get into what Rachel was all about.  Character development was at a minimum in this book,  with Rachel being cast as the stereotypical, self-absorbed person. This  selfishness was too blatant to garner much sympathy from the reader.  She  lives her life under the premise of:  life-has-been-so-hard-on-me-and-you-are-the-only-good-thing -that-happened-to-me-so-I-am-leaving-you,  and that logic escapes me.  <br />Literary-wise, everything that happens seems  to be just the next step to further the plot.  There were very few  extraneous events, and those that do happen, come across as wholly  unrealistic and contrived.  The choices that Rachel makes would land her in  jail, or homeless somewhere. With no money, no job, no portfolio, no  apartment, and no friends, she would never survive more than a few days in  New York City. The circumstances that she finds herself in stretch the  realm of credibility a little too far. <br />Unlike other criticisms that I've  heard about this book, I like the time we spend in the villain's point of  view.  Psychology is not my strong point, so I do not know how accurate the  ideas, thoughts and actions of this person were, but they added spice to  the story and kept my interest keen.  What is this person going to do, and  why are they thinking that way?  Once again, though I liked some of the  characters, and the plot had some redeeming factors, overall, I felt that  everything which happened was a little too convenient and a little too  unrealistic to be a great read.	2000-06-16
US	52708799	RPN85G7D31JWV	0553578677	883049328	Legendary Lover	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Disappointed...again	After To Please a Lady, I was hoping Ms. Johnson would somehow magically revert to her earlier writing style. I picked up her earlier books because they were well written, filled with historical information, and had very sensual scenes. Legendary Lover has none of the above attributes. The writing is sophomoric and crude. I don't mind plain speaking or using \\"dirty\\" words, a little spice sometimes is nice. But sprinkle it in, don't drown the reader in it. There is nothing historical going on in this book. We get a brief glimpse into the Crystal Palace and the fair in England in 1851 (which has some great historical ramifications), in the first 5 pages of the story and a quick trip to the Derby and that's it. Unlike her earlier books where the stories revolve around what is happening in the political and social arena of the time, this book is strictly about sex. <br />I never got to like our lead characters. Venus, at least, has one redeeming quality: she opens hospitals for the less fortunate. I suppose when you are drowning in money you should do something to help the poor. Besides this superficial plot, there is nothing to our main characters (besides sex). I always enjoyed the little historical journeys Ms. Johnson's provides in the endnotes of her books. Unfortunately, after cramming 5 endnotes in the first 30 pages, we only see 2 or 3 more for the remainder of the book. <br />The biggest disappointment to me is the sex and the way it was written. Where some of her previous stories have had some pretty explicit scenes, they where well written and I always thought they stayed in the realm of sensual. These scenes, which rolled from one paragraph to the next, (there was very little writing here except sex scenes), were boring. After the first time, we don't need any more since they are all the same and not very descriptive. (There is a fine line here, but...everything was graphic but not descriptive.) I would rather see one long scene where our characters are making love (say 30 pages) then them going for another romp every page and a half. Although I don't like to say this...don't bother reading Legendary Lover.	2000-06-14
US	52708799	R8Q2PBF3A90FJ	0515126845	510004522	Soul Survivor (Haunting Hearts Romance)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	This story brought tears to my eyes.	Ms. Plunkett does a fantastic job in writing Roxanne and Spenser's story.  Most of her books revolve around time travel or the extraordinary and this one is no exception.  Matthew Griffith was a carefree rich-boy who never  considered the consequences of his actions.  After dying in Viet Nam, he is  placed in an \\"abyss of nothingness\\" for 28 years.  He is then plunked down  in the mortal world and is given a short time to right the wrongs he has  unknowingly unleashed by his thoughtless actions, knowing that the abyss  awaits if he fails.  Watching his character develop is a great part of the  story, even if it is only a sub plot.  <br />Roxanne, Matt's daughter, never  met her father and had a very tough life growing up among his wealthy  family.  Ms. Plunkett describes Roxanne's circumstances perfectly, and I  felt like I grew up with her in her life without love.  She holds her  father responsible for leaving her and her mother and for the hard life  they had to endure with the very people who should have loved and supported  them.  <br />Drop into this story, Spencer \\"no relation\\" Griffith, who has a  huge family, and is on a mission to find his missing (and presumed dead)  brother Mitchell.  (Thus the starting point of the story, M. Griffith was  found in Viet Nam, Spencer hoped it was his brother, but it was Roxanne's  father).  Spencer can't figure out why Roxanne is so angry at getting her  father's remains back from Viet Nam and having the opportunity to gain  closure on that part of her life.  He and his family have been looking for  this opportunity for 20 years. As the book progresses, he grows to love  Roxanne, and understand her better.  His support and her father's presence  in her life as a ghost, change Roxanne's entire vision of life.  It might  not be an overnight epiphany, but we see her growth throughout the story.  Add into this plot a lot of colorful characters, Spencer's family,  Roxanne's maternal grandmother, Matt's best friend, and many others, and  you get a well-written story that just begs to be read.	2000-06-07
US	52708799	R3E154NAQ1MPC7	0505523752	574473600	Dark Gold (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 3)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Another enjoyable book in the series...	Dark Gold is a good book, and stands fairly well on its own (it is the third in a series), but does not quite reach up to the standards of the earlier books.  Aidan is a carbon copy of Mikhail and Jacques in the  previous books.  I suppose all \\"Carpathian\\" males exhibit the same  qualities and that is what makes them who they are (protective, arrogant,  self assured, devoted and strong willed) but reading the same story for the  third time can be a bit awkward.  They are all good stories, but how many  times can one read about a dominant male and his independent  life-mate/wife?  <br />I found Alexandria to be the most believable of the  female leads.  She resists the changes happening to her, not knowing how to  handle everything.  Her first encounter with a vampire is a traumatic one  and she doesn't understand (or want to understand), the differences between  a vampire and a Carpathian.  Aidan tries his best to protect her, though I  found that he did very little to explain her new powers (telepathic  communication, shape shifting, etc...).   Aidan lets her have her space to  try and find her new self, (though he is never too far behind) and I found  that to be a refreshing change. <br />One of my biggest disappointments in the  story is the lack of interaction with the previous characters.  We see  Gregory (and have throughout the books) and I have to assume that the next  story will be his.  But we do not see anyone else, not even Aidan's  brother.  Since the Carpathians are to some extent telepathically  connected, I would have thought Mikhail would have at least shown himself  to welcome the newest female to the clan.  I would have also liked to have  heard some news about Jacques and Shea (since at least 18 years have past  since the last book). Well maybe I'm getting too nit-picky.  I did enjoy  the book, and suggest reading it, though I suggest picking up Dark Prince  and Dark Desire first.	2000-06-01
US	52708799	RDZRV9KZKII2F	0440222591	723801793	Pale Moon Rider	Books	4	2	3	N	N	An enjoyable read...	I have always been a Marsha Canham fan and this book does not disappoint. Tyrone and Renee's story, as has been commented upon before, is not your typical highwayman story. That she does not follow the  &quot;Robinhood&quot; theme as most of these stories do, is quite  refreshing. Tyrone is a great charater who has depth and personallity,  unlike most of the cardboard cutout characters which are written today. I  also appreciated the fact that Ms. Canham does not forget what her  characters have done in the story. Tyrone is hurt, as the story progresses,  we see how this handicaps him in dealing with the &quot;bad guys&quot;. He  limps, and breaks out in a sweat, etc...he doesn't miraculously recover and  fight evil with nary a misstep. Most authors forget that no matter how  great their heros are, they are still human, Tyrone is definitely human.  Such care is also taken with Renee. I felt that her character was not quite  as strong as Tyrone's but there is depth to her. Fighting her way through a  war torn France, especially as a highly placed aristocrat, was not an easy  task. Her brother was left mute at the horrors he witnessed, and she had to  deal with that as well. Renee had help, which leads us to the secondary  characters of the story, who really made the whole plot come together. The  plot was richly interwoven with dispicible deeds, great writing and  colorful characters.<br />I only have a few small problems with the story.  After going through so much trouble to record the feelings of horror that  the aristocrats in France must have felt and the care that they took to try  and secure their futures outside France, I felt it was a bit shabbily done  that Ms. Canham misplaces (in time)someone as famous as Chopin. I also felt  she rushed the end. I don't want to give away the plot, but, what happened  to the uncle? Are we waiting for a sequel with her brother to right that  wrong? A brief mention was made by Roth that Paxton ran, but there was no  confirmation of this and no real care about it. I realize they had plenty  of money but wouldn't you try to find him on principle? Anyway, this was a  great read, so don't miss it!	2000-06-01
US	52708799	R35NHX9Q73U266	050552354X	489560477	Dark Desire (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 2)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	What a wonderful sequel!	Although this book stands on its own, it makes a wonderful sequel to Dark Prince.  We saw Jacques selflessly help his brother in the previous novel and are given his story here.  I was not expecting the opening to Dark  Desire, and the way the story unfolds is gripping.  I know it sounds  cliché, but I really did not want to put this story down.  What an  imagination Ms. Feehan has!    Following our hero through this torturous  part of his life, with the help of his lifemate, keeps the reader  enthralled.<br />A logical doctor, who wants to remain stubbornly independent,  Shea can't help but try and heal Jacques.  Many things are curious to her  when she first encounters him, but she takes everything in stride, trying  to rationally explain everything away.  She doesn't realize her potential  or what exactly she is, but she stubbornly stays by Jacques side, even when  everyone else thinks he's \\"turned\\" and is crazed.  It is hard for Jacques  and Shea to know who is friend and who is foe because she doesn't know  anyone and Jacques has partially lost his memory (from blocking out the  years of pain). It is ultimately her calming influence that saves our hero.  <br />The twist in the plot of who is the \\"bad guy\\" is not so hard to figure  out, but keeps the story interesting.  People pop in and out of the story  from the previous book, helping to enhance the plot, while there are others  we don't see at all, but are briefly mentioned to remind us that their  story will (hopefully) be upcoming.  Adian, Julian, Gregory, Byron, Michail  and Raven as well as others, flow in and out strengthening their own bonds  and their ties to the reader.  Happy reading!	2000-05-31
US	52708799	R8O8F8SXKFGO3	0505523302	21482417	Dark Prince (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 1)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	What a great story!	I thoroughly enjoyed reading Mikhail and Raven's story.  I am a big fan of anything that is different, especially fantasy/paranormal stories. Although the vampire genre is not my favorite (there's something about the dead and  romance that don't mix), Ms. Feehan does a fantastic job of avoiding that  issue and making a whole new explanation for \\"vampires\\".  Other writers,  like Jasmine Creswell have broached similar themes before, yet Ms. Feehan  brings everyone to life in a series (like Susan Krinard with her wolves) so  we can see more depth to each story and the overall plot.  <br />The  \\"Carpathian\\" males are such great characters.  They cherish their women  folk (almost to the point of obsession, but what woman wouldn't like to be  pampered and loved so thoroughly?).  Mikhail has so many weights on his  shoulders (a dying race, murderers, fanatics, living life with no emotions,  etc) yet, Raven acts as his perfect counterpoint and compliments his  character.  A strong women herself, who doesn't want to be told how to live  her life (a very independent American vs. the old world European), she  really doesn't want to believe what is happening to her.  This story,  mostly about our hero and heroine's relationship, does not leave out other  sub plots and ideas which we look forward to seeing written about in later  novels.  Do not miss this book (and its successors)!	2000-05-31
US	52708799	R3B10M43QIFDS6	0440224934	126521651	Devil's Wager	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Enjoyable reading.....	I have been following the Wager trilogy since its inception, and have always loved Ms. Spencer's stories.  Lad and Diana's story is by far the best written and most enjoyable of the series (and that's saying a lot! ).  Lad kept popping up in the previous stories, and we would get glimpses of  what his story might be. Thankfully, Devil's Wager delivers the story.  <br />    Lad is a strong and interesting character.  We find out why he leaves the  United States, and even after a traumatic time in his life during The War  of 1812 (losing his brother and shortly thereafter his mother), he still  takes up his birth right in England.  Not an easy move, and not one most  people would have made.  He loved his home and the memories it held of his  family, but he was able to move beyond that.  Once in England, watching Lad  struggle with both the aristocracy and common folk is fascinating.  He  tries to befriend his tenants and ultimately sets them against him because  of his egalitarian beliefs.  They just don't understand him, and being an  American, he just can't think of them as inferior or himself as superior.   How he overcomes this and develops his character, makes for great reading.   <br />   I found Diana a bit of a weak character, not believing in Lad's love  (he figured out his letters were not reaching her, why could she not figure  the same, especially for an intelligent person) and sticking so strongly to  her home.  The idea that love is not enough does not sit well with me (as a  fan of romance books).  How she could love Lad for what he is, but wants to  change the very things that make him who he is, is unrealistic.  The  writing itself is wonderfully done, and I truly enjoyed reading Devil's  Wager.	2000-05-09
US	52708799	R2042GE200OP19	0553580574	627525380	A Kiss at Midnight	Books	3	4	4	N	N	I like Ms. Abe's previous books better.	In the past, I liked Ms. Abe's books for their touch of the mystical and the dash of the unknown. Serath and Raphael's story revolves around an ancient legend, but doesn't let for much development. I felt that once I knew what the legend was (told in the first chapter), there were no surprises left in the reading of the tale. Everything happened just as you think it should. Although this tale takes place in England at the turn of the millennium (999/1000, and yes Ms. Abe heads off any disputes by placing a qualifier in her afterward about the millennium starting 1001), one must use their imagination for this setting. The happenings and hysteria surrounding the dawning of the new millennium are well described and probably very accurate. I like this attention to detail and learning that the New Year and Christmas used to be celebrated on the same day. It is the feud and the setting of the two families that are questionable and don't really fit into any realistic historical time period. Which is this story to be, set in a real time and place or fantasyland?<br />Out of all of the characters, crazy grandfather Jozua is the only one I found to be credible. Serath is feared as a witch, like her mother before her, and no one likes or trusts her. After a long absence she returns to her homeland where she gradually (over a few months) turns over the fear of the peasants. It seems to me that the fright and distrust instilled in them after 30-40 years (starting with Serath's mother) would not so easily or quickly be banished (especially after Serath \\"casts\\" spells and curses upon the village). Rafael also has his flaws. The big, bad, mercenary, who has seen and done so much that is cruel and savage, is really a tenderhearted guy who believes in Serath and pats children on the head for running him over. It is very hard to reconcile these two figures. Jozua is the only one who consistently and believably plays his role. Everything he does is justified in his refusal to give up his castle/land to someone he sees as his mortal enemy. (Well, almost everything, I won't give away all the details to the plot.) <br />Although not a bad book, I would recommend any of Ms. Abe's previous books, before recommending reading this one.	2000-03-20
US	52708799	R17KVNA7S27P0Z	0449005852	142931922	The Night Drifter: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A decent book, though a bit disappointing after Bridefinder	I am having a tough time trying to rate this book.  Compared to other authors and other books, this would be hands down a 4 or 5 star rating.   Unfortunately, compared to her other books such as Bridefinder or  Winterbourne, I feel that only a 3 star is justified.  The writing style,  descriptions, and character building were all there and done fairly well.   I suppose it is the plot and some of the individual characters that I felt  lacking. The St. Legers all have special \\"powers\\" which makes for endless  possibilities in a plot.  We are not stuck with one stereotype like  clairvoyance, or healing powers, but a full range of any type of  extraordinary power.  Lance, our lead, is supposed to have one of the most  powerful and amazing powers of all, being able to separate his body and  soul.  Unfortunately, I never understood why this is such an important  power.  He never used it for anything pivotal in the story (except  confusing the heroine).  <br />I liked the building of relationships that Ms.  Carroll writes about, Rafe and Lance, Lance and his father, Lance and  Prospero, Lance and Valentine, but you must recognize a pattern growing  here. This all centers on Lance (which as our hero and title character is  appropriate), and does not really include Rosalind.  She is our weakest  link in the chain.  I found her character a bit frivolous and unrealistic.   I also could not understand Effie's character.  In the previous book, the  Bridefinder is a fairly important character.  I remember snatches of Effie  and her potential as new Bridefinder.  Why then would she so dislike her  position?  She SEEMS flaky in the extreme, uncaring and downright rude to  the St. Ledgers.  With such an entwined past, this antagonistic  relationship seems unrealistic and I am confused about it. <br />Whatever my  criticisms, I did enjoy reading the story, and look forward to all the  sequels I know/hope Ms. Carroll will write for us. I would read an  \\"average\\" Carroll book before a\\"good\\" other author book any day.	2000-03-16
US	52708799	R13NYQOR0RVD0S	038080591X	82269701	My True Love (Loved, Book 2)	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Could have been better	I really enjoyed MY BELOVED, the 1st story in this series, but this one seemed to fall a little flat.  Both books have a similar feel, slow moving, with a lot of everyday living in it.  Normally I don't mind this, but in MY  TRUE LOVE, something got lost.  This story ties in with the earlier one,  but if you hadn't read the earlier story, I fear you would be very  confused.  Also, where the earlier story had depth, envolving the Knights  Templar, and intrigue, and basically a plot, this story just plodded along.   <br />The era of war between the Royalists and Parlimentarians was a bloody  and a very suspicious time.  This was also the height of the witch trials.   Wouldn't Sebatian have been a bit suspicous of someone who seemed to know  him and his feelings when he had never met her before?  He has his duty to  the king, which he is obviously rebelling against, but feels that it is  dishonorable to do so.  I just didn't get any strong feelings of passion  from our characters.  <br />Although there are a few threads that weave from  the beginning of the story to the end, I basically felt that we were denied  a plot.  Yes, our heroine and hero meet and fall in love, and there are  some extranious subplots that keep the story interesting, but overall,  there is not a really big, all encompassing plot to keep the reader's  interest.  Also, I am dissappointed in Sebatian and the choices he makes  involving his ancestrial home.  If you want to follow the series because  you enjoyed MY BELOVED, then pick this book up, otherwise I would bypass  this story.	2000-03-15
US	52708799	R33UK817N9DZ66	0440226279	609969786	McClairen's Isle: The Reckless One	Books	3	10	11	N	N	I would have liked to see some more depth	I did enjoy reading Raine and Favor's story, though there were many times while reading this story I felt cheated.    With an obviously dysfunctional family and a psychopath as a father, Raine turns out to be a surprisingly  levelheaded youth.  He might be called \\"The Reckless One\\", but in truth he  is \\"The Considerate One\\" or even \\"The Dependable One\\".  Except for his  undercover attempt at finding hidden jewels (which he sensibly wants to use  to start a new life in America), Raine is not very Reckless.  Maybe when he  was younger (between 15-17) he rebelled looking for his father's attention,  but even then it didn't sound like he did too much that was \\"Reckless\\",  youthful indiscretions maybe, but hardly Reckless.  He spends the whole  book trying to selflessly help Favor, never once really doing anything for  himself.<br />Favor is an interesting character insofar as she is strong  willed, but by knowingly letting herself be manipulated, I'm not sure how  to define her.  Strong willed people do not usually let themselves be  manipulated and I had a hard time reconciling the one with the other. It is  pretty obvious throughout the story that she is doing what she is doing  because of guilt but she does it half-heartedly and risks the whole thing  by acting Recklessly in her relationship with Raine.  I also missed having  a more thorough relationship with the siblings.  Ash is mentioned once or  twice in passing, so at least Raine doesn't think he was totally abandoned  in France, but some sort of reunion would have been nice.  Raine also does  not have much contact with his sister Fia.  This is done on purpose and we  get a brief glimpse into the next story (seeing that Fia isn't all that  bad, and does love her brothers even though she barely knows them) but I  would have like to have seen some more interaction.<br />Lastly, I hope we  find out what happens to Raine and Favor.  Where are they going to go?   What are they going to do?  What happened to Muira?  What about the rest of  the McClaines, what is going to happen to them?  The story ended  unfinished.  Although it seems like I am ripping apart this story, I did  enjoy reading it as a fast light read, and look forward to Fia's story.	2000-02-25
US	52708799	R1RBMQSV6HMQ8H	044900516X	625623250	Silver Lining	Books	4	0	1	N	N	I have yet to be disappointed by any of Ms. Osbourne's books	As with all of her previous books, Silver Lining is a great, down-to-earth, realistic story. Our characters, for the most part, are plain speaking, gritty, pioneer westerners. Unlike most plots, where one person misunderstands the other, or feels deceived, Low Down and Max know at all times what circumstances are and what they have to work with. They both are not happy with what fate has thrown their way, but really try not to blame the other for their \\"situation\\". It is this no blame plot, that really got me hooked and enjoy reading the story.<br />Ms. Osbourne does a good job at defining both Max and Low Down. Showing the reader what it is that makes them tick, their motivation and history. Each plays the \\"what if\\" game, but knows they could not, or would not have done anything differently. I'm not sure I agree with Low Down's sudden nesting instincts, but we do get glimpses of longings from her past for a settled life (her thoughts about laundry lines, etc.) Max's desire to roam before the ending of his bachelor life, is more easily understood.<br />It is the little details that make a story great, and Silver Linings is full of them. Things that might not directly reflect as important to the story, but that make the story come alive. The only weak link in this book is the self-centered ex-fiance. Maybe I just have never run across anyone that selfish or self absorbed, because her character seemed out of place in this story. Don't pass this one by for a great read.	2000-02-23
US	52708799	R396OAWW1ZR35B	0553569090	90615437	Surrender to a Stranger	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Truly a book worth reading.	When a (romance) book comes on the market written about the French Revolution, it usually written from the perspective of England and their struggle against Napoleon, or some sort of spy thriller, again written from  the perspective of England or the victors.  Once in a while we will stumble  upon a book set in New Orleans about a displaced French aristocrat, but  very rarely are we introduced to the French view of their Revolution or to  the period of time known as The Reign of Terror.  Granted, this is not a  very romantic setting, with all the death and what we think today of as  nazi-like paranoia against your fellow \\"citizen\\".  Thousands upon thousands  of people were killed in the name of Liberty, Equality and Fraternity.   Karyn Monk takes this time period and weaves a wonderful tale of two lost  souls.  It is not easy to balance the darkness of the time period and the  classical happily-ever-after ending of a romance, but Ms. Monk  succeeds.<br />Jacqueline is a spoiled elitist, who nevertheless learns and  grows throughout the story.  I always find character development to be key  in any good book, and Jacqueline definitely develops.  One might not agree  with her thoughts and views, but is given the opportunity to see why she  thinks like she does and how she rises above her beliefs to truly be  \\"noble\\".  Armand, our \\"Scarlet Pimpernel\\" is motivated by his own demons  (as most of our romantic heroes are), but this doesn't detract from his  character.  He is a master at disguise and uses his various  \\"counterrevolutionary\\" contacts (which are convenient though never truly  explained) to help him rescue the unfortunate victims.<br />The secondary  characters, Jacqueline's sisters, Philippe, Nicolas, and various others,  add even more depth and interest to the book.  I have but a few criticisms.   First, the amount of times, and with seeming ease our hero and heroine  escape prisons and France.  If it were so \\"easy\\" more people would have  done it.  Ms. Monkgives a great description of a prison wardens thoughts  and worries with overcrowding and rushed paperwork.  This is terrific  insight on how tired and over-worked the bearocrats were, but doesn't allow  for such ease of escape for two such wanted people.  I also didn't like how  characters seemed to appear and then we hear nothing about them.  What  happens to Jacqueline's ex-fiancé, to Justin and others we meet along the  way?  This is a great book so don't miss reading it!	2000-02-22
US	52708799	R9DW00EBIX6RA	0312972814	471579778	Silk And Steel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Fun and interesting to read	Lucien and Katherine's story was truly interesting to read and watch unfold.  The greedy relative plot is seen quite a bit, and to be honest, I am a bit bored with it, but Ms. Martin does a great job of making it  interesting and new.  Our hero and heroine are well developed and stay  consistent through out the story.  Katherine is a strong-minded woman, who  makes no apologies for what she is and what she feels she must do.   Although I doubt there were very many women interested in medicine in the  late eighteenth century (at least outside the role of midwife), Ms. Martin  gives credibility to Katherine's obsession. The reader gets a vivid picture  of what people at that time thought of doctors, surgeons and barbers.  It  is interesting to see how much has changed in what we think of as medicine  today and what they thought of it in the early years of the \\"Enlightenment  Period\\".  <br />Lucien's character was equally fascinating to read about.  He  has been scarred and although he is compassionate, he really doesn't know  how to love.  Once again, this theme has been played out ad nauseum in  romance books, but Ms. Martin makes it seem fresh.  Lucien does not change  his mind quickly, and this inability to adapt and accept Katherine is  critical to the plot.  This struggle and character development makes the  plot all the more realistic in my eyes.<br />The appearance of old friends and  colorful secondary characters truly fill out this story. If it were not for  a few minor criticisms the story would have rated a five star.  The rushed  ending chapters (where months go by in a paragraph) and the improbability  of escaping an insane asylum \\"untouched\\" after a year of incarceration, do  detract somewhat from an otherwise great book.  I also wish Lucien's aunt  and Nat had their own story, but that is getting a bit petty, I enjoyed  what their story added overall to Silk and Steel.	2000-02-17
US	52708799	R2HJP3DQ62IOZJ	055358121X	944695705	My One and Only	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Great potential....	This story had great potential, being set in a time period and location not usually written about.  All in all, the story was good, and enjoyable to read, it just wasn't great.  Max and Kitty are dynamic characters and  play off of each other fairly well, but many of the scenes were stale and  cliché.  A crocodile wrestling scene?  Although highly unlikely, and very  convenient for the story, I enjoyed the fact that Kitty is an aviatrix.  I  would have enjoyed it even more if there were more details as to what  exactly that meant in the early 1900's.  There was a lot of talk about the  first English Channel crossing, but little discussion on the actual planes  themselves, what it meant to fly one, and how different flying was then  than it is now.  <br />I can understand much of Max's physical training,  especially since he had a long time to learn, but for an 11 year old girl,  to train for 2 to 3 months, Kitty learned an awful lot and mastered her  skills quickly.  That she could call upon this learning 10 to 15 years  later astounds me.  I can appreciate that she is adventurous and out going,  an auspicious thing to be for a woman at this time, it just seemed a little  too unbelievable to be comfortable reading.  Their feats as cat burglars  were also highly suspect.  The places they were able to break into would  have been much more difficult to do.  <br />Once again, I call on the  potential that this story could have had, this time in the secondary  characters.  I would have liked to have seen a little more interaction and  depth between all of the players in both England and India.  Also, a few  more details wouldn't be amiss.  There was a lot of interaction between  India and England. How was this accomplished?  How long did it take to  travel back and forth?  How long did to take to get correspondence through?   I am a little shaky on the turn of the century inventions, did they use  the telegraph? telephone? steam ships? We are told that the English werecorrupt, but what about the people of India?  We saw one faction group,  were there many?  Were they organized?  I don't know much about India at  that time, and would have loved to have learned more.  All and all, My One  and Only is worth reading, I just wish there was a little more there.	2000-02-08
US	52708799	RG5XZUIWDD1YJ	0451198506	321704079	The Countess (Coulter Historical Romance)	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Not one of her best....	Since this is a rewrite of an earlier book, I am going to assume that Ms. Coulter has honed her writing skills as she has matured.  I have always preferred historical romances over contemporaries, but Ms. Coulter's  contemporaries have always seemed better written to me than her  historicals.  This book is no exception.  I can appreciate what she is  trying to do in writing this story as a Gothic novel, and actually applaud  her attempt at innovation, but it falls somewhat flat.  Written in the  first person, we should then gain a thorough knowledge of everything that  is going on in Andy's mind (our heroine).  Although there are some  insights, we mostly just see what she is seeing as opposed to feeling and  living what she is living. <br /> We are also left adrift, looking for details  about the other characters. One big criticism I have heard numerous times  about this book is that we never really get to know John, our hero.  This  is true.  There are one or two scenes where he is talking to Andy and  reveals his feelings, and in a book written in the first person this is the  only way Andy and the reader are going to be able to know these feelings,  but there was so little interaction between these two characters that I  felt we never got to know him.  The way the story is set up, I am not sure  if there could have been much more interaction, but it detracts from the  overall plot.<br />The plot itself is a little over melodramatic, though  Gothic novels are supposed to be.  I just found it hard to believe the  villain did all that they did, in the single-minded purpose of exacting the  revenge they craved.  A long time had passed and what if things didn't turn  out they way they had?  It is easy to make things happen in a story, but in  life, the steps that lead to the main plot could easily not have happened,  then what would our villain have done?  I think they would have/should  have, extracted their revenge much earlier and in a different manner.  Too  manyfactors were just too coincidental for the story to be a comfortable  read.  All in all, this is not a bad story, I just recommend picking up ANY  other Catherine Coulter book, preferably her contemporaries, over this  story.	2000-02-08
US	52708799	R3N8GFK85UN1G6	0843946229	958194055	The Black Knight	Books	2	15	27	N	N	Don't waste your time	I guess you will just have to call me a non Connie Mason fan.  I have read a few of her books and have found them to be very mainstream, book-factory type stories.  The characters are cardboard (flat and uninteresting, with  very little depth) and the story could have been churned out by anyone.   Popular writers who turn out numerous books a year, do not usually impress  me. Drake and Raven (what is it with the bird monikers anyway?) live in a  time where travel was difficult, communication sparse, and labor rare.  The  plague had wiped out a good portion of the country so I find it hard to  believe the Black Knight would have found so many people to populate his  keep and so quickly.  How did he manage to rebuild the walls in a month or  two anyway?  They quarried, transported, lifted and finished a wall (or  even a portion of it) that quickly?  I think it would have taken years not  months or weeks to accomplish these feats.  Stone buildings and churches  took years and decades to erect, granted this is just a wall, but still, it  could never have happened.   <br />Basic facets of life, which make a plot  interesting were also missing.  What was life in the 14th century like?   Did not the typical noble family participate in church masses regularly (at  least once daily, if not more often)?  Wasn't England in a constant state  of war with France, The Hundred Years War, instigated by Edward himself?   Neither Drake, nor Duff, nor Waldo would have been around England much,  especially with Drake being the Prince's champion.  In a time when people  were married and started having children at 13 or 14, Raven would never  have made it to 24 being unwed and if she did, no one would want her being  so far past child baring years (or at least how they thought of women  then).  <br />The only thing that could be redeeming in this story would be  the plot.  Unfortunately, that is not done well either.  The plot was  simplistic, with no surprises or interesting twists or turns.  We know  exactly where Raven stands in her feelings for Drake and she suffers from  the typical he-hasn't-said-he-loves-me-so-I-am-leaving theme. What's the  deal with Drake's father anyway, what a wimp!  He knows that Drake is his  heir, why foster him as a lowly squire?  At least give him the opportunity  to become a knight if you are not going to recognize him.  I didn't quite  get the logic behind that portion of the story.  I would have to say, over  all, don't waste your money on this story, borrow it from a friend, take it  out of the library, or don't read it.	2000-02-01
US	52708799	R1H7OZJCOV3YMO	0425170365	620779944	Flower under Ice	Books	3	8	9	N	N	A thoroughly enjoyable read	I do wish they had a different rating system, this book was better than average (a 3 star) but not quite up to a four star rating.  Dominic and Catriona are embroiled in an interesting tale held in the Scottish  Highlands and set in Regency times.  I really enjoyed the plot and both the  hero and heroine, but there was just something in the writing style that I  couldn't quite grasp.  Usually a story just flows over me, drawing me in.   With Flowers Under Ice, I felt as if I was dragged, pulled and pushed in.   Although the characters are well defined and great to read about, as are  the descriptions of the Highlands, the people living there and their plight  in the three quarters of a century following the defeat at Cullodon, each  segue was rough.  There are many times I got lost reading the dialogue and  had to reread a section to get the gist of what happened.  It was as if the  characters were too smart for themselves, talking around one another,  alluding to this and that.  I don't necessarily need everything spelled out  for me, but I do enjoy not having to fight to understand what is unfolding.   Other times I got the impression that there was something going on, and I  should know what that something was, but for the life of me I couldn't  figure out what I was missing.  Did I read over a paragraph too fast and  miss something?  When I went back to check, I could never find what it was.   <br />On the positive side, there are many literary references, both obvious  and obscure, which even if you are not well read is great to read and learn  about.  Ms. Ewing is obviously a well-informed writer and takes great pains  to bring the details together in her book.  In that she succeeds  magnificently.  Loose threads from Illusions, the interaction of the  secondary characters, the slow peeling away of the mysteries surrounding  both Dominic and Catriona are wonderful to watch unfold.  Despite my  seemingly negative review, I did thoroughly enjoy reading this story and  look forward to more writings from Ms. Ewing.	2000-01-27
US	52708799	R3B84ABWDTBUZ7	1551665344	131807925	Horsemasters Daughter (MIRA)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	What a touching story	A bruised and battered male heart and an incomplete and innocent female heart.  These two lovers have many issues to overcome, and they do so admirably.  Hunter is a great character, with both faults and heart melting tenderness.  He knows what is \\"right\\" and what is \\"wrong\\", but his struggle  with the debts his father left him, a vain and self absorbed wife, owning  and then freeing slaves and trying to make a go of a horse farm that  everyone looks down upon, leads him into a downward spiral of loneliness  and alcohol abuse.  Ms. Wiggs gives the reader a fairly good insight into  Hunter's character and makes him very human.  I enjoyed reading about that,  as opposed to the clichéd perfect hero or reformed rake.  <br />Eliza is also  an interesting character, though to me a little less believable.  The  literary allusions and outright comparisons to Shakespeare's Tempest were  well done and integral to the plot.  I do not know if anyone could truly be  as isolated as Eliza and then have such keen insight to Hunter and his  children's problems.  Her father raised her to be perceptive, learning how  to read a horse (which she uses to read humans as well), yet was able to  hide so much from her.  This dichotomy was a little much for me.<br />All and  all though, I loved this book.  It was different and refreshing, unlike so  many of the other hackneyed stories out there.  The plot moves along and  the secondary characters add much to the story.  Ms. Wiggs, please keep up  the great writing!	2000-01-26
US	52708799	R33YDVMVY3PG0X	0380805901	89486572	My Beloved (The Loved)	Books	3	9	14	N	N	Could have been better, though not bad	I find myself agreeing with much of what has been said in previous reviews for My Beloved.  Although there was nothing wrong with the story, how it was written, the plot or the characters, I did not find much to recommend  the book.  The story seemed to be very slow moving.  Sebastian and  Julianna's relationship grew steadily throughout the story, as opposed to a  cataclysmic love at first sight theme.  Whereas normally I would applaud  this attempt at being different in the writing style, for our lovers in  this story the result was just boring.  There were moments of sexual  tension, but they did not stretch through the story, just appeared every so  often.  It did not bother me that our couple did not consummate their  relationship until very late in the story; and as with my previous comment,  normally I would applaud this turning away from the normal \\"script\\", there  was just not enough to keep my interest peaked for the rest of the  story.<br />The idea of Medieval Europe, the Templars, the Cathars, the  dichotomy between the Pope and his religious \\"army\\" is interesting to read  about.  As is Sebatian and Julianna's struggle with faith, religion and  living a moral life.  What exactly is a miracle, and what makes one's faith  more right than another's?  These are interesting topics to ponder and I  enjoyed the thought provoking tidbits, but I found that the details just  scratched the surface.  I think there could have been an intricate plot,  involving Machievelli-type scheming between the Pope's forces and the  Templars', with Sebatian and his brother in the middle.   Though this is  what superficially happens, the potential for so much more was there.<br />The  character development of Sebatian and Julianna is done moderately well.  We  understand what motivates them and what type of people they are.  Besides  the faithful squire, the story was lacking colorful secondary characters.   Gregory was wishy-washy.  Was he evil, wishing his brother true harm?Strictly ambitious?  He would do one thing to lead you to think one way,  then later change tactics or do something that seems opposite the first  event.  Although better written, and more interesting than a lot of the  fiction that is available today, My Beloved still only garners an average  rating for its slow moving plot and lack of a lively cast.	2000-01-10
US	52708799	RXJ33IDY0Z8JG	0380802600	167045660	The Proposition	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Right up to par with her other stories	I have always enjoyed reading Ms. Ivory's reworking of fairytales.  This Cinderella/Pygmalion story is no different.  The book is well thought out, well written, and the characters are very colorful.  Nick and Winnie play  perfect foil for each other. Nick is just such a likable guy, it is almost  impossible not to like him.  He has a definite carefree attitude and enjoys  life, yet takes his obligation to his 14 younger brothers and sisters very  seriously.  A down-to-earth lead, honest in his feelings and his desires,  is an enigma to Winnie.  He is smart, though mostly uneducated, but  whatever he does, he seems to excel at (even if his given profession is a  ratcatcher).<br />We have all met someone like Winnie.  An average looking  person, who has very little self-esteem.  They view themselves as  unattractive, though they are not necessarily so, they just lack the  confidence to see beyond a few cruel remarks.  Because she has always  thought over herself as unworthy, and had been shunned by her family,  Winnie feels the need to control everything in life.  When things \\"go  wrong\\" she feels guilty, as if she didn't plan it well enough.  Basically a  worry-wort.  It is fun to watch Mick pick away at these barriers, letting  Winnie enjoy herself, life and their growing love/attraction.  <br />The six  weeks they spend making Mick into a gentleman is wonderful to watch unfold.   I did feel that the ending was a bit rushed, both in length and in  content.  We know that there is something going on behind this wager to  make Mick a gentleman, but the actual plot, when unfolded in the last few  pages, seems contrived and wholly unrealistic.  Mick should have been left  as just a ratcatcher, Winnie love him anyway and that's the true moral of  the story.	2000-01-04
US	52708799	R1DGLVG4ZAOTRG	055358054X	559388108	The Truelove Bride	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A rare treasure, don't miss this one	Wow!   I don't know how to better start this review than with that exclamation.  I really enjoyed reading Avalon and Marcus's story.  Here are two people who find themselves in an interesting situation and watching  them accept their \\"fate\\" is fascinating. <br />By far the most complex of the  characters is our lead female, Avalon.  We see her as compassionate yet  strong person who has many battles to overcome (both figuratively and  literally).  She fights her \\"guardian\\", her cousin, her lover, her fate and  worst of all, herself.  For 95% of the book she struggles with the question  \\"who am I?\\".  Woman, legend, lover, pawn.  Marcus, on the other hand,  learns about himself early on (prior to our story, though we get glimpses  of what forms our hero's character) and accepts his position in life.  He  is a great lead male who uses what he's been given in life to better his  clan and himself.  Although Avalon can't accept it, Marcus loves her early  on in the story and sticks by his feelings.<br />With witty dialogue and  colorful secondary characters, this book is a joy to read from page one  through to the end.  I am not sure what this genre of books are called,  paranormal?, myths and legends?, gifted?, fantasy?, or maybe Ms. Abe has  created a category of her own.  This book is different and keeps the  imagination flowing.  Be sure to pick up this one.	1999-12-29
US	52708799	R2IZIKRUUV5XEH	0821763784	556741465	Thunder Island	Books	2	2	4	N	N	I have read worse	For a light, quick read, I suppose that Thunder Island is an acceptable choice, but don't expect too much.  Although it is the third in a series, the book stands on its own, with very little interaction of the preceding  characters.  (I'm not necessarily saying this is a good thing, we've met  the other characters, and I would like to see them again.)  I think the  editor needed to be a little more astute while editing.  There are many  repetitive themes, such as observing the beautiful sunset or being told  twice why the house is called Thunder Island.<br />There is also something  missing in Kyle and Jenny's relationship.  Here is a couple who loved each  other while young, and now, after 15 years, almost half their lives apart,  Kyle can't live without Jenny, and although powerfully attracted to him,  Jenny can't accept a relationship with Kyle. In all that time they were  apart, they never tried to find one another, call, hell even look through  the internet.  This is explained, but not to my satisfaction, especially if  they really loved one another. Why was Jenny's number always busy, why  didn't she leave a forwarding address?  Without giving away the plot (which  I figured out after 35 pages), I can't figure out why Jenny acted the way  she did after everything that happened.  Losing her lover, then her mother  to suicide, being alone with a stepfather she barely knows, I should have  strong feelings of sympathy towards her, but my emotions were never really  aroused.  I also had a problem believing Kyle's character.  After seeing  him as such a tough guy in the last books I can't believe his soft spot for  Jenny.  He basically sacrifices his life, giving up his livelihood for his  love, uses no backbone, and not going after her the second time all  contradict what I perceived as his character.<br />The plot devises used were  also a bit convenient.  In the story we are shown some top secret  government equipment, and surprise surprise, that specific equipment is  needed to break the case or to find the child. Way too convenient for my  tastes.  Everything is exactly where we need it, when we need it, corrupt  police sheriff and all.  There is some witty conversation, and I just loved  Sadie, the rescue dog, but saw nothing special to recommend this story.	1999-12-28
US	52708799	RKNJLGV3SE9QE	0553577883	935319031	The Promise of Rain	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Worth picking up to read	Kyla and Roland's story was well worth reading.  Here are two well defined characters who are a pleasure to follow and lead the reader on a merry chase.  Although I found the conclusion of the story and the ultimate  motivation behind the plot to be a bit weak, the steps to get to the end  are interesting and entertaining.  Kyla's story is a bit tragic since she  loses everyone she loves and knows, but Roland's growing love, home and  family all help to succor her loses.  What a wonderful group of secondary  characters.  Lively, quick witted, loving, with a dash of, I don't know  what to call it...paranormal...all draw the reader in.  <br />Kyla has just the  right mixture of innocence and determination.  Here was a fairly sheltered  nobleman's daughter who was thrust into a position as the head of the  family and protector.  She learns what needs to be done to survive in the  \\"wild\\" and does so without complaint (and actually misses that freedom when  confined to Roland's Island).  Yet she yearns for stability too, after she  can avenge her mother's deaths and her father's suicide (although he did  not kill himself, without his wife he had no desire to live).  Roland is  also an interesting character.  His title as the Hound of Hell is fierce  yet deceptive.  As we learn, the king has given him this name because he  goes after something and does not let up until the task is complete.  His  mission with Kyla is no different.  It is true that they were once  betrothed, but that is no reason to protect her.  Deep down he feels that  she and her family are innocent, or atleast has his doubts about her father  killing her mother, and will safeguard her until it can be proven one way  or the other.<br />Besides the \\"bad guy\\" in the story, my only other complaint  about the plot is the king, and the court's easy willingness to believe in  Warwick's guilt.  He was a loyal king's man, yet without proof and being an  obviously grieving widower, he was presumed guilty and hisfamily put at  risk.  I find that difficult to believe.  All and all though, this was a  great story, one you wouldn't want to miss.	1999-12-28
US	52708799	R19EYXQY7XBADA	0843945230	442654829	The Impostor (Timeswept)	Books	4	19	20	N	N	A fun romp through time	I thoroughly enjoyed reading Ms. Fox's, The Imposter.  From the first page to the last, it kept me entertained.  Flynn is a pretty down to earth guy who tries to cope with his change in circumstances.  He doesn't want to  believe that he was thrust back in time any more than Mel wants to believe  him.  At first everything is a big joke and doesn't quite seem real.  As it  dawns on Flynn that everything is quite real, he faces the situation with a  typical modern American male attitude: brazen your way out.  Ms. Fox shows  the reader how vastly different 1815 moral standards are from 1998 ones.   Flynn just can't grasp why everyone cares so much what everyone else  thinks. Mel can't figure out this uncouth, brash American who seems to be  no gentleman but who wears fine clothes and is educated.  Class distinction  is so important in 1815 she doesn't know where to categorize Flynn.  This  dichotomy is one of the points which makes this book work so well. <br />Next,  Ms. Fox does a wonderful job with the time travel element.  Up until the  very end Mel doesn't fully believe Flynn has come through time.  Unlike so  many time travel novels where the opposite lead believes in the time  traveler's story in a matter of hours or days, she actually thinks him a  little insane until all the pieces of the puzzle start coming together.   The ultimate tie-in between future and past was well done.  The weakest  link in the story is our heroine Mel.  Although I realize she is supposed  to be a product of her time, she comes across as a conniving, graspy female  as opposed to a supportive mate.  She is so upset about having to marry  \\"beneath\\" her station that I felt her acceptance of Flynn was too close in  the plot to his reversal of fortune.  Does she really love him, or does she  only accept him now because he's not a nobody?  Although she gives lip  service to the fact that she is marring Flynn because of her sister's  reputation, I found her motives to be self-centered and extremely spoiled.   I am surprised Flynn agreed to the marriage.<br />All and all, this is a great  story, one you don't want to miss!	1999-12-22
US	52708799	R2J4S8OJXIRT6I	0505522934	75723436	A Love Beyond Forever (Timeswept)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Not a bad read	I loved the premise of the story and felt that there could have been so much more, but thought the execution was a little lacking.  As what always seems to happen to the shorter books, (under 375 pages) the scenes were  rushed and jumped from one point to another.  Our heroine falls back in  time, meets our hero, they make a mad dash across Northern England and lo  and behold, after one or two days our hero believes our heroine has  traveled through time.  <br />Ms. Haviland does an excellent job of describing  the time period of Cromwell's England and the Puritanical thoughts that  ruled people's lives.  But what happened to Jared?  Granted he is a  royalist, but he still would have held some fear of that which is  different.  That he so readily believes Kristy traveled through time, and  can accept her as a witch and still love her stretches the imagination a  bit.  Wouldn't she be thought of as a lunatic?  She does have some proof  that she is from the future, but to be so readily accepting, defies even  literary credibility.  <br />Thus saying, and seeming to come down harshly on  the book, I did enjoy reading A Love Beyond Forever.  The characters are  well developed, though there are some lose ends with the secondary  characters.  This is a decent book to read in front of a fire on a cold  winter night, or out on a beach in the summer. I was just a little  disappointed because I felt the potential was there for a great book, not  just a good one.	1999-12-21
US	52708799	R1Z9KJ6LWAAN5R	0515125067	342803028	Addie's Knight (Time Passages Romance)	Books	3	20	23	N	N	Great for a light fun read	Addie's Knight is not the typical romance book that I pick up and read.  I was very pleasantly surprised at the writing style and plot, considering the length of the story. I have usually found that such short books  (anything under 325 pages) lack the depth and attention grabbing power that  longer books usually carry.  Ms. Reyes invites the reader in to an  interesting story and doesn't let them go until the tale is well told.   <br />Taking the very popular theme of time travel and mixing it with two time  periods other than today's, is a great literary device.  It is hard to  portray a time in which we do not currently live, finding their values,  morals and general ways of life.  Ms. Reyes tries very hard to do just that  with Addie and Robert.  Overall, I think she succeeds, though I would have  liked to have seen some more depth.  Addie's knowledge of medicine,  cleanliness and food preparation are great (but obvious) differences.  Ms.  Reyes digs a little deeper in Addie's basic belief that war and fighting  are no way to settle disputes (though the American Civil War should not be  far off in her mind); and Robert's conviction that he must be strong to  keep his holdings.  But what about women's and men's position in society,  noble and commoner, feudal vs. democratic beliefs, etc?  These all govern  how we behave and see each other, and I felt that they were either too  briefly skimmed over or not touched at all.  How does a lord, whose only  touch with democracy or human rights, would have been knowledge of the  Magna Charter, adapt to working for someone else and even seeing him or her  as his equal? It would have been ingrained in his mind that they were not  his equals.<br />If you are looking for a good read to pass the time and don't  want to think about major philosophical differences, this is a great story  to pick up.	1999-12-16
US	52708799	R1SYNGDYC57TC7	0449002462	10369433	Princess: (Book 2 in the Ascension Trilogy) (Ascension Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A thoroughly enjoyable book	Princess<br />Wow, what a great story.  Well written and entertaining, Princess is a great sequel to the Pirate Prince.  Bringing together the right amount of authenticity to the time and plot possibilities makes for  enjoyable reading.  Set during the early Napoleonic Wars, Ms. Foley  enlightens the readers of the fears that different countries held at that  time.  Although not central to the story, we learn about Spain, England and  Russia's involvement towards France.  Unlike most stories which only  portray England's involvement or references to specific battles, this story  gives an over all picture of Napoleon's popularity or repugnance, depending  on the side of the story you are on.  <br />The characters are very well  developed, especially the hero.  I would even call this Darius's story, not  Serafina's (although the book is titled Princess).  We know Darius from the  previous story, as a ragged but spunky street rat.  Seeing him full grown  and wearing different resentments towards different sources is fascinating.   The only one who understands him (and conversely, who understands her) is  Serafina.  Maybe it is because they have grown up together that this bond  is so strong.  I sometimes despair that Serafina is a bit too spoiled and  will not grow up, but she only really acts that way towards people who  expect her to act that way (her court, parents, etc.).  When she tries this  with Darius, it backfires in her face terribly.<br />I think the only  criticism I have of the book (and its so minor as to not even be worth  mentioning) is how could the king and queen not know how much Serafina and  Darius loved/desired each other?  Why such a shock?  Over all, I loved  reading this story. The sequel is set up quite nicely, and not just as an  afterthought at the end of the book.  During Princess, there are many  points leading to Rafe's story, revealing to the reader what the court's  women and his parent's influence turns him into.	1999-12-15
US	52708799	R3RDAZ9J8U95YZ	0425171078	81293212	The More I See You (de Piaget Family)	Books	4	20	22	N	N	I really enjoyed reading this book	I have read most of the books in this series and have found that Ms. Kurland has either hit or missed with no real in-betweens.  I've felt the last few books have missed, and actually wondered if she wrote them,  because they seemed so different than her first books.  Richard and  Jessica's story was well written, with strong characters, and an  interesting relationship that continues to grow throughout the book.  I  feel that this book is mostly about Richard, his \\"issues\\" and how he deals  with them.  Although Jessica is our time traveler, and she is an integral  key in opening Richard up, this is not her story.<br />It helps that there are  other time travelers in the plot, but as with most time travel books, I  found that our non-traveler believes our traveler too easily.  Richard has  his doubts, but they are rather quickly abated.  Jessica does not behave  like a Medieval woman, and is very knowledgeable, but that in itself should  not be enough motivation to believe.<br />All in all, I might have liked a  little more detail on lifestyles in 13th century England, but there is  enough to make the story interesting.  Jessica brings her modern language  as well as her modern thoughts, and this makes for some amusing anecdotes.   Enjoy this as a solid, fun book.	1999-12-13
US	52708799	R3M37N6G1QL5XF	0446606138	793852187	More and More	Books	3	4	4	N	N	I felt very disjointed reading this story.	In the past, I have read a number of Ms. Cameron's contemporary novels and enjoyed them.  Preferring historicals, I picked up More and More, but I just could not get into the plot. There were many times I was so frustrated  with the writing style that I was tempted to not finish the book at all. I  persevered, hoping it would get better, and it didn't.  There was very  little cohesion between paragraphs, let alone chapters.  I found myself  jumping from place to place, trying to figure out what happened or was  currently happening.  The relationship between Finch and Ross also confused  me.  Hot, cold, professional, lovers and all within a few days.  True, they  had known each other for a few months, but only in passing.  Their  relationship only grew in the few days which the story takes place.   Virtual strangers who partake in some pretty hot, explicit sexual preludes,  but when the time comes to make love, he carries her off to his room....and  awaken the next morning.  From what preceded this scene, I was vastly  disappointed. <br />One redeeming feature to the story is the structure of the  characters themselves.  Finch and Ross are fairly well developed and we get  to know each one, their motivations and indecisiveness.  Finch is  refreshingly open about herself and her feelings, though I can't help to  feel that she is a late 20th century woman plunked into the early  nineteenth century.  Her behavior is not well suited for the setting of the  story. Although we learn what makes Ross \\"tick\\", I never feel like I get to  know him.  Whereas in most books I feel like I know the lead characters, am  somehow become their friends, that feeling of familiarity is lacking.  The  secondary characters, those at number 7, number 8, and Hayden add spice to  the story and compliment it well.  <br />I thought our narrator of the story  quite an interesting twist, but once again, disjointed and uncomfortably  written.  You never quite knew what was going on until the end.  Who was  this disembodied voice? The author, a character, and how did they know what  was going to happen? Though a fascinating literary device, I did not like  its execution.  All in all I do not recommend this book, stick to some of  Ms. Cameron's other novels.	1999-12-09
US	52708799	R1BB5CTNM6GMYM	0553581171	739077011	Strangers at Dawn	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Read this one if you can	What a delightful read.  Ms. Thorton weaves a wonderful tale of love, ambition and intrigue.  Her characters come alive as you read about them.  Sara's development throughout the story is a pleasure to be a part of.  Her  love of her family never dims, though there are reasons enough to be  doubtful.  Like a true hero, or matriarch (though she is quite young), Sara  does what is best for her loved ones, even at the sacrifice to herself. You  never quite know what she is or is not capable of.<br />Max is also an  interesting character to read about.  He has high morals and is not afraid  to admit when he is wrong.  (Which he does quite a few times.)  Everything  is not about selling his newspapers, though that is definitely important.   It is nice, for a change, to have characters who communicate as opposed to  a typical \\"misunderstanding plot\\".  My biggest criticism (and its quite  minor at that) is that I felt that Max was swayed a little too easily in  his faith in Sara.  He spent 3 years of with a complete conviction of her  guilt, yet was willing to believe in her after a fairly short acquaintance.  The confirmed bachelor, still running with his college friends, would  probably not \\"fall\\" so fast.  <br />Strangers at Dawn is a great book, not to  be missed by those who want an enjoyable read.	1999-12-06
US	52708799	R1EUXLYZ3QSPOO	050552340X	434356143	Heaven's Rogue (Romance of the Millennium)	Books	3	11	15	N	N	What a fresh idea for a story!	It is so nice to stumble upon a writer who gives free reign to their imagination, and comes up with an original plot.  The premise for this story is refreshing and well thought out.  Unfortunately, thus saying, I  felt that there are many weak points in the book itself. (Which is why I  have only giving it a 3 star rating).<br />The writing style is simple, with  no complex dialogue.  Honor and Dom both question the world around them,  and ponder deep thoughts, but it comes across as elementary.  Dom is  depicted as the Renaissance man, of which there is no doubt that he is, but  the portrayal seemed oversimplified.  It is as if the author used the basic  facts of what it meant to live in that time as a description, as opposed to  actually getting into the character's head and living in that time.  They  are obviously two intelligent people, but I didn't pick up too much depth  to them.<br />Things seemed to happen too easily for our characters as well.   They did not have to try to hard to accomplish what they needed.  Finding a  missing ancestor (after 400 years and about 20 generations), buying some  marble and carving a masterpiece in 3 months, finding homeless people in  New York City, and many other incidents, make for a lack of credibility in  the story.  There is also a heavy leaning into the spiritual and faith in  God.  Although there is nothing wrong with using this as a literary device,  it is not my usual preference. Since that last criticism is a subjective  offering, I feel compelled to add that I did enjoy reading this story, and  recommend it for those looking for an enjoyable, easy read.	1999-12-01
US	52708799	R20XXCE2WRVFD4	0515126101	553531248	Infinity (Immortal Witches)	Books	4	19	21	N	N	What a great sequel (or prequel) to Eternity!	Ever since I read Eternity, I have been waiting for Arianna and Nicodimus's story. As a reader, I knew the rough outline of this book from what happened in the previous one, but Ms. Shayne does not disappoint in  her writing.  It did not matter that we knew what was coming, if anything  it made the story more poignant.  <br />Arianna is a strong character who  seems woefully spoiled in the beginning of the story.  She senses that she  is different and dares anyone to oppose her.  Nic knows that she is headed  for trouble, especially in a time where there is little tolerance for  witches.  Rightly or wrongly, Nic does not explain what she truly is and  this just causes more trouble for this strong willed youth.  While battling  his own desire, not wanting to be attracted to Arianna or her willful ways,  he can't seem to help but be drawn to her.  As the story progresses,  Arianna grows too.  It is this maturing of Arinna that really keeps the  interest of the book going.  <br />There are many twists and turns which I did  not anticipate (though I probably should have).  All the secondary  characters are key to the plot and are a delight to read about.  They are  fairly well defined, though I would not have minded a little more in depth  explanation into backgrounds and motives.  Hate, greed, and love are strong  motivators but brief in description.  I also did not understand why Arianna  did not go after her husband's murderer.  Wouldn't she want revenge? Four  hundred years is a long time, why didn't she just kill him after she got  stronger (especially once she had her sister's help?)  Besides that one  little criticism, I loved this story and strongly urge you to read it and  Eternity if you have not done so yet.	1999-11-30
US	52708799	R212VT4AIS4HR	0380800233	866874618	The Perfect Gift	Books	4	35	38	N	N	One of her best books in a long time	I had almost given up on Ms. Skye.  After reading her last 4 books I kept telling myself that this would be the last book I was going to buy unless she reverts to her earlier writing style.  I am glad I persevered to this  story.  I have always loved the idea of the Draycott series, but with the  exception of Adrian's story, I have found the others in the series poorly  written.  The Perfect Gift finally shows us Ms. Skye's potential. It is  well executed, with strongly defined characters, and an in depth plot.   <br />Jared is an interesting character, and though I feel the tortured,  modern warrior who suffers some calamity and must rise above it (the  ex-special agent, ex-cop, ex-army/marine, ex-fed, etc), is over written  about, this story works.  Maybe it is the touch of the paranormal that adds  a different slant, maybe it is just my desire to see a successful Draycott  series.  Our heroine must also work through some problems of her own, but  she has a wonderful support system with her cousins and new friends.  <br />I  liked the way the plot twists and turns, interweaving all of our  characters.  Everything and everyone fit in well together (unfortunately  there is a \\"but\\" coming), but I thought the actual \\"evil\\" in this story was  a bit corney and unbelievable.  Ms. Skye gets us to believe in ghosts,  witches, reincarnation and the paranormal, but I couldn't swallow the bad  guys and their evil empire.  I felt like I was in a bad \\"B\\" movie when this  part of the story unfolded.  All in all though, this is definitely a book  worth reading, and I feel the best in the series	1999-11-30
US	52708799	R2H0HRUX0KN1O1	0440225043	747316956	The Midnight Hour	Books	3	10	12	N	N	If you are looking for a time filler, you�ve found your book	Reading Tony and Grace's story is a decent way to pass the time, if that is what you are looking for.  I felt that The Midnight Hour lacked the usual depth, and sexual energy that Ms. Robards books usually contain.    There was nothing wrong with the plot or the character per se, but then I  did not find much right with them either.  Tony is your typical modern  wounded male (who just so happens to be a cop), who can be found in any  number of contemporary romances.  Under the tough exterior, he is basically  a good guy, with a soft heart who got burned previously.  <br />With Grace, I  at least felt like there was something different.  She is a single parent  struggling to do what she feels is best for her floundering daughter.  Parenting is not easy and Ms. Robards tries to show the good with the bad  and that we are all human and make mistakes.  I think that there could have  been a little more interaction between Grace and Tony to show their growing  relationship.  Circumstances make for a short timeline in this story, but  two such blatant antagonists who heartily disapprove of each other as much  as they did at the beginning, found a way to relate to one another rather  quickly (too quickly). <br />There is an attempt at intricacy in the plot,  though I didn't find it to run too deep.  It did not take me long to figure  out the general theme of the mystery and what was going to happen.  I did  find the secondary characters interesting and they added some flavor to the  overall story.  Too me, The Midnight Hour was an OK book, which is why I  gave it an average rating of 3 stars	1999-11-30
US	52708799	R16Y2CCNW3DI0F	0515127124	50722618	Whisper Always	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Well worth reading	Blake and Cristina's story is an interesting tale that tries to expand the traditional Victorian age story. Ms. Lee portrays a very realistic political arena in Europe during the late nineteenth century.  Diplomats  scrounging between powers, forming alliances and always trying to maintain  the utmost in proper etiquette.  An unhealthy climate, where diplomats try  to attain a \\"balance of power\\", which ultimately backfires with the  assassination of Archduke Ferdinand.  (But enough with the history  lesson).<br />This is a love story that is very well written and a pleasure to  read.  Ambitions abound at every corner, yet our hero and heroine try  desperately to overcome these.  Blake has a tortured past, and almost isn't  capable of overcoming it.  Fortunately for Cristina, he does, and early  enough in the story so as to not render this plot with a \\"typical\\" climatic  ending (Blake finding his love for Cristina).  Cristina on the other hand  is young, but determined.  No milksop miss here.  After rising above an  atrocious relationship with her mother, and apparent abandonment of her  father, Cristina finds friendship and comfort in some interesting  places.<br />It is great to watch as Cristina and Blake build their love  together through all the obstacles they face.  In Victorian England,  Cristina probably would not have had the freedoms or done many of the  things she ultimately did, but this is a minor criticism in the overall  story.  Pick up and enjoy Whisper Always.	1999-11-30
US	52708799	R2CLDALE4GH7R9	0451407601	728711850	Shades Of The Past: Lords of Midnight	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Great book to sit down with in front of the fire this winter	I thoroughly enjoyed Ms. Kirkwood's A SLIP IN TIME and was (not so) patiently awaiting her next novel.  SHADES OF THE PAST did not disappoint my expectations.  This is a well written book, where the characters are  interesting to read about although only fairly well developed.  That would  probably be my biggest criticism of the book, I would have liked to have  seen a little more depth to the characters.  Our hero is tormented by his  previous marriages.  He is a bit moody, but I really didn't feel his  torment.  There does not seem to be a lot of interaction between our hero  and heroine, (because our hero keeps running away), yet they are sexually  and mentally attracted to one another.  If you have so little contact, how  can a relationship grow?  It seems like they are forever avoiding one  another, yet have fallen in love.  I would have liked to have seen more  communication.   The secondary characters give a great boost to the story.   Good sister/bad sister, rambunctious brother, interested nephew, eccentric  nanny, and corrupt constable, all make for attention grabbing reading.<br />I  found reading about early photography, how it was done, with each step  carefully explained, both helpful and informative.  With the addition of  the paranormal, this book covers just about all the bases. I did feel that  our ghost might have been a little too helpful, not leaving much of the  mystery for our hero and heroine to solve.  Do not look for a twisting  turning plot, I figured the \\"whodoneit\\" fairly early on, though there are a  few surprises in store.	1999-11-22
US	52708799	R2EW2RD4YNOCHP	0553562797	956188321	When Venus Fell	Books	3	15	17	N	N	An interesting tale of two families�.	I have always loved Ms. Smith's books, her attention to detail and her in depth plots.  While I did not like When Venus Fell as much as Miracle, Silk and Stone or Blue Willow, this book did have its own charm and redeeming  parts.  This is a story of two families who have problems and deficiencies,  but who desire so much more for themselves.  Everyone has some sort of  hurtle to overcome before they can all function as a capable unit.  Maybe  that is part of what turned me off to this book.  EVERYONE had an issue to  overcome.  I know we are all not perfect and most authors err on that side,  making everyone into fairytale heroes, but we have two extremely  dysfunctional families here.  Yet, like a fairytale, in the end, everyone  finds the peace and happiness they want/deserve.  <br />Although Venus and Gib  are our obvious leads, this is not a story about how two people find each  other and love and then live happily ever after (though there is an element  of that).  Because we had so many characters, none of them really get to be  fully developed.  We come to understand why everyone behaves as they do,  but I felt we skimmed the surface too much and didn't dig deep enough into  any one character.  <br />Be warned for those romance readers out there, this  story is more novel than romance.  Although I feel this story deserve more  than just an average rating (of three stars), I did not feel that it was  strong enough for a 4 star rating.  If I could, I would give this 3 ½  stars, better than average, but not superb.  Get ready to leave reality at  the door, because this story could never happen anywhere that I know of.	1999-11-16
US	52708799	R1LVW271B9T0Z0	0671003364	792256877	Ransom	Books	3	3	7	N	N	I wish there was more depth to it	For such a long story, I was disappointed in the content.  The setting of this story takes place under King John's reign in England.  That is one of the reasons I picked this book up, it is a time period not often written  about.  Unfortunately, this book could have been written in any time period  from 1066 to 1800.  There was no connection between the plot and the era it  was written in.  The descriptions were not time specific and could have  encompassed any time period as well.  If anything, I think there were a lot  of anachronisms, such as the importance placed on the tartan.  That did not  come about until much later.<br />Thus saying, the characters were enjoyable  to read about, and their stories interesting.  It is not easy to make a  tough warrior seem approachable, but Ms. Garwood succeeded with Brodick.   Except by how other people reacted to the Buchanons, I never really got the  feeling that they were a ruthless, Spartan-type group.  We saw them through  Gillian`s eyes and they didn't look too tough from that prospective.  We  kept getting allusions about their rough life style and strong women, but  since we never made it to Brodick's holdings, I have no real idea what type  of life is awaiting our heroine.  <br />This was a decent book, I suppose I  was just expecting more because of its length.  If you want an easy read,  with not too complicated a plot then pick Ransom up.	1999-11-10
US	52708799	R1THQR1AYGWCBH	0515125539	376721544	Timepool (Time Passages Romance Series)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Worth picking up and reading	What a delightful read.  I thoroughly enjoyed Susan Plunkett's latest work, Timepool.  I very rarely give a five star rating, and I feel that this story just missed the 4 star as well.  If I could give it 3 1/2 stars  or a 7 out or 10, I would. Her main character's names are a mouthful, but  Requiem and Caladonia are both well defined and interesting to read about.   I was quite surprised at how in depth the plot was, especially given that  there were two stories going on at once.  My biggest criticism was that the  story was too short and ended too quickly. The end felt WAY too rushed,  like she had to fit this story under a certain number of pages and that was  it.  I think that there could easily have been another 50 to 100 pages used  to finish the plot.  We never fully hear what happens to Requiem's story,  how it ends, his relationship with his sister, what he is going to do with  his life, etc.  We are also led to believe that Caladonia's business will  eventually fail, and I wonder what she is going to do as well.   I know  money is not a problem, but are they just going to spend their days basking  in each other or are they actually going to be or do something?  If you are  looking for an interesting, though quick read, pick this book up.	1999-11-08
US	52708799	R3W34MUKLU06N4	0380810662	798274730	All Night Long	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A fun quick read....	I would love to give this story a 7 out of 10 or a 3 1/2 star rating.  It was an enjoyable read with an interesting plot.   Annie and Rik are two strong characters who work well together for the duration of the story.   They are open and honest about their sexual feelings (they definitely want  one another), but are scarred from previous experiences in life to realize  what it is they truly want.  For both of them it is a big leap of faith to  commit to each other and their growing relationship.  I liked how Ms.  Jerott portrays Rik and Annie as mature people (not necessarily older in  age than other books, but they acted older toward each other and their  views on life).  This is no skittish virgin story, but of two realistic  people struggling to come to terms with life. <br />The secondary characters  were a bit on the weak side in terms of development, but were critical to  the unfolding of the story.  Rik's daughter, ex-wife, ex-best friend and  Annie's soldier all come together to tell an interesting tale.  If you are  looking for a good solid read, don't hesitate to pick up All Night Long.	1999-11-05
US	52708799	ROBMUIUXSH7WC	0553580183	174192523	Touch of the Wolf (Historical Werewolf Series, Book 1)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Pick this one up to read!	I have always been a fan of Susan Krinard, especially with her bent towards writing stories about the paranormal.  TOTW did not disappoint me. Braden and Cassidy's story was well written and a delight to read.  Ms.  Krinard goes out of her way to strongly define her characters, giving the  readers insights on why they behave they way they do. (And not just our  hero and heroine, she sets up the stage for Braden's sister and brother's  story too.) <br />Although Cassidy might start out too trusting and innocent  for my tastes, her character does grow and learn from life.  Many times  writers miss character development and that makes for a stale story.  The  time and thought that went into Braden's character development is obvious.  The struggle Braden goes through for the length of the story is at once  heart wrenching (we all know that deep down he wants to do what is right,  its just defining what \\"right\\" is) and frustrating (damn his grandfather  anyway).  It's hard to have such a strong character become vulnerable.<br />I  have but one criticism of the book.  This is a story about werewolves,  their relevance in society, their laws and mores, their ethics, their  hierarchy, basically their very existence.  Although we get some feeling of  this through the choices Braden must make as leader, I did not feel like I  really got to know the werewolves themselves.  I got the feeling that  seeing them as werewolves was almost peripherary to the story (except maybe  for the climatic end scene.)  There was very little changing from human  form to werewolf form.  It was always there on the outside of the story but  never really made it to the inside.   Overall, keep up the great work and I  look forward to the next story.	1999-11-03
US	52708799	R1BOVLTG2ZDZE0	0380799375	601072635	Baby Love (The Kendrick-Coulter Series)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Pick this one up to read!	What a delightful story to read.  I want to know where I can find a guy like Rafe...do they actually come like that?  Baby Love is a touching story, which is well written and a joy to read.  Ms. Anderson does a great  job in defining her characters and seeing to the hows and whys they behave  as they do.  My only criticism is that Rafe seemed almost too good to be  true. He does have a temper (which pops through periodically), but that's  good, because it is about the only thing that makes him human and not an  angel.  Maggie has gone through some tough times and has a right to be wary  of Rafe and his motives, but this just lends her character strength.  The  riches-to-rags-to-riches theme is a tad unbelievable, but in the long run  did not detract from my overall enjoyment of the story.	1999-11-03
US	52708799	R2SJ4RY0QFBF35	0380805693	132899149	A Rogue's Proposal (Cynster Novels, Book 4)	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Definitely worth the read.....pick it up!!!	Finally, Ms. Laurens lives up to the potential of the first book in this series.  Devil's Bride was such a great story with the added bonus of knowing there were going to be at least another 5 stories to compliment it.   Unfortunately, I felt Vane and Scandal's stories were way below Devil's  achievement.  Conversely, Demon and Flick's book was a delight to read.   Here is a story that revolves around our main couple and their  relationship.  The outside plot compliments the relationship, not dominates  it.  For a while we even wonder if they are still paying attention to \\"the  bad guys\\".  The wrong that needs righting is not an in depth, complicated  puzzle, but a backdrop for our hero and heroine to reacquaint themselves  and fall in love.<br />After our first meeting with Demon in the story, and  his adamant beliefs on staying out of the \\"marriage market\\", I thought he  fell a little too quickly for Flick. Knowing the consistency and devotion  of the Cynster men from our previous stories though, his behavior is not  unexpected.<br />I have two (very) minor criticisms of the book.  First, the  repetitive nature of a few themes got to me after a while.  There are only  so many times Demon can fight his Demons and that Flick can be compared to  a Boticelli Angel (heaven forbid you don't know your Renaissance artisans).   I also would have loved to have seen a little more of the Cynster clan.   Though we saw some of the women welcoming Flick with open arms, the Bar  Cynster was painfully absent.  Except for the occasional glimpse of Gabriel  and Lucifer, guarding their female cousins, they were conspicuously absent.  Don't let this one slip by, pick it up and read it.	1999-11-03
US	52708799	RO4OKV74TZH5L	042517140X	776192522	Loyalty in Death	Books	4	41	44	N	N	Definitely worth the read	I don't know how Nora Roberts (a.k.a JD Robb) does it (especially so quickly), but she keeps cranking out great stories (at least in this  series). The \\"in Death\\" series has been great fun to read and each book I  look forward to getting to know the characters a little better.  Although I  felt the last few books were not her best effort, I thought that Loyalty in  Death was one of the better ones that Ms. Roberts has written in this  series.  We have so many characters at this point that it's like coming  home to another family when I pick up the books. She went back to the  basics, to the relationhips between the characters, as well as giving us a  decent plot (though I figured this one out way too early).  Dallas, Roarke,  Peabody, McNab, Mavis, Sommerset, Dr. Mira, Freeney, Whitney, Nadine, and  anyone else who I might have forgotten were all there. I got some pretty  weird looks from my husband when I laughed about Dallas's patrol car.  But  I just couldn't help it, chuckles, suspense, love, and of course, death,  what more could you want in a book?  A small caveat, I don't recommend this  book if you haven't read the others in the series.  I think you would be  lost in a lot of the by-play that happens, but by all means, go back and  read the others first and then read this one, its worth the effort.	1999-10-28
US	52708799	R98QXC5MU8BQV	0449006093	469246713	Volcano	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A thoroughly enjoyable read	I'm not usually too much of a contemporary romance reader, preferring the historicals, but I have always liked Patricia Rice's books.  I am glad that  I took the risk.  \\"Volcano\\" was a fun, fast read which garnered a few  laughs along the way.  Unlike so many contemporaries, where the hero is a  cop/military macho man, Charlie breaks that mold.  I chuckled when the  bullets started flying and he ducked, cursing our heroine because what did  she think she was, in a movie?  The story was a bit on the outrageous side,  but isn't that what escapist reading is all about?  If I wanted reality I'd  read Angela's Ashes.  Here are two stubborn people who have to break  through their preconceived ideas about each other to find the person  underneath.  Definitely worth picking up and reading.	1999-10-26
US	52708799	RH0YPSEPS7NM9	0553578669	857203744	To Please a Lady	Books	2	7	7	N	N	I know Ms. Johnson can write better, I've seen it....	I wish I had seen some of the later reviews before I picked this book up.  Definitely, NOT one of Ms. Johnson's best efforts.  Where was the plot?   The character building? The descriptive narrative? The building of sexual  tension?  She did her usual historical homework, but even that seemed  contrived to me.  It seemed as if she had to keep up with her previous  books by putting in endnotes, so let's find some information that might fit  the time period.  If they shrunk the typesetting and moved the margins  outward, where her previous books were printed, I don't think this story  would fill 175 pages.  When I finished the book, I couldn't believe that  was it, where was the rest of it? Argyll gave up way to easily, even if he  was greedy.  What of Queensbury?  He just disappeared. Sometimes I had  trouble believing that Robbie was actually 18.  At other times he was the  epitome of the horny 18 year old.  Unfortunately, he was very difficult to  take seriously.  I won't even try to get into Roxy's character, or what  little there was beyond craving Robbie's body.  Please Ms. Johnson, I know  you are capable of so much better than this.  Quality over quantity will  guarantee my loyalty as a reader every time	1999-10-25
US	52708799	RVND0Z1ODXDWR	0821762885	244919481	The Lady's Tutor (Zebra Splendor Historical Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Pleasantly surprised	After hearing so much about this book and Robin Schone as a writer in general, I was (pleasantly) surprised reading this book. Written in the same tradition as Beatrice Small or Susan Johnson, this book is extremely explicit, and sensual in nature. Many people might not enjoy this type of writing, and it is not for the faint hearted. I found it very encouraging (though not very likely coming from a Victorian woman), to read about a woman who wanted to explore her sexuality. Here is a 30 something woman, who's had two children and a few gray hairs. She's not perfect and because her husband had never been very encouraging of her, she has little self confidence. Despite this, she wants to try and strengthen her waning marriage, and thinks sprucing up her sex life is the way to go. This book strives to show that a woman's body is beautiful and worthy of appreciation and love, and I consider this a positive thing. We (meaning women) should all feel more comfortable with our bodies, and The Lady's Tutor tries to show this. There are some things which I did not particularly care about in this book (like the fact that our heroine turned to someone outside of her marriage in the first place, or the cliche &quot;bad guy&quot;) but the story and sensual by-play between our lovers was worth reading past these minor transgressions. I don't suggest this book for a first time romance reader, but I thoroughly enjoyed reading it.	1999-10-25
US	52708799	R3H3G2RAQDIPHB	0440222591	723801793	Pale Moon Rider	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Definitely an enjoyable read....	I have always been a Marsha Canham fan and this book does not disappoint.  Tyrone and Renee's story, as has been commented upon before, is not your typical highwayman story.  That she does not follow the  &quot;Robinhood&quot; theme as most of these stories do, is quite  refreshing.  Tyrone is a great charater who has depth and personallity,  unlike most of the cardboard cutout characters which are written today.  I  also appreciated the fact that Ms. Canham does not forget what her  characters have done in the story.  Tyrone is hurt, as the story  progresses, we see how this handicaps him in dealing with the &quot;bad  guys&quot;.  He limps, and breaks out in a sweat, etc...he doesn't  miraculously recover and fight evil with nary a misstep. Most authors  forget that no matter how great their heros are, they are still human,  Tyrone is definitely human.<br />Such care is also taken with Renee.  I felt  that her character was not quite as strong as Tyrone's but there is depth  to her.  Fighting her way through a war torn France, especially as a highly  placed aristocrat, was not an easy task.  Her brother was left mute at the  horrors he witnessed, and she had to deal with that as well.  Renee had  help, which leads us to the secondary characters of the story, who really  made the whole plot come together.  The plot was richly interwoven with  dispicible deeds, great writing and colorful characters.<br />I only have a  few small problems with the story.  After going through so much trouble to  record the feelings of horror that the aristocrats in France must have felt  and the care that they took to try and secure their futures outside France,  I felt it was a bit shabbily done that Ms. Canham misplaces (in  time)someone as famous as Chopin.  I also felt she rushed the end.  I don't  want to give away the plot, but, what happened to the uncle?  Are we  waiting for a sequel with her brother to right that wrong?  A brief mention  was made by Roth that Paxton ran, butthere was no confirmation of this and  no real care about it.  I realize they had plenty of money but wouldn't you  try to find him on principle?  Anyway, this was a great read, so don't miss  it!!!	1999-04-10
US	52708799	R3BKC8XIMUY8HI	0821756397	114905818	Beloved Enemy	Books	3	26	29	N	N	Oh boy, where to start....	There were many parts of this story I loved, and many others I disliked emencely. The two cancel each other out, which is why I rated this with a three star. First and foremost, I loved the time period in which this story  was written. So few writers choose to write about Parlimentary England. Ms.  Feather does a wonderful job in depicting the time period, the thoughts of  the antagonists, the clothing, and everyday life. The story was filled with  rich details and smooth writing. Life was so much different then, as  compaired to today and this is wonderfully shown in the story. Our  characters are well formed and very likable. Virginia and Alex mix well  together. <br />I did not like, however, the  'I-hate-you-becuase-you-are-the-enemy,-but-can't-help-but-loving-you'  storyline. I realize that is the title of the book and the whole premise of  the relationship, but I didn't like it. The pretext Virginia keeps putting  up, just didn't seem believable. If she hated Alex so much she could never  have done what whe did, if she loved him, she could never have done what  she did. I felt that you couldn't have it both ways, or atleast not the way  THIS story was written. I also didn't appreciate what happens with  Virginia's personal life. I don't want to give too much of the story away,  but I felt that the second half of this story went WAY beyond credibility.  After Virginia leaves England, there is not too much of the story I found  redeming. It was an enjoyable read becuase the writting style was so fluid,  but I had a pretty hard time getting into the plot.	1999-04-07
US	52708799	R2KI80HLSE308T	0515124435	182021831	Every Breath She Takes	Books	4	5	5	N	N	ve long been a Susan Forster fan....	Susan Forster has always been great at defining her characters, and this story shows no change. Rio and Carlie both have many problems to overcome, things stretching back to their childhoods, but do so. I hesitate to say  they do so together, because for most of the book they spar around one  another, not convinced that the other one isn't guilty. They have problems  trusting, which for any good relationshiip is deadly. Rio is a mysterious  character, who has a sixth sense, though refuses to call it pysychic. To  him it is a learned 'power'...he just learned to listen better than others.  Carlie comes from an extremely dysfunctional family though, on the outside  they look perfectly normal. <br />I loved reading this story and breaking into  the many layers Ms. Forster plots out for us. This story itself holds many  twists and turns, and to be honset, I didn't know 'who dunnit' until the  end. Its not often a book surprises me, but this one did. I do not know how  accurate her psychological profile of stalker victims are, (since I have no  pysch related education) but it seems very well presented. I felt that I  was in the mind of the victim. My only criticism is that at times I thought  the book was choppy or jumped around too quickly. Its not that I had a hard  time keeping up with the story, but I would have liked some explinations or  longer descriptions on what was happening. We would be one place which one  character, then another place with another character, often times not  knowing for a few paragraphs who we were with. I suppose that's one sort of  literary license, but I didn't care for it. I also had a hard time defining  fact from fantasy. Carlie has some fantasies and many of the scenes are  written in such a style that I can't tell (until later) if what I am  reading is happening to our heroine or is another of her fantasies. Overall  though, this is a great contemp. suspence romance, and pick it up if you  can!!!<br />--------------------------------------------------------------------------------	1999-04-07
US	52708799	R15DFH48D8VSPF	0425168131	14193917	Conspiracy in Death	Books	4	1	2	N	N	This is a great idea for a series.....	I have been into the &quot;in Death&quot; series since its inception and have enjoyed reading all the books (some more than others).  Conspiracy in Death is one of the best of the series.  I felt that the last few books had  been slowly backsliding, a writer too complacent in her writing, too caught  up in all her other stories (under other psuedonames).  With Consppiracy in  Death, we are once again put back on the path of good writing and a good  story.  <br />Eve and Roarke are a dynamic couple, with a lot of support from  great secondary characters.  I suppose that would be my only criticism of  this story, not enough time with all our &quot;friends&quot;.  Though I  like having the story focus on Eve and Roarke (with some very steamy  scenes) we have so many secondary characters who get put on the back burner  that I wish weren't.  One very important part of this story is that Eve's  friends are there for her when she needs them, yet not too much time is  actually spent with these characters.  If you hadn't read her previous  stories you would be completely lost. That is why I only gave this 4 stars  and not five. She also introduces a new character (a rookie cop) who I  liked, but never really saw again after the first few scenes.  And  Peabody...are we ever going to see her with someone (besides her current LC  boyfriend)???	1999-04-07
US	52708799	RLGDVE7VLA692	0451407938	664525353	Outlaw in Paradise	Books	1	5	10	N	N	I hate to do this but....	In all my years of reading and all the stories I have read, I've never given a one star.  I just did not get into this book. After the first 200 pages, I just couldn't read any more.  The writing was sophmoric, very easy  reading, with no depth.  There was no suspence to talk about and I found  nothing endearing about the characters.  I'm sorry to be so harsh on a  book, because I know the authors work so hard on their stories, but there  was nothing I liked about this story.	1999-03-28
US	52708799	R1RFG23CPK2WTL	1551662728	291137204	Unmasked	Books	3	3	3	N	N	2 out of 3 ain't bad.....	I am not a big anthology fan, and prefer the longer stories more.  I read this book for Jennifer Blake, since I like her writing style.  I was not too terribly disappointed in her story or Gage's story.  It was the last  one that I didn't like at all.  There was something very distrubing about  that whole plotline.  I just can't seem to like it, no matter how hard I  try.  I would give the three stories a 3 star, 3 star and 1 star rating  respectively.	1999-03-28
US	52708799	ROE1JCUMMGQGQ	0380805685	360399234	Scandal's Bride (Cynster Novels)	Books	5	35	37	N	N	Better than A Rake's Vow, on par with Devil's Bride!!!	Of the hundreds of books I've read, I very rarely give a 5 star rating...I think I would prefer to give this a 9 out of 10, but since that's not an option, I'm giving it five stars. I thoroughly enjoyed the story and got  some belly laughs when the Cynaster family visits Scandal and Catriona en  mas. The poor only child gets inundated with family. I like the story, and  although I can commiserate with Mrs. Giggles that the Cynaster males have  no obvious flaws, I think that's part of the charm. As escapest reading,  once and a while its nice to read about strong males who are  &quot;perfect&quot;, that's part of the escape. Now, I wouldn't want that  to be a trend and read it in every new book, but Mrs. Laurens does such a  good job with these males that I think that's their appeal. No one believes  that anyone like that exists, though we wish they did.  I have but two  small objections to the book, which might seem petty in the extreme. The  first is the excessive usage of the word &quot;humph&quot;. I think  everyone &quot;humphed&quot;, and a page was not complete without it. The  other small critisism was the amount of times Scandal appreciated the  &quot;swing of&quot; our heroine's &quot;hips&quot;. I loved the romance  scenes and the quality which gave Scandal pause as to whether this was  reality or a dream. I also like the fact that they don't get caught up in  the &quot;misunderstanding&quot; plot. They seem to, but work through it  and get on with the story. Do not pass go, do not collect $200...go out and  BUY THIS BOOK!!!	1999-03-24
US	52708799	R1VO7FOWSEGJB	0440207223	856442437	By My Heart Betrayed	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Get comfy, snuggle in, and get ready for a great story	Keane and Esmerelda lead the reader through a stunning story. Not your usual &quot;I've been wronged&quot; plot line. Esmerelda was betrayed as a youngster (she was 10) but a fiesty Irish woman/girl took to looking out  for her. They made their way to America, where they struggled for nine  years to make enough money to reclaim Esmerelda's birthright. There are  twists and turns, but eventually our hero steps in to prevent this  &quot;scemeing witch&quot; from fleecing his good friends. What he learns  however, is touching and beautifully written. Here we have a strong,  independant woman, but the story does not degenerate into the &quot;I have  to do this on my own&quot; theme. You will enjoy watching Keane and  Esmerelda build their love and work together to restore her rightful place,  while overcoming deeply engrained fears. This was a great story, and I  highly recommend it!	1999-03-19
US	52708799	R2VQNKID74V1CH	0821758063	681748880	Dangerous Waters	Books	4	10	10	N	N	What a great story!!!	Wow, I was plesantly surprised by this story. I have not read anything by Ms. Fetzer and am definately going to try to read more. I tend to stay away from stories with the blatant covers, but am glad I did not with this one.  Victoria and Christopher make a wonderful couple. The villian is truly evil  and waiting for him to go down keeps the reader on the edge of their seats  through the story. Victoria is a strong contemperary woman sent back in  time to track down a psychopath. She's lost her daughter and her sense of  femininity, but gained one hell of a drive to put scum in their place.  Chris is just the guy to make her find her self worth again. He's sharp (he  sees through Victoria's many disguises), and though at a disadvantage  against 20th century police know-how, he holds his own. <br />The writing is  superb. Victoria and Chris's story is touching, and the secondary  characters give just the right touch to complete an already great tale. If  you like time travel and the interaction of people who normally wouldn't  intereact (ie. 20th century bounty hunter and a 19th century marshall) grab  this one up, its definitely worth the read!!!!	1999-03-19
US	52708799	R1CE9S9S8EODXU	0380760061	967897492	Temptation	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A good solid read	I really enjoyed reading Amanda and Grant's story. The plot was solid, and the writing style was delightful to get engrossed in.  I liked the way Ms. Hart set the whole story up, and especially how she portrayed Amanda's  character.  What really is a &quot;lady&quot;?  I did think that Grant was  a bit too set in his ways, not bending at all in his beliefs about Amanda.   Just when I thought he was beginning to see the light, he reverted to his  earlier prejudices. <br />I only have a few little problems with the story. It  is set in post Civil War America, but I never got that feeling.  There was  no mention of the War's effect on the area.  I know horse racing picked up  at that time, and Ms. Hart showed this rise well.  It just seemed like  everyone was fine and dandy, full families, no hardships, etc.  I know  Kentucky is not Virginia, but the War must have effected there as well.   The neighborhood did not even sport one grieving widow.  I also thought  that Grant and Amanda were a little dense when it came to figuring out who  was sabbotaging the farm.  For two smart people they were pretty dumb in  this instance.<br />The secondary characters added just the right amount of  spice to keep this story fresh.  Tad, Macy, the senator and his wife,  Betsy, so many others who just came together splendidly to fill the plot.  Read this one if you can (even though its out of print).	1999-03-05
US	52708799	R1J0M7RWJ0KXJA	1551664593	102060686	Drifter	Books	3	13	16	N	N	An ok read to kill some time	I am quite surprised to see all the glowing reviews here for this book.  Don't get me worng, I enjoyed reading about Leah and Jackson, but I did not think this was 5 star material.  The plot was interesting, with a few  levels not usually found in romance novels.  I liked Ms. Wigg's use of  Cassie as a character and her role in the plot.  I do not have much of a  psychological back ground, but I would have liked to have seen a more in  depth view of what made her tick.  Ms. Wiggs gave me enough to keep me  interested, but I would have liked to become absorbed. <br />Leah and Jackson  obviously have a lot of baggage to sort thru, and eventually they did, but  something just seemed to be missing. I wish I could put my finger directly  on the problem, but I'm afraid I can't.  They skirted each other, letting  down their gaurds a little at a time, but it just seemed a little...brief.   Again, I would have liked to have seen more.  As with many romance novels  today, I felt the end extremely rushed.  The sherif's story, the Indians,  our new female doctor and the marshall all seemed to rush together to end  at once, with out a saticfactory explination.  Oh, the explination was  there, it just rushed by.  <br />On the whole, this is not a bad book.  If you  want a time filler on the beach or on the ride to work, pick it up.  If  you're looking for in depth descriptions and an intricate plot, look  elsewhere.	1999-03-04
US	52708799	R1DB1970R525K6	0553574337	623243974	Night Moves	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A good light read....	Gray, Christine, and Amanda's story, in Night Moves, is a good book to read if you are looking for a contempary light read.  Ms. Canfield tries hard to have a plot with many twists and turns but I found them pretty  predictable.  I did like the fact that there were a lot of charaters  involved with the story and that they all hold an important piece of the  puzzle.  <br />My biggest problem was with the characters themselves.  They  were a bit on the flat side with not too much depth.  Christine struck me  as a shallow, self centered heroine.  She wanted everything and used two  men to get it.  I honestly don't know how she can justify keeping the fact  that you fathered a child from someone.  If I was Gray, I would be livid,  especially since he WANTED to have kids. I think what Christine did was  unforgivable, and if I was Gray, I might have taken Amanda and left  (although Ms. Canfield tackles this point, I think I would have gone, not  resolved it).  Peyton got my complete pity, what a pathetic character.  How  he could stay with someone for 10 years when they loved someone else is  beyond me.  As for Gray, I liked him.  He is down to earth (literally,  since he is a gardner), and patient, and if I was him, I think I would have  reacted completely diffrently to the whole situation.  I don't think I  could lose my bitterness so quickly (even with all the threats being thrown  around).<br />I wouldn't discount reading Night Moves completely, just be  ready for a pretty average book.	1999-03-03
US	52708799	R1UXY08T4B0OHW	0440224918	275066590	Dark Wager	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A dark, brooding hero, who is redemable....	I found Lucien and Clara's story an enjoyable one to read. Having read its sequel first, I must say that I liked Dark Wager much more than I did Lady's Wager, but both are books you can slip into easily. Although a bit  on the 'weak' side, I thought Ms. Spencer did a commendable job of defining  Clara's character. Lucien needs an understanding soul, and if Clara had a  strong, independent role, that so many of the heroines in today's romance  genre do, the story would not have wokred as well. Clara understands  herself, knowing that she is 'plain', but good company to others. When  asked by Lucien why she flirts, she gives him a surprisingly open and  astute answer. If she can't dazzle people with her looks, she tries to do  so with her personality. In a genre where the beauty of the elite is  written ad nauseum, I was pleased with a character of 'inner' beauty. <br />On  the flip side, I thought our hero's character also well formed and, after  understanding him, even likable. Although on the outside, he was cold and  callus, we catch a glimpse of Lucien when he was younger and looking for  love and acceptance. From this sensitive youth, despite his troubled  childhood and disillusionment with women (his mother, uncle's fiance, and  his 'girlfriend') we find a hard man who still carries the desire to truly  love and be loved in return. It just takes him time to realize this. His  relationship with his uncle is a bond any father and son would envy, and at  the risk of being sappy, Ms. Spencer pulls off some very touching scenes  between nephew and uncle.    This book is not an in depth historical novel  of the Regency period, but a tender love story of at least four people (if  you count Wulf and Bella, then 6) and well worth the read.	1999-03-01
US	52708799	R3LJ74UJIRMZ04	0821760009	633918840	Surrender (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	I thoroughly enjoyed this one!!!!	Although there might be some out in readerland who will not like this story, I found it to be quite an enjoyable read. The heroine is very naive, maybe too much so in the beginning to be believable, but her growth and  maturity is rewarding to follow. Some might criticize this story because  Jennifer Lee is sort of clingy and not a totally strong and independant  woman. Quite to the contrary, I felt it refreshing not to have to read  about ANOTHER invincible woman. Jenny is strong in her own way, wanting to  prove herself, but not necessarily all on her own. Marcus can be a bit TOO  heavyhanded, not telling Jenny things because he doesn't think she needs to  know or can handle the truth. Although it does get aggrevating to the  modern reader, it is quite realistic to the time period. Men did not  'bother' women with too many details. That doesn't make it right or  acceptable today, but it was how it was done then. I think Ms. Rice does a  wonderful job in conveying the attitiudes of the time. <br />The relationship  between Marcus and Jenny is also a delight to follow. Both are hurt,  unintentionally by the other, but they learn to rise above that. Jenny has  a hard time, not knowing the 'rules' that Marcus (and society) sets, so is  often breaking them. The 'threat' of the story is quite predictable, but  does not detract from the main premise of the story...Marc and Jenny's  love. Grab this one if you can, its worth reading!!!	1999-03-01
US	52708799	R2K74LPL50QZEF	0449003884	137050959	The Bride Finder	Books	4	0	0	N	N	What a great book!!!!!!	Susan Carroll has hit a full winner with this story.  Madeline and Anatole work so well together, that I can easily imagine them together through out eternity, body and soul. Anatole is everything a romance reader could want  in a hero, and then some.  A child feared by his mother because of his  special gift, Anatole just wants to be loved.  What a weak man his father  must have been to neglect such a wonderful being.  All St. Legers have had  powers through time so the fact the his father &quot;turned&quot; on him,  favoring his mother, is indicative of a very weak and contemptable man.   Anatole is anything but, though deep down he fears Madeline's rejection of  all he is. It does not help that from the first, she is a practical  thinking female who grounds everything in logic.  Poor Anatole, he follows  his family's legend to the letter (even after all the rejection) and feels  that even his bride can't love him.<br />There is a special  &quot;something&quot; in the writing that Ms. Carroll captures that makes  this story so endearing to its readers.  My only complaint, (and its fairly  small - but why it only got 4 stars) was that the plot itself, outside the  love story of our hero and heroine, was weak.  The St. Leger males (not  unlike Stephanie Lauren's Cynstr males), are a strong brood who I would  like to get to know better.  But by using a legend as the basis for  everything in the story, I got the feeling that the plot became quickly  contrived.  Even if our evil cousin Ronan wanted to redeem himself, he  couldn't...his path was written once certain deeds had been set in motion.   No one (except maybe Anatole and Madeline) can outwit the family  legends.<br />Thus saying, I am eagerly awaiting the sequel of Madeline and  Anatole's son(s) story(ies?)!!!!!	1999-03-01
US	52708799	R2FZZ0SKMJQYVG	044922645X	62442173	Priceless	Books	3	0	0	N	N	There's nothing wrong with this book, it was just - average	If you want a light read to fill up your time, then Priceless is perfect for you. The plot was good (if not a bit predictable) and the characters had a bit of depth to them...not just cardboard cutouts. Liberty and Elliot  engage in some great sparring matches which should bring a smile to your  lips. I found that Liberty had an uncanny ability to read our hero's moods  and thoughts, and tended to read too much into things (though all for the  good of their relationship - unlike the typical misunderstanding  storyline). I suppose I am just disappointed because I like longer stories  with more detail (ie. Ms. Kaye talks briefly about the Crystal Palace, but  unless you are a history buff, you wouldn't understand the reference and  how it was like the World Fair's of today. At the time it was a first in  many things architectually, scientifically, artistically, etc...)  <br /><br />Halfway between a 'serial' and a full legnth historical, I think  Priceless would have been better served if the publisher didn't use such  big margins and spacing between the lines, and cut this book to where it  should be... 250 pages.	1999-03-01
US	52708799	RPYQ5LRXFGEQ2	0515124346	438888270	Eternal Sea (Haunting Hearts)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	IF YOU LIKE PARANORMAL - read THIS BOOK!!!	I thoroughly enjoyed reading Ms. Alfonsi's book, Eternal Sea. Eric and Miranda (a good allusion using Shakespeare's Tempest princess' name) work so well together, that by the end, you really want a traditionally happy  ending for them. I rarely show any sort of emotion when reading, but I did  get quite a few chuckles form this story. Our hero's last name is Wolfe,  and Miranda's hooded sailing jacket, when they first encounter each other,  is red. Ms. Alfonsi has a superb command of the sublime. <br />I did feel at  times that Miranda's character was a bit childish. Also, unfortunately, I  felt that the book's ending rushed our hero and heroine too much. Miranda  spent so long away from Eric, eventually not believing in him at all, and  then in one night becomes a believer again? I think the plot would have  been better served if their reunion took longer. It really didn't seem  plausable to me. <br />Eric, on the other hand, was a great charater, who  struck a cord with me immediately. He was strong, yet not overly so...kind  of blustering when angered, yet gentle too. That is usually a hard  combination to pull of successfully, yet Ms. Alfonsi accomplishes it  admirably. I did not however, care for the 'evil storyline' of this book.  The secondary characters (with the exception of Wolfes' crew) were  overblown, and completely unbelievable. They detracted from an otherwise  lovely story. The story is sweet and simply written and I would have  prefered to give this book a 3 1/2 star rating.	1999-03-01
US	52708799	R2ALHSPFKDRM94	0380786451	974979200	Sleeping Beauty	Books	4	17	18	N	N	A refreshingly down to earth tale....	I think what struck me the most about this story, was the way that something so...whimsical, can be written so solidly.  Our hero, the dashing James, is such a character, I'm almost affraid to believe in him.  His  struggles thru Africa, in a time when it was thought to be &quot;the White  Man's Burden&quot; to civilize these barbarous wilds.  He &quot;goes  native&quot; and really learns how to appreciate life much like we do  today, (but never would have in Victorian England).  This sets the stage  nicely for him to fall in love with our heroine.  Coco has had to do  whatever she can to raise her son, alone in a world none to friendly to  women.  She makes no appologies for having to sleep her way through the  world and James must come to grips with this.  The story was quite romantic  and I loved following our characters through their path to love.  Unlike in  Conrad's Heart of Darkness, Ms. Ivory has our African explorer make it  back, though profoundly changed.  I have to say, I loved this book.	1999-02-25
US	52708799	R3B6SUGJ0GAA0W	0380795833	44449418	Upon a Wicked Time (An Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A fast-paced romp....pick it up if you can	I loved our heroine, Tessa, and would give her the Congressional Medal of Honor for putting up with our hero, Jered.  Now don't get me wrong, I  kind of liked Jered in a warped sort of way, who wouldn't want to reform a rake  like that?  His nonchalant and depraved attitude towards life,  leads to  some very interesting sexual scenes.  I really did want to hate Jered after  all he did, but I suppose even the worst of us are redeemable. His struggle  with himself, and the philisophical discussions he engages in with his  uncle are enlightening to read.  Truly, the love of a good woman changed  this seemingly hopeless specimen.  Tessa has a great support system in her  family,(whew! 6 brothers!!!) and though Jered could have had similar  support, he turned from his family when struck with tragedy.<br />This is one  of the instances where I found the story ran flat.  We never have any sort  of reconciliation with Jered and his sister or his mother's family.  He was  reaching out towards that at one point in the story, but it was never  resumed.  I also thought there was a bit too much attempt at using literary  license.  The scene changes  (between chapters) were very abrupt and  sometimes uncomfortable.  I don't need everyhting spelled out for me, but  there are times when emotions are peaking, then the next thing you know, a  week is past.  It takes some getting used to where you are supposed to be  in the story.	1999-02-23
US	52708799	R2PVI9BVUOIAXF	0505521482	59079007	The Dawn Star	Books	3	6	8	N	N	A light romp through space....	The Dawn Star is a quick read (I read it in one sitting), and enjoyable if seen in that light.  Do not dig any deeper into the story if you want to enjoy it.  Though Ms. Piel tries to make a &quot;rebirth&quot; story for  our hero, I felt she fell a bit short of her mark.  Everything moves so  quickly, that reading the story gets uncomfortable.  From what I can pick  up, the entire story takes place in about a week, yet there is no way all  that happens could possibly happen in that time frame.  At one point, our  heroine's brother (Dane) is beaten to a pulp, broken ribs and eyes so  bruised he can't see, yet the next day he is up and about putting together  a spaceship.  Or the idea of converting a member from a  &quot;subspecies&quot; to act like what passes for royalty whithin a  day...mind probe or not. Our hero, Senecca, tries to convert his  overweight, scientific people into Martial Arts experts within days, and  succedes (never mind the fact that it took him YEARS to accomplish the same  thing). <br />The moral of the story, that you need harmony and balance in  life, seemed way too obvious and was pounded continuously into our heads.   The Evil Uncle storyline was contrived and only seemed to bog down the  story, I think the same story could have been accomplished without this  subplot.  If you want to read this story as a sci fi light read, its not  too bad (especially knowing that there is a sequel in the works), but if  you are looking for a saticfying romance read, you might want to look  elsewhere.	1999-02-22
US	52708799	R19K1SPFM534RT	0515121878	457399382	Crimson Lace	Books	4	7	7	N	N	What a wonderfully written story!!!	Reading Lily and Morgan's story was a treat. Ms. Lee weaves a tender story about finding oneself. Lily was always a bit of a wild child and when trouble arises, society is willing to think the worst of her. The character  of Lily is well developed and extremely likable. She is strong, but deep  down just wants acceptance like everyone else. Morgan is a perfect foil for  her and though has misgivings of his own, is there for her. The plot takes  twists and turns that I did not expect, and thus completely appreciated.  Unlike so many stories today, which seem to end abruptly, as if the author  has reached a deadline, Crimson Lace, rolls to a comfortable and satisfying  end. <br />There are many levels to this story, and I wonder if the story  shouldn't be called something like 'The Many Betrayals of Lily'. She has my  vote for woman of the year! With the help of many colorful secondary  characters, and steamy, tention filled scenes, this story is well worth the  read.	1999-02-19
US	52708799	R1ZXZMDWEXUSRR	0449002136	883837876	The Love Slave	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Definitely erotica at its fullest.....	Choosing a rating for this book is very difficult because I don't want to scare anyone away with only 3 stars, BUT BE WARNED, this story is NOT for everyone.  Beatrice Small has always been extremely graphic in her stories,  and if you don't like highly detailed erotic scenes, stay away from this  story.<br />Thus saying, the attention to detail, sights, smells, feelings,  and tastes, that Ms. Small is known for in her earlier stories, are all  here in The Love Slave.  Regan is a no-nonsense woman who takes what could  be an extremely bleak future, and molds it into something, if not  desireable for everyone, then atleast sucessful. I found it much more  realistic to see how her character progresses, even having to take the  lovers she must in order to be more than just someone's whore in the white  gold trade.  Some might see her as prostituting herself (and thus be turned  off), but Ms. Small tries very hard to disuade us of thinking of Regan in  that light.  It is the more practical  I-will-do-whatever-I-have-to-to-survive light that is striving to surface  here. <br />Regan and Karim are both interesting characters to get to know,  and to empathise with, as the story unfolds.  By the end of the story, the  plot seems to turn a little too pat with first the one, and then the other  needing each other to pull them out of a depression, but we can work around  that. In a time when you can't simply buck the system or win all the time,  this story might pull at our democratic ideals of the freedom to chose to  live our lives as we see fit, but it makes it all that more realistic in my  eyes. I enjoyed this story, but as I warned above, stay clear if you don't  like VERY graphic sex.	1999-02-15
US	52708799	RGCWYW2OY4XFM	0671004166	792921692	Wonderful You	Books	3	3	6	N	N	I'd prefer to give it 3 1/2 stars - its better than average	Zoey and Ben's story was a nice story to follow, but there was not much there.  The writing was, ok, nothing spectacular, no in depth descriptions, no profound thoughts, just sweet and simple words, for a sweet and simple  story.  I hadn't read Devlin's Light (which I didn't need to since it was  pretty much summed up in this story), and Wonderful You stands fine on its  own (though it is very obvious that there was a predecessor and will be a  sequel - or two).  There were definitely some great points in this book -  like who couldn't love a mother who keeps Godiva chocolates in her glove  compartment? But on the whole, there was nothing in here that made me say  &quot;wow&quot;.  The characters, while likable, are not very deep.   I  felt kind of cheated. This is obviously a close family who love one another  a lot, but that is the only emotion I got out of them. It seemed to border  on superficiality. Now, after seemingly ripping apart this story, I would  like to say that I did enjoy reading it as a &quot;light&quot; read, and  will probably pick up the next book, &quot;Moon Dance&quot; just to see  what happens with this family.	1999-02-11
US	52708799	R19RLVJ49PEBAJ	0821759191	881013545	Darling Jasmine (Skye's Legacy)	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Probably her second worst book I've read	I have long been an avid Beatrice Small fan, reading all of her novels as they come out.  As time goes on, her books have been getting worse and worse.  I keep buying them, hoping they will be like their predecessors and  being sadly disappointed.  Her first books had so much detail about  EVERYTHING, not only sex.  I can still see, feel and taste her descriptions  of the Tudor court and the Middle East.  Where her older books can be  considered erotic, I found some of the descriptions in this one just  distasteful.  Firey passion is one thing, foul language constantly, is  another.<br />I also could not get over the fact that on almost every page our  heroine is called &quot;DARLING JASMIN&quot;. There are some pages she's  called that 2 or 3 times.  We get the idea that she's a  &quot;darling&quot;, we don't need to be beaten over the head with it (even  if she is a bit spoiled - especially in the beginning - and not really  anyone's &quot;darling&quot;!!!).<br />Thus saying, I did appreciate two  different things in this book.  First, I like that Ms. Small continues to  recap who the people are.  She has written so many books about this family  (and the Glenkirk family), that it is hard to keep everyone straight.   Second, I liked the ending to this series and how she handled Skye.  Not to  ruin the ending for anyone, just be prepared for a smile and a tissue.....	1999-02-03
US	52708799	R1QGCQHD22QO70	0446363812	422979989	Gift of Gold	Books	4	27	29	N	N	Even after 10 years I remember this plot vividly!!!	This was the first book of Ms. Krentz that I read, and that was all it took; she had me hooked! Even after 10 years and hundreds of books, I remember the plot with great detail. Gifts of Gold, and its sequel, Gifts  of Fire make a great read for those who like contemporary AND historical  fiction. There is a dash of the paranormal, which Ms. Krentz later expands  in her 'flower' books (Orchid, Zinnia), but which she wrote about WAY  before it was vogue to do so. I just love the way she took our hero and  heroine and combined their special 'gifts'. With a quick wit, a great sense  of humor, a villanous 'bad guy', and some great sensual scenes, this book  is not to be missed!!!	1999-02-01
US	52708799	R1ZLRUANPEZQUT	0440226384	823736786	Brazen Heiress	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A good read, but I enjoyed its predecessor better....	Ms. Boyle writes a great story and I thoroughly enjoyed reading Lily and Webb's tale. If it was her only book I probably would have given this glowing reviews.  Unfortunately though, I felt that compared to her  previous book, it was a bit lacking.  The plot was not quite as intricate  and, on the whole, much more simplistic.  The depth was just not there.  At  one point I looked down and saw that I was on page 223 and wondered how I  got so far along in the plot.  It felt like nothing much had happened yet.   The last book delved pretty far into the workings of the French Revolution,  and I appreciated that.  Brazen Heiress skimmed the surface (very lightly)  of Bonapart's early reign. <br />The relationship between our hero and heroine  was...well...there.  A case of puppy love, illusions shattered, marriage to  another, widowhood and meeting first love again and forgiving him  everything he did to break your heart 5 years prior, all within such a  short time, seems a bit contrived.  That our hero's admiration grows for  Lily, is understandable, but I wonder if it would happen so quickly, after  years of thinking of her as a pain in the neck kid.  <br />Thus saying, I  honestly did enjoy this book and hope that the next one (hopefully there  will be atleast one more, since there is still plenty of family left) will  be a little better crafted.  If you can pick it up, read Brazen Heiress and  its predecessor as well.	1999-02-01
US	52708799	R1VZQ94DY1ND2	1551664704	298085509	Once In Paris	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Ok for a time filler....	I don't recall ever reading a Diana Palmer story before (I know she has a bunch of them) and I'm not sure I would read another. There was not much  wrong with this book per se, but there was not much right with it either.  The dialogue was very simple as was the plot. Don't scratch too hard at the  surface of this story or you won't hit anything. We have a tortured hero,  who truly loved his first wife, and it was refeshing to see that he was  faithful in his love. He also had a guilty conscience about a woman who  could have been his daughter (though that seemed to just be a front to keep  our heroine at arm's length while he mourned his wife). Our heorine was  young and impressionable (though at 19 I don't know anyone who is still  that naive...today maybe 16) but she  was just...well ...there. Everyone  loved her and thought she was special, but besides being compassionate, I'm  not sure I see all the allure.<br />Instead of using big print and huge  margins, the editor or publisher should have just used normal typeset and  published this as a 'series'. This 377 page book shouldn't have been longer  that 250 pages.	1999-01-28
US	52708799	R1OOP9NP35HAMM	0451408381	356888472	The Starry Child	Books	3	2	3	N	N	I don't know if I have much to add to the previous reviews	The storyline of this book has so much promise, and I am glad to see that there will be a sequel. Insofar as a plot goes, I loved the ideas even if the execution landed a little short of its mark.  I really WANT to give  this book a good review, but find that I am stuck at the 3 star rating.   Ms. Hanna goes into fairly good depth with the personalities of the  charaters, explaining why they were the way they were and I appreciate  that. The only problem is, that it seemed like she did so at the expense of  plot detail.  Things happened so quickly that I almost felt cheated. It  seemed to me that everything was preordained, so why bother?  I am looking  forward to her next novel, but maybe it can be a little better executed...?	1999-01-27
US	52708799	R1N79F764BYY8	044022554X	41377087	A Kiss to Dream On	Books	4	0	0	N	N	I've always enjoyed Ms. Mittman's books...	...and A Kiss To Dream On, is no different.  All of the characters felt real to the reader.  We all have faults, and where many romance novels gloss over that fact and present perfect leads, Ms. Mittman revels in  writing about believable characters.  Gideon, the strong silent type, works  his way into the reader's heart with his kindness. A truly &quot;nice  guy&quot; whom you sometimes wanted to kick into action, Gideon continues  to renew faith in the reader's belief of love.  Arlissa was a little harder  to like, but does redeem herself as the story unfolds.  A bit spoiled, she  doesn't know a good thing even if it kicks her in the face, until it is  almost too late.  The secondary characters are integral to the plot and  help bring the story to its full potential.<br />I have but one small  criticism of the story, and that is how some of the passages connect.   There are times while reading the story, where I felt as if I missed a  conversation or a paragraph.  Gideon and Arlissa both jump to a lot of  conclusions about each other and sometimes the reader is unaware what  prompts this.  A Kiss To Dream On, is a great love story, (and although it  might seem to be a bit slow at times)I highly reccommed reading it.	1999-01-25
US	52708799	R4KU5SDM5I1AU	0380786095	26917620	One Moonlit Night	Books	3	1	3	N	N	A great premise for a story....	....yet the writing missed its mark.  I like the idea of trying to spread the wrongness of prejudice.  Pettiness and bigotry should always be brought to light and shown how harmful it is.  In that, One Moonlit Night  suceeds.<br />The plot itself was written simplistically and I found that the  story was very predictable.  When I read a book, I like details; to see,  smell, taste and touch everything.  This story seemed to move from one  scene to the next just trying to get to the end as opposed to stopping  along the way to live life.<br />Thus saying, Ms. James does a good job in  defining her characters and delving into what makes them &quot;tick&quot;.   We feel for Dominick, Olivia and Emily for the hardships they have endured,  and although we have to dislike the villian, we understand why the person  did what they did.  I can't suggest to run out and grab this book, but if  it crosses your path, pick it up.	1999-01-22
US	52708799	R1M3TGAI0H216G	0515120790	966659693	Echoes of Tomorrow	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Worth reading but.....I wish it had some more uuumph....	I have always liked time travel romances, wondering how the author is going to work the miracle of crossing centuries, and seeing how the characters react to the difference in circumstances.  Bringing modern  thoughts to a bygone era, or antiquated ideas to today's liberal  philospophies.  Its a difficult task to recreate the past, and harder yet  to realistically place a modern person in those scenes.  Thus saying, I  think Ms. Lykins tries hard to bring both past and present together, and at  some points succeeds wonderfully, at others, she fails.  <br />In general,  Echoes of Tomorrow is a great story with an intriguing plotline. If you  want a quick read that will make you chuckle at times, then definitely read  this book. In reading this book, however, I found the descriptions a little  flat and lacking, and there were many times the story felt rushed.  The  ending was a bit disappointing, not because of its content but because it  felt like Ms. Lykins reached a page deadline and had to end it.  It was  choppy and very uncomfortable to read.	1999-01-21
US	52708799	R3H3PQVW4DLJZ6	0312965990	255209262	Rough Around The Edges (Rough Around Edges)	Books	3	7	11	N	N	I'm not a big anthology fan.....	...however, I am a huge fan of both Susan Johnson and Stephanie Laurens, so I figured I'd give this book a try. Insomuch as a story of this length can be captivating, then these stories were. They were all very well  written and packed with a lot of spice. If you need a book to read in  shorts spurts, as is the case on vacation on the beach....then this book is  perfect. I do not read much in the way of contempary romance, so I had not  been exposed to either Dee Holms or Eilene Wilks before this book, but I  liked their style and stories as well. The book is definitely worth  reading, though I still prefer to read the full length novels.	1999-01-14
US	52708799	R1MY0ZDOZ3PO0C	0786004533	112549772	Almost an Angel	Books	3	3	3	N	N	What a wonderful story.....	Deb Stover, takes an engaging idea and weaves a wonderful story.  The plot and Zach &amp; Hilary's story are worth reading.  My biggest disappointment is in the writing itself.  There was vey little description, and the plot  flies along.  One minute Zach arrives in his deserted ghosttown, and the  next day they are madly in love, declaring their undying devotion to each  other. (Besides the fact that Zach thinks Hilary is certifiably crazy.)   <br />Ms. Stover also tackles the disease of alcohalism. This is a very tough  topic, especially in a romance novel, and she does a commendable job. I  don't know how accurate some of the ideas she portrays are (like getting  someone to stop, and so vehemently, just by talking to them for a few  minutes, it usually takes a bigger impetus than that), but the idea that  she tries, is great. Showing Zach's fight against wanting to take a drink  when things get bad, is heartwrenching.  Definitely worth reading for a  &quot;pick me up&quot;.	1999-01-12
US	52708799	R2WO8320SYDHJV	0671776800	218610853	Paradise (The Paradise series)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	I enjoyed reading this story....	...but I felt it was filled with many contrasts. The writing style was superb. Reading Ms. MacNaught's book was paradise for the reader weary of books seemingly thrown together just to get published. No short choppy  phrases or uncomfortable sentence structures. Meredith is a well developed  character who, despite the odds against her, grows into a self assured  corporate execuative. I like Matt as a character as well, and would have  liked to have seen some more of the story line designated to him. There was  one scene in the beginning of the book which focused on Matt that had no  connection to the plot, it just seemed placed there for the sex content.  Ms. MacNaught could have used the scene to build Matt's hatred towards rich  women, but she didn't. In contrast, there were numerous stories about  Meredith and Lisa growing up, leaving Matt's background seemingly neglected  and leading the reader to see his character as not as strong or full as it  could have been. <br />Matt and Meredith's relationship is complex and  heartwarming to read. Although 11 years is a long time, and a lot can  happen, this time was needed to let the characters mature. My only  critisism of the plot itself, was that it was fairly predictible. There  were no surprises. If you like a long read, with colorful characters and an  enjoyable plot, then pick this one up!	1999-01-11
US	52708799	R2KSAUWNHIRMT	0671737627	591607741	Once and Always (The Sequels series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Enjoy this one!!!!	I got this book by accident and was glad I did.  It was abused and battered, the cover hanging on by a thread.  Obviously well read, I picked it up figuring someone in the past must have loved this book for it to be  in this condition.  From the first chapter I found that I was captured into  the story.  So rarely today do we see such a complex structuring of the  characters and their story.  This is Jason and Victoria's story; there is  no murderer to be found, no waif to be saved, no wrong to be righted  (inless you count an interfering grandmother) just the indepth growth of a  relationship.  <br />We all make mistakes in relationships, misjudge people,  assume motives, and mistakenly hurt them. It is the relationship that can  survive this, that thrives. What a poignant moral for a story.  Although  the copy of my book was printed in 1987, see if you can pick this story up,  its worth the read!	1999-01-06
US	52708799	R1RGLBB462TALF	0380794357	944027789	Highland Scoundrel (Highland Brides)	Books	3	5	8	N	N	I was a bit dissappointed...	Beware anyone who has not read the first in this series (Highland Brides - The Lady and the Knight) or even the other 3 earlier books!!!  I felt the story was brief, and did not flow smoothly.  The characters would be doing  one thing, and in the next paragraph doing something else...it seemed  almost like a non-sequitor.  Part of what feeds this problem, is that there  was so little description in the story.  The charaters just did things, but  there was very little attention given to how they were done.  <br />The only  character in the story I felt was at all developed was our hero Dugald.   Thus saying, he was developed, but the character itself was stretching the  realm of realism.  China and Japan were a VERY far distance in the late  1500's. Also making the reading uncomfortable was the fact that our heroine  was spoiled rotten, or maybe extremely vain is a better description. There  were many times I just wanted to smack her (maybe that was Ms. Greiman's  intention).  And even by the end of the book I found very few qualities to  redeem our Shona.  I don't like to bash books, because I know the authors  take a lot of effort to write them, but I cannot recommend this book.	1999-01-04
US	52708799	RGCF3ICBNGE4W	0440225868	202816415	Priceless	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A nice book to cuddle up to a fire with on a winter night	Ms. Schaff did a good job writing Priceless.  It was an overall enjoyable read.  I felt that the characters were strong, yet not quite up to what their potential hints at.  Our heroine is strong and independent yet makes  some very rash decisions.  Our hero was fun to follow, but also seemed  lacking, why couldn't he trust our heroine? I do look forward to reading  her next novel...	1998-12-31
US	52708799	R2VKZSTZ1PSGO	055357745X	826008680	It Happened One Night	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Grab a hold of this one with both hands!!!	What a wonderful story. Ms. Lafoy has done a masterful job spinning the threads for this tale. The characters of Alanna and Kiervan are artfully formed and compliment each other perfectly...who said like temperments  can't attract? The story has many levels, and Ms. Lafoy keeps drawing each  level in, until a whole story unfolds. The sexual tension between the hero  and heroine spark and ignite (though I might have liked to have seen a  little more ignition). Out of the whole story, my only criticism is how  easily everyone accepts time travel, as if it was an everyday occurance. I  know early 19th century people were superstisious and might have believed  in witches, but they seemed to be a little too complacent about this kind  of miracle. Don't miss reading this treat!!!	1998-12-31
US	52708799	R379ASCO3SZ739	0843944463	561149778	Mine to Take (Futuristic Romance)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Make sure you read the others in the series first!!!!	Dara Joy has done a wonderful job with this series, and I have loved all the books (Rejar and Knight of a Trillion Stars).  With a wicked imagination and a keen sense of humor, reading Gian Ren and Jenise's story  was truly a treat.  Of course I want Traed's story, but I'm also curious  about the familiar left on Jenise's planet.  Such sensual creatures those  familiars are!  I hope Ms. Joy keeps true to the talent of her previous  books on whatever she chooses to write next.	1998-12-28
US	52708799	ROBA7QYQMJ18A	0821758454	254767948	Secrets Of The Heart	Books	3	0	0	N	N	I'd really like to give this book a 3 1/2 star rating!	Although I enjoyed reading Ms. Matthews story, I felt that the story was lacking substance in regard to the character's interaction.  Both Raven and Garreth themselves are wonderful characters who are well developed, but I  felt that they never really got to know one another.  There was great depth  into how Raven felt as a midwife (which was great), and we know that  Garreth is a brooding hero, but somehow they never, well...talk.  Raven  falls in love with Garreth and he with her, but in the book, they ony talk  a few times, before they deside to get married. This all just seemed a  little abrupt to me.  I would have liked to have seen their relationship  grow.<br />As for the rest of the story, it was quite wonderful.  The  secondary characters bring color and life the the story and made reading a  pleasure.  I recommend this book to anyone interested in a good plot and  well a defined hero and heroine.	1998-12-22
US	52708799	R34TUG3IY98QR	0440217776	205730232	The Prince of Cups	Books	4	2	2	N	N	What a refreshingly fresh book!!!!	In a time when most books seem like a copy of one another, this book stands out as completely different.  I thoroughly enjoyed reading the story of Antonio and Veronica. Renaissance Italy is such a fascinating place, and  very few writters have tried to write about it.  The philosophy, the art,  the politics, they are were intertwined and Ms. Feyrer did a wonder job  expressing this.  Plots, and schemes, love and death, assassinations and  greed, religion and politics, they are all there.<br />My only criticism of  this book was the abruptness with which some of the scenes changed.  The  changes between the chapters was done well, though sometimes took a few  paragraphs to see where we were and with whom.  It was within the chapters,  when going between the various charaters and their thoughts, that I felt  adrift sometimes. There was nothing wrong per se, it was sometimes just so  abrupt that it took some time to catch back up. Especially in the beginning  in the scenes with our hero and heroine, I had a hard time placing their  relationship.  Otherwise, this was a wonderful story and I HIGHLY  reccommend it!	1998-12-21
US	52708799	R3CNWEE4T0CH1C	1575662639	92903178	Deceived	Books	3	0	1	N	N	You're better off finding another of Ms. Small's books	Ms. Small has always written a provocative and interesting story.  I found Deceived to fall far flat of her previous books.  The characters seemed shallow and not very full of life.  I can appreciate the theme of finding  more than one love in a lifetime, but the way inwhich she tried to capture  this idea did not quite work.       Usually, Ms. Small's stories go into  great depth about the time period she is writing about.  This story did at  times as well, but somehow I didn't get the feeling of actually being  there, which I usually do.  For a better read, read ANYTHING Ms. Small has  written previously.	1998-12-18
US	52708799	R2A0GT3CQHSHGO	0373288646	848552694	Pearl Beyond Price	Books	3	0	2	N	N	I'd really perfer to give it a 3 1/2 star rating	Ok, I committed a major faux paux by reading this book first.  I realize that it is the 2nd in a trilogy, and if I can find them, I am going to read the other two also.  I am not sure if I can rightfully condemn or condone  this story without reading the others first.  The story itself was  interesting and covered a time period and location not often written about.   Ms. Delacroix's story went into some details about the life on the Asian  plains, yet I felt it was a little vague.  I would have liked to have seen  more detail.  After recently returning from Istambul, I would have love to  have seen a description of the beautiful city and its mosques (or Medeival  Paris, or any of the other cities we visited in the story). Besides the  major plotline, there was not much deviation into details.  The cities were  vague enough to have been anywhere. At any time period.<br />Also, I felt it a  bit disconcerting that the plot was not more developed.  The reader  understood exactly what was going on, but nothing was resolved. (I suppose  that is waiting in the last book, but this book just seemed to be passing  time, and another generation, to the next plot). I felt the book was well  written and worth reading, I would just like to see it better developed.	1998-12-17
US	52708799	RR4L0W50XDB6G	0451408020	700133089	Forbidden Magic	Books	3	1	2	N	N	If you're looking for a quick read of fluff.....	The premise of this story, and the catalyst for what happens is the best part of the story.  Be careful what you wish for, you might actually get it. I felt the story was predictable and the characters were rather  shallow.  I have never known anyone like our hero, who takes  irresponsibility to new heights.  Our heroine was rather insepid, and as is  stated in another review, she steps in our hero's problems without knowing  what the nature of the problem is first. Personally, I won't recommend  bying this book...if you can borrow it from a friend, then maybe....	1998-12-15
US	52708799	RBSRW76NPZ4Y7	0373483503	461382738	Macgregor Brides (Macgregors)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A great mindless read for the beach or for a vacation!	I don't like this 5 star rating system, it does not allow for enough choice...if this was a 10 star system this book would get a 7.  I enjoyed reading the stories, which were light and cheerful.  If you want to read a  book as a pick-me-up, then here's your book.  There was no depth to this  book, either in characters or plot. You have three different (though all  strong) women and a scheming grandfather who &quot;hooks&quot; each one up.   Someone wrote in one of the reviews, that the stories were just too  perfect... I tend to agree. Where can I get a man like Branson?  Ah well,  if you like this type of reading, you will enjoy this book, personally i  perfer her other longer novels, such as the &quot;Born In&quot; series.	1998-12-11
US	52708799	R2LSP0OTBX5EOM	0449458768	505500289	Winterbourne	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Well written book and an enjoyable read!!	Very rarely do I find a book portraying this time period, yet alone doing a good job with it.  Most writers concentrate on The Norman invasion and some &quot;pet&quot; of William the Conquerer.  Ms. Carroll's book,  Winterbourne, deals with a later period, that of King John and the Magna  Carter.  Such an important part of Western history and politic thought.   Seeing our hero struggle with the dilemma of following one's pledge or  one's sense of &quot;justice&quot; is interesting. I felt that the story  was a bit harsh, but then, so was the time period which this was written  about...it gave the plot a sense of realism.<br />I have but 2 criticisms.   First, the time jumped so quickly I didn't get the correct feeling of  elapsed time.  Jaufry was gone for such long perids of time (which warriors  of that time period would have been required to do)yet becuase months  passed from the end of one chapter to the beginning of another, I didn't  get the feeling of separation.  Another example is when our hero saves or  heroine, we know they are going to get married, but the next chapter begins  with the birth of their first child.  No passage of time, no stories of  dealings of them spending time together trying to build a life.  Second, I  didn't like the way in which Ronald's story (Jaufry's bastard son) ended  (or didn't end).  It seemed lame, and I kept wishing to see him &quot;pop  up&quot; again.<br />Thus saying, all in all I felt this was a wonderful story  and would reccommend it to anyone.	1998-12-10
US	52708799	R2C49PNK09GE3S	0451408268	46477901	Wild Wind	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A great book - if you like this genre	I have always liked Patria Ryan's writing style and this book is no exception.  It has been a while since I have read this story, but it sticks on my mind as a great read.  The storyline adds a twist on the usual  &quot;impossible&quot; love theme.  Wrestling with ones's conscience is  never an easy thing, and neither is trying to use justification to ease  one's guilt. This story shows that struggle, with the reader on the  sideline cheering for true love.	1998-12-08
US	52708799	R21XQRW0RSGOI9	0446604410	890767881	The Promise of Jenny Jones	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A funny and heartwarming story	Ms. Osborne captures two strong charaters on paper and makes them work wonderfully together.  Jenny and Ty are both people of integrity who are used to working alone.  An unusual situation throws them together and they  must rely on each other to see their goals achieved.  The writing was  delightful, with witty conversation and good old fashion virtues. I found  Jenny's attempts to curb her vocabulary around a 6 year old amusing  (although I doubt she would have been using the work &quot;friking&quot; -  but the stronger equivalant!). Although at first I balked at the title, Ms.  Osborne chose a very clever title indeed... was it Jenny's verbal promise  or her potential?  Wonderful story!	1998-12-07
US	52708799	RFH4BTDNCJXJC	0312966245	24753600	The Lost Bride	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Sit back, relax and enjoy!!!	Ms. Willman writes another wonderful romance. I usually prefer books where the main characters grow to love one another and avoid the &quot;misunderstanding&quot; storyline, but this story rises above that  typical plot trap. It also avoids the black and white &quot;good  guy/villian&quot; trap.<br />Ms. Willman is a skillful writer who gets into  the mind of our hero - who happens to be a painter - and you can actually  see his thought processes.  I found it interesting that this painter sees  life in pictures, not necessarily words. Our heroine is a bit naive, but I  suppose it fits the plot. The secondary characters are a delight and add so  much to the story. Add in a dash of fairy dust and &quot;poof&quot; a geat  read!<br />My only criticism of this book is the compact amount of time in  which the story unfolds.  Everything happens in such a short period of  time, I felt that it would be hard to get to know each other let alone fall  in love.   Other than that, Lost Bride is definitely worth reading.	1998-12-07
US	52708799	R2YHU8PZQLO6JO	0553567764	707887023	Prince of Dreams	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Spark the imagination!!!  4 1/2 Stars!!!!	I read this book when it first came out, 2 years ago, but it still sticks in my memory and has been relegated to one of my favorite books. I don't like to give 5 star ratings because you never know about the next  book...but this book deserves atleast a 4 1/2 star rating!  Susan Krinard  writes a wonderful story that is obviously well thought out with dynamic  characters and page turning plots. The sexual tensions are usually so  thick, one can cut them with a knife. This story makes you stop and  think...hmmmm...I know this is impossible, but what if....  That is what  makes good fantasy, great.  And Prince of Dreams IS great.  If you are  looking for a good read and not just &quot;fluff&quot; definitely pick up  this book.	1998-12-04
US	52708799	R3TV0QUZ1YY7YA	0843931213	849749795	Sea Fire	Books	3	14	14	N	N	I don't know whether I liked this book or not....	If you are looking for some explicit sex scenes, you've come to the right place. I don't know whether I liked this book or not. For the most part I look forward to reading Karen Robards book's and this one was no exception.  The writing of the story was wonderfully done, with interesting characters  and different way of chronologically telling the story.  Cathy and Jon's  story starts AFTER they have met, been married and had a child.  It is only  when she is called away to her sick father's bed - an ocean away - that  things go wrong. <br />I suppose what bother's me so much about this story is  the way Ms. Robards has the hero continually using the heroine - and uses  is the right word.  [Don't read further in this paragraph if you do not  want to know some of the plot.] Being so mad at Cathy (for a  misunderstanding he won't even listen to her explain)he rapes her in one  scene, and takes her repeatedly without her consent for weeks.  Cathy gets  angry, and goes into a type of comatose state that rape victoms often do,  but then, when they are in danger, forgives him everything - even sleeping  with another women in front of her.  How can someone love anyone like that  - even if he later regrets his actions or realizes he did it because he was  SO jealous? No matter what his background is or his distrust of women, how  (or why) would anyone put up with that?  <br />I hate to sound so wishy-washy  but I can't righty suggest or spurn this book. It really depends upon the  reader's interest and tolerance level.	1998-12-02
US	52708799	R137YCDGV2MY06	0446605042	343323248	Lucky Stars	Books	3	0	0	N	N	I'd really like to give this a 3 1/2 star rating	This book was definitely better than average - which is a 3 star rating - but it does not quite rate as a four star.  I had a hard time relating to the hero of this story.  Leon is such a &quot;nice guy&quot; throughout the  entire story, yet I didn't feel that his upbringing would have produced  such a person. Even from the begining, when he's &quot;forced&quot; into  getting married (I use that term lightly, I feel he could have gotten out  of it is he really wanted to) he just sort of rolls along with whatever  Marjorie says.  Where's his backbone?  I don't mind a sensitive male lead,  but Leon seems a little too soft for his upbringing and his background.   Here's a guy who went through 15 step mothers - always being the left out  child, the Civil War, hearding on the Texan plains, and wandering the west.   You tell me that this kind of man is going to meekly find himself trapped  into marriage, have little to no sexual relations with his &quot;wife&quot;  and settle down? I don't think so. On a more positive note, I enjoyed the  secondary characters, and felt that they added a great deal to the story.   Hank, Ruby, and their family gave the reader an interesting perspective of  the post-War west.  This isn't a bad book to pick up and read if you like  this genre, but I think there are better books availible today.	1998-11-30
US	52708799	RXGQS23E4EB5X	0312956339	659123868	The Paradise Man	Books	3	0	0	N	N	I would really like to give this book a 3 1/2 star rating	I enjoyed reading Ms. Simmons book, The Paradise Man, and feel that it was better than average (3 stars) but not quite deserving of a 4 star rating. If you like quick, light reading, you will love this book.  The main  charaters, though not thoroughly developed, are fun to follow through their  adventures.  The secondary characters are completely unbelievable and I  felt detracted from the story.  There are a few surprises, but for the most  part I felt that the book was very predictable.  If you want to kill a few  hours relaxing on the beach then this is your book!	1998-11-24
US	52708799	R1DB1ZX0XM9GKT	0671024671	452717812	Touch Not the Cat	Books	4	2	2	N	N	I hope to read more from Ms. Fobes soon!	What a wonderful story!  With a long legacy to overcome, the hero and heroine of this book work together to surmount the odds.  The book has it all: love, intrigue, murder, lies, and redemption. I found it very  difficult to put this book down, and it was only after my husband  threatened to turn the light off himself, that I actually had to stop  (though I finished it the next day).  Nicolas and Catherine drew me into  their story and kept me there.  If you have the chance, definitely read  this book!	1998-11-23
US	52708799	R1MTR06GIUWJ2E	0451407598	398990502	A Slip in Time	Books	4	33	33	N	N	I'm hoping there will be a sequel	Ms. Kirkwood did a wonderful job in telling this tale.  I was drawn into the story from the first page, and kept enthralled until I closed the back cover.  As is commented upon in the other reviews, she does a thorough job  of explaining the ideas of &quot;Time Slips&quot; and makes you believe it  might be possible.  I especially like the time periods in which Ms.  Kirkwood used.  Instead of your &quot;typical&quot; time travel from the  present, she used two dates in the past, and played the Victorian Lady and  Highland laird well off against each other. There are not too many times  that I actually laugh while reading, but I woke my husband up with my  chuckling.  I sincerely hope that there will be a sequel to this. . .maybe  with Rae's nephew?	1998-11-23
US	52708799	R2DCA3D6LNYLWE	0553577476	321042362	Lady Reckless	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The best romance I've read in quite some time	When the bus pulled into the depot from my commute to work I was terribly dissappointed.  I wish I had hit 2 hours of traffic becuase I did not want to put this book down.  The story of Carrick and Glynnis was a delight to  read.  The fast paced, witty conversation, easy quips and light banter had  me laughing with the characters.  I had some idea how Ms. LaFoy was going  to end this one, but I didn't care.  I now have to go out and buy the  previous book - the story of Carrick's parents, something tells me it will  be worth it!!!	1998-11-19
US	52708799	R36RU4EN4FLPF8	0515123676	820561988	Irresistible	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A heart-warming story	I have always been a fan of Ms. Balogh, and have enjoyed all the books in this trilogy.  The story of Sophie and Nat is a great story of friends, lovers and intrigue.  Unlike most stories today, where the main characters  seem to meet and have sex immediately thereafter, this story allows the  characters to grow.  Longtime friends who refind each other.  The secondary  story of the book is amusing too.  Anyone who has a close group of college  buddies or friends will find the relationships in this book very realistic.	1998-11-10
US	52708799	R1JOMAVL0CUJ14	0451405668	25749975	Prince of the Night (Dreamspun)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	A refreshing new angle	I hate to sound repetative, but I am in complete agreement with the others who have reviewed this book. I have always had a love/hate relationship with the idea of vampire romances.  Somehow, the idea of vampires is in  itself not a very romantic notion...in most cases a living dead person.   Yuk!!  Ms. Creswell shines a different light on this topic and makes one  want to read even more.  She also throws in a story and a time period which  is very seldom written about. Kudos, and I am looking forward to reading  more stories by Ms. Creswell.	1998-11-09
US	52708799	R1BEEPVKT8LBM0	0505522489	657208738	Wishes Come True (The Djinn Series, Book 1)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A quick light read	I have a long commute to and from work, so I go through books to the tune of 2 to 3 a week.  I gravitate to any genre of romance, though I tend to avoid books with glaring covers and big type print.  Thus saying, I would  like to put in a good word for Kathleen Nance's book Wishes Come True.  The  story was enjoyable even if I felt the plot was very predictable. I  appreciate when writers add a lot of detail to their stories, showing that  they have done their research on the book.  Though this book is about  fantasy, I felt the lack of details, the small touches which make a book a  really great read.  The characters are &quot;friendly&quot; and I enjoyed  watching the interference of the secondary characters as the story  unfolded.	1998-11-04
US	52708799	RFSBOGWCQIHU3	0061087068	946204459	The Cad	Books	3	2	2	N	N	An enjoyable time filler	This is the first book of Edith Layton's which I have read and I truly enjoyed it.  It is a &quot;light&quot; read and went very quickly.  That's why I only gave it 3 stars......though the story was interesting, with an  unusual twist, I felt that there could be so much more.  The skill and  writing style are all there.   I would have liked to have seen more depth  outside the basic storyline.  The little things that make the story  interesting.  Adding the flower girl and her sibling was a great start in  that direction.  I do recommend this book, and I will try to find some of  her other books as well....ENJOY!!!!	1998-10-28
US	52708799	R30MKO4Z0YLP12	0312966407	601817757	Wicked Promise	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An enjoyable read	Like most of the reviews previously written, I am a big fan of Kit Martin,  and have enjoyed her older books more; but this book held a soft spot for  me.  It was not your typical  lovers-meet-have-a-misunderstanding-and-make-up story.  The characters are  well defined and grow with each other, which I found refreshing. The story  itself was rather predictible, but I would recommend this book as a good  read.	1998-10-26
US	52708799	R1ZI5RLA9FE4SP	0312962568	844967450	The Mermaid's Song	Books	5	1	2	N	N	An enjoyable read that kept me up late at night!	Marianne Williams weaves a warm tale about challenge, hope and love.  Her characters were well thought out and seem to come alive on the paper.  The hero has a tendancy to be a bit overbaring at times, manipulating to get his way....but we all love a rougue I suppose.  The heroine stands her ground, through all kinds of twists and turns.  As you can I tell, I thoroughly enjoyed this book and look forward to Marianne's next book.	1998-05-23
