US	52708337	R3AHKYMHH868ML	0449227421	922959758	The Third Twin	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Fun Page Turner, but not a Winner	This was my first Follet novel. I read lots of genetic thrillers and my mother had given me this book a year or two ago.  So, let me try and come up with a fair description: Michael Crichton meets Robin Cook with a flair of Dean Koontz.  Well written?  Well, it's fast paced, but unfortunately, the title gives away 3/4 of the book.  I wanted to kick myself for realizing it so fast.  Still, Ken Follet has an enjoyable tale-telling style.  The book had two loveable characters and some heart pounding drama. <br />The last 1/4 of &quot;The Third Twin&quot; was not as predictable as I expected. There were plenty of last moment dramas to keep me satisfied to the end.  In all, I would say...read it for a fast two-night read, or read it if you are a fan of genetic scandal.<BR>If you find this review helpful and are a fan of genetic suspense, please feel free to email me with other suggestions.<BR>I always write back. :)	2002-10-08
US	52708337	RIB6A3JHBI4G4	0439064872	667539744	Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets	Books	4	0	1	N	N	4 and a half stars..okay fine....4and 3/4???!!!	...<br />\\"Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets\\" was not a perfect ten. I enjoyed the follys of the first book a bit more, but I must say...I am utterly hooked. I think having seen the Harry Potter movie even made reading this second chapter of his school years even more enjoyable. The movie gives us mental images to play with while we adventure through Harry Potter's world. All the old favorite characters are still there...Hermione, Ron, Harry, the professors, and Hagrid (my favorite big guy).<br />In book 2 poor Harry is still surviving the horrors of the Dursley's home...but magic and adventure soon come to the rescue, only to \\"land\\" our favorite boy in a most difficult and frustrating school year. In this book secrets are unlocked. We discover some amazing secrets from the past of our favorite characters and Hogwarts itself.<br />I adored this book. The 4 and a half stars are given because I felt the ending of this book was O.K...not phenomenal like the last. As always a Harry Potter novel keeps you on the edge of your seat, but the ending seemed a bit rushed and lazy to me. However, perhaps I should give the book 4 and 3/4 stars since the other 99.9% quantity of the book is amazing. I can't wait for the next Quidditch match! The adrenaline of catching the Golden Snitch gives me goosebumps! Onward Harry Potter!	2002-09-04
US	52708337	R10T44I4T8SWZP	0844239356	771696265	Teach Yourself Origami	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Patience is a virtue	This book is \\"Step 1\\". I originally began with \\"the Great Origami book & kit\\", but ... that book is too advanced for beginners. It does offer, I believe, the best \\"Step 2\\" option to follow on your journey to master this ancient art form, but begin with THIS book.<BR>It is more detailed that most origami books and leaves out no steps to the intricate folds you must master to proceed to the next (series of fold). The folds are very difficult for beginners and this book proceeds very slowly going over each and every tiny movement your hands must make. With origami..there can't be ANY mistakes. It is about perfection. If you are a fraction of a millimeter off on a fold, your product will not turn out professionally. I also recommend taking what I joke as \\"stress breaks\\" while proceeding. Many times I have become too frustrated, only to walk away from my project and return to see the mistake I made. My second tip is to BREATHE..the paper will not harm you, although at times you feel it's torture. Use this book and follow it up with a great kit like the one I previously mentioned...you will have two steps (a beginner and more advanced kit) for making a litter of cute creations.	2002-02-26
US	52708337	R3L05002EF5BRG	1841721050	146208379	Easy Sushi	Books	5	55	55	N	N	Very helpful book.	&quot;Easy Sushi&quot; sounds like an oxymoron, but it's not. I read this book cover to cover in our local library. The only reason I did not check it out or buy it here is simply because I have progressed to more difficult &quot;rolls&quot;. It is this book that first gave me the inspiration to try making sushi at home.  When you graduate to getting the rice on the outside of the roll, you can give yourself a big pat on the back. Until then, this is the best &quot;starter book&quot; to own.  Some helpful tips for the beginner:<br />1. Only buy flash-frozen or live fish. If you live on the coast this is easy, if you don't...In CO we have something called &quot;par Avion&quot;-fresh fish is flown in once a week. See if they do this in your area. You can always ask a local sushi bar where they got their fish too.<br />2.  Always, ALWAYS learn the proper etiquette to eating sushi. I have offended many sushi bars with bad habits. (i.e. sushi rolls should be eaten in whole..no biting. and- never place your chopsticks on the counter. woops!)<br />3.  You will make mistakes. Making sushi is like making origami...takes patience and practice.<br />4. Finally, when you've mastered the basics, buy yourself a lovely set of sushi dinnerware and some beautiful chopsticks-Heck! Show off those skills with a sushi party!<br />A pair of patient hands and this book, will promise you a fabulous new food and artform.  If someone compliments your fun and trendy handywork, smile and say, &quot;Arigato!&quot;	2002-02-15
US	52708337	R1PSLF2T0I0ZC8	0316284955	613460974	White Oleander (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Are we destined to become our mothers?	I adored this book.  I encountered every emotion I owned as I flipped faster and faster through the pages.  I am reading it for the second time now. The book is a little gritty.  The perfect tone to capture the feelings of the main characters and their journeys.<BR>  Ingrid Magnussen is a poet. She is also an unusual beauty with very white-blonde hair down her back and an extremely sensual quality about her.  Men flock to her incessantly, but Ingrid is usually not interested.  She raises her beautiful daughter, Astrid with the knowledge that they are descendents from the great roaming Vikings. They do not need men.  Ingrid is so self-absorbed, Astrid must constantly listen to her mother's lectures on how she loathes weak , pitiful, lesser people than herself.<BR>   How odd is it then, when Ingrid herself finds the \\"man of her dreams\\"?  Not only does Ingrid love him, but she soon becomes obsessed with everything and every place he goes. A while into the relationship, Ingrid follows him home and finds him with another woman.  <BR>   Astrid senses the turmoil.  Her mother, the superb being let her guard down and was trampled. <BR>   Ingrid \\"cooks\\" up a plan to get revenge using the most beautiful of poisonous flowers, the White Oleander.<br />Part 2 of the book now begins.  Ingrid is in jail and the rest of the tale belongs to Astrid...who spends her life drifting from foster home to foster home in search of something greater and better than becoming her mother. Will she find it or is she pre-destined to the end?  This is one of the ONLY Oprah books I could absolutely absorb and relate to. I would give it five stars, but I still feel the ending deserved a little more punch.  If Ingrid is the White Oleander..what kind of flower are you?	2002-02-05
US	52708337	R3S9V2S6IOEQ0Q	0060929871	949556910	Brave New World	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Fantasy or Future?	This past summer I asked my closest friends to give me a list of the \\"best books they ever read\\", or at the least books that had the greatest impact on their lives.  Thanks for this one guys!  Today, in our time, talk of gentics and embryo meddling is common. I mean, we have all heard of cell splitting, cloning, and Dolly.  This is nothing new.  Aldous Huxley wrote his futuristic horror of gene meddling in 1932!  The man must have been a genius!<br /> Huxley's story is his idea of what our future holds as he looks around himself way back in 1932.  In 1932 many new inventions and ideas were sprouting so fast, it must have been a marvel to witness. Possibly the means to writing this somewhat horrific tale?  In this book time begins with \\"the Year of Our Ford\\".  Everything before that time is not considerable to the book's characters.  In the year of our Ford...humans are grown in bottles.  There is no natural birth, no marriages, and no special schooling and intellect needed to find your place and rightful job.  We are a collection of rotating bottles in a gene \\"hatchery\\" lab.  At certain levels some genes are mutated to produce different kinds of babies.  Babies are cared for in the lab and fed subliminal messages until they are old enough to live on their own.  Sex is merely a necessary act for these people, not ever for procreation.  Some babies are born gifted, others less intellectual.  The mutation of the embryos and the resulting child are how humans become sorted into their own social caste.  Each cast of people have designated jobs and also, matching clothes.  For instance, If you were lucky enough to be born an Alpha, you would wear green and have a decent job.  You accept this because of your conditioning at the \\"center\\".  If you were born an unlucky Delta-Minus, you would be unintelligent and become a sort of \\"worker-bee\\" and wear black.<br />The Center, that creates and conditions these babies has a motto...\\"COMMUNITY, IDENTITY, and STABILITY\\". They seem to have it all figured out.  Everyone is pre-destined for their place in the world.  Huxley's fantasy future goes a little awry when a natural born adult (who grew up in a \\"zoo\\" because childbirth is so \\"dirty\\" and \\"ancient\\") escapes from his habitat and ventures into this \\"Brave New World\\".  A fabulous twist to the almost psychotic stability of our future.(?)<br />What will this \\"feak\\" man do and think of the new world? The answer is the answer to many questions we all have as we read this classic tale of our worse nightmares come true.  We are the natural man, reading this book.  We are just on-lookers into the world he braves to enter.  Huxley forces us to be the \\"Freak\\" and feel the pain of what might be to come.  I gave this book only four stars because while it is a fabulous tale, it lacks as a page-turner.  I agree that it must be very informative for people in 1932 to understand the concept of genetics, but for a modern reader the pages of details can become irritating.  Nevertheless, I wished I had read this one in High School.have it all figured out.  Everyone is pre-destined for their place in the world.  Huxley's fantasy future goes a little awry when a natural born adult (who grew up in a \\"zoo\\" because childbirth is so \\"dirty\\" and \\"ancient\\") escapes from his habitat and ventures into this \\"Brave New World\\".  A fabulous twist to the almost psychotic stability of our future.(?)<BR>What will this \\"feak\\" man do and think of the new world? The answer is the answer to many questions we all have as we read this classic tale of our worse nightmares come true.  We are the natural man, reading this book.  We are just on-lookers into the world he braves to enter.  Huxley forces us to be the \\"Freak\\" and feel the pain of what might be to come.  I gave this book only four stars because while it is a fabulous tale, it lacks as a page-turner.  I agree that it must be very informative for people in 1932 to understand the concept of genetics, but for a modern reader the pages of details can become irritating.  Nevertheless, I wished I had read this one in High School.	2002-01-20
US	52708337	R1WCEDPL7QCKBD	059035342X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	1	N	N	UNDENIABLY EXTRAORDINARY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!	If you are reading this review..then you too must be interested in the hype behind Harry Potter.  The buzz has been tickling my ears for a long time.  I gave in.  I went and saw the movie \\"Harry Potter and the Scorcerer's Stone\\".. Okay..I have seen the movie and then read the book.....And I must say..the movie IS better than the book, but ONLY because of it's marvelous visual display..you'll love it. I read the book following my thrill at the movie and fell in love with the story once more.  Harry Potter...an ordinary boy about to live an extraordinary life.  Imagine being orphaned to your dreadful aunt and uncle who care nothing for you and tell you nothing about yourself. Harry Potter was told his parents were killed in a car crash and since has lived a most dreadful life in the cupboard under the stairs in the house of the Dursley's: his Aunt Petunia, Uncle Vernon, and their obnoxious son, Dudley.  Harry's life, well, it[...]to put it plainly.  They treat him like a servent...Until one fine day........Letters start arriving.  Hundreds.  They are flooding in the Dursley home. Harry, however is forbidden to read one even though they are addressed to \\"Mr. H.Potter, The Cupboard Under The Stairs\\".  On Harry's Eleventh Birthday he is finally greeted by a giant named Hagrid who is appalled that the Dursley's never explained Harry's letters or his past to him...Harry Potter is a WIZARD! His parents who died trying to save him from an evil wizard were famous and so is Harry because he survived!  Hagrid tells Harry he is from \\"Hogwarts\\" a fine school of witchcraft and wizardry and that Harry is invited to join, just like his parents before him.  What happens next once Harry finds his place at school is a jumble of schoolwork, magic, mystery, scary secrets and some unyeilding professors.  If you want to know about Quidditch, Peeves, and the Fat lady...you'll have to immerse yourself into Harry Potter's world..it does not dissapoint.  It's an easy read for young adults and yes many adults have found it charming as well. What can I say? This could be the book and movie series of the decade..yes many adults have found it charming as well. What can I say? This could be the book and movie series of the decade..	2002-01-16
US	52708337	R3MYLDWF8J05ZR	0345370775	392304217	Jurassic Park: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Just love those raptors!	I live in Co Springs where many dinosaur bones have been found.  I have always found the skeletal remains exciting!  The first time I saw the book &quot;Jurassic Park&quot;, my best friend in High School was reading it.  I asked her what it was about and she just said &quot;Oh God Holly, I can't and will not put it down!&quot;  I was intrigued. After college I had read most of Michael Crichton's books but had still not read &quot;Jurassic Park&quot;.  Then BOOM...the movie is released.  I loved the movie.  I decided to buy the book and see if it was just as thrilling.  &quot;Thrilling&quot; hardly seems fit to describe the book! (my paperback has nail indentations on it!) As I have reviewed before...M.C. loads the first few chapters with some basic, easy to comprehend scientific knowledge...Making it easier to understand the essence of what's going on...even the morality...which is barely discussed in the movie.  I'm talking about the idea of harvesting blood from mosquitos preserved in amber for millions of years.  Mosquitos that John Hammond, (the somewhat delusional &quot;father&quot; of the Dino-theme park idea) harvests to extract Dino-DNA.  ( He believes many of these mosquitos liked to feed from dinosaurs...Could they really do that? Someone tell me.  Dino skin must be inches thick, but anyway,)  He processes the DNA, filling in some missing links, and hatches the little creepies on Isla Nublar, a very secluded and resticted island.  So there it begins. Talk of Dino-DNA is nothing more than a simple cartoon to watch in the movie ( probably for a younger audience to understand), but is discussed in depth in the book.  The main characters are loving, delightful and sometimes downright sarcastic and keep you laughing.  But don't be fooled.  John Hammond has a dream to open a theme park, &quot;Jurassic Park&quot; to the world.  A Place where dinos exsist in confined habitats, guarded by electric fences.  He and the main characters on the island enjoy themselves submerged in a multi-millionare-old enviroment, but I ask you...what happens when the elctricity accidentally shuts down......	2001-08-08
US	52708337	R217C4R4A7L7R2	034540288X	861735579	The Lost World	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Even MORE raptors!!!	Even though this book was written following the success of &quot;Jurassic Park&quot; the movie, it's still does a fabulous job of being different and plenty scary.  Jurassic Park (not the book, the site) was a disaster.  Following the tragedy at the original &quot;theme park&quot; on Isla Nublar, the dinosaurs were killed, the establishment put to rest.  All people associated with the original park are forced to sign legal papers, &quot;gag orders&quot; never to talk about John Hammond's BIG mistake.  His dream of an amusement park dies with him and the dinosaurs he created.  Fast forward a few years.... &quot;dinosaurs&quot; are being spotted and killed in different locations.  How could this be now that the original Jurassic Park was destroyed?  A feild scientist, Richard Levine believes Ian Malcolm knows the answer.  Levine begs Malcolm to go on an expedition with him to Isla Sorna, where many dino-like corpses are turning up.  Malcolm tells him it's a bad idea to go and refuses to be a part of any expedition UNLESS Levine can prove the corpses are truly dinosaurus.  Levine travels to Isla Sorna alone and isn't heard from for days.  Back in the states..a sample of dino tissue shows up at a lab and Malcolm has confirmation that Levine was telling the truth.  A team constructed of Malcolm, Thorne, Eddie, and eventually Sarah Harding reach Isla Sorna in an effort to rescue Levine and return home safely.  They bring along with them some incredible equipment..Explorers custom built for the terrain; double, custom built &quot;trailers&quot; which contain special lab equipment, and a &quot;high hide&quot; allowing them to view dinos from a safe point of view.  All of this equipment becomes interactive within the horrors of the novel!  Levine is eventually found, researching what seems to be a natural, thriving, un-fenced island of dinosaurs.  They are on the island alone, maintaining their own eco-system.  While this is great research for everybody on the island ...including some predatory &quot;bad guys&quot; from Biosyn, who show up to steal dino-eggs...Malcolm wants to leave, and you soon realize Malcolm is right!  What's really fantastic about this book is discovering the truth about the first &quot;Jurassic Park&quot; and why this &quot;Site B&quot; exists in the first place.  Chrichton won't disappoint.  This book and it's plot are quite different from the first.  A tip: if you are reading the books in order and watching the movies after...you will be very confused!  Hollywood alters the books drastically to make it less &quot;scientific&quot; and more fun and action-packed.  The books are better and extremely educational...read both first, THEN see the movies after.uding some predatory &quot;bad guys&quot; from Biosyn, who show up to steal dino-eggs...Malcolm wants to leave, and you soon realize Malcolm is right!  What's really fantastic about this book is discovering the truth about the first &quot;Jurassic Park&quot; and why this &quot;Site B&quot; exists in the first place.  Chrichton won't disappoint.  This book and it's plot are quite different from the first.  A tip: if you are reading the books in order and watching the movies after...you will be very confused!  Hollywood alters the books drastically to make it less &quot;scientific&quot; and more fun and action-packed.  The books are better and extremely educational...read both first, THEN see the movies after.	2001-07-26
US	52708337	RJ70URCXFIZOS	088388013X	98646862	Queen Elizabeth I-Paper Dolls To Color	Books	4	21	22	N	N	A coloring book for adults!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!	This would be a perfect gift for a history buff, a teenager, or any adult that secretly loves to color.  I study the &quot;queens of the world&quot; for a living-Elizabeth I just happens to be my favorite!  I was hooked the minute I opened the book.  I had NO idea the dolls, gowns, (a lot of it is costumes for the Elizabeth dolls) horses and characters would be so detailed! It's &quot;brilliant&quot;, as the English would say.  If you really want to make this a learning experience, I suggest going to your local library and looking at the portraits of Elizabeth I...  Then your coloring book will be really authentic!  And YES! the costumes ARE truly costumes she really wore.  As I stated, I have studied Elizabeth I in depth and I can certainly vouch that the details of the costumes...right down to the jewelry are authentic.  You will open this book up and say WOW!  Unfortunately, I could only give this book four stars because it is titled &quot;coloring book&quot;.  I can't imagine getting a fat crayon in between the lines of the extreme details.  I think this book requires very good color pencils instead.  I own a set of &quot;portrait&quot; colored pencils.  They have the colors necessary to really capture the personality of Elizabeth's costumes.  If you get this book and have a blooming artist in the family...buy them a good set of colored pencils to go with this.  Together they are an everlasting gift.	2001-05-11
US	52708337	R39O0I9SCU2SZR	0345353145	340762456	Sphere	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Heck of a lot better than the movie!!!	I loved the movie &quot;Sphere&quot;. BUT..and I say BUT...the book is way more intense, graphic, and frightening.  Let me give you a good, lip-licking glimpse into Michael Crichton's underwater suspense.                                                           Norman Johnson once wrote a &quot;What-If&quot; report for the President of the US.  He was a psychologist who dealt with survivor guilt and plane-crash sites, helping victims to &quot;move on&quot;.  His &quot;What-If&quot; report was commissioned as a step-by-step process the government should follow if we ever encountered alien life-forms.  Norman wrote the report, and included a list of people he felt were qualified to be part of a &quot;team&quot; to confront any would-be aliens. Years go by....Norman gets a phone call and is told he is needed at a plane-crash site.  His is flown out to the middle of nowhere in the Pacific Ocean...and what do you know!  All the people he once listed in his &quot;What-If&quot; report are THERE with him!..on an ocean liner..awaiting classified information.  They are eventually told about a &quot;fin&quot; protruding from the ocean floor..it is actually just part of a spacecraft embedded below the surface.  Weird thing is, it's been there for probably thousands of years (according to coral growth on it) but appears to be something futuristic.  Norman, and his team go down to look at it and eventually make there way inside the craft. His &quot;What-If&quot; team ( that doesn't seem so what-if anymore) includes himself, Beth Halpern, a zoologist; Harry Adams, a gifted mathematician; and Ted Feilding, a geologist.  Together they live in an underwater habitat, running tests, and calculating what the ship really is , or more importantly, WHEN or WHERE it's from.  Eventually the team enters the ship and discover it's secrets...including a luminous, evading &quot;sphere&quot;.  Those who interact with the sphere develop &quot;powers&quot;.  After contemplating and studying the sphere, STRANGE things begin to happen...mysteries and monsters that can only be explored by reading this book.  Come on..I can't give it away!....But I promise you will be clinging to whatever chair you sit in to read this book! It is so well written...not a single sentence or character is wasted.  I do suggest following the book with the movie, but keep in mind, the movie leaves out many weird and frightening aspects of the book!  So read the book first, and rent the movie after-It's got an all-star cast. I'll just leave you with one last hint...Crichton knows how to tap into the power of the mind!!! Beware of your subconscious.   :)	2001-05-06
US	52708337	R20U1WMZMUCQ4M	0446672211	17564972	Where the Heart Is	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Absolutely Breathtaking	I own the movie \\"Where the Heart Is.\\" I have watched it more than 10 times since it's release.  I have also reviewed that movie.  It was by word of mouth I heard of the book and it was a great love of the characters that drew me to read it. I honestly didn't think the book could outdo the movie!  But, like \\"Gone with the Wind\\", I had a gut feeling the book might be better than the movie. I was right.  The story is about Novalee Nation, seventeen, pregnant, and just abandoned at an Oklahoma Wal-mart by her boyfriend with seven dollars and seventy-seven cents to her name.  With nowhere to go, she hides out in the Wal-Mart for almost two months living off canned food and the kindness of strangers.  Novalee delivers her baby in the store and becomes famous for being the mother of the \\"Wal-Mart Baby\\".  The local people she meets help her to discover her place in life.  All these characters become permanantly attached to your heart forever.  There is Sister Husband, a quirky, blue-haired local in charge of her own \\"Welcome Wagon\\" and many volunteer works, who takes Novalee into her home and heart; Lexi, the mother of four, who goes from being Novelee's nurse in the hospital to a lifelong friend...and Farney..the man in Novalee's life who teaches the young, uneducated girl to love, read, and accept life with all it's faults.  All of the characters in the novel are in someway disfunctional...no matter who you are, there is someone in this book to relate to.  Novalee is loved by many and learns where the heart is from the friends and trials she encounters on her journey to make her dreams and goals reality.  I think this book is a real pick-me-up for anyone going through difficult times in their life. I also think every person in the world could benefit and feel good from reading this most wonderful of tales.  We all need a good book with a happy, loving ending once in a while.  This is most definitely the feel-good book of the year. Don't let this one pass you by.	2001-05-02
US	52708337	R2QRNC6OA4GG6M	055310666X	284106836	False Memory	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Very Very Slow for the Most Part............	I struggled to get through most of this book.  It was a great read however(If you like novels like the &quot;Tommyknockers&quot;). The book is so enveloped in creating loveable and unforgettable characters, that Koontz uses an excessive amount of detailing.  For instance, One, 15 minute scene in the book is a slow, 2 hour read.  On the good side the plot is awesome! There are enough twists and turns to keep you guessing to the last page.  If you are a reader who doesn't mind many pages of slow scenes to get to a spectacular story, you will love this book! However, if you are looking for a typical fast-paced Koontz novel, try &quot;Whispers&quot; or &quot;Intensity&quot;.  Don't make this book your first Koontz book. It's not his usual style.  Try something with more of his original flair first. You'll just have yo wait and see...it's very subtle.	2001-04-27
US	52708337	R1OW1AWTXABIX8	0822213397	68460599	The Manchurian Candidate - Acting Edition	Books	5	10	12	N	N	This will lift you to the heights of paranoia!	&quot;The Manchurian Candidate&quot; is about brainwashing. The setting-during and after the Korean War.  A young soldier, Raymond Shaw is brainwashed by a Dr. Yen Lo.  Dr. Lo uses small haiku lines to initiate a  deep hypnotic response in the soldiers picked to become assasins.  When the haikus are spoken, these simple, eloquent words become instructions for the &quot;patient&quot; to follow.  Through Dr. Yen Lo's work , Shaw becomes a deadly weapon used by the Chinese, Soviets, and the North Koreans.  You can't help becoming a little paranoid reading this book.  If you've ever been hypnotized, you'll be pondering the idea that just maybe someone could have implanted instuctions in you!  I think this is a must read for anybody interested in war crimes, espionage, or just lusts for a terrific war thriller.  This book would make Tom Clancy proud.	2001-04-23
US	52708337	R30W6EFP8Y2TJ4	0451167783	446331567	A Streetcar Named Desire	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Yep the movie is great, but the book is better	This book was one of my favorite reads in my high school English Class.  Blanche Dubois is one of my favorite characters in literature. DESPERATION.  The theme of this book is definately desperation.  Stella and Stanley live in a low-grade apartment that emminates heat, sweat, and an almost claustophobic effect.  The tension between the two is evident from the beginning. Stanley feels Stella is rich.  He accuses her of leaving home and &quot;settling&quot; for him....greasy, grimy HIM. Stella just puts up with the verbal abuse, (which she is obviously not accustomed to) and his raunchy friends, puts on a &quot;happy&quot; face, and floats around like a satisfied butterfly.  Then Blanche Dubois enters and the book metaphorically speaking, &quot;catches on fire&quot;.  Blanche is the airheaded and supposedly wealthy sister of Stella.  She arrives for a &quot;visit&quot; to see her sister, and how she's doing.  Stanley's distaste for old wealth becomes even more apparent when Blanche arrives. You see, Blanche loathes the way Stella is living.  The apartment is dirty, stark and unforgiving.  Blanche fears the stark light..she incessently bathes, puts scarves and paper lamps over the lights to feel clean, even younger. She does everything possible to feel she is not living amongst the dirt and grime.  Her behavior annoys Stanley to no end.  He thinks she's a washed up &quot;beauty queen&quot; type who doesn't know what the word &quot;struggle&quot; means.  Blanche admits to Stella she's lost their home and there is no money left, nothing to their former life.  Hearing this news, Stanley is even more annoyed with the way Blanche continues to &quot;put on airs&quot; , behaving wealthy, when the wealth is gone.  Stanley and Blanche can no longer stand each other and a stuggle ensues.  Blanche seems to &quot;lose it&quot; gradually, slowly realizing that her looks, her dress, her fathom wealth really do no longer exist.  She crumbles.  In the movie, Vivian Leigh (who was Scarlett O'Hara) plays Blanche Dubois.  The performance is undeniably amazing.  Just for those interested, I think it might have been a difficult, but easy role for Ms. Leigh to understand, because in her real life she suffered from Manic Depression.  Her own life, health, and romance were suffering in a way very similar to that of her famous character, Blanche Dubois.  I strongly suggest reading this book first.  It exlores aspects of the characters that the movie stuggles to reveal.  Besides, a Fabulous book, followed by the movie and popcorn is always a treat!  It truly is a classic	2001-04-17
US	52708337	R267QX1BCYTHTQ	0684853507	85988614	Bag of Bones	Books	5	2	2	N	N	My favorite King Novel	This has everything minus a little of the gore you are accustomed to in a King novel.  Mike Noonan lost his wife and he needs to escape.  As a struggling writer, he finds (I say not comfort..HINT) but shelter in a log cabin on Dark Shore Lake in Maine.  The house has it's own identity.  It talks and groans and moans...enough haunting to scare even the most devoted King conneseur.  The house plays a central character in the story just as the real loveable characters themselves.  No, it IS just a house, but one that could win an oscar for best supporting actor.  Mike befriends a local, but mysterious blonde who has a psychic daughter with custody problems.  As Mike tries to help mother and daughter through their rough times, he himself is stuggling back home in the haunted cabin.  Who are the voices?  How can he help? He seems to be struggling to find anwers to everything..his new friends, his lost wife, and the hauntings that cry out for his help.  The characters in this book are so beleivable and loveable.  I never wanted the pages to end...I found when the book had ended, good deeds done, and closure came...I was still licking my lips for more. &quot;Bag of Bones&quot; is a fairly large book, (I'm not talking the &quot;Stand&quot; or anything) but it is hearbreaking to let go of the raelationships in the book!  Nothing left to do when you finish this one but start reading it all over again!	2001-04-17
US	52708337	RQMUVYO1TICJV	0446364193	597792275	Along Came A Spider	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Oh Alex!  What would the world be like without you, Sugar!	This is the first series of the Alex Cross novels created by James Patterson.  I have read all of them three or four times each by now..they really are that addictive.  Alex Cross, the fictional love-of-my-life, is a tough, detective/psychologist in the Southeast side of Washington D.C.  Alex has a wonderful family and best friend Sampson (who I always imagine as a Forrest Whittaker type) who help him get through his daily doses of crime and maiming.  Let's talk about the story...it was a normal day at the Washington Day school, until two students, Maggie Rose Dunne, and Michael &quot;Shrimpie&quot; Goldberg are kidnapped. Their favorite math teacher, Gary Soneji takes them, burries them in the ground and demands a huge ransom.  These two students were children of the most prominent families in the area.  Alex and Sampson are taken off a brutal crime in the D.C. area and forced onto the Goldberg-Dunne kidnappings.  Everyone gets involved.  Secret Service, FBI, and the Washington police all try to work together to solve the crime.  This book has so many twist and turns, and plots within plots, it will make your head spin.  Every page you turn reveals something new and exciting.  Even when Gary Soneji is caught....nobody is sure who is responsible...Gary seems to have a split personality (Remember Adam Stampler from &quot;Primal Fear&quot;) and the outcome of his trial is questionable.  You have to read this book...Alex Cross books like this one, and &quot;Kiss the Girls&quot; are movies now, but they never let you see Alex in an intimate way.... he has a loveable family, his best pal Sampson, and lots of juicy romances.  All of these are left out of the movies.  Why? because Patterson wants you to see the movie...love it...and then read the books..because he KNOWS you too will like it better than the movies and read the whole series.  I promise, the books are really are not comparable to the movies.	2001-04-07
US	52708337	R1HG7B1KWZU1VX	0345388771	383851428	Primal Fear	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Give me more Adam S-S-S-Tampler please!!!!!!!!	God what an awesome book!!!! Are you a James Patterson fan?! Did you read &quot;Along Came a Spider&quot;?  Didn't you love Gary Soneji?!  Well, move over Soneji..there is a better weirdo out there to rival you!  Actually the main lawyer/prosecutor in this book, Martin Veil is ALOT like the love of my life, Alex Cross from the James Patterson novels. He's just white.  Martin Veil is a swanky, smooth talkin' lawyer who decides to defend the angel-faced Adam Stampler (how angelic? he even studders)..from the accusations against him.  Adam is an alter boy (awwwee!) accused of killing the bishop in his church.  How could such a sweet little fella do such a thing?  Well, through therapy it is discovered that Adam S-s-stampler has a split personality.  Did he kill the bishop? who knows...I mean the Bishop WAS making porno movies using Adam and his friends, and, well studies do show that under such repetitive abuse, a personality CAN split.  Martin Veil goes to work to find out more about his client and his friends...he himself cannot defend Adam if he beleives he's faking the split personality defense. Just what happens next will have you turning pages with rapid fire.  AND WHAT AN ENDING!!!!! By the way, if you're like me and couldn't get enough from this book....two more follow it.  Please do yourself a huge favor and see the movie AFTER you read the book.  It's a fantastic trilogy...I hope they turn the other two books into movies too.	2001-04-05
US	52708337	R1BH11BTLXG9UX	0375400117	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Take a peek into the  lives and secrets of a geisha	This is the ONLY review I will not go into detail with.  I just want to say if you love the hidden secrets of geisha lifestyle, if you are interested in Japanese war or culture, or you are a woman...you MUST read this book.  It is a modern classic.  The words flow like poetry.  The scenes fill your mind with landscapes and perfumed beauty.  It will melt you.  I adore this book...it is reavealing, almost shocking to the way I used to think of women who were Geisha.  I thought they were sort of &quot;party dolls&quot; for married men.  I was wrong.  I now see them as one of the most interesting things in Japanese culture.  The story is bittersweet.  Think of a Japanese version of &quot;Cassablanca&quot; or &quot;Out of Africa&quot;. If you must read intimate details of the book ...read other reviews.  I strongly urge you  not to. Once details are revealed this story is ruined.  There is one thing about the book I will say. I, as an artist have always admired kimonos on display..they are works of art.  Just the reavealing aspect of how important they really are to a geisha was new and shocking to me!  I will never look at one the same way again.  Please do not pass this book up...just listen to all the buzz about it!	2001-04-05
US	52708337	R156FAJDCOP5OA	0553582917	591020220	Intensity	Books	5	0	1	N	N	You feel like you're having a long panic attack!	This is the BEST Koontz book I have ever read.  I understand now why the cover (on my book) was neon and geometrical.  Even the cover made my heart beat faster...The intensity builds to a climax that I still remember feeling when I read the book for the first time!  You will PHYSICALLY feel the excitement...Have you ever picked up a  Stephen King or a James Patterson novel and just couldn't put it down?! Well, I think you will warp through the pages of this book at light speed to get to the ending! Just remember...take SLOW  DEEP breathes!	2001-04-04
US	52708337	R2PCF61SEEL1I2	0399501487	502818647	Lord of the Flies	Books	5	15	23	N	N	reminds me of the TV series &quot;Survivor&quot;	I read this book in 9th grade. I am 26 years old now and still think about the morality and symbolism of human nature I discovered in &quot;Lord of the Flies&quot;.  I decided to write this review all these years later after watching the first installment of the TV show &quot;Survivior&quot;.  I saw a lot of similarities.  In &quot;Lord of the Flies&quot; we are given a sort of scenario...what if a group of young adolescent boys were left abandoned on a deserted island.  This is what happens...and as I describe some of the scenes from the book, compare them to that of a real life TV show a lot of us watch.  Maybe like me, you'll see a more animal, evil side to these &quot;real-life&quot; strategy survival shows.  On this deserted island a natural leader is born, Ralph.  He is kind, and  understanding of the fears his fellow students face.  He accepts responsibility and delegates &quot;chores&quot; for the other boys to do.  They must tend a rescue fire. They must hunt for food. They must tend to the wounded pilot.  Ralph chooses the path a responsible adult might. Soon some of the boys become lazy. They do not follow Ralph's rules. These unruly boys are headed by another natural leader. The more &quot;wild&quot; and fun-seeking Jack.  Jack and Ralph argue.  To maintain control the boys find a large shell ....the conch....and whoever holds it has the right to speak.  This attempt at order works for a little while but soon Jack dismisses the control the conch holds.  He and his pig-hunting, lazy friends split from the original group and leave to another part of the island. They want to &quot;do their own thing&quot;. They defy rules and organization which Ralph feels is the key to survival. Meanwhiile Ralph and his friend Piggy struggle to keep their small group in order.  It becomes increasingly difficult to maintain adult responsibility.  For the youngest who fear Jack and his clan, Ralph becomes almost their savior, their security on an island of unknown.  Soon Ralph's pack decides they too are tired of rules, and one by one leave to join Jack's ideas of senseless fun.  Jack represents abandonment of control, living purely through pleasures.  This is where you can form a million metaphors between the two clans of boys.  Jack and his bandits become so wild and animal-like near the &quot;end&quot; that they actually start hunting Ralph in the manner of a real pig-hunt.  They have forgotten society, basic humanity, and most of all..they have forgotten they were once all friends.  This kind of behavior echoed alot of the back-stabbing things I see on TV and in the government, religion, everywhere in real life.  Read this book and never let yourself abandon what you truly beleive to be good in your heart...Let us compare this book of instinct and leaders and followers to our own lives....On a personal note....Jack always kind of reminded me of Adolph Hitler and his control over his followers during the war.  I would love to hear some other thoughts via e-mail.  If you are reading this book for school, like I did once, really try to think about some real-life comparisons you find between the pages of Golding's work of art.on Ralph's pack decides they too are tired of rules, and one by one leave to join Jack's ideas of senseless fun.  Jack represents abandonment of control, living purely through pleasures.  This is where you can form a million metaphors between the two clans of boys.  Jack and his bandits become so wild and animal-like near the &quot;end&quot; that they actually start hunting Ralph in the manner of a real pig-hunt.  They have forgotten society, basic humanity, and most of all..they have forgotten they were once all friends.  This kind of behavior echoed alot of the back-stabbing things I see on TV and in the government, religion, everywhere in real life.  Read this book and never let yourself abandon what you truly beleive to be good in your heart...Let us compare this book of instinct and leaders and followers to our own lives....On a personal note....Jack always kind of reminded me of Adolph Hitler and his control over his followers during the war.  I would love to hear some other thoughts via e-mail.  If you are reading this book for school, like I did once, really try to think about some real-life comparisons you find between the pages of Golding's work of art.	2001-04-04
US	52708337	R1NGR7OIOB30S1	0393312836	483124263	A Clockwork Orange	Books	3	4	12	N	N	Wholesome it's not!	Okay I admit it, like another reviewer before me, I was drawn to the books' sadistic side.  If someone bans a book I sometimes have to find out WHY?  In my high school about ten years ago, we were not allowed the choice to choose books such as &quot;Catcher in the Rye&quot;, &quot;Clockwork Orange&quot;, or &quot;American Psycho&quot;.  I am 26 now and yes I became too curious and read them all.  Definitely didn't make me a bad person.  Would, (if I had) a 13 year old, allow he/she to read it too?  Of course.  Banning books just makes youth more curious.  Anyway, I liked &quot;Clockwork Orange&quot;. It was wild to say the least.  I was instantly attracted to the use of an almost &quot;foreign &quot; sounding language the boys used amongst themselves.  I myself often wake up from dreams and realize that in them I was speaking in an unknown tongue....one my mind had created on its own.  The first few chapters are hard to understand but once you memorize a few words here and there the lingo becomes more clear.  Alex and his friends are delinquents. They drink &quot;milk&quot; which I immediately recognized as their drug of choice.  They beat up old people without reason.  They rape and even kill.  They live vicariously, showing no conscience or remorse.  They almost remind me of &quot;Jack&quot; and his pig-hunting pack from &quot;Lord of the Flies&quot;-Just living on pleasure and animal instinct.  I failed to finish reading &quot;Clockwork Orange&quot;, not because I didn't find it a modern masterpiece, but because the violence was more hard to stomach than some Stephen King novels.  I finished at the point where Alex was kept in a &quot;hospital&quot; in attempts to reform him. These scenes in the book often brought back memories of Michael Crichton's &quot;the Terminal Man&quot;.  If you read the book I know you understand.  Someday I hope to stomach the book in its whole-even the edition with the exta chapter.  I would give it the five stars I know it deserves, but I gave only three until I finish it someday cover to cover.	2001-04-04
US	52708337	RB9BSEFW9RWH7	0451176464	591143364	Gerald's Game (Signet)	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Autophobia for me!	I am a huge Stephen King fan, my first novel was &quot;Firestarter&quot; when I was in Elementary school.  Despite mixed reviews, I read &quot;Gerald's Game&quot; and loved it.  I liked it because I was told beforehand that this is not a typical King-horror story.  I think if you are looking for something really gross and horrific, try &quot;It&quot; or &quot;Desperation&quot;.  But if you want just plain ol' keep- you-up-all-night-suspense..you'll like this one.    Psychic suspense is the best.      The main character, Jessie is married to a man who loves to have kinky sex.  You know the type, &quot;anywhere, anytime&quot;... Well, he chooses a remote house , pretty much out in the middle of NOWHERE to set the scene for his latest sexual adventure.  At first Jessie is into this.  It seems fun to be handcuffed and be dominated, but soon the control becomes frightening.  Her husband stops listening to her yelps to stop, and she sees a     an &quot;evil&quot; in his eyes.    Jessie responds in anger by &quot;kneeing&quot; him in an unprotected area.  He then falls to the ground. DEAD.     Everything now begins to happen in REAL TIME over two days, so if you read the book in two days and literally put the book down when night falls and Jessie sleeps, you BECOME a real watcher of the action, almost a participant.     Jessie's relief to get her husband off her leads to a series of scary events to save her life.     She calls out for help...something happens.     She finds personal items on the shelf over her head......     She hears strange noises......     It's kind of like playing &quot;MYST&quot;.     How do you use your wit and skills and items in the room to free yourself?     All these dilemmas are nothing compared to Jessie's own mind fighting against her.  She panics, sees and hears things. Are they real?     I won't spoil the fun, but I strongly suggest thinking of the story as a game...what would you do If you were Jessie? By the way....The ending was one of the strangest endings I think I have ever encountered!  This is a must read for all King's fans who appreciate his different styles.	2001-04-03
US	52708337	RKUY4AG4473RS	0345404114	473969170	Sleepers	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Read the Book First!	Seriously, the movie WAS great with an all star cast, but you will never truly understand the richness of the characters unless you read the book first.  Let the movie be a treat after you've read the book.   The setting: Hell's Kitchen in the 1960's.  Boys will be boys and when Lorenzo &quot;Shakes&quot; and his friends goof around, pranks are usually the entertainment of choice.  On the last of these &quot;occasions&quot; Lorenzo and his three friends decide to steal a hot dog from a street vendor, thinking they can outrun him.  Things didn't go as planned.  The boys push the vending cart around and unintentionally let it fall down some stairs at a subway entrance.  The cart falls and kills a man on it's way down.   This is where the book begins a sort of &quot;Part 2&quot;.... all summer frolicking ceases and the boys are tried and convicted.  Instead of jail they have a much worse fate ahead of them.  They find themselves within the hard, gloomy shell of the &quot;Wilkinson Home for Boys&quot;.  The boys' anxiety of the place soon turns to absolute terror.  They are not really bothered by the other kids , but buy the prison guards.  They beat, torture, and regularly rape Lorenzo and his friends.   Lorenzo remains sane by continuously fantisizing of revenge, inspired by his favorite book, The Count of Monte Cristo.  He mentally prepares for the day they are released.   Release does come...the story is not ALL so depressing, because the boys DO get revenge.  They leave the school and eventually head their separate ways, never really discussing what happened to them.  Not until in their late twenties do they meet again in Hell's Kitchen.  Two of the boys have become &quot;thugs&quot;, one of them became a lawyer, and Lorenzo a journalist.  Together again, they decide to avenge themselves in court via strategic law techniques thought through buy their childhood friend who became a lawyer.  I won't give away more details from here on because what happens next is themost powerful essence of this book.  Lorenzo..AKA..&quot;Lorenzo Carcaterra&quot; IS the author of this book.  Yep that's right it is a true story.  The Count of Monte Cristo would be proud.	2001-02-25
US	52708337	R263EITFFZV6ND	0141305371	363093333	Jane Eyre (Puffin Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Heroine I Could Relate To	Let's get one thing straight..I LOATHE romance novels.  My Grandmother reads hundreds of those Fabio-plastered, heaving cleavage covered paperbacks...but NOT ME.  Don't get me wrong, I loved Gone with the Wind...but as I explored a few more of the more classic romances ie..Emma, Wuthering Heights, or Sense and Sensibility..I found the movies much more appealing.  Then along comes Jane Eyre.  She is not buxom and airheaded and dashingly beautiful.  She is plain, modest, and smart...That's right! a more modern woman!! Jane does not faint at the sight of a handsome man, nor does she swoon over expensive clothes....Let me tell you a little more about Jane Eyre.....  As a child, Jane was left an orphan with her brutal aunt and cousins.  Treated unfairly and taunted buy the other children she soon developed a quick-witted tongue.  After receiving an honest verbal lashing from Jane, her aunt packed her few belongings and pretty much &quot;shipped&quot; the young girl off to a dreadful and gloomy school called &quot;Lowood&quot;.  At Lowood, Jane quickly learned to bite her tongue through strict discipline from the Headmaster.(Lowood often reminds me of the discplinary school David Copperfield received some beatings in.)  Here at school Jane is educated and cared for but never loved.  She stays on at Lowood to become a teacher herself, but soon finds a position in a far away town to be a private counsel and teacher to a young girl Adele. Adele is the young French, beautiful and very spoiled ward to a great man known as Mr. Rochester.  Jane soon learns that Mr. Rochester is very mysterious and aloof ..he often leaves her and Adele alone for months at a time on business travel.  When he is at home Jane finds herself drawn to him, his strange conversation style and his knowledge of good books.  He is by no means a HANDSOME man but attracts a great deal of attention because of his financial means.  I Loved this book for many reasons.  I loved the contrast between Jane and Adele...Adele is spoiled, loved and beautiful....Jane the opposite.  And the MYSTERIES!  Where does Mr. Rochester go?  WHO is Adele?  Why are there screams late in the darkness of the manor?  Who could it be?  And the best mystery of all?  What will become of Mr. Rochester and Jane? Romance?  Jane never OUTWARDLY desires to be a distinguished lady like the beautiful women Mr. Rochester frequently entertaines.  But as a reader you feel she deserves such a posion.  You will find yourself page tuning faster and faster as you secretly wish for modest Jane Eyre to succeed and and achieve status and the love she deserves....Adele is spoiled, loved and beautiful....Jane the opposite.  And the MYSTERIES!  Where does Mr. Rochester go?  WHO is Adele?  Why are there screams late in the darkness of the manor?  Who could it be?  And the best mystery of all?  What will become of Mr. Rochester and Jane? Romance?  Jane never OUTWARDLY desires to be a distinguished lady like the beautiful women Mr. Rochester frequently entertaines.  But as a reader you feel she deserves such a posion.  You will find yourself page tuning faster and faster as you secretly wish for modest Jane Eyre to succeed and and achieve status and the love she deserves.	2001-02-25
US	52708337	R2C4SQQSIQKRL5	0553290045	138277602	Boys from Brazil, The	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Can We Clone Hitler?	All over the world men around the age 65 are being murdered.  They all have related jobs,similar personalities and most importantly...adopted sons who are 14 years old .....sound creepy?  What if I told you all of the surviving boys are IDENTICLE?  Following World War II, Dr. Mengele..the infamous &quot;ANGEL OF DEATH&quot;, who performed sick and twisted experiments on twins, women and children of concentration camps..was left in charge of Hitler's corpse.  Apparently Hitler was aware of ongoing attempts at cloning animals and left instructions for the &quot;Dr.&quot; to attempt cloning on his DNA.  Did it work?  I won't tell...I've already wet your appetite....Reading this book is such a wild ride.  The characters were REAL people..the possibilities COULD happen..remember Jurassic Park?  After reading this book I found an article admitting there are still tens of thousands of Nazi followers still waiting for their &quot;moment&quot; even today. So after you read this spine-chilling and very fast-paced adventure that takes you all over the world...YOU tell ME what is Ira Levin's fiction and what is real.You will not be disappointed.  So buckle your seat belts for an unforgettable journey that begins in Brazil.	2001-02-24
US	52708337	R3W12LMPDHHNRZ	0385472951	999720718	The Partner	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The best Grisham novel next to the Firm	If Hannibal Lecter were a lawyer instead of a man-eating serial killer..he could be Patrick Lanigan.  Patrick lives a mundane life working for a prosperous law firm.  He spends years preparing for the moment to throw his plan into action and escape unscathed with 90 million dollars to Brazil.  This book is a great all-nighter.  It's like silence of the lambs meets &quot;Jackie Brown&quot; the movie.  I highly recommend this Grisham's fans who are losing intersest in his past few books.If you like stories like the Shawshank Redemption  (Stephen King) you'll love this one.	2001-02-08
US	52708337	R5H3VBEJAJ1XH	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Best book I've read all year!!!!!!!!	All of Michael Crichton's books have one thing in common...Time. If you are looking for a read-it-in -one-night-page turner...you found it.  This one has something for everybody.  Yes, the beginning does explain a little about science and Quantum Physics to help you understand the possibilities of playing with time...but even in Jurassic park that was a requirement. I am no fan of science but I enjoyed the few pages devoted to this...because then you're off!!!  from modern day archaeology to Medievel times.  All the characters are beleivable and real.  The character Merik...seems so quiet in the beginning..but just wait!!! He will shock the pants off you. This book is an adventure.  Thrills, chills, and suspense....especially 3/4 through.....you can't stop the page turning.This is because every chapter is a watch ticking Literally.  It is a countdown and as time runs out you find it truly is Impossible to put this book down.  My friend is a devoted Tom Clancy fan..he's just not an adventurous reader.  I nagged him to read Timeline all year...he finally did and LOVED it!!!	2001-01-21
US	52708337	RWT8ET75ETQ2C	0316690619	95144783	Cradle and All	Books	5	0	1	N	N	If you are expecting this to be about Alex Cross this is not	This is not an Alex Cross novel, it does however have a detective in it.  She's rough and sensitive just like alex cross herself...If you love intrigue about occult and religion this is fabulous for you!!  I am not catholic but have always been interested in secrets of the Vatican.....ever see the movie&quot;Stigmata&quot;?  leave out the extreme gore, bring back the investigations of true miracles and a few supernatural qualities and you have a fabulous book.  If you love great detective work and a little extra spice that Alex Cross books lack , you'll like this book...PLEASE give this one a chance It begins and moves QUICKLY.  I read it in two days...and the ending is like no ending I have ever read.  You won't be disappointed through the &quot;journey&quot; to get there.	2001-01-21
US	52708337	RM4YT3K2PT1ID	0446608815	373226516	Pop Goes the Weasel (Alex Cross)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Excellent Alex Cross page turner!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!	I liked this one almost as much as  &quot;Kiss the Girls&quot;.  It's definately one of my favorite in the series.  Have you ever seen the movie &quot;seven&quot;?!  This book has that kind of gloomy, Gritty, big city feel to it.  The chase in this book and the evil nemesis is so suspenseful and frightening.  It has a lot more gore than most.I felt frustrated ..sometimes shouting out loud: Come on Alex!!!!! You've Got the Wrong Guy!!! We , the reader KNOW who the bad guy is early on but reading and waiting for Alex to trap him is thrills and chills of fun!  Warning: this book has a Great ending ....so hurray up and read it and then go buy and read the next, &quot;Roses are Red&quot;.  Please read my review of &quot;Roses are Red&quot; before you buy this book!! My hints will make it a lot more intersesting!!!	2001-01-21
US	52708337	R13MIR8EDT9CY3	038070322X	563269673	Legacy	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Best Book I have Honestly Ever Read!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!	I read Legacy for the first time when I was 15.  When I was 18 I stumbled upon it again and read it.  When I got married I desperately search every state library for this book....No Joke!!! I  truly beleive this to be the best book I have ever read in my life.  My entire family has now read it and they all feel the same. I knew and cared NOTHING of Elizabeth I...after reading this book I actually considered becoming a historian. It is so entrancing, acton-packed and succulent. I promise you will be hypnotized by Susan Kay's style and accuracy in her writing...... ALSO!! weather or not you are a Phantom of the Opera fan, check out her &quot;Phantom&quot; too!!! Marvelous!!!!!	1998-05-26
US	52708337	R112JPJTCCNTYY	0553270184	387130619	Destiny	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Gripping and Intensely Provacative	The Book was so deep, dark and gritty.  I found the book years ago read it and started searching for it again-it's a must-read!!	1998-05-26
