US	52709297	R1GOJ397DJN4MH	0446530891	382868174	Split Second (King & Maxwell)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	too complicated, too many peripheral minor characters	The main characters were interesting & well-developed.  The focus on Secret Service agents on presidential candidate protection details is a nice touch.  However, the plot is too complicated & implausible, and there are too many vaguely-defined peripheral characters to make this book a hands down winner.<br /><br />I read quite a bit, and I had a hard time following the plot in this one.  Even in the final pages, where the villian explains his entire scheme & motive, things didn't become clear, or the least bit convincing.<br /><br />this isn't one to put down & pick up again later -- it's too easy to forget where you are & which of the many peripheral characters are involved.  It would be a decent fast-paced read best consumed in a single setting, with one's full attention.	2005-01-15
US	52709297	R2I2G3B0WUKZV4	044990928X	256367238	Operating Instructions: A Journal of My Son's First Year (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	very timely, even today	Anne LaMott wrote this book during the first Bush presidency --.  In several passages, she chronicles her hatred of Bush senior & encourages her little Sam to grow up to be leader of the rebel forces.  When I read this book, I had to go back & look at the copyright date; I felt like I was reading something written in 2004.  LaMott is self-deprecating and quick to acknowledge all of her wonderful supporters & friends.  This is a great read for new moms, particularly those who are disenchanted with the current president & state of the world generally.	2004-08-21
US	52709297	R3A0QC1VAA2L4Z	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	4	3	4	N	N	beautifully written, well-developed characters	Okay, the plot is a bit implausible.  A group of high-faluting international executives and diplomats, along with a world-renowned opera singer, are taken hostage in an unidentified South American country.  During the extended period of the kidnapping, the barriers between the captured and the captors erode, and new alliances form.  It seems that all the men fall in love with the opera singer.  All of the hostages fall in love with opera.  The scene of terrorism turns into a sort of Eden, isolated from the realities of the outside world.  Rank and status lose their gravitas, and people become who they are at their core (particularly the Vice President of the unnamed country, who changes from a self-important politician to a man who delights in keeping things tidy and scrubbing the floor until it shines).  The ending (which I'll keep to myself) is a bit tidy and tagged on, but it works.  The writing, though, steals the show.  I reread and reread passages because they were so exquisitely crafted.  The characters are well-developed, particularly the two Japanese men with key roles in the novel.  Overall, a very good read.	2004-08-21
US	52709297	R5H5UOY2DLS7Z	037581082X	47371001	Dim Sum for Everyone	Books	4	6	7	N	N	wonderfully illustrated	The beauty of this book is in the brightly colored llustrations.  Every page sports a bright red background with equally bright pictures.  The story is about a family of five that goes out for a dim sum meal -- each person chooses what he or she likes.  The pictures depict a real-looking family eating in real family fashion -- one child reaching in front of one another to grab an egg tart, one child sticking chopsticks in her mouth like walrus tusks.  After the meal, the children all look sleepy and contented as Dad reaches for the bill.<br />The text of the book isn't particularly catchy; it is very simple and it refers to the dim sum without using any Chinese words.	2004-02-07
US	52709297	R23IJR4IHBPGH9	0679882820	729164591	Mr. Brown Can Moo, Can You : Dr. Seuss's Book of Wonderful Noises (Bright and Early Board Books)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Moo Buzz Pop Klopp Dibble Dopp Tick Tock & More!	This little board book is so much fun -- my three month old is mesmerized by it.  It's appropriately subtitled as \\"Dr. Seuss's Book of Wonderful Noises\\" -- and it certainly runs through the range of noises.  This book goes beyond the introductory cows go moo into a much broader range of sounds -- bees buzzing, corks popping, horses klopping, rain dibble dibble dopping.  There is also reference to a soft whisper, so the reader can use a range of dynamics.  The illustrations are classic Seuss - Mr. Brown is an odd little fellow with a tall brown hat, a spriggly mustache under his nose, and a haughty chin-in-the-air demeanor.  The animals range from the semi-realistic to floppy-footed bizarre.  Overall, this book is a delight that should keep any little one entertained for a few minutes.	2004-02-06
US	52709297	RGEUCO6F8EDY8	0316229792	995654806	The Eensy Weensy Spider	Books	5	3	3	N	N	ADORABLE	This delightfully illustrated book contains a series of independent verses about the adventures of little pink spider with a blue hat, as she marches in a parade, hugs a baby bug, swims with a frog, buys new shoes, and such.  The spider is SO DARN CUTE, it should cure any bug phobic.  (If only spiders were so cute in real life).  This book is a tad long, perhaps a bit too long for the youngest child.  Each two-page spread contains a full verse.  The first spread contains the traditional eensy-weensy spider verse; each subsequent spread contains a variation of the traditional verse.  My favorite --<br />  The eensy weensy spider fell down and scraped her knees.<br />  \\"Ouch!\\" cried the spider.  \\"I need some Band-Aids, please!\\"<br />  \\"How many?\\" asked her mama.  \\"I only have a few.\\"<br />  Said the eensy-weensy spider, \\"Six of them will do.\\"<br />Overall, the book is delightful, a little longer & more complex than the typical board book.	2004-02-06
US	52709297	R3P8Y54CQFGUWN	1582461082	175426048	Yum Yum Dim Sum (World Snacks)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Little pieces of heart in a little book	This book is fun, a charming introduction to dim sum, and even a little bit educational for adults -- I'm hoping I can do more than point next time I go for dim sum.  The rhymes are simple and catchy, and the illustrations (with pictures made from scraps of fabric) are intriguing.  My baby daughter is mesmerized by the book and stares at each page intently as I read.  As an added bonus, after reading \\"Why oh why, my little sho mai, why do I love you so?\\" aloud several times, I have taken to calling my daughter shao \\"sho mai\\" (little meat ball).  This is BY FAR one of our favorite read aloud board books.	2004-02-01
US	52709297	R7SSVUXZ9NWMH	1569245134	747987059	Party of One: The Loners' Manifesto	Books	5	16	16	N	N	FASCINATING, in-depth look at those who prefer to be alone	This is a fascinating, well-researched, historically grounded account (and defense) of individuals who prefer to be alone, who don't feel a need to share all of their experiences with others, who dread office parties.<br />The author spends considerable time discussing loners' good points -- we're never bored.  We're adventuresome, inventive, creative.  We think outside the box.  She also devotes considerable attention to debunking myths regarding loners.  In the media, the cowboy figure is one of the few loners depicted as glamorous; most other times, the loner is depicted as the bad guy.  The author distinguishes loners from outcasts.  All too often, violent criminals, serial killers are erroneously depicted as loners.  The author's definition of a loner excludes people who are alone but who desperately want to be accepted or loved by others.  True loners (for whom the book is written) enjoy being alone.  Outcasts, on the other hand -- often perceived as loners -- do not necessarily want to be alone.  Ted Kaczinski, Timothy McVeigh &amp; a host of others fit into the non-loner definition.  I think the whole question of semantics could be avoided if one thinks of a loner as an introvert.<br />Particularly interesting was the author's look at loners in history -- the religious hermits who resided on British estates, the anchoresses who were locked into tiny rooms on cathedral property, communicating with others only through a brick-sized hole in a wall, at the mercy of others for food and support.<br />The book helped me to understand myself -- why I don't wear my college sweatshirt and class ring, why I don't display signs of membership in organizations, why I don't really have a favorite KC Chiefs player and jersey, and why I don't feel like I fit in when I'm at a party where everyone is talking about football and the weather.  The author described her loner husband's wardrobe as a collection of tee shirts purchased at used clothing stores simply because they are the right size.  A loner would never want to wear a shirt that had a statement about him or herself.  We reject signs of belonging, of membership, as a compromise of ourselves.  Loners generally hate dress codes and other institutional restrictionsey are the right size.  A loner would never want to wear a shirt that had a statement about him or herself.  We reject signs of belonging, of membership, as a compromise of ourselves.  Loners generally hate dress codes and other institutional restrictions	2004-02-01
US	52709297	R2NV36SORDLX2M	0345440900	202842149	Secrets of the Baby Whisperer: How to Calm, Connect, and Communicate with Your Baby	Books	4	2	5	N	N	good guidance on how to &quot;tune in&quot; to your baby	This book provides useful guidance on how to &quot;tune in&quot; to your particular baby and communicate with the baby to meet her needs.  More specifically, the author advocates a pattern of Eat, Activity, Sleep, and You (parent time) as essential for a happy baby and happy parents.  The most valuable concepts I got from the book were (1) addressing my baby as a person -- calling her by name, talking to her in first person, and telling her what I am doing when I interact with her; essentially, being respectful; (2) trying to squeeze in some activity between baby's eating and sleeping time, rather than going straight from eating to the crib; and (3) trying to figure out what her assorted cries mean.  What is most disappointing or unrealistic is the author's belief that by tuning in to their baby, new parents will unquestionably be able to decode baby's cries and determine whether baby is hungry, wet, overstimulated, bored, or merely fussy -- simply by listening to the cry and watching baby's body language.  (I looked at the body language / sound of cries interpretation chart for days &amp; still can't figure out why baby is crying.)  Interestingly, the author rejects &quot;schedules&quot; and denies that her EASY (Eat, Activity, Sleep, You) plan is a schedule, though it looks a lot like a schedule to me.  The author addresses her readers, new &quot;mums&quot;, as &quot;luv&quot; and &quot;dearie&quot; -- funny or annoying, depending on your perspective.	2003-12-26
US	52709297	R19PNWA6XOV6LW	1580890288	573093825	Froggie Went A-Courtin'	Books	4	8	8	N	N	LOVED IT, BUT . . .	the lyrics are not the ones you might be expecting, and may not \\"match\\" lyrics you have on a CD or elsewhere.  In this modernized version of the classic Scottish tune, froggie carries \\"roses & chocolates\\" by his side rather than a sword & pistol.  He doesn't marry Miss Mousy -- rather, he marries a fellow frog only AFTER he has asked all of the other animals in his environs to marry him, and they reject him for various reasons (he likes a wet home, whereas miss birdy lives in a tree; he eats bugs when other animals prefer nuts -- how would such a couple resolve their differences?  Is this a subtle criticism on miscengenation?  The \\"stick to your own kind\\" message in West Side Story?)  The illustrations are full-page, beautifully-colored, and first-rate, and the rhymes are very clever; they're just different from those I learned as a child.  I would definitely recommend the book -- just want you to know what to expect.  I particularly like the fact that the author included the music notation at the end of the book, for a play-along/sing-along.	2003-12-26
US	52709297	R2XBHCYT2G5JSD	0679834389	343321838	The Random House Book of Easy-to-Read Stories	Books	3	7	7	N	N	lots of variety, may look better than it is	This is an odd little collection of easy to read stories and poems, feauturing several prominent children's authors such as Dr. Seuss, Richard Scarry, and Stan & Jan Berenstain.  It gets five stars for variety, two or three stars for substance.  The collection doesn't seem to have any focus -- there is the very simple \\"Dog Party\\" (\\"Go dog go\\") and \\"Inside, Outside, Upside Down\\", short nonsense poems such as \\"Eat at Skipper Zipp's\\" and \\"Tweetle Beetles\\" by Dr. Seuss, and some more advanced stories like \\"The Surprise Story\\" and \\"20,000 Baseball Cards Under the Sea\\".  Although the choice of stories and authors is commendable, the stories are not complete or developed enough to do the respective authories justice and give a child a meaningful introduction to the authors.  The illustrations are plentiful and generally very good, and I expect that a toddler would enjoy looking at the pictures.  The stories might not maintain the ongoing interest of a child capable of reading the stories for herself.  If variety is what you're after, this may be a good choice.  Otherwise, I'd look for a more focused collection of stories.	2003-12-26
US	52709297	R2U27MT799MEK	0786832479	306864070	Princess Collection: Love and Friendship Stories	Books	4	14	14	N	N	GREAT GIFT BOOK - girls love this stuff!	This is a perfect gift book for that five or six year girl on your list, as long as you don't mind that she grows up thinking that the girl with the daintiest feet wins the prince's love (Cinderella) and that a kiss from a prince has magical life-restoring powers (Sleeping Beauty -- or is it Snow White?)  This is not girl-empowering feminist literature, but if you're looking to please the girl (rather than her liberated mother), this is a good bet.  The stories are short enough for bedtime reading to a toddler, and the pictures are plentiful, so a two or three year old could amuse herself by looking at the pictures.  I would guess that the actual reading level is about second grade, and there are some words that would be challenging for a beginning reader.  The book is beautifully done, with thick, glossy pages, plentiful illustrations, a girl-friendly pink cover and a nice silver edging.  It is a book that should last for years.  The stories are -- well -- classic Disney princess stories, with some of the more contemporary stories (Mulan, Poccahantas, Little Mermaid) as well as the standard fare.  I actually enjoyed reading some of the stories aloud to a very young girl -- it was a short course refresher on Disney princess tales -- and a five year old girl to whom I gave this book drags it everywhere with her.  I don't think you'd go wrong giving this to a young girl.	2003-12-21
US	52709297	R2BHTRVXVIUTV1	0761526986	193911192	Your Over-35 Week-by-Week Pregnancy Guide: All the Answers to All Your Questions About Pregnancy, Birth, and Your Developing Baby	Books	5	40	42	N	Y	my favorite pregnancy book (&amp; I've read them all)	This is the one book I turned to again &amp; again during my pregnancy, particularly during the latter half of the pregnancy.  There is a chapter for each week of pregnancy, and over the course of forty weeks, the book covers all the topics.  I especially enjoyed the sketches of a pregnant woman's body at different stages of the pregnancy, showing the size &amp; position of the uterus and the fetus, and the commentaries about the size of the baby at different times pregnancy (most of which relate to food -- your baby is now the size of a pea, a grapefruit, a banana, a loaf of zucchini bread, etc.)  The book also features plenty of photographs of pregnant women of all shapes &amp; sizes, and you get a sense that Dr. Shananan really admires their beauty and their &quot;pregnancy glow.&quot;  I thought that the book celebrated pregnancy -- one of the other reviewers found that the book was too scary, talking about all of the risks of pregnancy, but I found it to be much less so than many of the other books on the market.  Dr. Shanahan discusses risks realistically (she had three miscarriages before her daughter was born), but she doesn't dwell on them.<br />Dr. Shanahan is very candid in her discussions of her own pregnancy -- like a friend telling you about her own choices, what she would have done differently, and discussing those areas in which she didn't really follow her own advice.  For example, she discusses her teenage bout with eating disorders that led her to gain less weight than she should have during pregnancy, and the small (but perfectly healthy) baby that resulted.  There is a picture of her in the delivery room with her baby five minutes after birth, looking like she doesn't have a clue about what to do next.  She shares her journal entries to the baby, written while pregnant, about how she's not going to feed her baby fast food or stick her in front of the TV.  Obviously, she knows her stuff -- but she's also a real person and her willingness to show that makes the book all the more enjoyable.show that makes the book all the more enjoyable.	2003-10-18
US	52709297	R2FJZYCR4OJZVX	1889392146	709530286	Baby Bargains: Secrets to Saving 20% to 50% on Baby Furniture, Equipment, Clothes, Toys, Maternity Wear and Much, Much More!	Books	5	1	2	N	N	well worth the price	What I liked most about this book was the listing of all of the clothing websites, and the guidance on where to get stylish, boutique baby clothing, as well as the introduction to all-leather robeez and bobux baby shoes (which have become my baby shower/baby birthday party gift of choice).  So much for my priorities.  The book does give good advice on the mursery essentials -- car seat, diaper pail, play yard, etc.  Most products are graded from A to F, so you know what to avoid.  The book gives you good ideas on what to look for in particular items and discusses the relative merits of different products, so you can use your shopping time comparing the relative features rather than trying to figure out what they are.  However, the book is no substitute for getting out to the baby store to see if you have a particular preference.  The authors rely heavily on input from readers -- It's great to know what has worked for other parents, but I'd still recommend checking out the products in person before making a decision.  The authors also relate readers' stories about bad experiences with certain retailers (which I won't patronize as a result).<br />As a bonus, the book also helps prevent you, as a new parent, from spending money on things that may look cute or appealing but aren't at all necessary or just don't work (one piece outfits with buttons up the back or no snaps on the crotch, fancy crib blankets that you shouldn't use in the crib, diaper pails that don't keep in the stink).  The book is well organized &amp; indexed.  Besides the basics, topics covered include childcare, bedding, maternity clothes, birth announcements, babyproofing, and much more.  Overall, you should save more than the purchase price by reading the book.	2003-10-16
US	52709297	R3BX6O8VQP7UXJ	0316779075	841219442	The Birth Book: Everything You Need to Know to Have a Safe and Satisfying Birth (Sears Parenting Library)	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	encourages parents to participate, make INFORMED decisions	Although the authors are a pediatrician/nurse couple, they chose to deliver three of their seven biological children (they have an eighth child, adopted at birth) at their home, and they show a noticeable preference for natural birth and for limiting medical intervention during the birth process unless it is necessary.  They highlight the potential risks of what many people believe to be routine activities during pregnancy and labor, such as ultrasounds, Doptone monitoring, and such.  Chorionic villae testing and amniocentesis are discouraged, and those fun 3-D ultrasounds available now are an absolute no-no in the authors' minds.<br />Although they believe that medical intervention is grossly overused in this country (in large part due to fear of litigation by obstetricians), the authors readily acknowledge that it can be useful and even necessary in limited situations, and they encourage mothers to plan ahead in case things don't go as planned.<br />Although I felt like the book is a bit more alarmist than the typical birth book (and I found myself summarily dismissing parts of it -- as I have found ultrasounds &amp; the Doptone monitoring of baby's heartbeat at my regular OB appointments to be extremely helpful), on the whole, it seems like one of the more balanced and informative books available. It's not all about &quot;trust the doctor completely&quot;, nor does it fault women who chose intervention.  For example, although the authors do caution about the risks of epidurals, in several parts of the book, the authors specifically relate how epidural anesthesia can be very helpful in causing labor to progress.  The book is also chock-full of information &amp; detail, as well as being very easy to read.  It provides much information to allow parents to become more active participants in decision-making regarding the birth of their child.	2003-10-12
US	52709297	R2T1SHUX3AXYQC	078688777X	939146126	Get Clark Smart: The Ultimate Guide to Getting Rich From America's Money-Saving Expert	Books	4	10	11	N	N	good consumer reference; NOT a get-rich guide	Clark Howard provides solid advice on topics such as buying a new or used car, buying a home, buying a computer, buying insurance.  There's probably not much here you haven't seen elsewhere, but it is presented in a consolidated &amp; readable fashion.  The most useful part of the book is Howard's advice on documentation -- how to write effective letters &amp; protect your rights in dealing with creditors and service providers.  The focus of the book is much more on making informed purchasing decisions and on protecting your rights as a consumer than it is on getting rich.	2003-10-03
US	52709297	R2OLCYH9LB6Y0D	0671316583	281647222	Baby Names Around the World	Books	3	1	1	N	N	a fun guide, but I would recommend additional research	The best part of this book is the adorable illustration on the cover -- If you're looking for an unusual, foreign name for your child, particularly from a country or culture that is not in the mainstream (Tamile, Twi, Zulu, Zuni, Kakwa, Kukuyu -- you get the idea) this book would provide a good starting point, but I would certainly do additional research to confirm that the definitions and spellings are accurate.  One section of the book lists names by country of origin.  The largest section of the book provides a dictionary-style listing of names, definitions, and variations for boys and girls.  I get a sense that the lists of international names are sometimes little more than lists of international words, some of which may not be well-suited for a name.  There's also very little (make that no) information on how parents in different cultures choose to name their babies, so a name that makes sense in a foreign culture may make no sense in American culture.  One of the reviewers below comments that when he saw the name &quot;Starbuck&quot;, he put this book down.  I've found that all of the baby name books contain names I wouldn't dream of imposing on a child (names like Eleven) and the trend in naming books is toward the unique -- I don't know that this book is any different.  In any event, naming a child is a very personal decision and this book could provide a fun, useful starting point.	2003-10-03
US	52709297	R3QL1LM7MD9W2Q	0380789825	472015244	Greatest Baby Name Book Ever, The	Books	3	2	2	N	N	maybe useful for writers,less useful for prospective parents	This dictionary-style book contains is divided into two sections -- boys and girls; each section contains an alphabetical listing of names, along with the definition, origin, and variations of/nicknames for each name, as well as an occasional mention of famous people with that name.  The boys' section is a little longer than the girls' section, but with over 300 pages of names in each section, there's plenty to work with.  I found this book to be interesting, but not nearly as useful in selecting a baby name as many of the resources available online, particularly if you're looking for something a little more mainstream.  If you're looking for unusual names or interesting ideas, you'll find them here.  This book contains a very long listing of names, and plenty of information on each name, but it is not cross-referenced nearly as well as some of the other books out there, nor is it organized by topic or type of name.	2003-10-03
US	52709297	R1IZP7MNIL5CR0	0385305133	852439265	Great Expectations: An Illustrated Guide	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great pregnancy guide with real photographs	This is a very readable, well-researched pregnancy guide. I read it through from cover to cover, and then used it also as a reference. The factor that distinguishes it from other pregnancy guides is that it contains numerous actual photographs of parents &amp; babies. It is also much less scary and alarmist than some of the more popular guides. It may be a little out of date compared to some of the more popular guides that are updated regularly, but it is nonetheless well worth getting your hands on.	2003-10-03
US	52709297	R36SZBWC3QM4QX	075023587X	534070698	In the Daily Life of the Ancient Greeks (Gods & Goddesses of...)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	useful introduction to the world of Greek gods	The short text dedicates a two-page spread to each of the major Greek gods &amp; goddesses, providing information on the role of that god &amp; how he fits in to the very complicated family tree of Greek gods, with pages cross-referenced to other gods.  In design &amp; layout, this book reminds me of the &quot;Eyewitness&quot; guides.  I found myself wanting more information and wishing that the text were a little longer than 42 pages (not including the two page index) -- but perhaps that's just a sign I'm ready to advance beyond books written primarily for children.  Overall, I think this is a fun, well-illustrated book that young people would return to time &amp; time again.	2003-10-03
US	52709297	R1QXBWQ8ENJ6GR	0786710462	667151428	Disturbance of the Inner Ear: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	haunting novel for a music lover	Haunting prose about an orphaned cellist's path toward understanding her roots, understanding her father, and understanding her gift.  Isabel, a talented and troubled young prodigy, is debuting at Carnegie Hall on the evening that her parents are killed in an accident.  A much older lover/benefactor takes her under his wings, and she is again cast adrift when he dies while the two are in Milan.  Isabel tries to survive in Milan, and becomes entangled with interesting characters.  She is skilled at avoidance, and is constantly running away from intimacy and revelation, running toward her roots.  What made this novel particularly intriguing were the author's frequent references to music, musicians (cellists in particular), and her descriptions of Isabel's emotions and interpretations of specific pieces of music.  This novel should hold particular appeal for a serious lover of classical music.	2003-10-03
US	52709297	RNDWYU6DY0PB	0312281315	583372561	Midlife Motherhood: A Woman-to-Woman Guide to Pregnancy and Parenting	Books	4	9	12	N	Y	good pep talk; not useful as a reference guide	This book is good, but it is not a useful substitute for a more traditional pregnancy guide (I like the week-by-week guides).  There are no illustrations (aside from a few photographs of post-partum moms exercising to get back into shape).  The book focuses more on how you, as a mom, can cope with all of the changes, rather than focusing on what is going on with the developing baby during pregnancy.  It does fill a unique niche in pregnancy books, but I wouldn't rely on it as a primary source of information.  It is more useful as a source of emotional support.	2003-10-03
US	52709297	R39UT9WHHSAEB0	0425178188	793160232	Playing Botticelli	Books	4	0	0	N	N	unconventional mom learns she's not so different after all	Wonderful story about artist/school custodian/aging hippie mom Godiva Blue, her fifteen-year old daughter Dylan, and Dylan's act of mom-defying teenage rebellion, her quest to discover the identity of and meet her father.  The mother/daughter relationship themes are well-developed in the text; as much as Godiva wants to be unique and raise her child to be questioning &amp; independent, she learns that she is no different than every other mom out there -- she wants her daughter to accept her values; she wants her daughter to be safe and loved &amp; cared for (rather than striking off on risky adventures.)  The book was definitely a page turner, but it left me hanging in the end.  I wanted more -- I felt that the issues with Dylan's father were unresolved, and I was disappointed that the book ended when it did.  Nonetheless, a very good novel.	2003-05-26
US	52709297	R1KO2RXGFN7ZL5	0684864045	747246316	Getting Pregnant: What You Need To Know Right Now	Books	4	9	12	N	N	very, very detailed	This book goes into excruciating detail about fertility and all factors that may enhance or detract from fertility.  You'll learn more about the female and male reproductive systems from this book than you'll learn from any biology course.  The authors discuss in detail all types of things that can threaten fertility (endometriosis, PID, fibroid tumors, ovarian cysts, abortions, IUDs, ectopic pregnancies) and discusses how to avoid them.  They also cover workplace threats to fertility, STDs, how your OB can help protect your fertility -- After discussing fertility issues, the authors move to how to conceive, discussing sex, body fat & dieting, fitness, stress, diet, and other preparations.  The book even boasts of a \\"revolutionary fertility diet.\\"  Finally, the authors discuss the many ways that science can help you conceive -- fertility surgeries, treatments for male infertility, drugs, artificial insemination, in vitro fertilization, and donor egg and embryo transplant.  I found this book to be like a textbook of sorts -- comprehensive & full of \\"evidence\\" and \\"facts.\\"  Frankly, I think there is way too much information in the book to be useful as a general guide; rather it would be more useful as a reference book for how to deal with specific issues.  Nonetheless, given the pain associated with fertility issues, it's all worth a try.	2003-05-25
US	52709297	R2V4DS9BNUO64A	1558748288	435531178	But I Don't Feel Too Old to Be a Mommy!: The Complete Sourcebook for Starting (and Re-Starting) Motherhood Beyond 35 and After 40	Books	4	43	43	N	Y	encouraging and insightful resource for moms-to-be	This encouraging, uplifting book is is written by a woman who became a mother to a gorgeous Russian-born boy later in her own life (a photo of the two of them is on the back cover; he is a cutie).  The book is better-suited to someone who is thinking about becoming a mother rather than for someone who is pregnant or has otherwise decided to become a mother.  It is a supplement to, but not a substitute for, a good pregnancy guide -- it doesn't have pictures of what your belly will look like at any given time or what to do about morning sickness &amp; such.  The author emphasizes the positive aspects of older motherhood -- the wealth of experience we have, how healthy we are, how patient &amp; self-confident we are, the advantages we can give to our children, how having children keeps us young.  She provides a list of 32 questions to thing about before you decide to embark on motherhood -- they're all thought-provoking &amp; well worth spending time on.  She includes quotes from a number of older mothers (and stepmothers) discussing the experiences.  She discusses ways of becoming a mother (the old standard, infertility treatments, adoption, surrogacy, even step-parenting).  One thing I particularly like about the book is the author's focus on maternal health &amp; fitness -- for the child's sake.  Twenty-something-moms may take their own youth &amp; health for granted in a way that we forty-something-moms can't really afford to do.  Overall, a good resource, particularly for those contemplating later-in-life motherhood.	2003-05-24
US	52709297	R2I5QNEVU8JP9P	0399527885	840651144	Giving Birth	Books	5	19	19	N	N	behind-the-scenes look at the practice of midwifery	If you are part of the 99% of American women who choose to give birth in a hospital, attended by a physician, because you think that is the safest way to go, this book may well change your mind, or at least get you thinking about the possible benefits of a more natural, midwife-attended delivery.  The author is decidedly pro-midwife; she weaves numerous statistics and stories into the text that underscore the decline of healthy delivery commensurate with the \\"medicalization\\" of delivery.  For example, the US has the highest rate of hospital/medical deliveries but ranks 22nd in the world in maternal health / infant mortality -- well behind other countries, primarily western European, where home delivery and birth center deliveries are much more common.  Other surprises -- according to the author, the World Health Organization recommends home deliveries and birthing center deliveries over hospital deliveries.  The rates of C-sections and episiotomies are much, much lower for midwife-attended deliveries.  Midwifes generally treat childbirth as something the female body is fully capable of doing on its own, rather than as a medical condition or disability to be treated.  And the midwifes interviewed for the book seem to be very respectful of their clients -- assisting the client in her own birth experience rather than making the birth something the midwife choreographs & directs.  The author writes about the history of childbirth & delivery and the practice of midwifery, interviews numerous midwifes, and even participates in home births attended by midwifes.  At the same time, she discusses her own pregnancy (that is progressing while she is conducting the research for the book) and she trains to become a doula, or birth assistant.  The book is gripping and easy to read; it reads fast like a novel -- and the discussions of home births she has attended are page-turners -- but it is also full of factual information and would serve to help prepare a woman for childbirth.  In her interviews with midwifes, she discusses the risks to the profession -- insurance company's reluctance to cover home births and midwife fees, even though they're statisfically safer and less expensive than OB-attended hospital births, midwife's difficulty in getting insurance coverage for their practices, pressure on midwifes working in hospital settings to spend less & less time with their clients and to introduce more medications (Pitocin) -- to conform more to the medical model.In her interviews with midwifes, she discusses the risks to the profession -- insurance company's reluctance to cover home births and midwife fees, even though they're statisfically safer and less expensive than OB-attended hospital births, midwife's difficulty in getting insurance coverage for their practices, pressure on midwifes working in hospital settings to spend less & less time with their clients and to introduce more medications (Pitocin) -- to conform more to the medical model.	2003-05-24
US	52709297	RVA2H87ACGNE5	0446679593	706464487	Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas	Books	4	0	0	N	N	a pleasant, quick read	I finished this book in a single rainy afternoon -- it is very light (although emotional), not particularly complicated, easy to read, and compelling -- you'll want to keep turning the pages once you get started.  Despite the death of two of the characters, it strikes me that everyone involved had a pleasant, charmed, somewhat idyllic life.  Things were a little too easy for everyone involved; love was true & uncomplicated. The book has some mystery, but there is nothing scary or very suspenseful here...	2003-04-12
US	52709297	R2T0DHH73RZUA6	0812922468	673517239	Single Mothers by Choice: A Guidebook for Single Women Who Are Considering or Have Chosen Motherhood	Books	5	98	99	N	Y	Essential reading for single women contemplating motherhood	There are a lot of books about there about being a single mom, but this is the only one I've found about deciding to become a single mom.  Single Mothers by Choice is an organization comprised primarily of women in their thirties and forties who, for whatever reason, have not found a permanent relationship, but still want to be mothers and create families.  I would guess that most of the readers of this book are educated professional women with ticking biological clocks who might have liked to raise children with Prince Charming in a traditional family setting, but that opportunity did not arise, so they are considering other alternatives.  The book is directed at women who are not in a permanent relationship with someone who will assume a serious parenting role in the child's life; unmarried women who are part of a committed partnership, either straight or lesbian, and have already decided to start a family, might not find the book to be very useful.  (In other words, although the book discusses adoption and donor insemination, this book's primary emphasis is NOT as a resource guide for couples who have already decided on adoption or insemination.)  Jane Mattes, the author, is the single mother of a 17 year old son (at the time the book was written) and a counselor who has traveled around the country meeting with many single mothers by choice.  The book discusses all of the things that a single woman should consider before embarking on motherhood, and provides lots of guidance and anecdotes for women who have made the decision.  (I found the stories of other SMCs to be particularly helpful; reading about how some of the women's parents reacted to their decisions made me feel much better about the conversations I've had with my own parents.)<br />This is not a feminist manifesto.  The book doesn't necessarily encourage single motherhood; rather, it encourages women who want to become mothers to be aware of their options and make informed decisions about whether motherhood is right for them.  The book doesn't minimize or ignore the possible difficulties that single mothers by choice may face, emotionally, financially, and in all ways.  Although the incidence of single motherhood by choice is rapidly increasing, there is still a certain element of the population who thinks that you need to be 25 and happily married to be a good mother, and will not hesitate to pass judgment on a woman who chooses to go it alone.  The book is particularly helpful in providing guidance on how to deal with that judgment, and it provides a lot of reassurance, through statistics and anecdotes, that a child born to a loving, caring single mother will likely turn out to be well-adjusted and just fine.<br />Topics covered include a discussion of whether single motherhood is a good choice for any individual, ways through which to become a single mother (known &amp; unknown donor insemination, adoption, etc.), dealing with and telling others about the pregnancy, legal aspects of single motherhood, dealing with the &quot;daddy&quot; issue as the child becomes older, dating, subsequent marriage, and such.  There is quite a bit in the book that deals with parenting as a single mother, rather than simply conception, pregnancy, and childbirth. It doesn't convey for a moment that single motherhood will be easy, but it does convey that for many women, it can be highly rewarding.  The author emphasizes what is in the best interest of the children, and discusses the importance of having positive male role models in a child's life.therhood is right for them.  The book doesn't minimize or ignore the possible difficulties that single mothers by choice may face, emotionally, financially, and in all ways.  Although the incidence of single motherhood by choice is rapidly increasing, there is still a certain element of the population who thinks that you need to be 25 and happily married to be a good mother, and will not hesitate to pass judgment on a woman who chooses to go it alone.  The book is particularly helpful in providing guidance on how to deal with that judgment, and it provides a lot of reassurance, through statistics and anecdotes, that a child born to a loving, caring single mother will likely turn out to be well-adjusted and just fine.  <br />Topics covered include a discussion of whether single motherhood is a good choice for any individual, ways through which to become a single mother (known &amp; unknown donor insemination, adoption, etc.), dealing with and telling others about the pregnancy, legal aspects of single motherhood, dealing with the &quot;daddy&quot; issue as the child becomes older, dating, subsequent marriage, and such.  There is quite a bit in the book that deals with parenting as a single mother, rather than simply conception, pregnancy, and childbirth. It doesn't convey for a moment that single motherhood will be easy, but it does convey that for many women, it can be highly rewarding.  The author emphasizes what is in the best interest of the children, and discusses the importance of having positive male role models in a child's life.	2003-04-12
US	52709297	R3NCK8JU188A79	0761123695	884635098	The Introvert Advantage: How Quiet People Can Thrive in an Extrovert World	Books	4	35	38	N	N	this is a great celebration of  introversion	This book is written for the 25% of the population who need alone time to recharge their batteries, the 25% of folks who look forward to the end of the work week and a quiet Friday night at home, the 25% who cringe at the idea of ending the dayweek at a crowded bar's happy hour.  The book lets those those of us who have ducked into the restroom for a few moments of quiet during a party, or who think that returning merchandise to a department store is a high-anxiety mission, know that we are not alone.<br />The author treats introversion as something to be celebrated rather than something to be cured.  She emphasizes all the ways in which introverion is useful in society and valuable in relationships.  Two things I particularly liked -- the quotations at the start of each chapter and throughout the test -- comments about still waters running deep, music is in one's own thoughts, etc.; and the discussion of different types and apsects of introversion, such as right-brained and left-brained introverts and Jungian theory.  The author goes into the biology of introversion, such as the genetic causes of introversion and the different ways in which introverts &amp; extroverts process neurotransmitters, which is fascinating.<br />The author does a good job of distinguising between introversion and shyness, a difficult concept for those folks.  I am by no means shy, so sometimes people who do not know me well (and even those who do) don't consider me as an introvert.  However, I relish my privacy and alone time.  My go-nonstop extrovert friends don't understand why I have no interest in going out after a day at work, or how I can spend an entire weekend alone.  This book helps provide me with an explanation for them.<br />The author also provides a number of practical tips on monitoring and regulating your energy levels, how an introvert can best deal with both introverted and extroverted mates &amp; children, how to deal with parties, social situations, and work situations.  I found this section to be the least useful, but other readers might disagree.ituations.  I found this section to be the least useful, but other readers might disagree.	2003-04-12
US	52709297	R139CGNVLOL8EW	0671519611	425267257	Having Babies : Nine Months Inside an Obstetrical Practice	Books	5	0	0	N	N	behind the scenes look at an OB practice	I loved this book!  It is not the typical pregancy book, and it does not tell you what to eat, what to do, or what your baby looks like from week to week.  It's more of a documentary that follows a two-doctor obstetrical practice in New Jersey, and the mothers-to-be that the practice services, during a nine-month period.  In addition to the pregnancy issues facing the practice's patients, the book reveals the behind the scenes drama and personality conflicts that exist among the staff and doctors.  The two doctors have very different personalities and practice styles, and that comes through very clearly in the book.  The book follows what I would call an average young, recently married couple over the course of nine months, from conception through delivery, with insight on how parents &amp; friends react to the pregnancy, how the couple feels about the pregnancy, how they deal with career issues and such, and of course, medical issues with the pregnancy.  In addition to the &quot;average&quot; couple, the doctors treat a number of women with not-so-average pregnancies, such as the one carrying quintuplets, the one carrying one dead and one live twin, and so on.  I wouldn't rely on this as your primary source of information on pregnancy.  It's a little out of date (written  in 1994) and in my opinion, the doctors are a little too enthusiastic about epidurals, episiotomies, and such -- but it is a fun, novel-like fast read and it gives you a sense of what your doctor may be thinking about when he's treating you.	2003-04-11
US	52709297	RB7KH0NFVR1N5	0385293348	757790242	Having a Baby	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	this book is well worth tracking down	This is a a delightful book to read while you're pregnant.  It follows Danielle Steele and six of her friends during their pregnancies -- it's like seven separate stories compiled in one book.  The moms were invited by Danielle Steele (the novelist) to participate in a prenatal exercise class -- the moms include Averil (a young, wildish New Yorker married to a doctor), Mary (owner of a skin care salon), Katherine (a bubbly, active, happy psychologist) Susan (a lawyer), Jan (a TV newswoman) and Diana (a practical mom married to an opthamologist).  Some are first time moms; some are not.  Some work outside the home; some do not.  Some are nervous ninnies; others are not.  Some had morning sickness and excessive weight gain and other problems; others breezed through the nine months.  Each of the twenty-nine chapters in the book covers one aspect of pregnancy or childbearing (finding out, amniocentisis, sex, going home, postpartum depression, etc.) and has entries from each of the seven women about their experiences with respect to that topic.  Reading this book is like talking with seven of your friends about their experiences during all aspects of pregnancy.  It's not a scary book -- some of the women drank, smoked, didn't follow the prescribed prenatal diet regime -- and all of the babies turned out just fine, the moms were happy, and every single one of the seven was reassuring about how you WILL lose the baby weight (it seemed to come off a little too easily for some of the women).  The best part -- the eight pages of pictures of the moms, their babies & their husbands.	2003-04-11
US	52709297	R1PWJ5GVA7CERN	1555613195	470921816	Your Pregnancy After 35 Revised Edition (Your Pregnancy Series)	Books	3	51	51	N	N	not very detailed -- there are better books out there	This book is okay; it provides all of the basic information on pregnancy and would be sufficient if you were interested in a minimal level of information.  I found the book to be very easy to read, and very straightforward, but a little superficial.  The appropach to many topics (back to work?, your career and your pregnancy, how your body changes) is so superficial, it  almost seems like the author stuck in the chapters because she felt she had to, rather than because she had valuable information to present.  Each chapter begins with a statement that is true, but so trite (\\"Pregnancy is an exciting time\\") that it seems as if the author is pandering to the reader.  The book includes a number of short one-paragraph anecdotes about women and their preganncies.  Again, I found most of these anecdotes to be very superficial, without enough detail to make them very interesting or useful.  One thing I found to be VERY odd -- the author has \\"Time-Saving, Energy-Saving Tips\\" in every chapter, set aside & highlighed  in the text.  These time-saving tips have absolutely NOTHING to do with the text.  For example, in the chpater on your baby's growth, sandwiched in the paragraph in which the author is discussing whether a baby can perceive sounds within the womb, the set-aside tip is If you don't have time to wash your hair, try puttling baby powder in it, brush it out, and style as usual (something I learned from Glamour magazine twenty years ago, but didn't expect to read in a pregnancy book).  In the chapter on being a single mother, the \\"Time-Saving, Energy-Saving Tip\\" is as follows -- \\"If your kids string beads or have projects that have a lot of small parts, one easy way to keep them neat is to use an ice-cube tray to hold everything in easy to get to compartments.\\"  As if what to do with your kid's craf supplies is the most pressing issue facing an unmarried pregnant woman. The author has tips on how to get spilled soda stains out of carpet, how to store plastic bread bags and grocery bags in old paper towel tubes, and things like that --  and these tips are often more detailed than her tips about pregnancy.  One of my favorite \\"Time-Saving, Energy-Saving Tips\\", that gets equal billing with bead organization & stain removal is \\"If you have other children at home, make plans for someone to pick them up from day care or school if you go into labor when they are not at home.  Update school or day-care permission foirms to include those whom you want to pick up your children.\\"  Duh (my reaction to a lot of stuff in the book).  Another anoying fact is the tremendous amount of redundance & repetition.  Like magazine & newspaper articles, the author often takes sentences out of the text and highlights them in enlarge, italicized font -- so they are in the text AND in the highlighted form.  Problem is, the highlights are often right next to the excerpted text, so you end up reading the same thing twice -- without anything else in between.<br />On the positive side -- the book is very easy to read, and it contains a great glossary of terms and list of resources.  You won't need a copy of Household Hints from Heloise if you buy this, as the author tries to cover pregnancy and household management in one text.  The book contains good illustrations.  And (this is pretty important) -- this is a reassuring book about pregnancy, not a scary if-you-don't-eat spinach-and-walk-three-miles-a-day-your-baby-has-no-chance-of-being-normal book.  Overall, this is okay, and it might be just the thing for some people, but I found it to be a little pandering & superficial.ags and grocery bags in old paper towel tubes, and things like that --  and these tips are often more detailed than her tips about pregnancy.  One of my favorite \\"Time-Saving, Energy-Saving Tips\\", that gets equal billing with bead organization & stain removal is \\"If you have other children at home, make plans for someone to pick them up from day care or school if you go into labor when they are not at home.  Update school or day-care permission foirms to include those whom you want to pick up your children.\\"  Duh (my reaction to a lot of stuff in the book).  Another anoying fact is the tremendous amount of redundance & repetition.  Like magazine & newspaper articles, the author often takes sentences out of the text and highlights them in enlarge, italicized font -- so they are in the text AND in the highlighted form.  Problem is, the highlights are often right next to the excerpted text, so you end up reading the same thing twice -- without anything else in between.  <br />On the positive side -- the book is very easy to read, and it contains a great glossary of terms and list of resources.  You won't need a copy of Household Hints from Heloise if you buy this, as the author tries to cover pregnancy and household management in one text.  The book contains good illustrations.  And (this is pretty important) -- this is a reassuring book about pregnancy, not a scary if-you-don't-eat spinach-and-walk-three-miles-a-day-your-baby-has-no-chance-of-being-normal book.  Overall, this is okay, and it might be just the thing for some people, but I found it to be a little pandering & superficial.	2003-04-11
US	52709297	R21FI1BU7V5JHB	1566563119	653896781	New Natural Pregnancy: Practical Wellbeing from Conception to Birth	Books	3	6	6	N	N	beautiful photography, focus is on pregnancy (not birth)	This short (under 100 pages) beautifully-illustrated book (with full-spread photographs and drawings) focuses on meditation, yoga, and other relaxation techniques and natural remedies to useful during pregnancy.  The six chapters address emotions, nutrition (including vitamins &amp; herbal supplements), yoga &amp; exercise, massage, natural remedies, and holistic healing.  I was disappointed in this book only I was expecting some coverage of natural delivery, and how to miminize the need for medical intervention, and that topic was barely touched.  The book is decidedly focused on pregnancy, not delivery.  I think this book would be helpful for a mother interested in incorporating yoga and homeopathy into her routine; it would also be helpful for a partner of a pregnant person who is willing to act as masseuse, as the book provides extensive detail on how to massage an expectant mother.  I wouldn't recommend this if you're don't already have a proclivity toward natural remedies and healing (I think it would be a bit &quot;too natural&quot;, too touch-feely for mainstream readers), nor would I recommend it if you're interested primarily in natural childbirth -- even though the numerous relaxation techniques contained in the book would probably help in facilitating natural childbirth.  The photography of beautifully serene &amp; relaxed pregnant women is lovely, perhaps alone worth the price of the book.  The images and the text do help convey that pregnancy is a beautiful, natural state; they provide a welcome contrast to many of the more mainstream pregnancy books that are popular these days, which detail the risks of pregnancy to the extent that you'll be afraid to become pregnant in the first place.	2003-03-29
US	52709297	RYT5QI0NVN417	071673303X	415294928	Rewinding Your Biological Clock: Motherhood Late in Life : Options, Issues, and Emotions	Books	5	14	15	N	N	fascinating discussion of conception through donated eggs	This isn't so much a book about &quot;Motherhood Late In Life&quot; as it is about conception using donor eggs.  As a 40+ woman pregnant for the first time (through traditional methods), I picked up this book after my first OB visit, thinking it would provide a good overview of some of the issues I might face.  At the time, I didn't realize that the book was specifically about ART (assisted reproductive technology) and pregnancies through donated eggs; I assumed it was just about being an older mom.  Nonetheless, once I started reading, I couldn't put the book down.  It provides much more detail about the biology of conception than do any of the traditional pregnancy books.  Juxtaposed with the detailed biology lessons are installments in the story of Sarah &amp; Joe, an older (Sarah is 48; Joe is younger) couple that opts for donor egg use after years of more traditional fertility treaments.  In telling the story of Sarah &amp; Joe, the authors address the ethical issues of pregnancy in post-menopausal women in what struck me as a balanced, compassionate, and very thoughtul manner.  In the Sarah/Joe story, they discuss the response Sarah &amp; Joe elicit from family members, friends, Sarah's sister, Sarah's adult daughter from a previous relationship.  Let's face it -- not everyone is going to be congratulatory &amp; rushing to hold a baby shower for a 50 year old pregnant woman -- or a lesbian or single woman for that matter; nor do all folks embrace the idea of creating an embryo in a test tube rather than accepting whatever God apparently had in mind.  And I think it would make a typical adult women a little put off to learn her mother (and her children's grandmother) was using a donor egg to become prenant again.  Paulson &amp; Sachs deal with the questions and challenges that women choosing egg donation (or even pregnancy later in life or under other non-traditional circumstances) may face, and their treatment is even-handed -- realistic, not pedantic or preachy, not utopian.  I think this would be essential reading for anyone considering assistance in reproduction, especially egg donation.  It would also be helpful for the friends and families of women who have elected to use donor eggs.achy, not utopian.  I think this would be essential reading for anyone considering assistance in reproduction, especially egg donation.  It would also be helpful for the friends and families of women who have elected to use donor eggs.	2003-03-28
US	52709297	RMOZVM1D4FQ0L	0937750085	998346236	Office Clutter Cure: How to Get Out from Under It All!	Books	4	54	55	N	Y	very motivating	This is classic Aslett -- it will have you pitching half the papers on your desk in no time.  Aslett has some good ideas on how to begin to conquer the clutter of accumulated paper, and ideas that can be used in discrete time increments.  Of all the clutter / office organization books I've read, his are the only ones that actually make me eager to get to work.<br />Two reasons I gave this book four stars rather than five, are (1) because of Aslett's gratuitous name-dropping &amp; boasting (when my coimpany was cleaning AT&amp;T, when I was consulting with the top executives of IBM, when I was making one of my many TV appearances with Regis &amp; Kahie Lee . . . ); and (2) because Aslett seems to consider himself an expert on all things rather than sticking to what he knows best.  Of course, I've read most of his books, and there is some redundancy, as if they're just regurgitations of former material.  If you haven't read his other books, you might not have this perception.  Nonetheless, every time I read one of his books I can manage to throw out several boxes of stuff, and after reading this, my office at work  no longer has any hidden stacks of papers waiting to be dealt with.	2003-02-15
US	52709297	R1X6N2GVTKE9VO	0071351221	344520885	Let Go of Clutter	Books	4	50	51	N	Y	full of solid, practical tips	This is a workbook, complete with checklists, that will help you assess &amp; conquer your clutter problems.  I've read many books on this subject; this is one of the better ones.  I found her sections on &quot;purging papers&quot; to be particularly useful -- as papers are often an overwhelming problem area.  Schecter also discusses the value of being choosy, and give tips on how to maintain a clutter-controlled environment once you've established it.  I found this to be a useful tool book, with solid, practical tips.  For motivation to get started decluttering, for inspiration and funny (as in &quot;yikes, that sounds like me&quot;) stories about people with serious clutter issues, read Don Aslett's &quot;Packrat&quot; and &quot;Clutter&quot; books -- they're very entertaining &amp; you'll want to stop every chapter or so to clean out a drawer or closet.  Follow up Aslett with this book, which has more practical tips	2003-02-08
US	52709297	RVIYYGDZVZ8FN	193141288X	489126814	10-Minute Feng Shui	Books	2	14	16	N	N	lots of suggestions / little depth	This little book does provide an overview of feng shui, but it lacks any focus or any detail.  After you read it, you'll know a teeny bit about feng shui -- you need lots of wind chimes to keep the chi moving, you need to illuminate dark corners, you need ties bells &amp; prisms on red cords &amp; distribute them around the house, you need to use your stove frequently if you want to be wealthy.  Many of the tips seem to be designed to bring unrestricted movement, to free up blockages.  That's the good part.  They annoying part is there are eight bazillion tips on how to increase prosperity -- painting your office door green (the color of money in some cultures), painting your office door black (the color of money in other countries), painting your office door red (lucky color, attracts fortune), painting your office gray, blue or green, decorating your office with fabric that combines eight colors or patterns in the design (because &quot;eight&quot; is the number of business and finance) putting yellow flowers in your kitchen, cleaning out your stove, refrigerator, under your kitchen sink.  You read a chapter &amp; there are tips on using every color of the rainbow, and incorporating numbers for a variety of reasons (two of this, four of that, nine goldfish, three bells, etc.) that you don't come away with any specific tips.  If you followed all of the tips, your home would be a multicolored, cluttered mess, with wood &amp; metal &amp; water &amp; wind chimes everywhere you look.	2003-02-05
US	52709297	R3D54TYF908XFK	0966419901	794306884	Organized Chaos : The Key to Declutter, Organize & Simplify Your Life	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	good principles / very easy &amp; fast to read	This little decluttering text is simple, simple, simple.  It's useful, and easy to read. The print is very large, as are the page margins, so there's not much fluff here.  You can easily get through this book in an hour.  I found the most useful discussion to be regarding the dichotomy between &quot;visual&quot; organizers &amp; &quot;camoflauge&quot; organizers -- visual folks need to have everything out in the open where they can see it; camoflaugers like to have things hidden away.  Jessy says that it doesn't really matter which type you are, you just need to organize your things so that you can find what you need when you need it.  That's reassuring advice for those of us who like open shelves &amp; piles of paper on display.  The author also gives advice on how to get along with someone of a different organizing style.  Despite the simplicity, this is one of the better organizing/decluttering books I've read (and I've read quite a few).	2003-02-04
US	52709297	R350JH5ZA5KMXV	0966419901	794306884	Organized Chaos : The Key to Declutter, Organize & Simplify Your Life	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	good principles / very easy &amp; fast to read	This little decluttering text is simple, simple, simple.  It's useful, and easy to read. The print is very large, as are the page margins, so there's not much fluff here.  You can easily get through this book in an hour.  I found the most useful discussion to be regarding the dichotomy between &quot;visual&quot; organizers &amp; &quot;camoflauge&quot; organizers -- visual folks need to have everything out in the open where they can see it; camoflaugers like to have things hidden away.  Jessy says that it doesn't really matter which type you are, you just need to organize your things so that you can find what you need when you need it.  That's reassuring advice for those of us who like open shelves &amp; piles of paper on display.  The author also gives advice on how to get along with someone of a different organizing style.  Despite the simplicity, this is one of the better organizing/decluttering books I've read (and I've read quite a few).	2003-02-04
US	52709297	R39OUELFE60PB0	0937750239	645179240	Lose 200 Lbs This Weekend: It's Time to Declutter Your Life	Books	4	47	49	N	N	very motivational / helps you part with your junk	There are many books on getting organized, decluttering, and such, but Aslett's really are the best.  They're laugh-out-loud funny, inspiring, and not bogged down in detail.  And the best part is, they work.  This is one of the few weight loss books that has made a big difference within a few days -- I just finished filling three large trash bags and boxing a room full of stuff for charity.  Aslett's approach is successful because he starts from the premise that the more stuff you have, the more time and money and energy you spend dealing with that stuff, and before long, the stuff owns you.  He helps you conquier the I=Might=Need=It someday syndrome and helps you see that keeping things you don't need/use/love just causes frustration. He helps you see that getting rid of stuff (rather than just organizing it into shelves, closets and other \\"junk bunkers\\" is liberating.  He deals with clutter in all aspects of life in a way that really makes sense.  For example, he discusses how taking a bargain vacation can really cost you in the long run.  This book is a little more globally-conscious/environmental than some of the others, but not in an academic way.  The book is easy to read and is one of the few books I've read on decluttering that I'll keep and I'll read again someday.  It's focus is on decluttering, not cleaning or organizing.  If you only want to organize things rather than pare down your things, this isn't your book.  The only reason I gave this four stars (rather than five) is because I don't think it's quite as good as some of Aslett's earlier books, most notably Clutter's Last Stand.	2003-02-02
US	52709297	R2SLWLH9M5SAHF	0446391735	377516605	Getting Organized	Books	2	18	26	N	Y	Getting bogged down in details.	This book is an overly-detailed, almost academic discussion of organizational theory.  Some of the basic organizational principles include listing a project's &quot;processes or system[s] into manageable parts&quot; , breaking down projects into  prioritizing projects by how aggravating they are, tackling the #1's first, etc.  Her discussion of how to compose and analyze the daily to-do list is overly-detailed -- for example, calling a student's mother to determine why he didn't show up for class yesterday is an immediate task that just cropped up, while getting in touch with an equipment supplier is &quot;a basic, medium range task.&quot;  What does that mean??  And I don't think most of us struggle with figuring out what is really important and what isn't; what we need is something that will help us accomplish what is most important.  The financial planning section is overly detailed -- assess income, analyze fixed expenses, prepare a budget, etc.  I'm consulting a Getting Organized book because I need to get motivated and empowered to plow through the pile of clothes on the floor and the pile of papers on my desk -- This book is better-suited for folks who are already organized and want to be even more so.  This book might be a good choice if you are already reasonably organized and are looking for detailed discussions of the processes that might enable you to become more organized in all aspects of your life.  If you are currently at a lower level of organization, I recommend Don Aslett's books on clutter; for me, they have been much more readable and useful.	2003-02-01
US	52709297	R3O0PEI3LSHPQJ	0375758453	535618685	Without Reservations: The Travels of an Independent Woman	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	more pleasant village stroll than whirlwind European tour	This travel memoir got off to a slow start -- it lacked the quirkiness &amp; unexpected that I like in travel writing --food was &quot;delicious&quot;, bells &quot;tinkled.&quot;  I felt like the writing was dry, predictable.  Rather than experiencing the immediacy of her surroundings, Steinbach allowed them to send her back into the past, where she wallowed in memories of her ex-husband, her Scottish grandmother, her &quot;former&quot; life.  About halfway through the book, about the time Steinbach hit the Imperial War Museum in London (one of my favorites) I became more engaged in Steinbach's journey.  Although Steinbach is independent, she recognizes the importance of other people in her life.  The most noteworthy aspect of the trip is how Steinbach manages to hook up with locals and fellow travelers  --men and women of varied ages and backgrounds -- and describes them &amp; their shared experiences in delightful detail (like the larger-than-life Australian psychoanalyst that she meets at the Freud museum, whose application of red-red lipstick only approximates the shape of her mouth, and the tweeded &quot;spinster&quot; who accompanies Steinbach on a lemon curd shopping expedition in the Cotswolds).  Steinbach also strikes up a charming friendship with a Japanese businessman --  which keeps the reader guessing.  This is more of a pleasant, reflective memoir than a traditional travel book.  It doesn't detail many laugh-out-loud experiences, but it will make you smile.	2003-01-11
US	52709297	RM2WZ7T7WGGB7	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	4	0	2	N	N	the ultimate attend-your-own-funeral story	This first person narrative begins with the rape and murder of 14 year old Susie Salmon, the narrator, and then progresses over the next decade or so, as Susie watches her friends and family deal with her death and eventually move on.  After her death on earth, Susie arrives in heaven, where she leads a seemingly normal life -- she lives in a townhouse with a roommate who attends jazz band classes, meets the former family dog, eventually meets other victims of her killer.  Susie describes heaven as different for different people -- it's certainly not a white clouds & angels with halos place, but it is pleasant. Susie occasionally descends from her perch in heaven to spend time with her family and friends who sometimes sense her presence.  (As a young adult, she even has an encounter with her junior high sweetie, Ray Singh -- the most intriguing part of the story from my perspective.)  She watches her killer move from her neighborhood and escape detection.  The book sounds eerie and macabre, but it really isn't. Surprisingly, even the rape and murder scene is not described in a horrific way -- it's very matter-of-fact.  The concept (of a dead girl narrating a story from her observation post in heaven) isn't nearly as hard-to-swallow as it sounds.  Overall, I enjoyed the book -- though it didn't move me to tears, it was well-written and interesting.	2003-01-08
US	52709297	R39K3PA1QTKE7D	0425186822	299450856	The Crossword Obsession: The History and Lore of the World's Most Popular Pastime	Books	4	20	21	N	Y	fascinating -- but only if you're a true crossword addict	I wouldn't call this book particularly well written.  There's some history, but the book doesn't provide a long, captivating narrative of the development of the puzzle, or a psychoanalysis of the folks who become addicted to their daily puzzle.  Rather, the book is more or less a collection of comments and insight from many of the creators of currently-published crosswords -- how they got into puzzle creation, how they sold their first puzzle, how long it takes them to solve the Sunday NY Times puzzle, etc.  The book is behind-the-scenes reality show on crossword puzzles.  After reading it, you'll have a good sense of how puzzles are created, how they are edited, what makes a puzzle good, what makes a puzzle bad (or unpublishable), and how the daily crossword puzzle ends up as a final product in your morning newspaper.  You'll learn about the preferences of different editors (now I finally know why my collections of NY Times crosswords edited by Will Shortz are SO MUCH MORE FUN TO SOLVE than the NY Times crosswords edited by Eugene Maleska).  You'll learn about the evils of \\"crosswordese\\" (if you're reading this -- you know what I'm talking about -- words like etui).  The book contains biographical shorts of the various crossworders who contributed -- they come from varied backgrounds, from Will Shortz, who majored in crossword puzzles in college (seriously) to dentists and physical therapists and lawyers who got sucked in by their hobby.  The book also contains some very good puzzles and their solutions -- though I wouldn't recommend this book if your only interest in in solving puzzles.  Overall, a great selection if you want to get to know the clever people and the detailed process that deliver crossword puzzles to the rest of us -- it may be of limited interest to anyone else.	2003-01-08
US	52709297	R2FEXG1C5BGGZU	0440201047	446960198	Serenissima	Books	4	4	5	N	N	classic Jong	This kinda-trashy, kinda-intellectual novel is classic Jong.  The protagonist, a Shakespearean actress, certainly isn't facing a shortage of [physical] encounters.  In fact, she has a romp with the Bard himself.  The books is a little bit difficult to follow, as it bounces back & forth between Shakespearan times & modern times.  It is spiced up with a word or two of Italian here & there, references to contemporary art, andnd it is rich with Shakespearean history & references to Shakespeare's works.  If you like a little Shakespeare in your steamy romance reads, this book is for you.	2002-12-20
US	52709297	R2CP78RS3RPS2I	037541309X	749687762	Balzac and the Little Chinese Seamstress : A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Intro to the Cultural Revolution 101	This charming book provides an interesting glimpse into China's cultural revolution, told from the perspective of a book-loving child of an intellectual who was shipped off to a remote farming community for &quot;reeducation.&quot;  It is difficult to imagine a world in which books are contraband and deemed to be detrimental to one's education, but that was how Mao ran the country.  This book is short, poignant, and leaves one with a lingering aftertaste.	2002-12-20
US	52709297	R3IFVTOQ5HQDIL	0062510266	920610021	The Enneagram Made Easy: Discover the 9 Types of People	Books	5	23	24	N	N	my favorite (and most often shared) enneagram book	I own at least ten books on the enneagram and this is my hands down favorite (followed closely by Baron &amp; Wagele's Are You My Type?).  I recommend it highly, and have made a pest of myself sharing it with friends, relatives, everyone.  Although many of my friends have initially dismissed the enneagram as new age psychobabble hocus pocus, and refuse to think that they could fit into a type, once they see themselves in the wonderful cartoons, they change their minds and want to know more.  Baron &amp; Wagele treat the enneagram with great insight and humor --  The cartoon drawings depicting the nine types of people are so accurate and will have most people saying, &quot;Yep, that's me&quot; (or &quot;Yep, that's so&amp;so&quot;).  For each of the nine types, the authors list traits when a type is at its best and worst, a personality inventory checklist, comments on how to get along with the type, what each type likes and dislikes about being that type, how the type drives itself crazy, how the type acts as children, as parents, and at work, things that type would never dream of doing, and so on.  The information is presented primarily in bulleted lists, so it's easy and quick to read -- and the cartoons are so witty.  In addition, there are several cartoons throughout the book that depict each of the nine types &quot;before the dinner party,&quot; at &quot;the dinner party&quot;, &quot;during coffee break&quot;, and &quot;after the dinner party&quot; that make the enneagram come to life.<br />If you're looking for a heavy, scholarly treatise, this is not your book.  If you're looking for something fun, entertaining, yet surprisingly full of information, this is for you.	2002-09-24
US	52709297	R1L3VVCH21WII6	015113880X	233010067	Bridge of No Return: The Ordeal of the U.S.S. Pueblo	Books	3	4	5	N	N	interesting, tho' not compelling account of Pueblo incident	I picked this up because I wanted to learn more about the North Korean capture of the spy ship USS Pueblo during the Cold War.  The story is told by Carl Schumacher, who was the Operations Officer on the Pueblo at the time of the capture.  He describes his assignment to the Pueblo, the other officers on the Pueblo, the details of his capture and the forced confessions.  The book ends abruptly as the Pueblo's crew, after being held nearly a year, is released.  I found myself feeling cheated -- what happened next.<br />I didn't find the book to be particularly compelling given the fantastic nature of the story it tells.  It is difficult to understand why the Captain gave up the ship so easily, though Schumacher attempts to do so.  It seems that Schumacher's primary purpose in writing the book was to criticize the US Code of Conduct and explain how it is ineffective in situations such as this.<br />There were a number of books on the local library shelf about the Pueblo incident, many written by former crew members.  Although I have not read them, I would recommend taking a good look at the alternatives before choosing this option.	2002-08-29
US	52709297	R1ZJ8CPOX8YW0	0375724850	690407391	An Italian Affair	Books	4	6	9	N	Y	Fraser is a delightful writer	I chose this book because I've enjoyed everything I've read by Laura Fraser -- she writes well -- and because I've lived in Italy and wanted a chance to reminisce. The book did not disappoint me.  I enjoy Fraser's sensitive, aware, and slightly sarcastic approach to things; I had some difficulty with the story line -- after several encounters with her Italian lover, I began to getfrustrated with him & I hoped that she would give him the boot.  I understood at first -- Fraser's husband leaves her for an old girlfriend, she heads off to Europe to sooth her soul, she meets the beautiful professor on an island near Naples, they have an affair, sensuas, sexual -- I'm tracking so far -- but the continued, ongoing meetings in the States and abroad, that seem to be entirely at his discretion, at his beck and call, are more of a challenge to accept.  Fraser is a smart, self-accepting woman, and I was a little disappointed that she would be in this type of a relationship.  This would be a great little book if it were fictional.  Because it is autobiographical rather than fictional, I find myself wanting to take Fraser aside on occasion and ask her what she is doing.	2002-08-29
US	52709297	R2OGIERZPRP2AT	0595222943	317151853	Making Waves: A Woman In This Man's Navy	Books	4	3	3	N	N	charming account of a sailor's introduction to the navy	Johnson captures the essence of what it was like to be a woman in the navy in the early 1970's -- having fun, yet encountering obstacles (usually in male form -- crusty old chief, a commanding officer who thinks women should be making babies, cat-calling marines) at every turn.  In this autobiographical account, Johnson details her decision to enlist & escape Ohio, her experience at bootcamp, journalism training, her first duty station at NATO's SACLANT headquarters in Norfolk, Virginia (where she made many pots of coffee), her next assignment at Clark Air Base in the Phillipines (where she lived with a fellow sailor & his Filipina wife and children off-base), and her subsequent assignment to an aviation squadron.  The tale ends when Johnson decides to apply for Officer Candidate School.  Only by reading the book's back cover do I know hat Johnson went on to become a Marine Corps officer -- I wanted the book to continue so I could learn more of her antics.  Throughout the book, Johnson describes her relationship with her best friend and shipmate, Lucas, who constantly ribs Johnson about being a \\"lifer.\\"  Like the real navy, Johnson's story isn't all patriotism & spit-shine.  She recounts (with great humor) an experience where a female roommate makes a pass at her, gives the lyrics to sexually explicit jodies, and describes an incident where Lucas picks up a nasty little Army sergeant and dumps her in a trash can.  The tale is pleasant, humorous, and very easy to read.  At times, I found it to be a bit incredible (incidents of blatant sexism and sexual harassment), but then I would guess that much has changed in the Navy and society in the past thirty years.<br />I would highly recommend this for any female veteran -- anyone who's been there, who has encountered their own version of the evil Sergeant Burke or the lascivious, girlie-tattoed Chief Hatch.	2002-08-27
US	52709297	R26Y3ENJLFVWU2	006018471X	530183235	Abandon Ship!: The Saga of the U.S.S. Indianapolis, the Navy's Greatest Sea Disaster	Books	5	7	7	N	N	compelling tale of tragedy at sea, bureacratic blunders	What an awesome story!  I very rarely read anything with military themes, but on a lark I picked up a copy of Abandon Ship! during a trip to the local public library, thinking I'd try it, but I probably wouldn't make it through the entire book.  On the contrary, once I started the book, I couldn't put it down until I had read every word, including the afterward and the appendices, lingering over the roster of survivors.  The book is a gripping and troubling tale of the loss of the USS Indianapolis to Japanese torpedos at the end of WWII, the Navy's failure to make any attempt to rescue the crewmembers for over four days, and the Navy's subsequent efforts to place all the blame for the incident on the shoulders of the Indianapolis's Commanding Officer, Charles McVay III, in order to avoid revealing the many blunders and oversights that led to the sinking and the grossly delinquent rescue effort (drunken officers ignoring SOS calls, failure to inform McVay of submarine threats, failure to track ship movement . . .) I was apalled that certain Navy brass would be so nonchalant about the Indianapolis's situation and that certain Navy brass compromise all integrity by punishing McVay for a trumped-up nonsense charge of failure to steer a zigzag course, in order to keep their own naval records unblemished.  Even more unthinkable is the fact that the Navy called an unwilling but necessarily cooperative Commander Hashimoto, the captain of the Japanese submarine that sank the Indianapolis, to testify against McVay at his courtmartial.  The book ultimately hints that the courtmartial of Captain McVay was an act of Admiral King, who was using the courtmartial of McVay to seek revenge against McVay's father, Admiral Charles McVay II, who had formally reprimanded King for an incident involving bringing women into unauthorized spaces when King was a junior officer under the senior McVay's command.<br />As an added bonus, the 2001 edition of the book contains a foreward and afterword that discuss the efforts of Hunter Scott, a schoolboy who took on the task of exonerating Captain McVay as a school history project aftrer hearing about the incident in the movie Jaws.<br />I recommend this highly to anyone who thinks that miltary brass always does the right thing.  Many do, but the handful that do not can cause one to lose all faith in the system.  Fortunately, a young schoolboy was able to vindicate Captain McVay four decades after the incident.word that discuss the efforts of Hunter Scott, a schoolboy who took on the task of exonerating Captain McVay as a school history project aftrer hearing about the incident in the movie Jaws. <br />I recommend this highly to anyone who thinks that miltary brass always does the right thing.  Many do, but the handful that do not can cause one to lose all faith in the system.  Fortunately, a young schoolboy was able to vindicate Captain McVay four decades after the incident.	2002-08-25
US	52709297	R2QKT7OZ15U0SU	1565123212	523912285	A Thousand Days in Venice: An Unexpected Romance	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	food, fabric, and romance with a &quot;stranger&quot;	I liked the book quite a bit; it was a well-written, enjoyable read.  The writing is rich, weaving snippets of Italian language and novel food metaphors into the text.  The author describes her relationship with her husband, her relationship with cooking, and her relationship with fabric in sumptuous detail.  Okay -- the sumptuous descriptions are more about the food and fabric than the man.  The story itself is a bit more troubling. Like the other readers, I found the author's decision to give up the home and restaurant she built for herself in St. Louis and move to Italy, taking little more than the vintage pillows and candlesticks she's collected over the years  to live in a place she'd never seen, with a &quot;stranger&quot; to be a bit impulsive, and I certainly don't envy her relationship -- she refers to her husband as &quot;the stranger&quot; throughout the book, and paints him as a skinny, beady-eyed (though his eyes are supposedly blueberry colored), moody, impetuous banker.  I'm not sure what they have in common -- he doesn't even share her consuming passion for food.  And I find it hard to believe that an aesthete like the author would move from her beautifully-furnished home to a nondescript apartment with red plastic fixtures, a tiny kitchen, and a washing machine that takes up half the bathroom floor space.  All that aside, the story of her relocation to Venice and the process by which she creates a rich life for herself in Venice is fascinating, and if you can get past the unconvincing Cinderella-whisked-away-by-the-Italian-stranger part of the book, you'll find plenty to enjoy.  Recipes for the author's how-to-catch-a-man meals are included.	2002-08-23
US	52709297	RNASJF8PHVPK7	0970405405	693229310	Jeremy's Prophecy Dot Com: an interactive novel	Books	4	12	12	N	N	this grabs you &amp; pulls you in	This fascinating story chronicles Sam's efforts to deal with his friend, Jeremy's bout of depression and institutionalization, by sharing Jeremy's story on the internet.  The internet story takes on a life of its own, with Jeremy's role being wholly overshadowed by media hysteria.  It was difficult for me to get started in the book, as I didn't understand the basis of the friendship between Sam &amp; Jeremy -- Jeremy had gotten so bad that he seemed like a miserable person to be around during his college days.  Then I learned that Sam &amp; Jeremy were childhood friends and Sam had witnessed Jeremy's descent -- and things made more sense.  Once I was able to get absorbed into the book, I couldn't put it down.  In the book Sam and his friends (and crush interest)Amy &amp; Alex could do little to alleviate Jeremy's illness, so, upon Jeremy's request, they shared information about his illness on the internet -- and sure enough, you can go to the web page &amp; follow along with the novel.  It's a fascinating concept that Kimmel handles surprisingly well.<br />I think this would be an interest read if you are interested in mental illness or the internet.	2002-06-15
US	52709297	RGU1RAHPFJWS2	0553574752	243454269	Protein Power: The High-Protein/Low Carbohydrate Way to Lose Weight, Feel Fit, and Boost Your Health-in Just Weeks!	Books	4	18	20	N	N	good introduction to the benefits of a high-protein diet	The high-protein, low-carb diet outlined in this book is reasonable and doable, not nearly as restrictive as the diet outlined in Atkins' book.  This diet will work for you if your idea of a good meal revolves around a steak or a lambchop, but if you like fruits &amp; starchy veggies, you'll be out of luck.  A single banana will put you over the carbohydrate limit for the day.  I did it for six weeks and lost several pounds, but I felt like all the cheese &amp; meat made my skin break out &amp; I craved sweets.  I have tried to stick with the principles, though, filling up on protein first, and I'm keeping the weight off.  If you're choosing between this &amp; Dr. Atkins' book, I would recommend this.  The plan is more reasonable &amp; unlike Atkins' book, it is not one huge self-promoting infomercial.	2002-06-15
US	52709297	R1EH0GAYXX5LTO	006251248X	125079529	Are You My Type, Am I Yours? : Relationships Made Easy Through The Enneagram	Books	5	30	30	N	Y	fantastic & entertaining - can't live without this one	Don't be put off by the title -- this is not an is-he-the-one? book; it's about how the different eneagram types interact with one another.  It may help you understand your relationships with friends, family, children, parents, coworkers -- everyone.  The book is eminently readable, packed with information, and filled with delightul, laugh-out-loud cartoons.  In addition to providing overviews of each of the nine enneagram types, the book goes through each of the types & summaries how each interacts with the other types -- What ones think about twos -- why they like twos, why they have dificulty with twos, what ones think about threes, fours, etc., and vice versa.  It very accurately identified the high points & trouble spots in several of my friendships -- (I was bothered by a one friend who always abandons me when my depressed four side comes out  -- the book identifies the #1 thing about why ones have trouble with fours is four's brooding & focus on their feelings).  The authors also identify famous couples (real couples, movie couples, duos like Siskel & Ebert) by their types and compares the types to Myers- Briggs typing.  I particularly like the book because it has application as to how the enneagram typing helps us understand not only ourselves, but how we interact with others.  This is a good introduction to the enneagram.  It and Baron & Wagele's The Enneagram Made Easy are the two enneagram books I most often share with others.<br /><br />Update:  More than ten years later, I still refer to this book on a frequent basis.  It provides very good insight on how to get along with different types of people.	2002-06-09
US	52709297	RTDJJHZ3I7J2C	1582340676	278851859	Uncle Petros and Goldbach's Conjecture	Books	5	4	5	N	N	fun read for the mathematicallly curious	I picked up this book after watching the movie A Beautiful Mind -- it's a delightful, easy-to-read novel about an aspiring mathemetician who tries to get to know the truth about his eccentric mathemetician uncle.  The book details the uncle's life-long struggle to solve Goldbach's Conjecture, which (for you non-mathemeticians, like me) posits that every even number greater than two is the sum of two primes.  I felt like the novel showed a somewhat realistic perspective of a driven, obsessed scientist, and showed how the scientist's activities and behaviors affected and even alienated those around him.  The protagonist is the only member of the mathemetician's family who bothers to get to know and appreciate him -- and that is a struggle, as the mathemetician often does things to alienate his nephew.  Don't be put off by the math; it's actuallyq quite easy to read.	2002-03-02
US	52709297	RG21V42XCXJ3G	0711976627	281056837	All The Tunes You've Ever Wanted To Play!	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	great collection but some odd arrangements	This little spiral-bound (so it lies perfectly flat on your piano) gem contains over 300 pages of music you'll recognize, mostly classical, with some traditional popular &amp; folk tunes (like Men of Harlech, Londonderry Air). I bought this book primarilly because I was looking for a solo version of English Country Gardens. I was amazed to discover how chock-full it was of good stuff -- the book contains delightful transcriptions of orchestral works, such as Vivaldi's Four Seasons, Mozart's 40th Symphony, Bach's Sheep May Safely Graze, even themes from Dvorak's New World Symphony. These arrangements are fun and on an intermediate level -- they sound pretty good. The reason I docked the collection by a star is because it contains very unusual transcriptions of pieces I know -- CPE Bach's Solfeggieto, Liszt's Libestraum, and Debussy's Claire de Lune are arranged in keys other than the original -- they're not merely simplifications, they're transposed in ways that don't make them much (if any) easier, and they're very difficult, distracting &amp; confusing if you're familiar with the original compositions. I have no doubt that I'll use &amp; love this book, and its worth every penny and more, but I'll definitely skip the transposed arrangements.	2002-02-04
US	52709297	R2IAKS8VC4PZPV	0061044636	461102948	Mars and Venus on a Date: A Guide to Navigating the 5 Stages of Dating to Create a Loving and Lasting Relationship	Books	4	1	2	N	N	old-fashioned advice with psychological support	Gray describes the five stages of dating (initial attraction, uncertainty, exclusivity, intimacy, and engagement), typical male and female behaviors during each stage, and the importance of progressing sequentially through the five stages in order to forge a workable relationshuip.  He explains how acting as if one is in a stage other than the stage the partner is in can sabotage a potential relationship and prevent it from progressing to the next stage.  For example, if one partner is uncertain and the other partner tries to act as if the relationship is exclusive, there's probably no chance that the relationship will ever become exclusive.<br />Much of Gray's advice builds on traditional gender-role stereotypes, and for every comment or snippet of wisdom, he offers even-handed treatment for men and women.  Men like to be needed; women like to be appreciated.  Men need a job; women need an employee.  Men need to be confident (that they can tackle a task single-handedly); women need to be self-assured (that things will get accomplished with the help and support of others).  Men need to take charge and have a plan; women need to be receptive and responsive to the man's plan.  Compliments for men should be directed toward the man's choices and achievements, not at him directly.  (\\"That was a great movie\\" or \\"what a perfect restaurant\\" are ideal; he'll take them personally.)  Women thrive on more direct compliments (\\"you look very nice\\").<br />Two things that struck me as odd -- the repeated comment that women love a man in uniform, which feeds into his position that women love men in charge; AND the tack-on list at the end of the book where Gray advises readers to meet their soul mate by deliberately going out & doing things they don't like to do.  For example, \\"If you don't like to dance, then definitely get out there and dance.  Take dance lessons and go to dance competitions.\\"  And on an airplane, \\"be sure to walk up and down the aisles to be seen and to see if your soulmate is there.\\"<br /><br />  This book is not aimed at a male, female, young, or old audience.  It targets anyone who wants to learn about dating.  A die-hard feminist might find some of the guidance (such as the section on why women NEED a man) a bit offensive, though.your soulmate is there.\\"  <BR>  <BR>  This book is not aimed at a male, female, young, or old audience.  It targets anyone who wants to learn about dating.  A die-hard feminist might find some of the guidance (such as the section on why women NEED a man) a bit offensive, though.	2002-01-29
US	52709297	R1B9NJABM6SFCM	0395710928	722926071	Discovering Your Personality Type: The New Enneagram Questionnaire	Books	4	13	13	N	N	good starting point to figure out what type you are	The enneagram is a personality typing system; individuals fall into one of nine personality types (reformer, helper, motivator, artist, thinker, loyalist, generalist, leader or peacemaker).  Individuals can predict &amp; analyze their thoughts &amp; behavior based on their personality type.  When I first learned about enneagram, I thought it was some kind of hocus-pocus new-agey alternative fluff, but the typing system has a strong historical grounding and it makes so much sense.<br />This book is helpful if you're new to the concept of enneagram, or if you're familiar with the enneagram but want to discovery or confirm your type. I would not recommend it if you know your enneagram personality type already and are interested in learning about the type . The book provides a simple 144-question survey somewhat remniscent of those interest tests we all took in high school (would you prefer to play tennis or keep score in a tennis match? conduct research in a lab or sell books?). Each question gives two choices; you must choose one -- sometimes it is tough, but the forced choice leads to an answer.<br />The book is most useful as a typing and diagnostic tool. The descriptions of the nine different personality types are short, barely enough to scratch the surface. Once you know your type, you'll probably want to consult one of Riso's other works to learn more about what the type means.	2002-01-20
US	52709297	RAR8S889N08M8	0395710928	722926071	Discovering Your Personality Type: The New Enneagram Questionnaire	Books	4	4	4	N	N	good starting point for those curious about the enneagram	This book is helpful if you're new to the concept of enneagram, or if you're familiar with the enneagram but want to confirm your type.  I would not recommend it if you know your enneagram  personality type and are interested in learning about the type.  The book provides a simple 144-question survey somewhat remniscent of those interest tests we all took in high school (would you prefer to play tennis or keep score in a tennis match?  conduct research in a lab or sell books?).  Each question gives two choices; you must choose one -- sometimes it is tough,  but the forced choice leads to an answer.  <br />The book is most useful as a typing and diagnostic tool.  The descriptions of the nine different personality types are short, barely enough to scratch the surface.  Once you know your type, you'll probably want to consult one of Riso's other works to learn more about what the type means.	2002-01-20
US	52709297	RUW6P3HQU61FJ	1582900426	194879739	Zen Paths to Change	Books	3	1	1	N	N	not bad, but there's not much substance here	This is part of a three-book series that includes &quot;Zen Paths to Harmony&quot; and &quot;Zen Paths to Laughter.&quot;  It is a very short collection of (typically one-sentence) snippets of wisdom paired with black &amp; white nature photographs.  As I read through the book, I kept thinking that each page should be shrunk, laminated and reincarnated as a refrigerator magnet.  The sayings are interesting although in my mind, not necessarily profound -- for example, one page quotes Abraham Maslow -- &quot;If our nature is permitted to guide our life, we grow healthy, fruitful and happy.&quot;  The facing page sports a photograph of a tomato.  On the next spread, Carl Jung says &quot;The most terrifying thing is to accept oneself completely,&quot; and the accompanying (not particularly interesting) photograph is of a tree.  This would make a cute gift or something to sit on a coffee table; I don't think that it would provide much more than a starting point for serious thought.	2002-01-19
US	52709297	RY66PUKYLQGAL	0195114884	586662699	What Women Want--What Men Want: Why the Sexes Still See Love and Commitment So Differently	Books	4	17	20	N	N	women want status; men want beauty --	If you're a woman over 30, less than a perfect ten, and wondering whether you'll ever find a good man, look no further.  This book will confirm that you're doomed to spinsterhood.  All men are looking for that beautiful twenty-year old blonde with the perfect body.  Seriously, the basic premise of the book is that men prize a woman's youth &amp; physical attractiveness first and foremost (and almost to the exclusion of any other traits -- a woman's economic status, occupation, and to some extent, personality, are largely irrelevant to men).  In choosing sexual partners and mates, men focus on physical attractiveness.  Period.  Women, on the other hand, look for economic and professional status and investment.  A woman of any socioeconomic level wants to &quot;marry up&quot; and will often prefer to have a primary relationship with a higher status man who is married or involved with multiple women than to have a primary monogomous relationship with a lower status man.  Men want to minimize their investment; women want to maximize a man's investment.  Townsend explains why musicians and athletes have often had hundreds of sex partners, and typically have ten to twenty women whom they can call at any given time for commitment free, investment-free sex.  Townsend creates serious doubt that men in high status positions will be faithful in relationships.<br />It seems that the vast majority of the individuals interviewed &amp; quoted are twenty-something medical students, becoming aware of their status for the first time.  They will have nothing to do with the &quot;unattractive, overweight&quot; women in their med school class, particularly when the universe of &quot;chirpies&quot; (nurses, therapists, etc.) are available &amp; interested.  The other group of men interviewed are, on the whole, high status men, many of whom engage in polygyny (multiple relationships during the same time frame with a variety of women).<br />This book was interesting, and filled with quotations from the interviewees, although it went on &amp; on &amp; on --reinforcing the conclusion that draws in the first few chapters, quoting one med student who sounds very similar to the next med student.  Men want youth &amp; beauty.  Women want investment &amp; status.<br />My guess is that some readers would bristle at the generalizations in this book -- though they undoubtedly ring true.  The text doesn't contain a significant amount of commentary &amp; editorialization; it just presents the interview results in a readable fashion.ions from the interviewees, although it went on &amp; on &amp; on --reinforcing the conclusion that draws in the first few chapters, quoting one med student who sounds very similar to the next med student.  Men want youth &amp; beauty.  Women want investment &amp; status.  <br />My guess is that some readers would bristle at the generalizations in this book -- though they undoubtedly ring true.  The text doesn't contain a significant amount of commentary &amp; editorialization; it just presents the interview results in a readable fashion.	2002-01-19
US	52709297	R3NAGAUW64W8S9	1862050015	110735773	Ludwig Van Beethoven: An Essential Guide to His Life and Works (Classic Fm Lifelines)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	delightful, short, eminently readable biography	This 100-page volume is a good &quot;Cliff Notes&quot; biography of Beethoven, providing a chronological overview of Beethoven's life with descriptions of his major works interwoven into the text.  The author briefly addresses Beethoven's childhood, and then focuses on the three recognized periods of the composer's life --early Beethoven, with a description of Beehoven's relationship with Mozart (and later other noted composers) and his adherence to classical style, the middle period following the composer's &quot;Heilegenstadt Testament&quot; (believed by many to be a suicide note), and the late period, during which Beethoven's music became very introspective.  Following the biography, there is a complete listing by opus number of Beethoven's compositions, and then a list of recommended recordings.<br />This is a appetizer; it's a great book for someone who wants to learn about Beethoven but who is not yet prepared to plow through a long, technical biography.  I understand that there is some controversy about Beethoven's life &amp; love affairs -- this book doesn't address the controversy; it's a rather simple presentation, though it does present the basics well, and provides some background for someone who wants basic familiarity with the composer's life.  Although it is hard to find, it may be available in public libraries.  I highly recommend it.	2002-01-19
US	52709297	R1GFKNHUTQYPAW	0060932910	187376598	Date Like a Man: What Men Know About Dating and Are Afraid You'll Find Out	Books	3	143	147	N	N	a mixed bag -- some good insight, some overgeneralization	The first half of this book provides a self-esteem pep talk and great insight into how men operate, and probably makes it worth the price.  It explains how men often think and why some things that you make think are kind (giving him little gifts or paying for dinner) or innocuous (introducing him to your friends or family too soon) are actually scary to many men.  The second half was a disappointment.  It is filled with simplistic filler -- like lists of types of men &amp; descriptions of each.  For example, the &quot;Jock&quot; has &quot;great sexual stamina&quot; and &quot;likes a screamer in bed.&quot;  The &quot;Nerd&quot; &quot;will go with you to flea markets&quot; and has &quot;kinky Star Trek fantasies&quot;, but, the author cautions, &quot;don't bother with a Nerd if sex is vitally important to you&quot;.  The author advises that take up sailing if you're looking for &quot;Republicans and politically conservative men&quot;; take up rock climbing if you like &quot;high achievers&quot; who are &quot;always reaching for the top.&quot;  Scuba divers are &quot;deep&quot;; runers &quot;go the distance in relationships.&quot;  You get the idea -- stereotypes abound. There are also pages titled &quot;Men LIke Blow Jobs&quot; and &quot;Men Like Women Who Swallow&quot; and (although I haven't met them) &quot;Men Don't Like Kissing&quot;.<br />I found the initial pep talk section, which tells us that men adore strong, smart, confident women and encourages us to pursue the PhD or MD and to beat him on the tennis court, to be inconsistent with the advice in the second half of the book -- which suggests that we allow men to rescue us in some ways, so when you find a mouse or spider in your house, don't be afraid to call that cute guy down the street &amp; ask him to come over &amp; help.  He may even spend the night on the sofa if you act really scared.  (Yes -- that story is in the book).  The author also describes a scenario where a client deliberately fell (while rollerblading) in front of a guy she wanted to meet so that he could help her up and give her rollerblading lessons.  The message seems to be -- be strong but act weak.  Although the author acknowledges up front that dating is game-playing (because men like to play games, she tells us), the advice in the second half of the book seemed a little too manipulative, advising single women, for example, to take a fly-fishing course in Montana.<br />This is worth reading for pep talk &amp; the insight into how men think &amp; operate.  I'm not sure I'd bother with the overgeneralizations &amp; game-playing advice in the second half.llerblading) in front of a guy she wanted to meet so that he could help her up and give her rollerblading lessons.  The message seems to be -- be strong but act weak.  Although the author acknowledges up front that dating is game-playing (because men like to play games, she tells us), the advice in the second half of the book seemed a little too manipulative, advising single women, for example, to take a fly-fishing course in Montana.<br />This is worth reading for pep talk &amp; the insight into how men think &amp; operate.  I'm not sure I'd bother with the overgeneralizations &amp; game-playing advice in the second half.	2002-01-06
US	52709297	RZTA2SN07T824	0679759263	127056417	The Soloist	Books	5	6	7	N	N	quick read; great for music lover or spiritual person	This story, told by a child-prodigy-cellist turned music professor, alternates chapters about the professor's life, professional &amp; personal struggles with chapters about a jury trial, in which a Zen Buddhist is on trial for slaying a Zen master.  As a very amateur cellist, I most enjoyed the writer's frequent and highly descriptive references to great cellists (YoYo Ma, Rostopovich, Janos Starker, Pablo Casals) and composers (Bach, Mozart), the comparison of composers &amp; their music to works of art, the details of the protagonist's efforts to inspire and teach his student, a ten-year old Korean boy.  None of the music discussion comes across as academic or pedantic; it's woven gracefully into the novel.<br />The trial aspect of the book was not a typical fast-paced courtroom drama; it focused more on the parameters of the insanity defense as applied to a religious fanatic, and the trial is resolved in a decidedly undecided way (that's all I'll say).<br />The novel is more about the protagonist's personal experiences with music, relationships, and jury duty than it is about any underlying story.  The protagonist is likeable and, for the most part, very real.  He is supposedly a virgin, which didn't come off as believable to me.  Minor glitch, though.  Overall, a good novel, particularly for a music lover, and a quick read.	2002-01-06
US	52709297	R1S42Z222GYK2	0399521526	377004225	Style	Books	4	3	3	N	N	nice photographs, useful tips	This is a very, very easy, quick read with lots of quotes, photographs, drawings, and checklists.  Klensch is very no-nonsense, with advice on how to build a simple, bare-bones wardrobe.  The chapters are broken down into career, business travel, evening, leisure, accessories, and cosmetics.  The only humor or lightness I found in the entire book was that &quot;good-luck charm&quot; made this list of &quot;long-flight must-haves.&quot;  THis is one of those books that is useful and practical, but more as a reference guide than as a read-through.  Although the advice is geared to women of all shapes and sizes, the photographs are all of rail-thin runway models.	2001-09-03
US	52709297	RU95B9U2JRT6U	0679447164	965419216	Work Clothes (Chic Simple): Casual  Dress for Serious Work (Chic Simple Guides)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	a visual treat, with a focus on quality clothes	This book boasts the catchy, elegant chic simple layout, with fully accessorized outfits laid out against a white background. The focus is on classic (and expensive), quality clothing (cashmere twin sets, Chanel flats, $300 Hermes scarves)-- but you could copy the ideas using less expensive basics. The idea is to pare down your wardrobe to the essentials, accessorizing the essentials to look polished &amp; perfectly put together. The text is interesting, filled with quotes from movie stars and other famous people, with witty comments about the clothes, what one leans in business school, etc. However, you'll probably be drawn to the photographs and captions the first time through. Only about a third of the book is devoted to female attire, so if you're a woman, looking for advice about women's wardrobe concerns, you might be better served looking elsewhere.	2001-09-02
US	52709297	R2U7UR02T5J3CT	0062516760	212728331	The Essential Enneagram: The Definitive Personality Test and Self-Discovery Guide	Books	4	39	41	N	N	fascinating stuff -- but this is only a start	Enneagram personality typing is fascinating stuff -- there are nine basic personality types, with connected wing, security and stress types.  If you've taken (and found benefit from) the Myers-Briggs or other similar tests, give this a try.  I was amazed that the description of my &quot;type&quot; really fit me to a tee, and the advice on how folks of my type should refocus their thinking was extremely helpful.<br />My concern is how valuable this book alone is as a diagnostic tool.  The book is short (about a hundred pages, with lots of diagrams and white space), much of which will be irrelevant or marginally relevant to you.  (If you find you're a type four, you probably won't need to read about type one.) You determine your personality type quite simply, by reading nine paragraphs (that describe the nine personality types) and choosing the one that fits best.  It's a great introduction, but I think calling it &quot;The Definitive Personality Test and Self-Discovery Guide) is a bit of an exaggeration.	2001-09-02
US	52709297	R21BTGJ30MFQLI	0060973358	886540561	Woulda, Coulda, Shoulda: Overcoming Regrets, Mistakes, and Missed Opportunities	Books	4	69	70	N	N	this'll help you move ahead from a bad job or relationship	I'm currently plodding through the post-break-up depression that followed on the heels of a doomed relationship, and reading stacks of self-help books in an effort to salve my spirit. I'm usually skeptical that they'll contain worthwhile advice -- but this one is actually fairly useful, and even though it's aimed at across-the-table regret, I found it to be particularly well-suited to relationship-related regrets. For example, it discusses how we cling to unrealistic &quot;memories of the future&quot; --creating (after-the-fact) a wonderful future to our past relationships and situations, which then permits us to regret the loss of the fantasy futures which we never initially had. It shows how clinging to the past and &quot;woulda,coula,shoulda&quot; fantasies trap us and prevent us from moving forward and finding the life we want. The book starts with a an somewhat humorous analysis of the many types of flawed thinking -- overgeneralization, selective editing, catastrophizing, all-or-nothing thinking, mind-reading, etc. and gives plenty of examples of each of the above (and more). In the first chapter, I felt scolded for ever thinking that &quot;all the single men my age are gay or ax-murderers.&quot; The book suggests numerous cognitive therapy techniques to get your thinking back on track, back in accord with reality (rather than self-defeating fantasy). The book challenges our instinctive desire to cling to the past and small comforts -- to hang around where there's a trickle of water rather than to risk searching for a full-blast fire hose. If you're stuck looking back and having difficulty moving ahead, give this book a try. It might not cure all of your regrets, but it should go a long way into helping you to give your regrets a reality check (and ultimately, give your regrets the boot).	2001-08-25
US	52709297	R2DRZYWDODK05L	0375502416	619488959	Work Like Your Dog: Fifty Ways to Work Less, Play More, and Earn More	Books	4	6	7	N	N	how-to guide for being a goofball at work	Work Like Your Dog contains some nuggets of wisdom, and lots of advice on how to play at your job, approaching it as if it were a game. I LIKE many of the ideas, such as treating your employees even better than your customers, but I can't imagine applying them in my own straight-laced, uptight work environment. Unless you're the president or the CEO (and perhaps, even if you are), implementing most of the ideas in this book would likely undermine your credibility. For example, the authors suggest things like decorating coworkers old shoes with glitter and plastic flowers, and wearing the &quot;fun&quot; shoes at work. One of the authors attached the metal runner statuettes from all of his running tropies to the roof of his car, creating a &quot;race&quot; car -- and suggests that similar activities create a fun environment. (Yes, but if someone drove such a car into the parking lot where I work, they'd be dubbed hopelessly crazy.) The authors also suggest that acting like a fool in the middle of a heated argument can be particularly effective -- In suggesting ways to turn fights into frolics, they suggest cracking a raw egg against your forehead in the middle of a domestic dispute. Some of the advice is funny -- One Shell trainer created a &quot;swearing room&quot; next to her office, a place where her coworkers could sound off. She then gave prizes for the most impressive swearing (which was &quot;Gods' bees, and scrunties alight!) The book is a fun, creative, quick read. How applicable it is to you &amp; your work environment depends, in large part, on you &amp; your work environment. I'm not sure these techniques would get you very far in a large corporate environment, but they'd be great if you run your own business.	2001-08-25
US	52709297	R1KOT906XX4R0Q	0878339175	349673628	A.D.D. on the Job: Making Your A.D.D. Work for You	Books	3	37	39	N	N	helpful guidance on how to choose the right work environment	This book deals more with choosing the right work environment than giving practical suggestions on how to thrive in your current work environment, given that you are ADD.  Weiss pays much attention to choosing the right career and self-employment, and offers tips on how to be successfully self-employed.  She uses many one-two paragraph anecdotes of individuals who were either successful or unsuccessful, based on how they dealt with one aspect of their ADD.  Weiss does address ADD issues that affect performance and effectiveness in the workplace, but I felt her advice was a bit superficial -- perhaps in a super-caring, ideal work environment, some of the suggestions might work, but in the average work environment, chronic disorganization and lateness will probably result in termination.  Her suggestions for enlisting the help of others to deal with these problems may work in a few enviromnents, particularly where the ADD person is highly valued, but I think the suggestions would fall flat in most environments.  Overall, the book is probably work reading to help you realize how your work behaviors are common to people with ADD and to learn about how other people have adapted -- but the book won't solve all your workplace problems attributable to ADD.	2001-08-17
US	52709297	R3UXVBOMQ0V298	0898159954	195430920	FAT!SO? : Because You Don't Have to Apologize for Your Size	Books	5	10	13	N	N	absolutely flabulous -- funny, uplifting, upbeat,informative	Prejudice against fat folks is alive and well -- fat folks are discriminated against and belittled by employers, doctors, the military, insurance companies, and society at large -- without good reason.  Wann aptly points out that some of us are genetically predisposed to be skinny, some of us are predisposed to be fat -- it's not a character issue, flaw, or something to be wrestled with through Jenny Craig diets or stomach stapling.  Wann provides lots of factual information on being fat -- explaining that 90% of diets fail, and that fat people can be very healthy, for example.  The book is composed of lots &amp; lots of little one-three page stories, from Wann and others.  There are many stories written by fat people describing incidents or experiences in their lives.  Wann is a self-styled &quot;fat activist&quot; who advocates some aggressive steps to combat fat prejudice.  She's also very funny &amp; clever, &amp; she'll make you feel wonderful about being chubby.	2001-08-14
US	52709297	R387JRXXG8JP43	076112540X	688151026	Cowparade Kansas City	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	great coffee table book for cowtowners &amp; cow lovers	This picture book contains wonderful, colorful photographs of each &amp; every cow on display in the Kansas City Cow Parade 2001.  It's no substitute for seeing the cows in person, but it is useful as an orientation before visiting the cows, a post-visit reminder of the cows, or an opportunity for folks who can't make it to KC to see how delightful the KC Cow Parade is.  The book is organized by location -- cows in the Plaza area are grouped together, cows in the Crown Center area are grouped together, cows at the KC Star building are grouped together, and so on -- so you know exactly what to expect before you venture off to see the cows.<br />If you've never seen a Cow Parade -- artists/sponsors are provided with a standard model bovine to decorate as they see fit.  Some of the models are simply painted -- designer Michael Graves painted a &quot;Light Blue&quot; cow with reddish flowers with Target-logo bullseye centers; there are cows painted with large florals, there's a &quot;Teal&quot;.  Others are wonderfully ornate, like the &quot;Moo-maid&quot; mermaid cow in a fountain in Crown Center.<br />Many of the cows involve Kansas City themes -- like jazz (&quot;Jazzy Cow&quot;, &quot;Jazz Moosik&quot; -- with saxophone horns, &quot;Cownt Basie&quot;, &quot;Charlie Parcow&quot;, &quot;Jazzily Blue&quot;); the Wizard of Oz (&quot;Yellow Brick Roadie&quot;,&quot;Dorothy&quot;, &quot;Tin Cow . . . from the Wizard of Ox&quot;, the &quot;Cowardly Cow&quot;, and &quot;ScareCow&quot; -- the Cowardly Cow looks just like Bert Lahr, jowls &amp; all). There are barbecue theme cows (&quot;Barbecue Bull&quot;, &quot;Mixed Plate Blue&quot;), Liberty Memorial (the only active WWI memorial in the country) cows (&quot;Liberty Moo-Morial Monument&quot;)and other KC-specific cows (&quot;Shuttle Cow&quot; -- a takeoff on the shuttlecocks sculpture on the art gallery lawn).  Some are just plain fun -- like &quot;Cow-Moo-Flage&quot;, which features a standard holdstein with a chicken cox &amp; comb, tail , wings, &amp; feet attached, and &quot;Cowntertop&quot;, a cow covered in samples of laminate, with a sink in her back, &quot;Moo-lyn Monroe&quot;, &quot;Cowzilla&quot;, &quot;Cowlvador Dali,&quot; &quot;Cowculus.&quot;  My personal favorite of the show -- &quot;Buttons &amp; Bovines&quot;, featuring a cow covered in buttons.<br />Kansas City hosts a wealth of creativity and artistic talent.  We're home to Hallmark -- many talented Hallmark artists show their skills in the Cow Parade.  Cows designed by other local artists are also wonderful &amp; clever.  This is a great book -- a book you'll want to again &amp; again as you marvel at the cleverness of the talented designers who converted plain cow models into intriguing works of art.n cox &amp; comb, tail , wings, &amp; feet attached, and &quot;Cowntertop&quot;, a cow covered in samples of laminate, with a sink in her back, &quot;Moo-lyn Monroe&quot;, &quot;Cowzilla&quot;, &quot;Cowlvador Dali,&quot; &quot;Cowculus.&quot;  My personal favorite of the show -- &quot;Buttons &amp; Bovines&quot;, featuring a cow covered in buttons.      <br />Kansas City hosts a wealth of creativity and artistic talent.  We're home to Hallmark -- many talented Hallmark artists show their skills in the Cow Parade.  Cows designed by other local artists are also wonderful &amp; clever.  This is a great book -- a book you'll want to again &amp; again as you marvel at the cleverness of the talented designers who converted plain cow models into intriguing works of art.	2001-08-02
US	52709297	RV4KYX120JHBM	0937750123	509781612	Don Aslett's Clutter-Free!: Finally & Forever	Books	4	38	38	N	N	very funny look at how other folks deal with junk	This is not necessarily a how-to-dejunk book (like Clutter's Last Stand, which I HIGHLY recommend), but rather, a book of testimonials.  It's stuffed with short paragraphs written by &quot;your fellow packrats&quot; about how they dealt with the clutter in their lives -- kind of like those before-after diet success stories you often find in women's magazines.  Some of the testimonials are particularly helpful and poignant -- how to deal with stuff that belonged to a child or spouse who has died, how to deal with gifts.  Aslett will have you getting rid of unnecessary gifts and memorabilia guilt-free, while saving those few things that have real value and meaning.<br />Some of the stories are downright amusing -- my favorite, a story by a woman cleaning out her recently-deceased grandmother's home, who found oatmeal boxes and all kinds of other boxes, even boxes in the attic, full of metal disks.  She finally realized that the disks were the ends off biscuit cans -- grandma made biscuits for breakfast every day for over twenty years.  A woman described her husband, who saved every school paper he ever had, because &quot;when he's President it will be necessary for history.&quot;  There are notes from a woman who saved all of the shoulder pads she had removed from her clothing, even though she looked ghastly in shoulder pads, another woman whose clothese are so tight in her closet she doesn't need hangers -- &quot;They're just suspended there by compression.&quot;<br />In addition to the testimonials, Aslett includes all sorts of silly poetry about clutter that will have you laughing, poems about &quot;The Junk Drawer&quot; and &quot;Purse of the American Wife.&quot;  The poems and stories aren't necesssarily how-tos, but perhaps they will be a mirror to help you see the absurdity in your own save-everything behavior -- to help you realize that the faded curtains from the bedroom in your last house, the six-year old can of Slimfast powder, the abandoned ceramic projects,  the dead flashlight and old bridesmaids dresses are a burden.ojects,  the dead flashlight and old bridesmaids dresses are a burden.	2001-08-01
US	52709297	RM3QYCSCFRCGQ	0761517154	80639986	U.S. Immigration & Citizenship, Revised 2nd Edition: Your Complete Guide	Books	4	1	2	N	N	good, basic overview of immigration and naturalization law	This book provides a good, solid overview of immigration law.  It is not an overly-detailed guide that addresses every possible nuance of immigration law.  Rather, it discusses the basics, the terminology, the myriad avenues through which which a foreigner can gain legal residence in the US.  This book would be a good starting point for someone wishing to immigrate to the United States, for an alien residing in the US who wishes to become a US citizen, or for an employer seeking to bring immigrants into its work force.  There are many anecdotal examples, which make the book easy to read.  This book may not answer all of your questions within its pages, but it will give you enough background information so that you know how to ask the right targeted questions of the INS or an immigration lawyer.	2001-07-31
US	52709297	R17W794S1GB4WO	0440503744	895200780	Speed Cleaning	Books	5	36	36	N	N	this is a godsend for the perpetual slob	As someone who has suffered with a messy home for . . . uh, several decades, I can honestly tesfify that these techniques work.  Campbell's &quot;clean team&quot; techniques can help you cut your cleaning time in half and more importantly, you'll end up with a cleaner home, with the dust out of those nooks &amp; crannies, the splotches of paint off of the linoleum floor, the cobwebs out of the vents, the grime out of the grout in the bathroom.  This is a no-nonsense, no-gimmicks (well, except for the apron), how-to book about systematically going throughout your home getting things clean.  Really clean.<br />Campbell's approach is surprisingly straight-forward and simple.  Working from top to bottom, left to right, he methodically goes from room to room, explaining how to clean.  He makes the basics seem simple, but his technique has you getting out grime in all sorts of often-overlooked spots.  Campbell recommends that you carry your basic cleaning supplies -- a heavy-duty cleaner like 409, a windex-like cleaner, cotton towels, a scrubber, scraper &amp; razor blade -- with you in an apron (after all, who would hire a carpenter that went back &amp; forth to supplies every time he needed a nail).  A little dorky, but three weeks after reading the book, I now own a dorky &quot;Jeff Campbell's clean team&quot; denim apron -- and admittedly, it's pretty handly.  Campbell doesn't push his own products, but they are available by catalog.  And they're good.<br />Some of the tools he suggests (cloth napkin &quot;cleaning cloths&quot;, a large, flat-head mop) are infinitely more effective than the old sponges, old towels, and sponge mop I had been using.<br />Campbell's style is pleasant and easy-going.  You don't sense that he advocates creating an antiseptic, anti-bacterial, hermetically sealed home where you have to leave your shoes &amp; pets at the front door, or taking up cleaning as a hobby.  Rather, he advocates using your cleaning time wisely, to create more time for fun.me for fun.	2001-07-30
US	52709297	R98ZVCCUJ0H17	0800756088	124908012	The Messie Motivator: New Strategies to Restoring Order in Your Life and Home (Messies Series)	Books	5	63	63	N	N	depressed by the mess?	This is a great little uplifting, inspiring read for the chronically disorganized &amp; messy (particularly women with ADD).  This is NOT a how-to book that will send you out to the Organized Living store to buy shelves &amp; closet cubes &amp; spice organizers &amp; the like.  It IS a book about messiness and depression, disorganization and self-esteem.  Felton, founder of Messies Anonymous, offers many practical tips to help you learn how to tackle clutter &amp; mess systematically.  She also discusses the self-esteem issues that often lead to messiness.  Felton describes a &quot;messie personality&quot; -- it sounds alot like ADD to me.<br />If you're just looking for a few low-level organizational tips, I'd recommend that you skip this book.  If you're chronically messy and you're not sure why &amp; even worse, you're not sure how to deal with it, this may be just what you need.	2001-07-30
US	52709297	R1AU5C31NNT98	0898791375	798608528	Clutter's Last Stand: It's Time to De-Junk Your Life!	Books	5	235	238	N	N	a gem that will get you itching to clean out your closets	A friend told me that &quot;You own the thing; then the thing owns you.&quot;  So true.  This is not an organize-your-possessions book as much as it is a pare-down-your-possessions book.  In fact, Aslett refers to storage cubbies (china cabinets, desk organizers, closet racks, shadow boxes, extra shelves) as &quot;junk bunkers,&quot; irrestibly beckoning us to fill them up, and he refers to &quot;things and stuff&quot; catalogs as &quot;junk pornography.&quot;  If you're like me, you'll be ready to throw out half your possessions when you finish the book.  When I was reading this book (not at home), I was dying to get home &amp; start cleaning out drawers &amp; closets -- When I got home, I immediately ran to my spare bedroom closet &amp; loaded up thirty-three beautiful but seldom-worn and too- tight dresses for Goodwill.  I was equally ruthless with books I don't read, nail polish I don't use, plastic cups, old race tee shirts, stuffed animals from high school boyfriends, old lamps without shades, my ten-year-old skis and boots, old ice skates, ratty towels, clothes to &quot;paint&quot; or &quot;work&quot; in.  The boxes of &quot;stuff to sell on e-bay&quot; (that have been int he garage for months) have been redesignated &quot;stuff for Goodwill.&quot;<br />Aslett shows how cluttering your life with stuff really gets in the way of enjoying life.  He points out the burden that results from excessive ownership -- pointing out the fallacy of acquiring inexpensive (or &quot;free&quot;) things that cost us much more in the long run, the problems created by owning several of the same item (when one would suffice), for saving things for the future.<br />Aslett doesn't advocate stark minimimalism or an all-out blitz; he does have some sympathy for things to which you may be emotionally attached -- but he suggests ways of evaluating and miniaturizing junk (saving a scrap of fabric or a button from your prom dress, rather than the whole thing).  He doesn't judge whether your possessions are treasure or junk; he gives you the framework for deciding whether YOU are better off keeping an item or getting rid of the item.<br />This isn't a new age simplify-your-life book, but Anslett doesn't hesitate top explain (near the end of the book) how filling your life with junk (possessions, food, draining &quot;friends&quot;) can lead to depression and anxiety.  It's laugh-out-loud funny in parts, readable, and painfully honest.  Read it -- Goodwill, Salvation Army, Bottomless Closet, Disabled Veterans -- someone will be glad you did.r your possessions are treasure or junk; he gives you the framework for deciding whether YOU are better off keeping an item or getting rid of the item.  <br />This isn't a new age simplify-your-life book, but Anslett doesn't hesitate top explain (near the end of the book) how filling your life with junk (possessions, food, draining &quot;friends&quot;) can lead to depression and anxiety.   It's laugh-out-loud funny in parts, readable, and painfully honest.  Read it -- Goodwill, Salvation Army, Bottomless Closet, Disabled Veterans -- someone will be glad you did.	2001-07-30
US	52709297	R2JJTYNGTYJGB6	1887424059	315892033	Women with Attention Deficit Disorder: Embracing Disorganization at Home and in the Workplace	Books	5	581	590	N	N	Disorganized? Depressed? Read this.	This book should be mandatory reading for any woman who is woefully disorganized. I was always the kid with the messy locker, messy desk, messy bedroom, who eventually evolved into the adult with the messy office and messy house, constantly losing pens and jewelry and keys and phone numbers and important papers, frequently depressed. Getting out the door was a major struggle -- I had to find my keys, find my purse, go b ack to turn off the stove &amp; iron. Then I'd get to where I was going without my list, end up in the checkout line with my purse, but for some reason, it didn't contain my wallet, charge cards or any money (other than the three wadded up singles, change from yesterday's lunch). (The wallet would end up under my bed or sitting on the kitchen table or somewhere.) I'd show up at the gym without my sneakers; I once showed up for a beach vacation without the sunscreen and aloe vera I had purchased the day before just for the trip. I was (and probably still am) the poster child for disorganization, I felt defective for this, ashamed to have people at my home because of the mess. This isn't laziness or simple space-cadetness, it is CLASSIC ADD BEHAVIOR. Recognizing this is extremely useful in figuring out how to deal with all the fallout of the disorganization.<br />I've also suffered from some debilitating depression over the years, and I've attributed my disorganization to my depression. (&quot;I'm too depressed to wash the dishes.&quot;) After reading this (and a few other books), I think it's the other way around. My disorganization and complete inability to sort things out, attributable to ADD, has led to depression.<br />When my doctor first suggested ADD (in response to my concerns with depression), I was surprised. After all, I'm not a hyperactive twelve-year-old boy who can't seem to do well in school despite ability and intelligence. Rather, I was able to whiz through school, collecting good grades at every step along the way. That's not uncommon with women with ADD -- they can actually thrive in structured environments. It's difficult for them to excel in a wholly unstructured environment. Most are great at creative, strategic thinking. If an activity is highly stimulating, they will hyperfocus and do quite well (although perhaps spending more time than is appropriate for the task). If something is seemingly mundane or ministerial, it just doesn't get done. In other words, ADD incorporates not only an inability to focus, but a tendency to hyperfocus on occasion.<br />If your life is all fumbling in your oversized purse for keys or a pen, trying to find the little yellow sticky note with someone's phone number, paying your bills and taxes late because you can't find your checkbook, an envelope, a stamp, READ THIS BOOK. Unfortunately, physicians typically overlook the possibility of ADD in women (they don't get to see the stacks and stacks of papers in our homes &amp; offices) -- and therefore, we're left thinking we're disorganized failures. This book gives you plenty of suggestions for exploring diagnosis, and/or treatment, and for conquering, or at least making the most of, disorganization.<br />(PS -- If this helps, I highly recommend Sandra Felton's books for &quot;Messies&quot; -- (search for &quot;Messies&quot; -- there are several choices; I like Messie Motivator.)  Although she doesn't use the term &quot;ADD,&quot; she focuses as much on the psychological &amp; self-esteem issues of messiness as on dealing with the disorganization.)mon with women with ADD -- they can actually thrive in structured environments. It's difficult for them to excel in a wholly unstructured environment. Most are great at creative, strategic thinking. If an activity is highly stimulating, they will hyperfocus and do quite well (although perhaps spending more time than is appropriate for the task). If something is seemingly mundane or ministerial, it just doesn't get done. In other words, ADD incorporates not only an inability to focus, but a tendency to hyperfocus on occasion. <br />If your life is all fumbling in your oversized purse for keys or a pen, trying to find the little yellow sticky note with someone's phone number, paying your bills and taxes late because you can't find your checkbook, an envelope, a stamp, READ THIS BOOK. Unfortunately, physicians typically overlook the possibility of ADD in women (they don't get to see the stacks and stacks of papers in our homes &amp; offices) -- and therefore, we're left thinking we're disorganized failures. This book gives you plenty of suggestions for exploring diagnosis, and/or treatment, and for conquering, or at least making the most of, disorganization.<br />(PS -- If this helps, I highly recommend Sandra Felton's books for &quot;Messies&quot; -- (search for &quot;Messies&quot; -- there are several choices; I like Messie Motivator.)  Although she doesn't use the term &quot;ADD,&quot; she focuses as much on the psychological &amp; self-esteem issues of messiness as on dealing with the disorganization.)	2001-07-15
US	52709297	RFUFFZBFIHQHV	0786880007	306120397	Simplify Your Life: 100 Ways to Slow Down and Enjoy the Things That Really Matter	Books	4	36	38	N	N	there's something for everyone in this book	This book is essentially a brainstorming session - it briefly describes 100 options for simplifying (and from my perspective, organizing) your life.  This is a collection of ideas, not a bible.  Each reader will have to determine which of the 100 suggestions make sense in her life.  Many of the suggestions I took to heart. There's advice on getting rid of clutter, streamlining errands (including grocery shopping), consolidating finances.  I developed a standing (daily / weekly / monthly / bi-monthly) to do-list and a standing check-off-what-you-need grocery list in large part based on her suggestions; both are helpful.<br />Others ideas, primarily those in the &quot;special issues for women&quot; section (which is at the end of the book, and seemed like a desperate attempt to figure out how to get to 100), I wouldn't even consider.  Throw out the nail polish?  No way; I get great pleasure from looking at my bright pink toes from time to time.  Skip the high heels &amp; wear shoes of a consistent low heel height?  Pack your lunch every day and stop eating out?  Grow your own vegetables?  (Don't worry -- since you've streamlined your grocery shopping and can pull resources from your own vegetable garden, it will be a snap.) Get rid of your telephone (not just your cell phone or car phone, mind you, but your basic garden-variety local service?)  Get rid of your car?  (I'm thinking overpriced taxis, long delays on public transportation, trying to track down a friend willing to play chauffeur.)  These things are supposed to simplify my life?<br />Moreover, many of Solden's suggestions involve cutting yourself off from people - bow out of holidays, stop sending holiday cards, say no to invitations; stop going out to dinner with friends, stop being a member of organizations if you don't enjoy the meetings.  I think that these suggestions might be dangerous for a single adult -- you could really cut yourself off from the world if you followed them. (Not to mention, who would you share all those home-grown zucchini with?  Who could you count on for chauffeur assistance?)<br />Overall, this book is definitely worth reading.  I think that the handful of ideas I'll actually implement make the book worthwhile, thus I gave it four stars.  However, don't try to incorporate all  the ideas -- unless they make sense for you.would you share all those home-grown zucchini with?  Who could you count on for chauffeur assistance?)           <br />Overall, this book is definitely worth reading.  I think that the handful of ideas I'll actually implement make the book worthwhile, thus I gave it four stars.  However, don't try to incorporate all  the ideas -- unless they make sense for you.	2001-07-15
US	52709297	R2CKKLRFU3S9I6	0679755411	73427454	Stranger Music: Selected Poems and Songs	Books	5	39	41	N	Y	amazing, haunting, honest poetry &amp; lyrics from a  genius	Even if you aren't familiar with Cohen as a musician, you've probably heard his music -- &quot;Suzanne&quot; (who &quot;takes you down by her place near the river&quot;), &quot;Bird on a Wire,&quot; &quot;Famous Blue Raincoat,&quot; &quot;Joan of Ark.&quot;  Rufus Wainright sang a haunting version of  &quot;Hallelujah&quot; on the soundtrack of Schreck.  John Cale did an earlier cover of &quot;Hallelujah.&quot;  I listened to Hallelujah over &amp; over again, hitting the move back button on my CD player time after time.  Later, I discovered that Hallelujah was penned by Leonard Cohen.  Interesting -- I'd never heard of Leonard Cohen.  Out of curiosity, I bought a couple of his CDs.  I can't stop listening to them.<br />I bought this book because I wanted to see the lyrics written out (obviously, this is not an endorsement for the rather lame liner notes on the CDS I bought, which do not include lyrics).  This treasure trove contains so much more here than the lyrics to the familiar songs. This isn't a feel-good collection; rather, it's a feel-alive collection, piercing and painful and brutal in its honesty.  Cohen's poetry is perfect for when you want to crawl into yourself &amp; wallow in introspection.  This book contains 401 pages of poetry -- deeply spiritual, often sexual, sometimes funny, usually haunting.  Most of the poems dig at your inner core, causing you to think.  I am so amazed at the breadth of this man's talent, at his insight and intelligence and honesty.  The poems are real rather than pretty, troubled rather than calm.<br />If you like Bob Dylan/Joan Baez type of music, you'll like Cohen's poetry.  If you've read (and enjoyed) the poetry but haven't yet heard the music, do yourself a big favor and check out one of his CDs.	2001-07-09
US	52709297	RKG3JEB2XQH6T	082724407X	330603186	You Might Be a United Methodist If	Books	2	8	9	N	Y	an overpriced pamphlet	I grew up in the Methodist Church, and my parents are life-long devout Methodists. We often joke about &quot;methodizing&quot; and Methodist ways -- so natually, I thought this would be a funny treat for my Mom. I was disappointed -- the book is full of one-liners, most of which present the Methodist church as a liberal, female-friendly, ecumenical organization. Granted, the church has (thank goodness) become must more open-minded over the years, but not to the extent this booklet implies. I could relate only to one or two of the jokes, and even they were lame. I didn't find any of them laugh-out-loud funny. No doubt, the Methodist Church is large and congregations and practices vary from church to church. I'm sure that there are a handful of Methodists out there who might find this funny. However, even though I have attended several Methodist churches over the years, I didn't particularly relate to this, nor did I find it funny. I wouldn't recommend purchasing this little cheaply-produced booklet (which looks like a freebie you could pick up the on the shelves in the narthex, right next to the Upper Rooms -- and it's not even blessed with a nice paper cover or any four-color illustrations) unless having something titled says &quot;You Might Be a Methodist If . . . &quot; is, in &amp; of itself, amusing to you.	2001-07-09
US	52709297	RU36I3AHP9BO5	0802136516	152082115	Much Depends on Dinner: The Extraordinary History and Mythology, Allure and Obsessions, Perils and Taboos of an Ordinary Meal	Books	5	58	58	N	N	absolutely fascinating / one of my all time favorites	Visser begins by stating that &quot;The extent to which we take everday objects for granted is the precise extent to which they govern and inform our lives.&quot;  She then discusses the shape of chairs, the shape and configuration of forks, things we just don't think about every day.  Visser constructs a menu of simple, taken-for-granted foods -- corn with salt &amp; butter, chicken with rice, lettuce with olive oil and lemon juice, and ice cream.  She the devotes a chapter to each course, providing more details about corn, salt &amp; butter than you could ever imagine -- and it's all fascinating; corn, for example, touches just about everything we eat (except fish) -- all canned foods are bathed in liquids containing corn, nearly all paper, cardboard and plastic packaging depends on corn products, soft drinks contain corn-based coloring and high fructose corn syrup, corn touches ketchup, ice cream, pickles, instant coffee, insecticides, soap -- just about everything.  Visser describes how corn plants grow, the origins of corn, how corn is eaten, the development of the original health food - corn flakes (with a fascinating discussion of Dr. John Harvey Kellogg and his efforts at the Battle Creek Sanitorium), corn farming around the world.  It's not dull or laborious or academic -- it's fun, easy reading.  After corn, Visser moves on to salt, then butter --  again, in delightful detail.<br />I'd recommend this book to anyone with a penchant for non-fiction, particularly a food lover, a history buff, or a science buff.  Informative, well-researched, delightful fun.	2001-07-04
US	52709297	R30JRUYQSL9TFX	0060963972	472087068	She: Understanding Feminine Psychology	Books	3	81	91	N	Y	complex &amp; obtuse	I admit, I didn't get it.  I bought this book on the strong recommendation of a psychology major, who praised He, She &amp; We (all three books by Johnson).  Perhaps my lack of understanding of Jungian theory interfered with my ability to glean meaning from the text.<br />The book is a short, readable eighty pages, developed around the Greek myth of Eros and Psyche.  In Johnson's explanation of how femininity evolves (including the man's feminine side, or anima), a person must go through certain rites of passage, in sequential order, to develop fully as a woman.  Psyche must complete four tasks assigned by Aphrodite.  Failure to complete any task before nightfall will result in death.  The tasks include sorting a pile of many different seeds, collecting golden fleece from rams, filling a crystal goblet with water from the river Styx, and collecting a cask of beauty ointment from Persephone, goddess of the underworld.  Johnson explains how each of these tasks represents an evolution in a woman's life (choosing one of the many seeds a man gives to a woman to begin the miracle of birth, gathering the fleece as acquisition of a bit of masculinity necessary to survive in the world, the single goblet of water from Styx as focusing on a single item at once from the vast choices in the universe).  The text is rich with metaphor -- marriage as both death and resurrection for a woman, a beautiful oil-burning lamp as a woman's natural consciousness, etc.  Interesting, but (at least for me) not particularly enlightening.  Overall, I enjoyed the story, but I didn't come away with an enhanced understanding of female psychology.	2001-07-02
US	52709297	RK2K9I185ZEEL	0786866071	393656029	Fingerprints:The Origins of Crime Detection and the Murder Case that Launched Forensic Science	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	much more than just fingerprints	The most interesting thing I learned from this book:  Eugene Vidocq, a highly-skilled felon (whose initial crime was forging a poor peasant's pardon) traveled France, living life on the lam -- a cycle of crime, capture, escape.  When Josephine's (wife of Napolean) valuable emerald necklace was stolen, French police were at a loss and sought out Vidocq's assistance in recovering the jewels, offering Vidocq immunity for his help.  Vidocq found the jewelry &amp; the thief within three days.  Napolean, impressed, appointed Vidocq to a police post.  As a police appointee, Vidocq posed as a fugitive on the run to maintain his access to the criminal element, but in fact, he was acting as an undercover agent.  Apparently the first to employ undercover techniques, Vidocq &quot;singlehandedly launched police procedure out of the Middle Ages and into the nineteenth century.&quot;  Les Mis fans, does this sound at all familiar?  Vidocq became popular in French cultural circles (I'm not sure how this happened, given his undercover status), becoming friends with the famous writers of the day, including Victor Hugo, who based both Inspector Javert and his nemesis, Jean Valjean, on Vidocq.<br />In addition to providing literary trivia, this book does an excellent job of detailing the evolution of criminal identification techniques, such as anthropometric measurements, the development of fingerprinting techniques, and the eventual union of the two at the turn of the century.  Modern fingerprinting arose in colonial India, not as a crime-fighting technique, but as a means of providing a definitive &quot;signature&quot; on lease agreements.  This book is very readable, with many true-crime stories and anecdotes of early police methodologies that made me cringe.  There is considerable development of the conflict over who should be credited with the application of fingerprinting to criminal identification.  One of the early developers and proponents of fingerprinting actually testified for the defense at the first criminal trial during which fingerprint evidence was introduced -- largely because the prosecution's witness had essentially taken credit for the other man's achievements.  No doubt the ego-driven disputes over who should get credit for &quot;inventing&quot; modern fingerprinting techniques delayed the widespread implementation of fingerprinting as a criminal identification methodology.for the defense at the first criminal trial during which fingerprint evidence was introduced -- largely because the prosecution's witness had essentially taken credit for the other man's achievements.  No doubt the ego-driven disputes over who should get credit for &quot;inventing&quot; modern fingerprinting techniques delayed the widespread implementation of fingerprinting as a criminal identification methodology.	2001-07-01
US	52709297	R1MR5FV98ES67G	0140093672	136176618	Brit-Think, Ameri-Think: A Transatlantic Survival Guide	Books	3	9	21	N	Y	funny, but not a useful &quot;guide&quot;	This book is funny -- it will provide laughs for the American expat or traveler who has spent a fair amount of time in Britain, who has seen the socks &amp; sensible sandals combo, suffered through the self-deprecating humor, sipped a few too many sodas sans ice, watched sandwiches eaten with knife &amp; fork, had &quot;puddings&quot; for dessert.  Beyond the laugh factor, I'm not sure how useful it is.  A casual traveler might be helped by the Brit-American dictionary in the front of the book (&quot;chips = French fries, crisps = potato chips, biscuit = cookie, scone = biscuit,&quot; etc., but beyond that, I wouldn't rely on this as a &quot;survival guide.&quot;	2001-06-30
US	52709297	R2SXNOWNSKTRL9	0874875846	368147403	Nurtured by Love: The Classic Approach to Talent Education	Books	5	47	47	N	N	surprising book about life &amp; nurturing talent	I thought this would be a book about the Suzuki method of converting toddlers into musicians -- revealing some of the secrets about what makes the Suzuki method unique &amp; what makes it effective.  It was that, but much more.  What I knew as the &quot;Suzuki method,&quot; Shinichi Suzuki calls &quot;Talent Education,&quot; based on the underlying philosophy that all children can be well-educated and all talent can be nurtured.  Suzuki believes that talent is developed, not inherited; he believes in nurturing the talent in each child, in creating a culturally-supportive environment and coupling it with training to develop mediocrity into excellence.  Suzuki exlains how &amp; why he developed &quot;Talent Education,&quot; drawing on his own experiences as a musician and during WWII.  His text is filled with anecdotes about students, many of whom became quite successful as musicians, many of whom teach at conservatories around the world.<br />Suzuki's &quot;method&quot; includes focus not only on music, but also on character development -- on awareness, joy, integrity, courage.  He believes that &quot;However little talent on thinks he/she has, one should at least try&quot;.  This book is easy to read, filled with stories &amp; philosophy and bolstered by photographs here &amp; there, inspiring joy in the reader.	2001-06-30
US	52709297	R22WG7NSO3T3CQ	006251184X	448766883	Undercurrents: A Life Beneath the Surface	Books	4	17	20	N	Y	Details a seemingly-normal woman's bout with depression	38 year old wife/mom/psychotherapist/writer shares her journal, which details her descent into depression, her encounters with therapists, her eventual hospitalization and in-patient ECT therapy (prompted, not surprisingly, by her insurance company's illogical refusal to cover out-patient ECT but willingness to pay for in-patient treatment), and her slow climb from numbness back to the realm of the living, able to appreciate and enjoy what life has to offer.  Maning is a good writer, and this reads almost like a novel -- I carried it in my purse, reading a few pages while I waited in line, during short breaks, during my lunch hour -- it doesn't demand a lot of attention to read; it's not technical or academic in any way.  Manning is witty and eloquent, and intersperses her prose with snippets of very moving poetry -- from a variety of sources (everything from the children's book Madeline to the Bible's Lamentations).  Her discussion of depression's impact on her relationship with her husband and daugter, as well as her accounts of some of the ridiculous &quot;therapy&quot; she received while hospitalized are particularly insightful.<br />Mannig seems strikingly &quot;normal&quot; -- able to function acceptably, see patients, write coherently, even though she claims to be crippled by depression.  Why I gave it four stars rather than five -- I see a bit of a disjoint between what Manning's therapists say &amp; how Manning represents herself in the journal.  I don't get a full picture of what she shows her therapists that makes them think that she needs ECT.  I am left wondering if Manning opens up to us, the readers, as much as she opens up to her therapists -- and I find myself wishing I knew more.  Her writing isn't quite as painful as I think it could be -- which, of course, makes the book less taxing &amp; more readable.  Overall, though, it's a very revealing account, always with a focus on recovery and improvement.	2001-06-30
US	52709297	R1IE0S6DBRNSF5	0671868691	178377223	Bitter Harvest	Books	4	6	6	N	N	fascinating book about an exceptionally troubled woman	The true-crime story explored in Bitter Harvest is gripping and disturbing on many levels, underscoring the often imperceptible line between genius and madness, the curious combination of enviable professional achievement with a total disconnection from reality within an individual.  Makes you wonder just how the human brain works.  This was a fast read, very intriguing. Admittedly, the story is more interesting to me because I'm familiar with the setting and I've heard first-hand accounts of Debora Green's odd and somewhat antisocial behavior while she was in medical school and residency.  I didn't notice any glaring flaws in the writing, but the story is so intriguing I'm not sure that I would have noticed.  Rule does seem to be mighty sympathetic to Green's husband (an achiever who seemed to surpass his wife professionally, and who fooled around with a very attractive other woman while &quot;chaperoning&quot; a child's international field trip), but hey, it wasn't the husband who poisoned Green with castor beans, necessitating brain surgery.  It wasn't the husband who set fire to the family manse.  Though he's no saint, she certainly surpasses him in the hierarchy of bad behavior.  This book left me concerned that mental illness is often overlooked, or at least minimized, in &quot;accomplished&quot; and professionally successful individuals -- a tragedy in itself that can lead to tragic results.	2001-06-24
US	52709297	RISFL1D0RH6EN	0679890084	349855338	Hooray for Diffendoofer Day!	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	a celebration of individuality	At Diffendoofer School, students learn essential life skills --&quot;listening, smelling, laughing, and yelling&quot; and &quot;how to tie knots in neckerchiefs and noodles, how to tell chrysanthemums from miniature poodles.&quot; The delightful Diffendoofer School may be closed, forcing the students to attend Flobbertown School, where everyone does &quot;everything the same . . They dress in just one style.  They sing one song, they never dance, they march in single file . . . Their lunches have no taste at all, Their dogs are scared to bark.&quot;  Naturally, the Diffendoofer creative thinking students rally to save the day and the school.  The characters are quirky but all too real.  I particularly like giving this book to young people to encourage their spirit and creativity, as a preemptive strike against the peer-pressured conformity of adolescence.  (As an added bonus, many of Ted Geisel's original sketches and concepts are included in a post-script titled &quot;How This Book Came to Be&quot;.)	2001-06-24
US	52709297	R2AIVYITOZGS9K	1573220833	805317765	Making the Case for Yourself (A Diet Book for Smart Women)	Books	2	20	30	N	Y	disappointing, sells out to beauty myths	Susan Estrich is an exceptionally bright, capable woman, a highly respected, widely published Harvard Law School professor (at one point, anyway).  It's disappointing that this accomplished woman would buy into the myth that as a size 14 &quot;blob&quot; she is somehow less of a person than she is as a size 6 skinny-minnie.  Estrich is right on point when she concedes that our society values beauty and thinness, but I didn't expect her to succumb to what she once thought were &quot;harmful and sexist attitudes,&quot; to advise readers to paint their fingernails, seduce someone, and buy new underwear rather than eat.<br />Estrich's mission is to convince women that looking good and the quest for slimness are laudable goals.  Refusing to acknowledge as much made her (the valedictorian turned law professor) feel &quot;vain, foolish, and stupid in addition to fat.&quot;  Her efforts are are directed toward becoming more physically attractive -- any concerns for health and nutrition are secondary.<br />This book perpetuates the myth that a woman's worth depends on her weight.  It does contain some tried-and-true diet advice, but a truly smart woman would seek guidance from Weight Watchers, not a law professor with a self-esteem issue.	2001-06-24
US	52709297	R2YF66KPSBJN4X	068816286X	405038978	The Handbook of Heartbreak: 101 Poems of Lost Love and Sorrow	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	perfect companion for a post-breakup pity party	This little treasure can lead you through the gamut of emotions.  I keep it on my nightstand, crawling into it when I'm feeling unloved and alone.  There's something about the physical book  itself -- small, thin, with the poems printed on beautiful deckle-edged paper in an elegant font -- that invites you to pick it up, hold it.  The poetry within is mournful, painful, emotional -- a fine accompaniment for a bout of miserable introspection.  A wide variety of poets are represented -- from Ben Johnson to Robert Frost, Shakespeare to Sylvia Plath.  My personal favorite poem in the collection:  Elizabeth Bishop's villanelle that begins &quot;The art of losing isn't hard to master;/ so many things seem filled with the intent/ to be lost that their loss is no disaster. . . .&quot;  Despite this, the collection includes a number of very eloquent descriptions of the desperation of losing a love and the disaster of lost love.  This is one of my favorite (and most frequently-read) collections of poetry.	2001-06-24
US	52709297	R2XZXTQ8F3PNHN	0159001811	724571412	Proceed with Caution: A Diary of the First Year at One of America's Largest, Most Prestigious Law Firms	Books	3	17	20	N	Y	enough complaining -- find a new job	The appendix in the back of this book, titled &quot;Starting Salaries for New Associates at the 250 Largest Law Firms in America&quot; explains it all -- it's difficult for the top-performing law students, often saddled with thousands of dollars of student loan debt, to pass up the signing bonuses, six-figure salaries, and tremendous prestige of big-city large-firm practice, especially when the salaries are often triple or quadruple what one could earn in the public service or government law.  Keates is somewhat aware of the drawbacks of big firm practice, yet like many given the opportunity, he goes for the &quot;brass ring&quot; anyway.  It doesn't take long for Keates to discover that he hates his job -- and this diary details the path by which his disillusionment about the glamour of the law is dispelled.  He quickly discovers that big firm practice can be a 24/7 commitment, being on the hook to fickle partners, fickle clients, and fickle judges, all of which can be extremely stressful.  Keates discusses the incidence of depression in lawyers, how one in ten lawyers thinks of suicide at least monthly.  The solution to Keates' situation is apparent early on -- move on, find a different job in the law, change fields completely, but that would take the courage to give up the security of the huge paycheck, the Porsche 944, the prestige.	2001-06-24
US	52709297	R2A9KOEONJ2TDP	0060969776	134741816	You Are Not Alone: Words of Experience and Hope for the Journey Through Depression	Books	4	16	16	N	Y	a paperback &quot;friend&quot; who can relate	People who have never been to the Dark Side just don't understand what it is like to be depressed, to be inconsolable and cry uncontrollably.  Caring friends may encourage you to &quot;cheer up&quot; or tell you &quot;you don't have anything to be depressed about&quot;, but these things only make you feel worse.  This book is  -- okay, it's no substitute for a therapist or a caring friend -- but its full of one-two paragraph snippets from folks who have been there -- sharing their feelings, their symptoms, their words of encouragement.  This book is not a how-to; it doesn't discuss the chemistry of depression or outline treatment programs.  Rather, it really does make you feel like you're not crazy, not the only person in the world who is crippled by depression.  Some of the writers even describe how they are empowered by their depression -- which is encouraging.  My only, tiny little gripe about the book -- the author/editor changes the names and home towns of the contributors to protect their privacy, and in one of the stories, the author's purported name doesn't match the name in the story.  Nitpicky, I know.	2001-06-23
US	52709297	R2ZYGHHK49H9XH	0312143575	164901411	Holocaust Poetry	Books	5	8	8	N	N	haunting, gripping, emotionally supercharged	Shiff prefaces this book with a verse from Job 16:18: &quot;Oh earth, cover not thou my blood, and let my cry have no resting place.&quot;  This anthology gives voice to holocaust victims, it brings immediacy to the holocaust -- making it a current tragedy rather than a historical event.  The poems are organized somewhat chronologically, in sections titled Alienation, Persecution, Destruction, Rescuers Bystanders &amp; Perpetrators, Afterwards, Second Generation, Lessons, and God.  A variety of writers are represented, from the famous (Elie Wiesel, Primo Levi, Sylvia Plath), to the less famous (Pavel Friedman, a child inmate of Theresienstadt camp).  An appendix includes fascinating biographical sketches information on each author, which adds an extra dimension to the poetry.  Much of the poetry is very readable, accessible, not as esoteric as I had expected.  The overall effect is highly disturbing, yet it's inspiring that many of the writers are able to find God or meaning in such horror.	2001-06-23
US	52709297	RQ8OBG6F89XZV	0810911841	868754394	Food Markets of the World	Books	5	7	7	N	N	gorgeous coffee-table book with stunning photography	This book is filled with page after page of absolutely gorgeous fascinating photography of folks from all over the world selling all sorts of foods I've never seen before -- an Asian woman selling rambutan (they're red &amp; spikey), a butcher in Palermo standing behind an assortment of animal parts, a spice vendor in Cairo, his fingers covered with turmeric (that one's a two-full-page spread).  This book lets you take a worldwide (every corner of the world) vacation, strolling down the alleys of markets, almost able to smell the spices in Beijing and the freshly baked bread in Paris.  The photographs are supplemented by very readable text -- historical information on regional foods, &quot;recipes&quot; that will inspire you to experiment rather than provide you with a step by step, measure by measure formula.  Beautiful gift for a food lover or a world traveler (or world traveler wannabe).	2001-06-23
US	52709297	R1VMY5TN6MK917	0385318219	169974529	Piano Lessons: Music, Love, and True Adventures	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Wish I had the Steinway that inspired the book.	This book is about Noah Adams' decision to purchase a Steinway and learn to play.  This is not a how-to book, but it will provide inspiration to the adult beginner, and it will give you ideas and insight on certain pieces.  After reading this book, I went out &amp; got the sheet music for Robert Schumann's Traumerei, which Adams describes lovingly in the introduction (and refers to later in the text).  Adams' writing resonates with a love of music, a love of the piano, and an emotional investment in learning to play.  The book contains anecdotes about his adventures at piano camp in Vermont as well as tidbits about classical composers and music.  It's an uplifting read for a music lover, particularly one who dabbles in classical numbers (although it might be too light &amp; fluffy for a serious, well-trained &amp; educated musician -- not falling into that category, I'm not sure).	2001-06-22
US	52709297	R2TWL01287O533	1573245577	980229040	Ladies' Room Reader: The Ultimate Women's Trivia Book	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Perfect for perusing in the powder room	A girlfriend sent this to me as a pick-me-up.  At first, I set it aside as fluff, but once I got started, I couldn't put it down.  The book contains nine fact-filled fascinating chapters, with good stuff on every page.  It's fun whether you read a single page or sit down &amp; read it through.  The chapters are about (1) shopping, (2) cosmetics, (3) food, (4) sex, (5)the female body, (6) love/marriage/babies, (7) pets, (8) entertainers, and (9) female firsts.  The books is jam-packed with facts (and the author respectfully provides the sources for some of the &quot;facts&quot;, allowing the reader to discount or credit the &quot;facts&quot; as appropriate), facts like &quot;Forty percent of us women have thrown a shoe (average size: 8B) at a man who has offended us&quot; and &quot;Women say approximately 7,000 words a day; men, 2000.&quot;  Okay, it won't change your life, but it's interesting, light reading.	2001-06-22
US	52709297	R2QVLAI7DTBV6O	0517703564	75175693	88 Keys: The Making of a Steinway Piano	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	Gorgeous book about building a piano	This book gives you a blow-by-blow account of how a piano is made at the Steinway factory in New York City.  The book is readable and gives you an appreciation of the detail and precision, all of the handiwork that go into a well-crafted piano.  It also shows that a piano is not just a standard item  -- pianos are crafted for individuals (Horowitz likes a light, responsive touch, Rubenstein wanted a more resistant touch, some performers want different tones depending on what they are playing).  The only drawback (unless you're a Steinway groupie) -- it's rather self-promotional, a well-written, well-illustrated 143-page Steinway &amp; Sons advertisement, but fascinating nonetheless.	2001-06-22
US	52709297	R2ASF7OGBZ8A7H	0761530088	86525684	New Hope for People with Bipolar Disorder: Your Friendly, Authoritative Guide to the Latest in Traditional and Complementar y Solutions, Including: ... of Depression & Manic-Depressive ...	Books	5	61	63	N	N	Can't seem to kick your &quot;depression&quot;?  Read this.	Bipolar disorder is often underdiagnosed and/or misdiagnosed as depression, particularly for people who have Bipolar II disorder (where severe depressive episodes are sandwiched between periods of mild or hypomania), who often feel sick and seek treatment only when they're depressed -- and thus are diagnosed as depressed or dysthymic.  Without proper treatment of the bipolar disorder, things won't improve.  This book really opened my eyes to what bipolar disorder is all about and why it is often hard to diagnose.  On average, persons suffering from bipolar disorder see four psychiatrists and suffer for over ten years before they are diagnosed properly.  This book is jam-packed with useful information -- facts on symptoms, common behaviors of sufferers, the different types of bipolar disorder, information on medication, and anecdotes from people suffering from bipolar and their families.  It's also very clear and readable.  I certainly wouldn't recommend self-diagnosis, but this book may help you help your psychiatrist make a proper diagnosis or help you understand a loved one.	2001-06-22
US	52709297	R3CMT8GHHM2MJ2	0201567636	694809557	Never Too Late: My Musical Life Story	Books	5	21	22	N	Y	A must for adults wishing they could play .	If you've regret giving up violin lessons back in sixth grade, think &quot;if only I had stuck with it&quot; when you hear Yo Yo Ma play, and you think fondly of the neglected instrument collecting dust in the attic, this book may be for you, providing a jump start to get you back into music.  Holt is passionate about his cello, about music, about improving.  He inspires courage -- the courage to start something new and work through the frustrations of being a older beginner (whose skills are surpassed by a Suzuki-trained child, no doubt).  Holt dives in to his instrument with a seriousness and commitment that I doubt most adult learners would have (hours of practice, playing in community orchestras) -- but it's an inspiring read, nonetheless.	2001-06-22
US	52709297	R2SOCDS62IGO52	0688177875	39592436	Perv--a Love Story	Books	4	0	1	N	N	a quick, quirky read	This was a beach read -- after getting over the fact that other folks would probably wonder about someone reading a book titled Perv -- A Love Story, I rather enjoyed the book.  Very quirky characters, very twisted situations, lots of in-your-face warped sexual encounters.  This book reminded me of how difficult being a teenager can be and how ridiculous adults often are in trying to imbue teenagers with their so-called knowledge.  Disturbingly funny.	2001-06-21
US	52709297	R2XPROBYIF8KS5	0060174900	802369838	The Bell Jar: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	It's even better the second time around.	I read The Bell Jar several times during my emotionally troubled high school &amp; early college years, which led me to want to (and, in fact, read all of Plath's poetry and become a Sylvia Plath fan.  Twenty-plus years after my first reading, I found myself wallowing in depression, trying to make sense of it all, with a hankering to revisit The Bell Jar.  It was even better the second (well, actually fourth or fifth) time around -- not only could I relate to Esther Greenwood's horrid isolation, I could also see the humor and wit this time, and relate not only to Esther's personal desperation, but also her mother's desperation to ensure that she was okay and her inability to do so.  Esther stews over / tinkers with / attempts suicide in a variety of ways, underscoring the chronic nature of depression.  Oddly, reading The Bell Jar didn't bring me down at all -- rather, it made me think about how gripping depression can be if one never confronts it head-on and conquers it (assuming such is possible).	2001-06-21
