US	52706019	R3U8HYUTI1DH2W	0802714153	50272461	The Book Nobody Read: Chasing the Revolutions of Nicolaus Copernicus	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	A superb biography of a book	The period from Copernicus to Newton is certainly one of the richest and most important in the history of astronomy. Material covering this period is plentiful and one of the chief challenges for the casual historian of astronomy is culling through the options and deciding what to read. <br /> <br />Certainly biographies figure high on the priority list. Here the selections reflect the amount of material available about the lives of the principle players. Galileo and Newton have no shortage of books devoted to their lives and work. Biographies of Copernicus are rare because relatively little is known of his life.  Kepler and Tycho fall somewhere in the middle. <br /> <br />The current work of by Owen Gingerich is a very different take. It is essentially the biography of a book: Copernicus' seminal De Revolutionibus Orbium Coelestium. <br />Gingerich has been in a hunt for surviving copies of the 1st and 2nd editions of Copernicus' De Rev for over 30 years, and this book tells the story of his journey and its rewards, trials, dead-ends, who dunits, and frustrations. Gingerich has written of his trek before, in magazines and selected articles. Many of these pieces have been released in his two excellent compilations, The Great Copernicus Chase and The Eye of Heaven, but those few pieces were only tantalizing morsels. The full course meal is in the present volume, and it is a treat. <br /> <br />Gingerich's census of surviving copies of De Rev presents a unique window into the development of cosmology and the slow acceptance of the heliocentric view. Early scholarly readers were in the habit of annotating their copies, pointing out their agreements and dissents, occasional passages of scripture, comments of their teachers, etc. Since many of the books passed from owner to owner over the centuries, Gingerich found many copies that contained multiple layers of annotations, marginal notes, edits, censorings, etc. <br /> <br />What began as a simple census of extant copiessoon turned into a scientific/historic detective story as Gingerich traced the various schools of thought, teacher/student relationships, and geographic migration of ideas through 16th to 18th century Europe. The result is a fascinating, personal account of the journey, detailing many of Gingerich's wrong turns and dead ends as well as the brilliant deductions and \\"aha\\" moments as he traveled the globe and interacted with the community of Copernicus scholars, rare book dealers, and often, the seamy underside of library theft and international looting during wartime. <br /> <br />The title, by the way, is lifted from Arthur Koestler's The Sleepwalkers, a work which Gingerich read as a graduate student. Koestler referred to De Rev as \\"the book nobody read,\\" and Gingerich was inspired to find out if that was really true. Except for the opening chapter on cosmology, De Rev is a murderously technical and geometrical treatise, and could only be understood by those well-trained in mathematics. But as Gingerich soon learned, it was far from ignored. <br /> <br />Gingerich's book has much to add to any history of the period. De Rev was owned by virtually all of the important figures in the history of astronomy. Tycho, Kepler, Galileo and Newton all figure prominently in the story, and Gingerich's clear prose and knack for story telling will give even the uninitiated reader a pleasurable introduction to one of the most fascinating periods in history. However, to the knowledgeable reader who is already familiar with the development of ideas in astronomy, this book will be hard to put down due to its unique spin on the period. <br /> <br />Gingerich has produced an instant classic in the history of astronomy with this book. It is a fascinating read and has already entered my personal top-ten list as a book that will be referred to again and again.	2004-11-13
US	52706019	RGQBMJDFGP20T	1591021758	616040791	The Transits of Venus	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	Such an exquisitely rare event... such a great book	William Sheehan is one of very few authors whose books I purchase as soon as they're published. Though not an historian of astronomy by profession, he is among the elite few who have contributed significantly to popular writings in that genre in the last 15 years or so. In taking on the topic of the transits of Venus, Sheehan, joined in this endeavor by John Westfall, has produced a magnificent volume that any amateur historian of astronomy will surely want to read.<br />As with all Sheehan efforts, Transits is meticulously researched and detailed, yet written in a lively and conversational tone that is a pleasure to read. Here will be found excellent scientific background: the nature of transits, the importance of transit observations in unlocking the value of the astronomical unit, etc. More importantly, to me, is the rich treatment of the history of transit observations. From Kepler's Rudolphine tables, where the first transits of Venus were accurately predicted, to the life and times of Jeremiah Horrocks, the short-lived English astronomer who first successfully observed one in 1639, to the massive international efforts of the 18th and 19th centuries, this work is filled with detail, photos, diagrams, and immensely satisfying story-telling. Here's an example of the detail and rich prose:<br />&quot;The long wait for a transit of Venus finally ended at 3:06:22.3 PM Honolulu mean time, December 8 1874, when George Tupman became the first person in 105 years to see a transit of Venus. He had two advantages that gave him a head start: the Hawaiian stations were the closest in the world to the Delislean point of earliest ingress: and he was observing with a spectroscope that allowed him to spot Venus against the sun's inner atmosphere, the chromosphere, a full 39 seconds before it touched the visible solar limb.&quot;<br />Sheehan and Westfall's orientation is so decidedly historical that they make a surprising omission: There is no discussion of the reason for the curious spacing of Venus transits: a pair 8 years apart, followed by a gap of either 105 or 122 years, and then another pair 8 years apart. Perhaps this discussion, about which I think many readers would be curious, was omitted because it can be somewhat technical. More likely, they simply had to make some decisions on what to include and not include based on their particular slant.<br />At any rate, such an omission is more than balanced by what Sheehan and Westfall do include. I was overjoyed to read such exquisite detail about the observational and photographic instruments used to observe and measure the transits of 1874 and 1882. As far as I know, Sheehan and Westfall are the first authors to offer such thorough coverage in a popular work. There are also many photographs and drawings reproduced from this pair of transits, many more than I have ever seen in print before.<br />The much-anticipated Venus transit of June 2004 is fast approaching. Perhaps the rarity of this event makes it so compelling to me, as I'm sure it will to others as well. I can think of no better way to prepare than to purchase and read this excellent work.	2004-04-25
US	52706019	RBRCRZYAZMUKS	0761126066	979907315	A Traveler's Guide to Mars	Books	5	40	40	N	Y	Even if you don't plan to go to Mars...	As an astronomy junkie and a web surfer, I've often marveled at the amazingly sharp photos obtained by the Mars Global Surveyor spacecraft. The Mars Orbiter Camera (MOC) has both wide-angle and telephoto capabilities and has revolutionized knowledge of Mars since it went into orbit in 1997. As I've browsed those photos, and even visited Malin Space Science Systems (MSSS) website to surf the archive, I've idly wished that someone would put together a book of those photos, along with explanations by planetary scientists.<br />Quite by accident, I stumbled upon Hartmann's Traveler's Guide to Mars recently, a 2003 publication by one of the scientists who's been involved with Mars since Mariner 4 in 1965. At 468 pages in length, with nearly every page containing photographs, this book is a gem. I regard it as the best book on Mars over the last few years (which is saying a lot if you read my reviews last month).<br />Hartmann gives us forty short chapters, each devoted to a single feature or geographic region. Each chapter is between 2 and 10 or so pages in length. Lavish use of photos is the standard, usually a Viking mosaic for context and then a series of MOS or Odyssey Themis photos illustrating unusual geology, the search for water, etc. There are also many examples of the Global Surveyor's other primary instrument, the laser altimeter, which beautifully illustrates relative elevations of the features, and has added immeasurably to our understanding of the landforms studied. Hartmann also makes frequent use of Earth landscape photos that are close analogs to the Martian features he's showcasing. Hartmann's explanations of the features are clear and easy to understand. The writing is at a level that will be easy for novices to comprehend, but will not leave seasoned Marsophiles feeling talked-down-to.<br />Interspersed throughout are 15 sidebars, &quot;My Martian Chronicles,&quot; in which Hartmann recounts some of his personal experiences as a member of the scientific teams which slowly untangled many of the mysteries he confronts in the text. These serve to make an already superb book even more enjoyable by bringing a very personal touch to the narrative. Hartmann is always careful to specify when he is touting his own pet theories, and when he is speaking of the consensus of the scientific community. He does a great job of illustrating how the scientific process actually works by telling the stories of the many geologists and planetary scientists who have contributed to our understanding of Mars over the years. He also hints where he thinks NASA's priorities ought to be with respect to human exploration of Mars: there are simply some questions which will remain open until there is a geologist with a rock hammer on the scene.<br />This is an excellent book in every way imaginable. First of all, it satisfied a longing I had had for several years. Second, it is written by a top flight scientist who also happens to be a gifted writer and communicator. Third, it is edited and presented in such a well-thought-out manner that it is simply a pleasure to read (and re-read and re-read). The only possible improvement I could suggest would be a second edition (updated of course with new findings) that uses the coffee-table format. When I think of the MOS and MOLA photos used in this book reproduced in large format 11x17 inches, with the accompanying text, I positively salivate with anticipation.	2003-08-18
US	52706019	RAFBYWS0EV758	0684865793	881390122	Seeing in the Dark : How Backyard Stargazers Are Probing Deep Space and Guarding Earth from Interplanetary Peril	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Astro-nerds take note...	The publication of a new book by an author of Timothy Ferris' stature should pique the interest of most amateur astronomers. Seeing in the Dark is exceptional in this regard, since the book is all about amateur astronomers.<br />Ferris, an avid amateur observer himself, has spent the last few years visiting some prominent amateur astronomers, following them as they engage in what amounts to sophisticated research (for free), going to their star parties, looking at their photos, and just generally learning their stories. Those stories are collected in his new book \\"Seeing in the Dark,\\" along with Ferris' usual assemblage of science, storytelling, history, and culture.<br />As usual, Ferris has a knack for sounding quotable, as in his description of a total solar eclipse. I've read countless accounts of the powerful visual experience of viewing totality, and Ferris ranks among the best in terms of capturing the raw mix of terror and fascination: \\"Suddenly the sky collapsed into darkness and a dozen bright stars appeared. In their midst hung an awful, black ball, rimmed in ruby red and surrounded by the doomsday glow of the gray corona. No photograph can do justice to this appalling sight: The dynamic range from bright to dark is too great, and the colors are literally unearthly. I staggered back a few steps, like a drunken man...\\"<br />The amateur observers that Ferris highlights will be familiar to readers of popular astronomy publications: Jack Newton, Stephen James O'Meara, Don Parker, David Levy, and many more. But few have heard the anecdotes told here, of the personal motivations and triumphs of a handful of legendary sky gazers. There's even a conversation with Brian May, the lead guitarist for the rock band Queen. How many amateurs know that May has a college degree in mathematics and astronomy, or that Queen's little known but outstanding acoustic song '39' is about relativistic time dilation?<br />There's a lot of good science in this book as well. The chapter on the moon contains a wonderful explanation of the tides on Earth, as well as the best summary I've ever read of the various theories about the \\"moon size\\" illusion that makes the moon seem huge when seen close to the horizon.<br />Ferris' previous books have established him as a solid popularizer of science and he continues that tradition with Seeing in the Dark. It's an easy blend of history, science and personal experience that is a pleasure to read. I highly recommend this book.	2003-01-11
US	52706019	R3DQPUB2H0Q34B	0684819066	87039745	A Beautiful Mind : A Biography of John Forbes Nash, Jr.	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A tragedy with a fairy-tale ending	I first read Sylvia Nasar's biography of John Nash shortly after it was released in 1998. I had heard Nasar interviewed on \\"All Things Considered\\" while driving home from work one day, and was intrigued by her story of this enigmatic Princeton mathematician who had emerged from the fog of mental illness to win the Nobel prize in economics in 1994. I borrowed the book from the library and remember vividly what a great glimpse it was into the life of a mathematical genius as well as the tormented hell of schizophrenia.<br />When Ron Howard made Nasar's book and Nash's life into a movie last year, I knew instantly it was a \\"must-see.\\" I enjoyed the movie tremendously, but noted the necessary compromises Howard had to make in telling such a complex story on screen in just two hours. I was motivated to finally buy the book and read it carefully again.<br />A Beautiful Mind is actually three books, intertwined and integrated. The first tells the story of the meteoric rise of the brilliant young mathematician from West Virginia; his college years at Carnegie Tech in Pittsburgh, graduate school at Princeton, followed by fellowships at the RAND Corporation and teaching at M.I.T. His mathematical achievements, including his Nobel winning work in bargaining theory, as well as later (and arguably more mathematically significant) work are well covered in terms that will not be overly obscure for a non-mathematician.<br />The second book has to do with Nash's personal life, relationships with family, friends, equally brilliant colleagues, his relationship with Eleanor and their illegitimate child, his marriage to Alicia, their child, and subsequent divorce.<br />The third book details his quirky personality and sudden descent into severe mental illness in 1959, the years of on and off hospitalization, and then the \\"phantom\\" years and slow recovery. Nash spent fully 30 years of his life struggling with his delusions, a staggering amount of time lost for such a genius. Nash must still be tormented by the lost promise of what could have been achieved in those years.<br />It is an intensely fascinating story and Nasar shows her mastery of the facts on every page. Many of the years of drifting and roaming the halls of Princeton's math department in the 1970's and 80's were hard to reconstruct, but she gives an excellent feel for what Nash's life must have been like during those dark times.<br />Nasar's book also presents a chronology of the development of psychiatry's understanding and treatment of schizophrenia. We see Nash subjected to involuntary hospitalizations, psychotropic drug treatment, insulin therapy (also graphically portrayed in the movie), psychoanalysis, and more. Through his exploits during the dark years, we get a glimpse of the tormented and irrational thought processes that dominate the mind of affected individuals. And we get a sense of the prognosis - normally quite poor - but in Nash's case marked my an apparent remission that has left his mind relatively intact.<br />Nasar gives fair treatment to the question of post-recovery doubts regarding the initial diagnosis: was Nash really schizophrenic, or did he have some other psychotic condition, but one that has a higher likelihood of recovery (e.g., bi-polar)? The fact that his youngest son was also diagnosed with schizophrenia is telling, since the disorder is now known to have a strong genetic component, but others who look at his history of symptoms already have little reason to doubt the validity of the original diagnosis.<br />This is a compelling story and an extremely well written book. It is a touching account that has both a fairy-tale ending and an overwhelming sense of tragedy.	2002-08-01
US	52706019	R2SKOKJT2BYXBV	0345381114	54671238	Return of the Straight Dope: Still More from the Popular Newspaper Column	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Irreverent and hysterical, I love Cecil!	Cecil Adams is a hoot. It's that simple. I'm the first to admit that his style may not be for everyone. If you don't enjoy the smart-alec humor of David Letterman, the irreverence of Saturday Night Live, and the take-no-prisoners approach of James Randi, than maybe the \\"Straight Dope\\" isn't for you.<br />For the uninitiated, The Straight Dope is a weekly newspaper column (appearing mostly in local \\"freebie\\" papers such as Madison's Isthmus) wherein Cecil (the smartest human alive) answers all manner of questions put to him by the \\"teeming millions.\\" Do fish breathe? Do birds pee? Are there really 57 varieties of Heinz Ketchup? No question is too trivial for Cecil, and he applies a surprising degree of scholarship to all queries, mixing it all with a sharp-tongued wit and repartee with his correspondents that will leave you laughing out loud, guaranteed.<br />The books, numbering 5, collect the best of his columns into loosely organized chapters and include occasional updated information since the questions and answers were originally printed.<br />A few examples from 3rd book (Return of the Straight Dope, 1994), which is the one I happen to have from the library right now:<br />p. 338: Why do stars twinkle? Cecil supplies the correct answer, embedded as always, firmly within his razor sharp wit: \\"Ben, you amateur, stars don't 'twinkle.' They exhibit 'stellar scintillation.' The Pentagon isn't going to fund a damn twinkle study.\\"<br />p. 63-64: A straight-down-the-pipe debunking of Uri Geller, as only Cecil can do. James Randi (whom Cecil sites as a source) has nothing on Adams. This is also a good example of Cecil's \\"dialog\\" with his readers. A reader wrote in to tell of his first hand encounter with Geller years before, and why Geller couldn't possibly have faked the spoon bending (or whatever) because this reader never took his eyes off the spoon, yada yada. Adam's reply shows his appropriately skeptical approach to such situations, where he stresses how many supposed \\"experts\\" were completely bamboozled by Geller's slight of hand and misdirection.<br />p. 349: The inertia of air, as seen in the helium balloon in a car experiment; p. 146 if you toss a ball in the air while inside the cabin of a flying airplane, does the total weight of the craft decrease by the amount of the ball's weight? (no, and he does a great job handling the physics involved).<br />The \\"Straight Dope\\" collections are a skeptical reader's delight, and totally entertaining to boot. I highly recommend them for casual reading, but don't be surprised if you learn something along the way.<br />By the way, there's apparently some debate about whether Cecil's a real person or not. I don't have an answer ... but it doesn't matter to me. The books are well written and right on target scientifically.<br />One more tidbit (this one from the straightdope.com web site), to a reader who asked what the deal is with Nostradamus, Cecil replied: \\"There are two schools of thought on Nostradamus: either (1) he had supernatural powers which enabled him to prophesy the future with uncanny accuracy, or (2) he did for ... what Stonehenge did for rocks. I incline to the latter view.\\"<br />Cecil goes on to give a more detailed (and very accurate) response re: the whole Nostradamus thing, showing again his serious attempt to combat the epidemic of silly pseudoscience that so many of the \\"teeming millions\\" seem inclined to accept at face value.<br />And that really seems to be the bottom line for Cecil, and the best reason to read the column and the books.	2002-07-06
US	52706019	R1LXY863CUOD3N	0471409766	412868525	Bad Astronomy: Misconceptions and Misuses Revealed, from Astrology to the Moon Landing "Hoax"	Books	5	52	54	N	N	A welcome addition to any science lover's library	Misconceptions creep into the science of astronomy perhaps more than any other science. Surveys have found that even college graduates carry persistent misconceptions or even wildly incorrect ideas about the phases of the moon or the cause of the seasons.<br />For the past several years, astronomer Phil Plait has been battling these misconceptions, as well as the flood of just plain bad astronomy (hence the name). Plait's web site has built a loyal following, and I have been a frequent visitor there almost since its inception. For people like me, the book \\"Bad Astronomy\\" is a logical extension of the web site. For newcomers, it will be a welcome addition to your libraries.<br />In addition to chapters on lunar phases and the cause of the seasons, Plait adds a detailed (and fairly technical) account of tides, the coriolis effect (as applied to toilet bowl water rotation), why the sky is blue, the moon size illusion, and many, many others.<br />Digging a little deeper into the \\"current issues\\" genre, Plait also tackles Velikovsky, UFOs, creationism and astrology. His writing is very clear and should be accessible to anybody interested in science and the battle against pseudoscientific nonsense.<br />Regular visitors to the web site will be familiar with Plait's crusade against those who persist in believing that the Apollo moon landings were faked. Plait's site led the charge against this nonsense, and he includes a treatment of the topic in his book as well.<br />Bad Astronomy is lightly illustrated with a mix of schematic drawings (to illustrate for example, tides or the moon size illusion) and black and white photographs. Some of the chapters could certainly have benefitted from more lavish illustrations, and perhaps even some color plates (the chapter on the Apollo \\"hoax,\\" for example, needed some additional photos to help dispel the most common objections). However, the format of the book (paperback) and the expense (between $11 and $14) dictated the conservativeapproach, I'm sure.<br />The chapters are well balanced in size. With a topic per chapter, and 24 chapters totalling 257 pages, you won't find an indepth treatment of any of these topics, but enough to surely whet your appetite. He also provides recommendations for additional reading, both book and WWW, in an appendix.<br />In the larger context of \\"defense of science\\" writings, Plait joins other such notables as Carl Sagan, Martin Gardner, Robert Park, Stephen Jay Gould, and Michael Shermer. Plait's contribution is a welcome one, and he is poised to take his place as a defender against bad science.	2002-06-22
US	52706019	R1WKUYE3A4VV11	1552096106	174128278	The Great Atlas of the Stars	Books	5	36	36	N	Y	A beautiful book...	There must be quite a risk associated with using the adjective \\"great\\" in the title of a book when actually describing the book itself. Serge Brunier probably decided he was safe in doing so when Akira Fujii signed on as the photographer for this beautiful constellation atlas. In addition to the breathtaking wide-field shots of Fujii, the book contains numerous images by other amateur and professional astrophotographers. It is the images of Fujii that steal the show, however, along with the expert editorial judgment of Brunier, that make this an unquestionably great book.<br />I have a fair amateur knowledge of the night sky, but while browsing the Great Atlas, I feel as though I am seeing these constellations for the first time. The layout is so elegant and simple that it tends to hide how thoroughly well-thought-out it really is.<br />Each two-page spread is made up of three basic elements. 1) On the right is a beautiful 10.5 x 14 inch wide-field constellation shot by the legendary Japanese astrophotographer Fujii. 2) On the left facing page is the constellation name, season for best observing, some history, a schematic showing the major landmarks, and three close-up detail photos of interesting stars or other objects in the vicinity, with brief descriptions. 3) Finally, there is a clear overlay for the wide-field shot with circles and labels, as well as constellation lines. The book is spiral-bound so the whole affair lays perfectly flat on your table top for easy access.<br />The package creates an irresistible presentation that makes for easy inspection and close examination.<br />Many of the constellations (e.g., Virgo, Scorpius), have an additional page with an enlargement of the Fujii photo of the previous page, highlighting a particularly interesting region of the photo. The enlargements are primarily the photographs of David Malin (Anglo-Australian Observatory) with higher magnification, though many readers will recognize the work of others as well. Besides Fujii, the astrophotography of such well known amateurs as Jerry Lodriguss, John Gleason, and Bill and Sally Fletcher are also represented. Additionally, professional images from the European Southern Observatory, the National Optical Astronomical Observatories, and the Space Telescope Science Institute are used as well.<br />The selection of objects highlighted on the left page-panel is a mix of some standard deep sky objects (e.g, M13) and exotic variable, double, or otherwise interesting stars. Most of these objects are easy targets for amateur scopes, but there are a few exotic ones thrown in for good measure as well (e.g, the \\"pistol star\\" in Sagittarius).<br />This text component meshes very well with the photographs. The information included is a perfect compliment to the photography. Not too much but a balance that feels just right. The brief descriptions of these varied objects provides just enough information and visual stimulation that leaves me wanting more. I was prompted in several cases to pull additional references off the shelf and read about several interesting red giant stars, and also added several telescopic double stars to the \\"must see\\" list for my next observing session.<br />I have a few very small quibbles: the Big Dipper is treated as a constellation, some star names are spelled with unusual variants, and throughout, \\"zeta\\" is spelled \\"dzeta.\\" These quibbles are relatively small though, given a book of this value and stature.<br />Perhaps the best way to explain my feelings about this book is to say it is the visual equivalent to the three-volume Celestial Handbook. What Robert Burnham did with poetry and mythology, Brunier and Fujii do with photography.<br />All the above verbiage notwithstanding, I simply cannot express to you how beautiful this book really is. It is not expensive. Buy it. Now.<br />Why are you still reading this? Go.	2002-04-26
US	52706019	R135B9ZIEC7PBM	0387950745	871050384	Distant Wanderers: The Search for Planets Beyond the Solar System	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Excellent coverage of a complex topic...	In February of 1990, JPL operators turned on Voyager I's camera for one last task, the so-called &quot;family portrait&quot; of our solar system. Though it was nearly 3.8 billion miles distant at the time, Voyager's camera was able to image the planet Earth - barely a 5th magnitude speck (Sagan's &quot;pale blue dot&quot;) about a degree away from the -19th magnitude sun.<br />While Voyager's instruments were not designed with the detection of planets around distant stars in mind, that pixel-wide photo of planet Earth gives some appreciation for the difficulty of the task. Imagine trying to detect Earth from our nearest stellar neighbor, Alpha Centauri, which is 7000 times more distant than Voyager I was when the family photo was snapped.<br />Bruce Dorminey's excellent new book &quot;Distant Wanderers&quot; does a great job of conveying the exquisite difficulty of extra solar planet hunting. What I had always thought of as a relatively narrow focus for a few astronomers turns out to be an incredibly rich and diverse field. As older technologies are adapted, and new technologies are developed, the field is undergoing an explosive growth phase, characterized by a dizzying array of new discoveries and tantalizing hints of discoveries yet to come.<br />Dorminey spent over two years traveling to conferences, observatories, or any place he could find astronomers. He collected both narratives of their research as well as some personal asides on their motives and desires (though the emphasis is decidedly on the science). The text is written in the spirit of Overbye and Lightman. Distant Wanderers is scientific story telling at its best, as Dorminey introduces us to scientists who are not as well known as Butler and Marcy. The story of French scientist Antione Labeyrie (p. 103) and his attempt to develop instrumentation for the Hubble Space telescope for use in planet hunting is political and scientific irony at its ugliest and best.<br />Instead of a glossary at the end ofthe book (which I find that I almost never use), Dorminey has peppered the chapters with indented asides containing definitions of major terms in bold print. These are placed in contextually logical places and I found them to be helpful and interesting while reading the text.<br />It would be hard to overstate the rapid pace of change in this field. As I read &quot;Distant Wanderers,&quot; it became clear that the search for extra solar planets has forced astrophysicists and geologists to clarify their definitions of both &quot;star&quot; and &quot;planet,&quot; and Dorminey gives ample room to a discussion of both concepts along the way.<br />Dorminey's book also contains what is perhaps the best description I've ever read of how optical interferometry can measure the diameters of super giant stars, and the efforts being made today to extend the use of optical interferometry to the search for planets around other stars. His ability to take thorny scientific issues and explain them in terms anyone can understand is excellent.<br />Distant Wanderers joins two other excellent books on this topic: Worlds Unnumbered by Donald Goldsmith and Planet Quest by Ken Crosswell, both also well worth reading.<br />Is the field changing so fast that &quot;Distant Wanderers&quot; will quickly be obsolete? Perhaps, but that is the risk taken by any science writer willing to take on a timely topic. If you're looking for a good general work on how the search for extra solar planets works, this book will remain a standard for many years to come.	2002-02-06
US	52706019	RZI5522L95NB7	0802713696	151454698	An Intimate Look at the Night Sky	Books	4	20	20	N	N	A 'sampling' of Raymo's best...	Raymo's latest book is not a star atlas designed to be carried out-of-doors under a dark night sky. Though it has star maps (arranged by season), it is clearly not _that_ kind of guide to the night sky. Raymo hints at his motivation on page X of the introduction:<br />\\"We spend out evenings indoors in front of the television or computer monitor, oblivious of the beauty and terror of the celestial abyss.\\" Raymo's intent is to reintroduce us to that beauty and terror; to renew our (a collective \\"our;\\" the human race) intimacy with the night sky.<br />Organizationally, the 12 chapters of the book are arranged into four broad sections by season. Each section begins with several all-sky charts introducing us to the major constellations of that season. The chapters associated with the four sections delve deeper, covering such topics as the distances to stars, eclipses, comets, meteor showers, etc.<br />The major attraction of this book is not the science, though the science is accurate and delivered in digestible portions. The major attraction of \\"Night Sky\\" is the way Raymo delivers the content: with the wide-eyed wonder of a child, with a deep respect and secular appreciation for the beauty of the heavens. His blend of science with poetry, history, culture, and music is smooth and never forced.<br />Seasoned Raymo readers will note that he has recycled much of his material from earlier (and arguably better) books, but that should not dissuade. Night Sky contains the best of Raymo's naturalist yearnings for the ineffable attraction of things celestial. As he discusses the \\"usual suspects\\" (Hubble Deep Field, the attrition of stars due to light pollution, etc.), he is convincing in his deep sense of awe and humility. He has an enviable ability to turn a phrase and communicate via allegory. His polished presentation of the allegory of an island of knowledge in a sea of mystery is beautiful. This piece first appeared in \\"Skeptics and True Believers\\" and is presented in thisbook in a more abbreviated form. It's his answer to those who think that science removes the mystery and romance from life.<br />In summary, I recommend this book. My highest recommendation is to those who have not read Raymo before. If you are new to this author, read this book. Then be ready to move on to \\"The Soul of the Night,\\" \\"Natural Prayers,\\" or \\"Skeptics and True Believers.\\" If you have already read Raymo's best, you'll still enjoy \\"Intimate Look,\\" but perhaps for different reasons. Raymo is a kindred spirit to all who appreciate the simple pleasures of gazing at the Pleiades through binoculars, or watching a sunset, or huddling in a blanket while waiting for Perseid meteors. This book captures that spirit.	2002-02-03
US	52706019	R67TO5NAW4120	0198500319	774587714	Edmond Halley: Charting the Heavens and the Seas	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A well-deserved work on a fascinating scientist...	An outstandingly thorough and meticulously researched biography of one of history's most outstanding scientists. Matters related to events in Halley's life are notoriously difficult to reconstruct. He was not a pack-rat like Newton or Kepler, and failed to keep thorough diaries like Hooke. Biographers have to rely on the notes of others, public records, and published papers. Cook rises to the occasion and has produced a biographic work that will rival those of of other important scientists of the era.<br />Though remembered chiefly for the comet that bears his name, Halley was a scientist of extraordinary breadth and depth. Cook reconstructs all the major categories of Halley's productivity. Chapters are devoted to his youth, the year spent at St. Helena mapping the southern stars, his key role in prying the Principia out of Newton, his role in the quest for longitude at sea, his years as the Astronomer Royal, as well as his career on the high seas, both as a ship's captain (civilian) and scientist/explorer. A scientist like Halley demands a biography of considerable scope, and Cook delivers.<br />As much as any biography I've read, Cook's &quot;Halley&quot; spends considerable space delving into the contemporary zeitgeist. The 30 page opening chapter &quot;Halley's World,&quot; is a splendid essay on the culture and spiritual/political/popular world of the late 17th and early 18th century in Great Britain and Europe.<br />This book is not an easy read, but it is absolutely essential for any student of the golden age of science. Halley lived in Newton's shadow, but was never eclipsed. Cook has done the literary world a great service in this book.	2001-12-07
US	52706019	RFAAPW2TJXSEN	0471385026	698674100	Drawing the Line : How Mason and Dixon Surveyed the Most Famous Border in America	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	A rare look into the applied astronomy of the 18th century..	Most people have probably heard of the Mason-Dixon line, though they may not be aware of where or exactly what it is. I grew up less than three miles from the famous line that separates Maryland from Pennsylvania, and was aware that there were stone monuments spaced every mile along the boarder - but I had no idea of the origins of this line. Danson weaves the historical backdrop that necessitated the survey and follows Charles Mason and Jeremiah Dixon, two British astronomers, as they traveled to the colonies with their telescopes, quadrants, and mathematical expertise. A surveying job such as this required exquisite accuracy in the determination of latitude and longitude - a job for skilled astronomers in their day.<br />For the more technically inclined, appendices are provided that go deeper into the methods surveyors use to shoot the lines. Given the amount of astronomy involved in such a surveying job, I wish the author would have provided more detail about the instruments Dixon and Mason used to accomplish their task. I'm sure it was not Danson's intention to cover this sort of technical instrumentation in detail, but in my (biased) opinion, it would have enhanced the story. Still an excellent book and one any person interested in the history of science should read.	2001-12-03
US	52706019	R2V8LHD8Z25QOP	0387987649	761164719	Mission Jupiter: The Spectacular Journey of the Galileo Spacecraft	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Full of technical detail and hard science...	A must-read for any Jupiterphile. Fischer presents an in-depth look at the science behind the Galileo mission to Jupiter. From the history behind the probe, going all the way back to the 1970's, to the budget cutting, to the eventual launch and failure of the high-gain antenna. It's all covered in this volume, with exquisite detail and enough science content to take you well beyond the press releases. Highly recommended!	2001-12-03
US	52706019	R1AIY9XNA185KB	0716737116	240250541	Parallax: The Race to Measure the Cosmos	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A delightful read, astronomy history buffs will love it...	Along the lines of Longitude, where Dava Sobel took us on a walk through astronomical history with the focus on the effort to determine longitude at sea, Hirshfeld's &quot;Parallax&quot; is an engaging historical survey concentrating on efforts to detect that minute wobble of stars. Hirshfeld focuses on the personalities and people - which makes this story enjoyable and even riveting.<br />Copernicus' view of the heavens had long since prevailed - no serious person of science doubted that the Earth and planets orbited the sun. However, there was no concrete scientific evidence to prove the Copernican view. The acid test of the Earth's motion, slight displacement of stars in June and December, when the Earth is on opposite sides of its orbit, had still not been detected. Hirshfeld traces the story from the earliest Greeks through Hooke, Newton, Bessel, Bradley and many others. It's a great story, well told.	2001-12-03
US	52706019	R2MFM0EZLXLDEQ	0226105210	521079761	Edwin Hubble: Mariner of the Nebulae	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A worthy biography of a complex subject...	One of the most remarkable astronomers of all time, and the one who generally gets the credit for the biggest revolution since Copernicus: Hubble was the one who recognized that the universe is expanding, and who first articulated the principle that bears his name, that of the expansion constant, the \\"Hubble\\" constant.<br />This outstanding work does a good job of tracing his early years, a task made difficult by the fact that his wife destroyed many of his personal papers after his death. Hubble was enigmatic, aloof, and possibly disingenuous. He shed his Missouri roots and donned the polished exterior of a Brit. He was a shameless anglophile to the end of his life.<br />He had a knack for asking the right questions at the right time, and being a talented enough observer to get the data needed to address those questions. (...)<br />Christianson's work is an honest treatment of a difficult and complex subject. She doesn't gloss over the rough spots or try to sugar coat his scientific accomplishments. This is thoroughly researched and well written work.	2001-12-03
US	52706019	RE4QJEIH32YF	1563962497	666722190	Explorer of the Universe: A Biography of George Ellery Hale (History of Modern Physics and Astronomy Vol. 14)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	"An eminent man of science"	The number of influential astronomers whose last names begin with \\"h\\" is truly amazing. Hipparchus, Halley, Herschel (the elder and junior), Humason, and Hubble. Not as well known, though no less important in his many contributions to the science, is the subject of Helen Wright's admirable biography, George Ellery Hale.<br />Hale is perhaps justifiably he is remembered as the builder of giant telescopes. He built three of the greatest of all time, and spearheaded a fourth - the Palomar 200 inch - though he did not live to see it completed and named in his honor. However, Hale's considerable life's work goes much further. He was a groundbreaking solar astronomer, inventing new instruments and methods of studying the sun's activity. His invention of the spectroheliograph and subsequent discovery of the magnetic field lines of sunspots nearly earned him a Nobel prize (Hale was nominated for the Nobel prize in physics by many other recipients of that award - including Millikan. Wright repeats the story that Alfred Nobel did not like astronomers and wanted no astronomer to win that award, a bias which was not overcome until the 1970's). The Nobel Prize was the only major scientific honor that eluded Hale. He won the Copley Medal of the Royal Society of London, the Janssen Medal of the Paris Academy of Sciences (twice), the Rumford Medal, the Gold Medal of the RAS, the Draper Medal of the NAS, the Bruce Medal, the list goes on.<br />Wright's work is organized by project rather than strictly chronologically. She details the founding of the Astrophysical Journal; his central role in the formation of the International Astronomical Union and the American Astronomical Society. Another chapter is devoted to his vision for the transformation of the Throop Institute of Pasadena into the venerable California Institute of Technology and attracting top-notch talent to its teaching and research staff. She spends considerable time detailing his network of friends and colleagues aroundthe formation of the the National Academy of Sciences and the National Research Council. One comes away with the distinct impression that Hale was a central and essential figure in burgeoning scientific establishment of the first half of the century.<br />The degree to which he was esteemed by his colleagues is clear from the fact that he was offered the presidency of MIT and the position of Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. He turned down both. He also eventually resigned as director of the Mt. Wilson Observatory, both for health reasons and to allow him time to return to his own solar observatory.<br />Though her work is perhaps slanted toward Hale's organizational and building activities, she also makes it clear throughout that his true love always remained that of plumbing the depths of stellar evolution, and he was always anxious to return to his own solar research.<br />Though Wright does not explicitly point it out, it is implicit that Hale's greatest achievement was bridging the gap between the observational astronomy of the 19th century (and before) to the 20th century study of physics and physical phenomenon. More than any other individual, Hale recognized that astronomy and physics made the perfect marriage, and he pioneered methods to bring the physical laboratory and the astronomer's telescope together.<br />As good as it is, and Wright's is one of the best scientific biographies available, she does stand guilty of starting a terrible misconception about Hale's mental state. It is generally well known that Hale suffered from nervous breakdowns that were at times completely incapacitating. Wright gets the credit for starting the story about Hale's supposed little \\"elf\\" that visited and talked to him, and who has come to represent his illness. Historians William Sheehan and Donald Osterbrock trace it to a misunderstanding of one of Hale's letters to a friend and note that the \\"'demon' (the word he actually used) was a metaphor, referring either to his conscience or to his depressed mood (like Winston Churchill's 'black dog'), and certainly not an apparition.\\" ...This book easily earns its five-star rating. It is simply one of the best scientific biographies available.	2001-09-15
US	52706019	R3MGMNRTVLWQBN	0684846004	224080330	The Cases That Haunt Us	Books	3	45	53	N	N	A VERY promising start, but disappointing ending...	I've read most of John Douglas' books, and most of the other books inspired by the work done in the FBI's Behavioral Sciences unit. I have a deep respect for Douglas and his many colleagues around the country who continue to work in law enforcement and are students of the criminal mind.<br />&quot;The Cases that Haunt Us&quot; is, for the most part, a work that deserves as much accolade as Douglas and Olshaker's previous books. The historical perspective and fresh evaluative light shed on such classic cases as Jack the Ripper and the Lindbergh kidnapping is fascinating and invaluable. However, upon reading the final chapter, I was left with the nagging feeling that every chapter in the book was a carefully calculated setup to prepare the reader for the final chapter, where Douglas presents his findings and opinions on the JonBenet Ramsey murder case.<br />I don't fault him for being unobjective. He admits that he was hired by the Ramseys' lawyers to provide his opinions on their possible guilt or innocence. He was not, as is often assumed by the public, hired to provide a profile of the killer (he was never given access to the autopsy reports, crime scene photos, physical evidence, etc., that would be necessary for a true profile). As with his style in the previous chapters, he presents the facts of the case. But his chapter on JonBenet is hopelessly contaminated by his own involvement with the family (none of the other high profile cases in the book involved him personally). The result is a missive that reads like a cross between a rationalization and an apology. Don't get me wrong, Douglas presents his findings in a clear and very logical manner, and I don't disagree with his findings. I just wish for the sake of this book, that he had left the Ramsey case alone and had added some additional historical cases (JFK or MLK Jr assassinations, for instance, or the OJ case) in which he was not personally involved.<br />Much has been written about the JonBenet Ramsey murder, and I was curious to see Douglas' own conclusions on this case. But by including it in this book, he busted what was easily a 5-star work down to 3 stars.	2001-08-07
US	52706019	R3C7952578OKQW	0380802619	931781699	Chariots for Apollo: Untold Story Behind the Race to the Moon	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An incredible story well told...	There are countless books chronicling the race to the moon and the triumphs of the Apollo program. Most of them are well worth reading too. Chariots sets itself apart though. Rather than celebrating the astronauts, or even the flight controllers and ground crews, Chariots goes behind the scenes at Grumman Aerospace Corporation, the company that won the contract to build the Lunar Module (LM). The reader sees firsthand the technical and engineering mountains that had to be scaled in order to make the moon landing possible. It's an incredible story full of pitfalls, heartbreaks (and a few heart attacks), breakthroughs, divorces and happy endings. Building the first (and so far only) spacecraft designed to land human beings on another world presented engineering challenges that had never been considered before, and Grumman rose to the challenge. An indispensable book for any amateur historian of the space age.	2001-07-28
US	52706019	R3935IV3P2YHXD	1560989823	212375239	Asteroids: A History (Smithsonian history of aviation & spaceflight series)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Worthwhile despite a quirky complaint...	An outstanding introductory and reference work on the current thinking behind the asteroid phenomenon, including the controversies over naming, geological studies etc. Covers in some depth the main periods of asteroid discovery, from visual to photographic to automated. Also deals briefly with issues of asteroid origin; a very interesting discussion of the analysis of &quot;groups&quot; of asteroids, identified by similarities in their orbital elements, as well as interesting treatment of Jupiter's effects on sweeping out lanes in the asteroid belt. Excellent treatment of the NEA threat, from its inception up through the SL-9 impact.<br /> Quirky treatment of light pollution in the middle of the book, in the context of the naming phenomenon (an asteroid was named for the city of San Diego after a light pollution ordinance was passed, but later rescinded, though the asteroid kept its name). It was an interesting discussion, and a story that deserves to be told, but didn't belong in the middle of this book.	2001-07-28
US	52706019	R2MF1MAMOYO3D4	0449912558	541384114	The Sparrow: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great new sci-fi from a new author	A science fiction tale with a twist. In the near future the first radio contact with an extraterrestrial intelligence is made. A clear radio signal is picked up from Alpha Centauri. It's not prime number sequences or other mathematical symbols, rather beautiful music. While the UN argues over how best to organize an expedition, another more independent group with considerable financial means responds -  the Jesuits. God has other children out there, we must know them. The year is 2019 and the journey is made, but at some point something goes horribly wrong, and only one of the 8 journeymen returns nearly 40 years later, and he's not talking much (and he hasn't aged 40 years either, due to the relativistic effects of interstellar travel). Russell spins a masterful tale combining three different timelines woven together, pre-trip Earth, the ship and their exploration of Rakhat, and post-trip debriefing of the priest/professor who returned alive. The result is a nice suspense-building device, as you simultaneously learn about the preparations for, the trip itself, and the investigation of the result. Russell does a great job of rationing out the pieces of the story using this format.<br />The character development is extensive and the description of the alien civilization is compelling. I was initially skeptical and was tempted to put the book down after about 100 pages, but having hung in there, by 150 I was firmly hooked, and by 200 I was ruing the fact that it would eventually have to end. The scientific aspect is not central - as in much of the fiction I prefer these days - but what is there is accurate enough (though requiring some generosity - it's unlikely that we'll be able to drive an entire asteroid at 2G acceleration within 20 or so years), and supports the story in a wonderful and unobtrusive fashion.<br />I confess that the religious aspects of this story were almost equally as interesting as the scientific and cultural. As one who has a religious background to form some context, I was intrigued by the twist this element gave to the story.<br />I have to give this book 5 stars, very impressive!	2001-07-28
US	52706019	R1P6WTRFB1WS4C	0802713637	947124405	The Neptune File: A Story of Astronomical Rivalry and the Pioneers of Planet Hunting	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Great story but not much new info...	The story of the discovery of the planet Neptune is one of the most fascinating in the era of modern astronomy. Kepler's laws of planetary motion and Newton's unprecedented mathematical description of the law of universal gravitation allowed predictions of planetary positions to an accuracy of arcseconds.<br />In view of this successful mathematical description, Uranus' misbehavior was so bad that it was proving to be a continual embarrassment to astronomers, and the drive to find a solution was strong in the early to mid 19th century. The story of Adams in England, Le Verrier in France, and Galle in Germany has been told many times, and will be familiar to fans of the history of astronomy. Standage's retelling of the story is a good read, but probably adds little to Grosser's 'The Discovery of Neptune' (1962). An interesting facet Standage adds to the picture has to do with the title of his book. The 'file' in question belongs to George Airy (a notoriously fastidious record keeper). It contained correspondence, news clippings, etc., on the issue of the discovery of Neptune. Conspiracy theorists abounded in the years after the discovery, and some made the claim that Airy was in cahoots with Le Verrier in suppressing Adams' work to ensure that the credit would go to the Frenchman. Apparently Airy's file disappeared at some point during the last 20 years or so, renewing the conspiracy theorists' energies. Standage informs us late in his book that the file eventually turned up among the papers of a recently deceased former astronomer of the Greenwich Observatory. Examination of the file proved that there was no collusion.<br />This incident deserves further mention. Standage does not name the astronomer who had the file, nor the circumstances under which it was 'borrowed.' Nor does he elaborate on what was found there, other than exonerating Airy of the charge of conspiracy to suppress Adams' findings. Just who did have the file, and for how long? My own brief researchrevealed that an historian of science named Dennis Rawlins has written several articles about this situation, claiming a cover-up on the part of English astronomers, and alleging that the Neptune file contains a copy of Adams' original paper in which his position prediction is off by more than 12 degrees, and that a faction of 'Cambridge' astronomers is conspiring to keep the contents of the file suppressed.<br />I contacted two historians of science, one at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, and one at Harvard. Neither knows of any evidence as to the truth of these allegations, and both attest that Rawlins tends to gravitate toward farfetched notions that mainstream science regards with suspicion. In fact, Rawlins doesn't publish his papers in mainstream journals, but in his own self-published journal 'Dio.'<br />At any rate, Standage's treatment of the issues was disappointingly brief and left me wondering if he was unable to dredge up any additional info himself.<br />Standage doesn't end the story with the discovery of Neptune and the international fallout over credit that ensued. He goes on to add the modern planet seekers, those who look for - and find - planets around other stars. Their challenge may be technically greater - to discern the minute wobbles of distant stars and infer the existence of planets, but they also have superior tools. Standage draws the parallel between their task, and the way Adams and Le Verrier inferred the existence of Neptune mathematically long before it was seen by astronomers. The comparison is perhaps valid, but the modern search for extrasolar planets certainly carries none of the intrigue of the Neptune story, where the search was carried out with paper and pencil and little more.<br />Standage's book is a good read, particularly for those unfamiliar with the details of the story. However, I would still recommend Grosser's book as the better account (minus the modern info), but I would even more highly recommend Richard Baum and William Sheehan's excellent 'In Search Of Planet Vulcan: The Ghost In Newton's Clockwork Universe,' a book which retells the Neptune story, possibly better than either Grosser and Standage, and adding the historical context of the planet Vulcan search as well.<br />I was frustrated upon finishing this book. I wished Standage had done the digging necessary to really tell the story behind the &quot;file.&quot; Hopefully more will come to light of the contents of Airy's Neptune File, and will be published in some still unwritten account.	2001-07-28
US	52706019	RWKNIJR8U50W9	0878931848	71893712	Science on Trial: The Case for Evolution	Books	5	25	31	N	N	Wonderful articulation of evolutionary theory...	It's rare, but not unheard of, that I know by the 50th page of a book that I need to a) read this book again, and b) purchase a copy for my own library. &quot;Science on Trial&quot; is such a book. A remarkable book presenting arguments in favor of evolution as a counter to the rise of creationism. Written in 1983, Futuyma's arguments are perhaps even more relevant today, in light of recent developments in Kansas, Michigan, and other states. Futuyma's writing style is exceptionally clear and he presents science as it really operates and exposes the gaping factual and philosophical holes in the creationist movement. Obviously no book can ever change the mind of a committed, dogmatic creationist, but this book should be required reading for any school board candidate.	2001-03-29
US	52706019	R1JQA73E1T83G7	0786884061	618059257	The Man Who Loved Only Numbers: The Story of Paul Erdos and the Search for Mathematical Truth	Books	5	1	2	N	N	An incredible man, an incredible book...	An endearing look at one of our century's mathematical geniuses. Erdos lived and breathed mathematics. He had no home, no car, no family, and no interests other than numbers. He maintained an astonishing level of productivity right up until his death. Erdos existed on the generosity of others. He moved from university to university, giving talks, participating in seminars, but mostly just meeting other mathematicians and students, and asking \\"what are you working on now?\\" Colleagues welcomed him with open arms, for he was usually good for solving an intractable problem or two, collaborating on a few papers, and then moving on to his next temporary abode. This is a delightful book about a delightful person, eccentric though he was. It's also a good look into how mathematicians work.	2001-03-29
US	52706019	R2URKSLBVR99LB	0312110472	579353440	The Private Lives of Albert Einstein	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Essential Einstein reading....	It is inevitable that Albert Einstein's &quot;private lives&quot; will fall under the dissection knives of historians and biographers. There are already dozens of excellent biographies of Einstein on the market, ranging from the extremely scientific to the extremely personal. As the Einstein Papers Project continues to explore the personal correspondence of this remarkable scientist, we can expect the personal revelations to continue. Einstein, as were all great figures of history, was a very complicated person, and a very human one.<br />In this work, the authors take a very personal look at his life between the high school years and the publication of special relativity. Specifically, it focuses on his first marriage, to Mileva Maric'. Much about this relationship was kept intentionally hidden for years by Einstein's secretary Helen Dukas, and scientist Otto Nathan, who became the de facto protectors of the &quot;Einstein image.&quot; Since they had known him in the era of his marriage to his cousin Elsa, they understandably sought to minimize and downplay any factors from his younger years that might reflect negatively upon him, and a failed first marriage, with an illegitimate child, could certainly be seen as less than flattering.<br />Highfield and Carter's book draws heavily on the work of the Einstein Papers scholars Stachel, Renn, and Schulmann. Einstein's voluminous correspondence from those years has shed much new light on such questions as the fate of the daughter Liseral, but without providing definitive answers. Considerable time is also spent on the issue of Mileva's role in the development of special relativity - topic that exploded with the force of a bomb in recent years.<br />Einstein has been dead for nearly half a century now, and it is certain now that his private life will be subjected to as intense scrutiny as has special and general relativity. This book, along with Overbye's &quot;Einstein in Love&quot; take a respectful but straightforwardapproach. Any Einstein admirer or general fan of the history of science should read this book.	2001-03-29
US	52706019	R2SZV3QX5UIJ1T	157322166X	196655403	Voyage to Mars: NASA's Search for Life Beyond Earth	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent look inside a science team...	Bergreen's book is a very intimate look at how science really works. In successive chapters, he takes us inside four groups of men and women: the team of scientists that worked on the Martian meteorite ALH84001; the Mars Pathfinder/Sojourner team, the team in charge of the Mars Global Surveyor's laser altimeter, and finally, inside Dan Goldin's NASA. What we see is a far cry from the polished interviews on TV, or the neatly written articles in Nature or Science. The truth is that scientists rarely agree on anything other than very broad assumptions, and often not even on those. Instead, scientists, even those working together on the same project, can heatedly disagree with one another's assumptions or interpretations, making it difficult to agree on the best way data should be released to the public.<br />An example from the MGS laser altimeter team (specifically the Mars Orbiter Laser Altimeter or MOLA). This instrument shoots blasts of laser light from the orbiting spacecraft to the surface of Mars, and times their return to the sensor. By doing so, an incredibly accurate topographical relief map of Mars can be created. However, Mars has no absolute altitude marker like Earth (sea-level). Therefore, the scientists have to agree on an altitude reference against which all other measurements are compared. The specific reference chosen is critical because it will be used in all subsequent analyses of MOLA data. Any error could potentially be a spoiler for generations of future reserachers. Bergreen was there when they discussed whether they were ready to commit to an altitude reference and start releasing data (many team members argued \\"yes!\\") or whether more data and study were needed before the team published such critical information (other team members said \\"wait!\\").<br />Also typical was the conflict in choosing a landing site for the Mars Polar Lander. Scientists pour over the data from MGS and pick a site that is geologically interesting. Engineers pour over the MGS data and pick a site that is safe. The two goals are often at direct odds with one another. The engineers want stastical rock-counts so that they can ensure their craft won't topple over a boulder. Scientists argue that the sites chosen by the engineers will nullify all the science objectives of the mission. Such discussions can quickly become personal as emotions boil over and passionate beliefs give way to shouting contests.<br />Bergreen's book is in many ways reminiscent of Overbye's Lonely Hearts of the Cosmos, only directed at Planetary scientists instead of cosmologists. This book will be of extreme interest to Marsophiles, but will also be enlightening to those who want an inside look at Dan Goldin's NASA, or at the process actually followed by scientists in the trenches. I recommend this book highly to these two groups as well as anyone else who hasn't updated their knowledge of Mars exploration since Viking.	2001-03-29
US	52706019	RQRW6MTE04A0M	0393049639	81363125	Did Adam and Eve Have Navels?: Discourses on Reflexology, Numerology, Urine Therapy, and Other Dubious Subjects	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Gardner delivers again...	Another priceless installment of the essays of Martin Gardner, collected from his &quot;Skeptical Inquirer&quot; column &quot;notes of a fringe watcher.&quot; Like all of his writings on pseudoscience and new age junk thinking, 'Adam and Eve' is a mix of insightful observations and penetrating analysis. Gardner has such a grasp of history and literature that it is hard to imagine anyone have the breadth of knowledge he brings to a topic. I invariably finish reading one of his essays nodding my head and thinking, &quot;I wish I'd said that.&quot; Gardner has a way of capturing the essence of an argument that makes me feel like he's giving word to my own thoughts.<br />The title essay focuses on the dilemma of fundamentalists who would insist on a young earth in spite of the crushing weight of scientific evidence to the contrary. God, they claim, simply created everything with the &quot;appearance of age.&quot; Thus the question, did Adam and Eve have navels, is relevant. If they didn't, then they were not perfect human beings, as Genesis says and theology demands. If they did, than God added the navels to preserve the appearance of parentage, adding a deceptive element to the creation of the first humans. Gardner's essay traces the history of the argument, which he shows is not new at all, throughout history and literature.<br />Gardner's other essays include topics as diverse as egg balancing on the equinox, quantum mechanics and the supernatural beliefs and writings of Isaac Newton.<br />I've written elsewhere that Martin Gardner is one of the few people I can personally point to as a intellectual mentor. His books illustrate a clarity of thinking and writing that is rare enough these days. Gardner is a breath of fresh air in a world of pseudoscientific smog.	2001-02-06
US	52706019	R1A6HGH0DW6Q3O	0816516413	274148687	The Planet Mars: A History of Observation and Discovery (Anthropological Papers of the)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Well researched work on the red planet...	Amateur astronomer and historian of astronomer William Sheehan provides a thorough account of the study of the planet Mars. He takes us on a chronological tour of the major developments, from the early pre-telescopic days of Kepler's work on the orbit, to the telescopic investigations, to the Mariner probes and Viking landers. Extensive treatment is given to observers such as Lowell, Antoniadi, Schiapaelli, and others, practically an &quot;opposition by opposition&quot; account. Sheehan's &quot;Planet Mars&quot; is an indispensable addition to the library of any fanatic of the red planet.	2000-12-11
US	52706019	R13U85ML97QNC3	0306455676	779580745	In Search of Planet Vulcan: The Ghost in Newton's Clockwork Universe	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Another home run by Sheehan...	Another gem of a book by William Sheehan, joined in this venture by astronomer Richard Baum. In the 18th and 19th centuries, Newton's theory of universal gravitation had enjoyed some incredible triumphs, and stood as a monument to the mathematization of science. Three thorny problems remained however, to disrupt the harmony of Newton's universe: the motion of the moon, Mercury, and Uranus. Sheehan and Baum tell the amazing tale of mathematics and astronomy in their pursuit of the answers to these puzzles. This book is a must-read for any buff of astronomy history - Newton, Horrocks, Clairaut, Laplace, Lagrange, and so on. Considerable time is given to the discovery of Neptune, first on paper by Adams and Le Verrier, and by Galle at the telescope. Sheehan and Baum's retelling of his historic tale is even better documented than Grosser's book on the subject. Finally, the problem of the shift in Mercury's orbit. The pressure to find a Newtonian solution was immense, given the previous victories obtained using Newtonian mechanics. Le Verrier was susceptible to this pressure, owing at least in part to his previous success with Neptune. However, this problem resisted even Newton, and was not finally solved until Einstein's theory of gravity supplanted Newton's early in the 20th century. The interwoven stories of astronomers and their diligent search for the elusive planet Vulcan are entertaining and provide a unique perspective on 19th century astronomy.	2000-12-06
US	52706019	R3BHJE774S97R4	0670894303	957185241	Einstein in Love: (A Scientific Romance)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Absolutely outstanding - Once in a decade...	Nine years may seem like a long time to wait for an encore. Overbye's 1991 &quot;Lonely Hearts of the Cosmos&quot; was an instant classic - a scientific biography of a half-dozen of astronomy's most interesting characters. I've often lamented that this was Overbye's only book. Why couldn't someone capable of writing such a seamless blend of biography and popular science have a whole shelf of his own?<br />Dennis Overbye has answered that question with a resounding &quot;patience, patience...&quot; Overbye has indeed been busy. For the last several years, he has spent considerable time with a dozen or so scholars who are pouring over the Einstein papers - a vast repository of personal documents that had been tied up in legal limbo since Einstein's death in 1955. As this material is slowly and deliberately digested by scholars, a much more personal picture of the man is emerging - a portrait beautifully captured by Overbye in this effort.<br />Overbye's book &quot;Einstein in Love&quot; is a stunning follow-on to his earlier work, this one focusing on a single individual - the most famous scientist who ever lived. It fully captures his relationships with family and friends. Besso, Solovine, Habicht, Grossman, Mileva - his first wife and the mother of his 3 children - all come to life within these pages. Overbye documents the mysterious disappearance of his first child, the daughter Lieserl, but doesn't attempt to solve it.<br />There is no shortage of biographical and popular scientific books on Einstein and relativity. Overbye sets his latest effort apart from the pack with an unprecedented personal look into the life of the young Einstein as can only be achieved with the wealth of personal correspondence available in the Einstein papers. Overbye's writing style is almost poetic. He has a way of turning a phrase and capturing the essence of a moment. I have read a great many of the above mentioned works on Einstein (as well as biographies of many other scientists) but have never felt so captivated by a story.<br />This book continues the slow process of eroding some enduring myths regarding Einstein. For instance, it is frequently noted that as a patent office clerk in Bern, Einstein was cut off from the scientific world, blissfully unaware of the work being done by physicists in Europe and the United States. To the contrary, Overbye notes that during his tenure in the patent office, Einstein was writing review articles for a German physics journal, summarizing the content of dozens of articles being published around the world. He also documents how Einstein almost certainly read the Michelson-Morley research while he was still a student at ETH under Weber, and was well aware of the precarious state of the &quot;aether.&quot;<br />Overbye admits that this book is not strictly a biography. He begins the story during Einstein's college years and ends soon after the completion of the theory of general relativity and the confirmation by Eddington's eclipse observations. This is in part because the vast work of sorting through the Einstein papers is itself not yet far enough to permit further exploration, but surely more is to come.<br />And if that's not enough, Overbye doesn't gloss over the science. To the contrary, he has equal facility in explaining thorny physical concepts in language that any reasonably educated and interested person can understand. He doesn't attempt to explain relativity mathematically, but does a wonderful job of tracing the development of Einstein's thought over time, as played out in correspondence with his friends and scientific colleagues. In fact, he has woven the scientific and personal together in a way that is surprisingly smooth, given that almost a century has elapsed since some of the principle discoveries, not to mention that Einstein himself has been dead for nearly half that long.<br />This book will quickly take its place as one of the most important and popular works on the life of Albert Einstein, and one that should not be missed by any lover of science history.	2000-11-23
US	52706019	R3O3WLB80S5V46	0195135156	53004101	Voodoo Science: The Road from Foolishness to Fraud	Books	5	16	23	N	N	A skeptic's skeptic...	In a society increasingly dominated by technology and scientific advances, it's difficult for the average citizen to distinguish between developments that are genuine and those that cross the line into foolishness and fraud. Robert Park, a physicist, knows the difference. For over two decades, Park has been the head of the press office of the American Physical Society, and as such, he is often at the front lines of science's response to extraordinary claims and sensational press reports. Park's book beautifully embodies the late Carl Sagan's &quot;art of baloney detection.&quot; Whether it's cold fusion, perpetual motion (unlimited energy) machines, Roswell UFOs or homeopathic medicines, Park is brutally direct and occasionally amusing as he directs the razor sharp scrutiny of a skeptical scientist on modern day nonsense. Any person with a modest interest in science should read this book.	2000-10-08
US	52706019	R2FAK7YJ9KU045	0674854292	116036272	Summer for the Gods: The Scopes Trial and America's Continuing Debate over Science and Religion	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An accurate account of the &quot;trial of the century&quot;	An excellent survey of the cultural and historical context to the most famous trial of the 20th century. Larson presents a very balanced account of the trial and circumstances surrounding it that may tend to de-glamorize many aspects which have been remembered inaccurately by many people due to popular accounts like &quot;Inherit the Wind&quot; which were mostly sensationalized fiction. This book reminds us that the creation vs. evolution battle is not all that different today than it was 75 years ago.	2000-09-30
US	52706019	RUK9TWFCRIM6H	0830813608	892715773	An Easy-to-Understand Guide for Defeating Darwinism by Opening Minds	Books	3	125	189	N	N	3 stars for trying to keep the argument philosophical	As a defender of creation science, Phillip Johnson is a breath of fresh air. Nowhere are there indefensible scientific arguments for a young earth, or a worldwide flood that accounts for the fossil record, or any of the other endlessly recycled Henry Morris/Duane Gish nonsense that makes up so much of the creationist &quot;young earth&quot; camp. Johnson frames the question more on a philosophical level, pitting the presuppositions of both camps against one another (materialistic naturalism vs. theistic supernaturalism), and attempting to show that adherents of the first camp make just as many untestable and unsupportable assumptions as the adherents of the second. Johnson is a talented writer, and presents a positive argument for &quot;opening&quot; the debate by forcing the evolutionists to relax their dogmatic hold on the thinking in academia, and allow for a more open and free discussion of the actual issues, including evidence for supernatural intervention in the creation and evolution of life.<br />Unfortunately, the only positive evidence Johnson suggests is Michael Behe's irreducible complexity argument, which is just a repackaged intelligent design model, and the conventional attack on biology's admitted problem with the incompleteness of the fossil record. Throughout the book, Johnson emphasizes the dominance of the materialistic philosophy that pervades every aspect of modern public education and academia. This predisposition, he argues, hopelessly biases any approach to scientific facts and prevents scientists from appreciating the fuller truth that's out there if only they would open their eyes (minds). Johnson repeatedly mischaracterizes the practice of science and the state of affairs in biological circles.<br />Johnson's representation of the state of open mindedness in contemporary education is questionable. He seems to assume that the dominate role of a college education is to force memorization of a list of &quot;materialistic&quot; facts upon impressionable minds. As an educator, I see the situation as exactly the opposite. Thoughtful reflection and open minded investigation are far more common than Johnson seems to think.<br />A few specific examples where I think Johnson misses the boat just as badly: page 113 &quot;Evolutionary biology is a field whose cultural importance far outstrips its modest intellectual and scientific content.&quot; I think most biologists would take issue with the characterization of the content of their science as &quot;modest.&quot;<br />Page 114 &quot;Biologists are at each others throats in private, fighting over every detail in the Darwinist scientific program. The versions of 'evolution' promulgated by Richard Dawkins and Stephen Jay Gould , for example, have hardly anything in common except their common adherence to philosophical materialism and their mutual dislike for supernatural creation.&quot; He goes on to strongly imply that this ongoing debate is somehow being hidden. Anything but. I assume Johnson has read Dawkins' and Gould's books and should know better. As for their versions of evolution being so different, I'd venture to say that their agreements are far more substantial than their disagreements, and maybe Johnson should examine the actual differences between the scientific views of Michael Behe and Duane Gish, for example. Other creationists have similarly sought to highlight and utilize the differences between various cosmologists and, for instance, the issue of the age of the universe. While there might be legitimate and sometimes bitter disputes between astrophysicists over the size of the Hubble Constant, this dispute hardly gives any hope to the young- earther who is holding out for a 6000 year old universe.<br />Johnson's use of the example of evangelist Billy Graham deciding against studying the natural sciences and liberal theologies of his contemporaries strikes me as odd. If the naturalistic position is so untenable due to its weak foundation, what does Christianity and creation science have to fear by its presence in academia? How would Billy Graham's witness and testimony for Christianity have been weakened by studying the opposing philosophies? Is Johnson suggesting that attrition from traditional evangelical and fundamentalist circles can be stemmed by preventing the study of modern science?<br />Johnson's book is admittedly aimed at young readers, students who are going off to college to be faced with the inevitable &quot;indoctrination&quot; of materialism. But I'm not sure what his bottom line advice is for them. Does he wish them to shun the life sciences (as well as astronomy, archeology, geology, and other sciences) where the creation science theories will receive little sympathy? Or does he expect their professors to actually engage in the debate over the relative merits of their respective presuppositions? Does he believe that Christianity (or any religion) actually has anything to fear from the discoveries of science?<br />I wish Johnson well. His logic and rhetoric are powerful and he's a good arguer. However, I fear that his tactics will not advance the cause of creation science very much. Until scientists who believe in supernatural creation are willing to go toe to toe in the scientific journals, arguments of materialistic bias will yield few advances in the understanding of the origin of life.<br />And even if they do, this approach is destined to fail. Science is the study of phenomena that can be observed, tested, and replicated. Science relies on the construction of logical arguments that can be supported or falsified by such observation and testing. By definition, science will seek explanations for the apparently unexplainable. This is implicit in the process of scientific discovery. Religious belief systems ask that we accept as true that which cannot be seen or tested (Hebrews 11:1). Religion seeks certainty and welcomes the appeal to authority (e.g., thus saith the Lord). It is at thispoint that the two belief systems must part ways and agree to pursue their independent goals. Forcing one upon the other results in untenable scientific positions (such as most of creation science) or watered down and compromised religious traditions bereft of their spiritual meaning.	2000-09-30
US	52706019	RBMD9JHWWRLA1	0226639452	316336650	Yerkes Observatory, 1892-1950: The Birth, Near Death, and Resurrection of a Scientific Research Institution	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Well written account	Yerkes observatory, of the University of Chicago, played a major role in  the development of astrophysics in the early 20th century. Though quickly  overshadowed by the larger telescopes of Mt. Wilson and Mt. Palomar in  California, Yerkes in Wisconsin managed to stay near the forefront of  scientific research throughout the 1930's through the 1950's, largely  through the efforts of director Otto Struve. Osterbrock's excellent book is  largely the story of Struve's success as a director and research leader.  Well written and thoroughly documented, this book is an important addition  to the history of astronomy in the US.	2000-09-09
US	52706019	R3J11W38QBB11K	0691048746	809229684	June 8, 2004--Venus in Transit	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Delightful little book	A delightful short book about an astronomical event both dynamic and rare,  and one that has an important place in the history of science. Venus is the  closest planet to earth, and having an inferior orbit (closer to the sun  than us), can occasionally be seen to cross the face of the sun - a  transit. Such events can be observed with the naked eye (appropriately  filtered) but are relatively rare, occurring in pairs separated by about 8  years, 100 years apart. Only five times in recorded history have Venus  transits been observed, and Maor tells the story of each encounter painted  in lively narrative against the historical backdrop of the times. From  theorist Kepler, whose accurate calculations of the orbits of the planets  first permitted accurate prediction, to observers Gassendi and Horrocks in  the 17th century, Maor intersperses the story with well written  nontechnical explanations of the celestial mechanics that lie behind the  transit phenomenon, including the best explanation I have ever read of the  reason behind the curious pairing of two transits just 8 years apart, with  each pair separated by 100 years or more.<br />The historical importance comes  due to the fact that as astronomers were slowly unraveling the mysteries of  the solar system, the absolute distance scale remained elusive. Kepler's  3rd law allowed scientists to compute the relative distances of the planets  from the sun, but absolute distances couldn't be obtained unless one knew  the exact distance from the sun to the earth. In 1677, Edmund Halley  observed a transit of Mercury, and realized that a transit event could  serve as an excellent opportunity to obtain measurements of the transiting  planet's parallax, from which could be calculated the distance of the  transiting body. Then, using Kepler's 3rd law, the distances of all other  planets - including the earth - could be calculated. Halley worked on the  problem for almost 40 years, and in 1716 published a detailed plan forusing the next transit of Venus to determine the size of the solar system.  Already 60 when he published his plan, Halley knew he would be long dead  before the next transit in 1761, but his scientific stature and eloquent  appeal was all that was necessary - when the time came, the scientific  world was ready (Halley's posthumous reputation was further enhanced when  the periodic comet that now bears his name reappeared in 1758, just as he  had predicted).<br />Alas, Venus transits proved not to be the answer to the  scale of the solar system (exact timing of transit events proved unreliable  due to Venus's thick atmosphere), but the stories of the explorers who  traveled to the corners of the earth in 1761, 1769, 1874 and 1882 are worth  the price of the book. Maor concludes by pointing out that the upcoming  event in June of 2004 will the only the sixth opportunity in recorded  history to observe such an event, and while scientists are no longer  watching for the same reasons as two centuries ago, the event will have  enormous popular appeal.<br />Maor's book is wonderfully written, and will be  of interest to amateur astronomers as well as those with an interest in the  history of science.	2000-09-09
US	52706019	R1HQ9X61HLO67F	0060194979	730202454	Genome: The Autobiography of a Species In 23 Chapters	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Interesting addition to the literature on the genome	The explosion in knowledge in the past decade in the area of the genetic  code has, for the most part, been lost on the general public. Scientific  advances are difficult to communicate to the masses, and aside from the  occasional newspaper article on &quot;the dyslexia gene&quot; for example,  not much is known of what scientists have learned as they have plumbed the  depths of the human genome. Ridley attempts to bring us up to date in this  respect, and mostly, I think he succeeds. His book is laid out in 23  chapters, one for each chromosome pair present in humans. Far from being an  attempt to present a thorough description of every gene (which would take  hundreds of thousands of books this size), Ridley selects one or two genes  on each chromosome and tells a story. From diseases which are a simple  result of the presence of a gene, to such complicated factors such as  personality and instinct, Ridley dispels myths and educates the reader  about the wonderful simplicity and complexity that is genetics and  biological evolution.<br />I was conflicted by this book. On the one hand,  Ridley is an excellent communicator and obviously well versed in genetics  and biology, but on the other, I found some of his examples difficult to  believe because of apparent contradictions. For example, in the chapter on  chromosome 10, Ridley targets the genetic predisposition for heart disease  (though the chapter is entitled &quot;Stress&quot;). He states and accepts  the conclusion (his notes cite the prestigious journal Lancet) that people  get heart disease in inverse proportion to their lowliness on the  bureaucratic totem pole. In other words, jobs of low stature - janitors -  are under more stress than people in jobs of high stature - presidents or  CEOs. I'm not familiar with the research he quotes, but common sense would  seem to indicate that the more elevated your position, the more decisions  you are responsible, the higher the stress associated with the job. Thischapter left me scratching my head and wondering about some of the other  conclusions the reader was asked to accept at face value.<br />Overall, I do  recommend this book. It is recent and provides an excellent guide to  further reading for those interested in pursuing the human genome.	2000-09-03
US	52706019	RCL1I272JAJ2Z	0521444896	457287349	The Immortal Fire Within: The Life and Work of Edward Emerson Barnard	Books	5	19	19	N	N	An absolutely wonderful book!	This is a meticulously researched and well written book about one of the  most celebrated astronomers of the turn of the last century, who is  unfortunately almost forgotten today. As was the case with many well known  scientists of the 19th century, Barnard started life inauspiciously and  came to science as a result of his considerable amateur achievements. Poor  and virtually uneducated as a child in Nashville, he distinguished himself  as a photographer's assistant, and developed a lifelong interest in the  night sky. After becoming fairly well known as an amateur astronomer, he  attracted the attention of the officials of what would eventually become  Vanderbilt University. The regents were persuaded to build an observatory,  and installed the young Barnard as its director, even though he had no  college education (not even high school!). Barnard was aware of his  limitations, particularly in mathematics, and began to audit courses at  Vanderbilt in math, astronomy, and physics. When he finally left several  years later to take a position at the new Lick Observatory in California,  he had the equivalent of a bachelor's degree, though a degree was never  officially conferred.<br />Barnard's life in astronomy is marked by greatness.  Comets were his early passion and he discovered many, but he was equally  please to make detailed observations of any comet, regardless if it was  &quot;his&quot; or not. He was also a passionate observer of the planets.  His discovery of Jupiter's fifth moon was the event for which posterity  usually remembers him, but he also made ground breaking observations of  Mars and Saturn. Though he never publicly said so, he was one of the  earliest skeptics of his good friend Percival Lowell's &quot;canal&quot;  observations of Mars. Barnard's sketches in the early 1890's revealed  details of what would later be called Valles Marineris and the volcano  calderas of Olympus Mons, Arsia Mons, and Ascraeus Mons, but showed no  evidence of canals. Later, Barnard pioneered the use of wide field  photography and made some of the earliest and best photographic studies of  the Milky Way, and eventually authored the catalog of dark nebulae that  bears his name. He also did considerable photographic work with comets and  put forth some controversial (and mostly correct) theories about the nature  of the mysterious coma and tails. His pioneering work in stereoscopic  photography was done with comets as well, where a special viewer allowed  the viewing of two sequential shots of a comet, making the comet stand out  in relief against the background stars. Barnard's penchant for closely  studying his photos was rewarded by his discovery of the great looping  nebula in the constellation Orion that bears his name, as well as the faint  star of fast proper motion in Ophiuchus (Barnard's star).<br />Sheehan's  writing is marvelously clear and interesting, and his documentation is  thorough. He lays bare Barnard's decade long quarrels with Lick director  Edward S. Holden, and follows Barnard to Yerkes in Wisconsin where he spent  over 20 years and eventually ended his career. Sheehan is a psychiatrist by  training and makes an occasional conjecture regarding the psychology of  various characters. I found this distracting at first but he never went  overboard with it. By the end of the book, I found myself wishing he would  be even more adventurous with his psychohistoriagraphy in the case of  George Hale's well known struggles with mental illness, but Sheehan didn't  take the bait beyond a few general comments.<br />Overall, I found this book  virtually impossible to put down, and was almost depressed that it had to  end. Dozens of wonderful pictures of Barnard and his companions,  astrophotos, and sketches litter its pages. A detailed index is supplied  making cross-referencing the many names and places easy.<br />E.E. Barnard was  a pivotal figure in the history of astronomy, straddling the breach between  observational work of the 19th century, and the &quot;new&quot; astronomy  (astrophysics) of the 20th. Barnard never ceased being an observer to the  end of his life, and in many ways it is his spirit that lives on in the  form of amateur astronomy at the beginning of the 21st century.	2000-08-23
US	52706019	R33BSFPQK93ARJ	0396019196	960225642	The glass giant of Palomar,	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Enthralling!	The original account of the building of the 200-inch telescope, predating  Florence's &quot;Perfect Machine&quot; by over 50 years. Woodbury's account  has the advantage of proximity in time - he interviewed and walked among  the men who were responsible for the construction of this instrument, and  gained the confidence of many. The book is perfect mix of exquisite  technical detail (e.g, his account of the development and construction of  the R.A. and declination drives quotes from one of the original engineers  and is delightfully incomprehensible) and poetic admiration for the vision  that drove the project. He captured the very human spirit of the  scientists, workman, technicians, and even janitors who worked on the  project. His accounts of the fabrication of the glass by Corning are  fraught with anxiety, the cross country trip of the mirror on rail are  sprinkled with details of the difficulties of moving such an awkward object  as the huge glass disk.<br />Both this book and Florence's Perfect Machine are  worth reading, and while they cover much the same ground, each is unique -  Florence focuses more on Hale and his drive for &quot;more light,&quot;  while Woodbury focuses more on the majesty of the project. Five stars  easily, for this 60 year old work!	2000-08-19
US	52706019	R1S6BEILZI673A	0060175931	922947589	Finding Darwin's God: A Scientist's Search for Common Ground Between God and Evolution	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Very readable exposition of evolutionary biology...	An excellent review of the state of biological evolution told against the backdrop of some of the more prominent creationist challenges. Miller's  presentation is is always upbeat and very respectful of his opponents. His  refutations are never derogatory or dismissive, but he confronts the  challenges head on and shows what the science behind the claims says. His  conclusions, where his actual rapproachment is presented, is interesting  and worth reading. Miller presents himself as a Christian believer, though  I think he would not pass the test of most evangelicals. Some of my more  science-minded friends criticize the book as failing on the basis of  Miller's attempt to reconcile modern biology to religious belief, but I am  more forgiving. This book's strengths (detailed presentation of evidences  for evolution) outweigh its weaknesses. I loved this book and plan to read  it again.	2000-08-17
US	52706019	RG74TKPNQVZRO	0375501037	191715854	Darwin's Ghost: The Origin of the Species Updated	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Should be required reading for creationists...	A sweeping survey of the state of evolutionary biology. Jones' book is patterned after Darwin's classic, retaining the chapter titles, outlines  and summaries of the original, but with the content of each chapter  containing Jones' contemporary review of the subject, updated to reflect  advances in genetics, microbiology, geology, and human evolution (though  Darwin barely mentioned the latter in his work). Jones does an excellent  job with difficult material. Evolution is difficult to explain quickly  because of the interdependence of several disciplinary threads, but Jones'  writing is up to the task. If you are looking for a single book which  beautifully paints the picture of how decent with modification and natural  selection work, look no further. With this book, Jones joins the ranks of  other well known science popularizers (Gould, Sagan, etc.).	2000-08-17
US	52706019	R38MUHZZYUJXZ7	0870271679	86306947	Russell W. Porter, arctic explorer, artist, telescope maker	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A rare look at a dedicated amateur astronomer...	It's too bad that more amateur astronomers are not aware of the incredibly rich legacy of our hobby. Going back to the late 19th and early 20th  centuries, amateur telescope making was a booming hobbyist industry. Much  of the credit goes to men like Leslie Peltier, William Tyler Olcott, and  the subject of this book, Russell Porter.<br />After satisfying his desire to  explore the arctic and climb mountains, Porter settled down in rural  Vermont, where he started grinding mirrors and making telescopes. Trained  as an architect, he had a gift for sketching out his ideas in wonderful 3-D  perspective and he was the author of many creative ideas for telescopes. He  wrote many columns on amateur telescope making for Popular Astronomy and  Scientific American magazines, and probably single-handedly sparked the  revolution in this hobby in the 1920s. He also started the Stellafane  convention in Springfield Vermont, a legendary yearly star party whose  tradition continues to this day.<br />Porter's talents soon came to the  attention of George Ellery Hale, who was then putting together a team to  design and build the 200 inch telescope. Hale offered Porter a job  designing the mount for the beast and setting up and heading the instrument  shops. Porter's contributions to the construction of the 200 inch were  astounding, given that his only experience with telescopes was making  amateur instruments of modest aperture. Porter's sketches and drawings in  the design phase of the project are themselves legendary. It was frequently  said that his drawings were referred to by the builders almost as much as  the schematic plans. Many of Porter's original drawings are permanently  housed at a Carnegie exhibit in Washington DC, and have won the acclaim of  artists as well as astronomers.<br />Some of Porter's other exploits included  working with some partners during W.W.II to construct badly needed room  prisms for military applications (tank periscopes, primarily). Porter andthe others convinced the army that amateur telescope makers were uniquely  skilled to grind these prisms to the exacting tolerances required by the  military.<br />This volume is lavishly illustrated with vintage black and  white photos and dozens of Porter's drawings. Willard writes with the flare  and vividness of a personal friend, though he claims never to have met the  man. Porter comes across as a gentle, sincere man, who was always willing  to take the time to show others a technique, or inspect a telescope  constructed by an amateur.<br />This book is extremely charming and a  wonderfully sketched portrait of a great man.	2000-08-16
US	52706019	R1SW08396XFY8J	0060926708	490624966	The Perfect Machine: Building the Palomar Telescope	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A hugely enjoyable book about a huge project....	A tale of modern engineering. The design and construction of the 200 inch  Palomar observatory was possibly the first &quot;big science&quot; project  of the modern era. Florence also provides much biographical information on  George E. Hale, a necessity since the building of this telescope and the  life of Hale were so intertwined as to be inseparable. Put simply, even if  you have no background in astronomy or telescope-making, this book presents  a story of a huge engineering undertaken. Nothing of the scale had ever  been considered before and the designers and builders had to confront  countless unique problems and invent new techniques along the way. This  book is a classic in the history of modern astronomy, but enjoyable for  anyone who loves reading about massive construction projects.	2000-08-15
US	52706019	R19TZ9WMHCBY8D	0486237265	126340988	The Discovery of Neptune	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A gem, if you can find it...	A wonderful little book! The story of the discovery of the 8th planet  reads like a cross between a detective story and a modern soap opera. Two  brilliant mathematician/astronomers, one English (Adams) and one French  (Leverrier); a conceited and arrogant astronomer Royal (Airy), and a host  of observational astronomers. The Frenchman and Englishman do their  calculations independently, to discover the position of the unseen planet  beyond Uranus whose gravity is perturbing its orbit, and after a number of  false starts and missteps, a German astronomer (Galle) finally points his  telescope in the right direction and finds Neptune exactly where it was  said to be. The Frenchman gets the credit because it was his directions the  German was following. But the Englishman attempted, rightfully through the  astronomer Royal, to have his calculations circulated and acted upon, only  to be frustrated by Airy's neglect and outright incompetence, founded in  arrogance. The ensuing debate pitted country against country and turned  quite ugly. Fortunately, the two mathematicians never joined the struggle,  but went on to become lifelong friends and mutual admirers. History was to  grant Adams and Leverrier equal credit, along with the observer Galle, for  the discovery of Neptune. Only 170 pages long, this is a quick read and  very well written.	2000-08-13
US	52706019	R21IU8FV1ONAS4	0816511993	456402602	Pauper and Prince: Ritchey, Hale, and Big American Telescopes	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Important addition to the history of this era...	There could hardly be a greater contrast between two men than that of  George Ritchey and George Hale. Hale was a scientist, fund raiser,  organizer, motivator, and extraordinarily successful at all he attempted.  Ritchey was a gifted instrument maker, but a failure at human relations,  organizational matters, and managed to squander most of his opportunities,  particularly after he left Mt. Wilson. Osterbrock's book is the story of  the great era of American astronomy dominated by the telescopes of George  Ellery Hale, and Hale is necessarily prominent in its pages. However,  Osterbrock tells the story, for the most part, from the perspective of the  gifted mirror grinder and optician, Ritchey, who mostly received  short-shrift in other documentaries of this era. Osterbrock attempts to  correct some oversights of other histories which have tended to downplay  Ritchey's contributions. Ritchey, for instance, was the project manager for  most of the 60- and 100-inch Mt. Wilson telescope projects, and without  him, arguably, these instruments would not have been the stupendous  successes they were. Clearly Hale owed much to Ritchey, but after their  falling out and Ritchey's subsequent firing from Mt. Wilson, Ritchey all  but disappeared from American astronomy. Hale didn't overtly blackball him,  but such was Hale's influence and universal respect, that if Hale didn't  want to be around you, well then, nobody wanted to be around you. Ritchey  spent years in France working on several telescope projects that ultimately  failed, and eventually came back to the US as an old man and built the  reflector for the US Navel Observatory, a 40-inch Ritchey-Chretien model.  It was an exquisite instrument, but due to its location in light-polluted  Washington D.C., it never realized its potential until long after Ritchey  was dead and it was moved to an Arizona mountaintop.<br />Osterbrock points  out that the Ritchey-Chretien reflector model, so ignored and disparaged  during hislifetime, eventually won out and now nearly all large telescopes  are built using this model.<br />Ritchey was a genius and well ahead of his  time in many respects. It was simply his misfortune to have lived opposite  the likes of George Hale, who because of money, position, and success, was  able to overshadow and dominate his accomplishments. If Ritchey could have  adapted to his position as optician, he could have had a sparkling career  at Mt. Wilson, and later, Mt. Palomar. Instead, his hard-headedness met the  immovable object of George Hale's ambition and momentum, and Ritchey  ultimately lost.	2000-08-11
US	52706019	R1TSC8IVRVVJFX	0446524034	523066697	Pros and Cons: The Criminals Who Play in the NFL	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A very disturbing book...	NFL fans beware, this book will shake you to your boots. We've all heard  the occasional stories in the press of an NFL player being arrested for  this or that, or someone serving time for an offense, but Benedict and  Yaeger make a compelling case for much more widespread criminal problems in  the league. This book is meticulously documented and brutally direct in  accusing the NFL of cow-towing to the bottom line in its circle-the-wagons  mentality.	2000-08-07
US	52706019	R26P9246PZVJDQ	0738200379	72757812	Hunting Down The Universe: The Missing Mass, Primordial Black Holes, And Other Dark Matters (Helix Books)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A mix of history and new theory	British astrophysicist Hawkins presents his theory as to what makes up the missing mass (dark matter). Primordial black holes - small massive objects that are all but invisible to any attempt to perceive them. They are  detectable only by their gravitational influence, which Hawkins believes he  has found by examining the variability of light from quasars. All quasars  apparently have this variability, which to this point has always been  accepted as intrinsic to to the quasar.<br />Hawkins treats us to the theory  only after 130 pages of his own views of the evolution of cosmological  thought, complete with his take on the feuds, backbiting, and troubled  waters of academic squabbling. His insights are interesting and his book a  pleasure to read, but I had the troubling impression that I was being  treated to someone else's dirty laundry all the while, though that's the  way science works I suppose. Among opinions he expresses that ring true is  that of the \\"HST bias,\\" that results which come from HST observations are  somehow given automatic priority over those of ground-based observations, a  bias which is clearly not always warranted.<br />The most interesting part of  his book, for me, was his detailed descriptions of his own observational  programs - using a series of Schmidt plates of a single patch of sky,  accumulated over a period of years, to search for faint variable stars. His  hopes were to find microlensing events to bolster his theory. He ended up  finding lots of previously unknown quasars, and finding new patterns of  quasar variability spanning years, not months or weeks.<br />Hawkins is an  unabashed UK promoter. I had to grin at many of his descriptions of the  superior astronomy of the UK. He has a lot to brag about though.	2000-07-31
US	52706019	RFEOG5S9S30B9	0374267812	65032227	The Spirit Catches You and You Fall Down: A Hmong Child, Her American Doctors, and the Collision of Two Cultures	Books	5	30	33	N	N	Eye-opening and sobering	As a professional educator who works with Hmong students and their families, I relished the opportunity to read this book, hoping to gain some understanding into the culture and values of the Hmong community. What I got was a fist-in- the-gut experience that left me practically breathless. I finished the book in less than a day - a day in which I accomplished little else. Fadiman knows her topic well and writes with refreshing clarity and brutal honesty. The Hmong are resistant to adaptation of western values - a fact that had long frustrated me and left me somewhat skeptical of their willingness to adapt to life in this country. I now realize that the clash of cultures goes well beyond geographic and language issues. Deeply spiritual and devoted to their families and clans, every facet of Hmong life revolves around the spiritual.<br />Fadiman's book is a cross between a case study and ethnic history. The case is that of a young girl stricken with epilepsy, and her family's struggle against western medicine and medical doctors. The history is a broad ranging but concise history of the Hmong people.<br />I highly recommend this book for anyone interested in culture clashes, and especially for anyone who knows a Hmong, or works with them. It will open your eyes.	2000-07-30
US	52706019	R3DKU4XBJRIQUI	0316648965	921846284	Lonely Hearts of the Cosmos: The Story of the Scientific Quest for the Secret of the Universe	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Excellent biographical history	A history of cosmology, somewhat dated now, that is structured around biographies of some of the major players. Allan Sandage, Stephen Hawking, Alan Guth, Beatrice Tinsley, James Peebles, Marc Aaronson, etc. I have to  tip my hand and say that this is one of my favorite books about astronomy  and cosmology. Maybe I like the biographical aspect, or the fact that  Overbye is just a great storyteller, and this is one great story. You gain  an inside track into the transition of power between Hubble and Sandage. I  don't think I really understood the inflation theory until I read Overbye's  presentation (better even than Guth's book &quot;The Inflationary  Universe). If you like to read biographies of astronomers, this book will  be right up your alley. If you like to read about cosmology and  astrophysics, you may be distracted by Overbye's approach, but you'll still  find the book worthwhile.	2000-07-30
US	52706019	RYCQJ0J8JIO34	0805057668	491661728	Carl Sagan: A Life in the Cosmos	Books	5	28	29	N	N	The better of two biographies of Sagan	Carl Sagan : A Life in the Cosmos by William Poundstone; (see also my review at Carl Sagan : A Life by Keay Davidson - this review considers both books)<br />Carl Sagan is easily the second most famous scientist of the 20th  century. If you came of age in the period 1970-1990, you were influenced by  Sagan - period. Whatever you may think of him as a scientist, you must  admit that nobody did more to popularize science in the public eye during  this period. The two most obvious examples are his Cosmos television series  and his numerous appearances with Johnny Carson on the Tonight  Show.<br />Poundstone's book reflects Ann Druyan's influence much more than  Davidson's. The result is a much more flattering account of Sagan's life,  potentially minimizing some of the warts. Davidson, if anything, spends too  much effort trying to psychohistorically analyze Sagan's two failed  marriages and his fractured relationship with oldest son Dorion.<br />Davidson  also focuses much more attention on Sagan's books, attempting to plot the  development of his career as a scientist and maturity as a writer based on  each book's unique character. Here again, he attempts to delve below the  surface into the hidden motives and influences. For instance, while both  Poundstone and Davidson detail Sagan's marijuana use, Davidson goes further  and suggests that the Pulitzer-winning Dragon's of Eden was largely a  marijuana- induced work.<br />William Poundstone Focuses more on his  scientific achievements, with emphasis on the many conferences he chaired  regarding SETI, exobiology, and his work on the Voyager and Mariner probes  to Mars and the gas giants. Some of the reviews of the latter actually read  like a popular scientific account of these missions, written around Sagan's  contribution and perspective.<br />A very rough generalization would be that  Davidson looks more closely at Sagan's personal life while Poundstone looks  more closely at his scientific achievemnts, though bothbooks do cover the  whole picture. Poundstone's book left me with more of a positive regard for  Sagan though, and struck me as the better book of the two. Poundstone's  account strikes me as first and foremost a work of scientific biography,  with more detail of Sagan's scientific achievements.	2000-07-30
US	52706019	RMFO4PQVK47ZV	0471252867	654603947	Carl Sagan: A Life	Books	4	47	50	N	N	Considers both biographies of Sagan...	Carl Sagan : A Life by Keay Davidson; (see also my review at Carl Sagan : A Life in the Cosmos by William Poundstone - this review considers both books)<br />Carl Sagan is easily the second most famous scientist of the 20th  century. If you came of age in the period 1970-1990, you were influenced by  Sagan - period. Whatever you may think of him as a scientist, you must  admit that nobody did more to popularize science in the public eye during  this period. The two most obvious examples are his Cosmos television series  and his numerous appearances with Johnny Carson on the Tonight  Show.<br />Poundstone's book reflects Ann Druyan's influence much more than  Davidson's. The result is a much more flattering account of Sagan's life,  potentially minimizing some of the warts. Davidson, if anything, spends too  much effort trying to psychohistorically analyze Sagan's two failed  marriages and his fractured relationship with oldest son Dorion.<br />Davidson  also focuses much more attention on Sagan's books, attempting to plot the  development of his career as a scientist and maturity as a writer based on  each book's unique character. Here again, he attempts to delve below the  surface into the hidden motives and influences. For instance, while both  Poundstone and Davidson detail Sagan's marijuana use, Davidson goes further  and suggests that the Pulitzer-winning Dragon's of Eden was largely a  marijuana- induced work.<br />William Poundstone Focuses more on his  scientific achievements, with emphasis on the many conferences he chaired  regarding SETI, exobiology, and his work on the Voyager and Mariner probes  to Mars and the gas giants. Some of the reviews of the latter actually read  like a popular scientific account of these missions, written around Sagan's  contribution and perspective.<br />A very rough generalization would be that  Davidson looks more closely at Sagan's personal life while Poundstone looks  more closely at his scientific achievemnts, though bothbooks do cover the  whole picture. Poundstone's book left me with more of a positive regard for  Sagan though, and struck me as the better book of the two. Poundstone's  account strikes me as first and foremost a work of scientific biography,  with more detail of Sagan's scientific achievements.	2000-07-30
US	52706019	RJSWW4Y35JSTF	0802713432	654799136	Galileo's Daughter: A Historical Memoir of Science, Faith, and Love	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Excellent addition to the works on Galileo	A very personal biography of Galileo, told from the standpoint of his daughter's side of a multi year correspondence. S. M. Celeste was in a convent and wrote to her father often. Galileo's side was lost, but Sobel  does a great job of painting a human face on one of the great figures of  the millennium. This book cannot stand alone or serve as a replacement for  the many excellent biographies of Galileo, but it does have an important  place amongst those other works. For instance, only in S.M. Celeste's  letters will you see the plain face of Galileo's faith in God and the  (Catholic) Church. The Galileo affair is often presented as the epitome of  the conflict between faith and science, and it is often assumed that  Galileo was challenging the authority of the church or the bible. As this  book shows, Galileo was a man of great faith and remained faithful and  committed to God and the church until his dying day. A great book.	2000-07-30
US	52706019	R1FG2QTGTURXM6	0609602330	27895627	Isaac's Storm : A Man, a Time, and the Deadliest Hurricane in History	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Better than fiction...	Surely one of the most amazing books I've read in awhile. Larson tells the story of the hurricane of 1900, which completely destroyed the city of Galveston, Texas. Intensely personal, the story is told from the point of  view of the townspeople, but especially from that of Isaac Cline, a young  forecaster working for the Weather Bureau in Galveston. This book paints a  vivid picture of life at the turn of the 20th century, and of the state of  weather forecasting 100 years ago. No satellites, no computers or high  technology of any kind. Larson's storytelling technique is absorbing and  his story is gut-wrenching.	2000-07-27
US	52706019	R2PYUZ6CO70LCP	0393312763	682012032	Black Holes and Time Warps: Einstein's Outrageous Legacy (Commonwealth Fund Book Program)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Difficult but worth the effort.	This book is long and sometimes difficult, but Thorne keeps the narrative personal and adds lots of his own views and experiences as the book progresses. Contains excellent summaries of the general and special  theories of relativity and, of course, lots of information on black hole  theory.	2000-07-27
US	52706019	R1E39KCVSZKL0W	0879759119	939257315	The Flight of Peter Fromm	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Outstanding - a must read for believers and unbelievers	Gardner's only fiction as far as I know, and what a beauty! Gardner follows the young Fromm on his journey from religious fundamentalism to skeptical enlightenment. Fromm is a student in a liberal Chicago seminary  who discovers for the first time in his life that alternative explanations  exist for much of the dogma he's accepted since his youth. This story is  phenomenal and should be read by anyone having a religious background,  regardless of where you are in your spiritual journey now.	2000-07-27
US	52706019	R206YURG22UZVA	048623567X	157610977	Burnham's Celestial Handbook: An Observer's Guide to the Universe Beyond the Solar System, Vol. 1	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Absolutely &quot;must have&quot; book!	What can be said about this three-volume classic that hasn't been said thousands of times before? Burnham's combination of history, poetry, and science are captivating and enthralling. Though some of the science is no  longer up to date, remember, you're not writing your dissertation, you're  sharing the wonder of the night sky with a guy who's seen everything and  done your homework for you. A timeless classic.	2000-07-27
US	52706019	R29I3UYD265Y69	0380708213	223407615	The Forever War	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A classic!	A science fiction classic. Haldeman's book chronicles a war between humankind and a race of aliens. Haldeman stays true to modern physics: since warriors must travel great distances (with the help of relativistic  worm hole trickery), they age only a few years while hundreds of years  elapse back on earth. Thus, soldiers find themselves returning from battle  to earth generations after their families have passed away, and political  changes have rendered their reasons for fighting moot. A tremendous story  and very satisfying to the scientifically minded.	2000-07-27
US	52706019	R13N7G5PGA7PBY	0802775640	151191959	Skeptics and True Believers	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Essential look at the science/religion rift...	Raymo fearlessly offers his take on the rift between science and religion. Though he comes from a decidedly scientific standpoint (Raymo is a professor of astronomy and physics), his catholic background gives him  perspective that transcends the laboratory. One of Raymo's best books.	2000-07-27
US	52706019	R1HC9X5V62P2P4	0312206828	498838348	The Whys of a Philosophical Scrivener	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Gardner is a national treasure...	Gardner's essays, many of those in this volume, have helped me work through some of my own issues with respect to belief in God, faith and science. Gardner is one of my personal heros and virtual mentors.	2000-07-27
US	52706019	R3DTQXFT8NR4G	0385472145	607518512	The Alchemy of the Heavens: Searching for Meaning in the Milky Way	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An up-to-date account of modern cosmology	Croswell focuses on stellar evolution and the evolution of galaxies in a narrative that alternates between the very technical and the very personal. He gives first hand glimpses into the lives and thoughts of many modern  astronomers and cosmologists and provides insights into the battles as they  are being fought today. A great book to read if you're interested in the  contributions of astronomers of the 70's right up to the mid-90's. He also  gives an historical treatment of his main topics (stellar evolution and  galactic formation) but the history is brief - his main focus is on the  state of these investigations today.	2000-07-27
US	52706019	R2DKML8VYAA33K	0691058237	92923386	The Star of Bethlehem	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Interesting and worth reading...	One of two books on the star of Bethlehem published in 1999 by an astronomer. Kidger takes the view that the phenomenon was a series of events, specifically a planetary grouping followed a few months later by a bright nova. Whether you're interested in the biblical account at all, Kidger's book is an interesting historical romp through dozens of great planetary conjunctions and massings, and an enjoyable read.	2000-07-27
US	52706019	RQGM5RG88OX21	1568581394	762384767	God's Equation: Einstein, Relativity, and the Expanding Universe	Books	5	28	30	N	N	A good read...	Aczel, whose book about Fermat's last theorem was an enjoyable romp through the history of mathematics, now turns his attention to Einstein's theory of general relativity and its implications for cosmology. Based on  his work with some historians who are taking a fresh look at Einstein's  life and work through recently discovered notebooks and correspondence  (Renn, Stachel, et.al), Aczel is able to reveal some previously unknown  factoids about the 20th century's greatest scientist. For example, a  previously unknown notebook from about 1912 reveals that Einstein had  produced his field equation for gravitation nearly 3 years earlier than its  final publication in 1915. Apparently Einstein was not convinced of the  accuracy of this equation, for he abandoned it, only to rederive it 3 years  later with apparently no recollection that he'd been there before. Aczel  also spends some effort refuting the popular myth that Einstein was no good  at mathematics. He was a superb mathematician, says Aczel, and largely  self-taught, which speaks to his agile intellect and intuitive sense for  fruitful areas of research.<br />Unlike any other biographies of Einstein or  expositions of relativity that I've read, Aczel takes a  &quot;mathematician's eye view&quot; of general relativity, and spends  considerable time tracing the development of the geometry of curved space  through Gauss, Reimann, and several other lessor known contributors. He  also reveals, which I had not known previously, that Einstein kept up an  ongoing correspondence with the legendary British mathematician David  Hilbert, and that Hilbert published some work of his own based on early  copies of Einstein's field equations. This incident has apparently been  fodder for considerable historiagraphical debate, and was only recently  settled that there was no plagarism or other funny business occurring on  the part of either man.<br />God's Equation is not all Einstein, however.  Aczel also introduces us to manyof the nagging questions in modern  cosmology, and astronomers' attempts to reconcile the recently discovered  accelerating expansion of the universe with current theories. Astronomer  Saul Perlmutter is central to the story's recent developments, whose  supernova observing program lent considerable weight to the accelerating  expansion scenario. Taking center stage for this discussion is the  resurrection of the cosmological constant, Einstein's famous  &quot;blunder,&quot; which Aczel argues, has never really left cosmology.  As modern astronomers have looked further and further into the universe and  back in time, the cosmological constant seems more and more necessary to  some theorists, as a repulsive force to counteract the attractive force of  gravity (which is itself a brute simplification, since anybody familiar  with general relativity knows that gravity is not a force at all, but  rather a result of curved spacetime).<br />Overall, I do recommend this book,  though I'm frustrated that Aczel didn't do much more with this opportunity.  This book could have easily been twice as long. I get the sense that he was  hurried to get it to print for some reason, passing over stories that  begged for further clarification (more, for instance, on the eclipse  expeditions so central to providing proof for general relativity, and less  on the roots of World War I, which delayed the expeditions). All in all,  it's an excellent addition to the existing material on Einstein's life and  work, and a teaser for more detail on what's really going on in modern  cosmology (in the last two or three years, particularly). It makes me  hunger for some publications based on Renn and Stachel's work on Einstein.  I found a few typographical errors (in a discussion about the effect of  Minkowski's lectures on Einstein while at the ETH, he gives a date for  Minkowski's birth four years after Einstein published his paper on special  relativity).	2000-07-27
US	52706019	RAESTMK4YEP8C	0786109106	589012104	Albert Einstein: Creator & Rebel	Books	5	15	15	N	N	An intimate, personal biography.	I have read several biographies of Einstein, some of which are among my list of all-time favorite books. None however, approach the intimacy or sense of personal connection as Hoffmann and Dukas' 1972 classic  &quot;Creator and Rebel.&quot; Perhaps because of Helen Dukas' influence,  this book contains perhaps the most intimate look at the man and, thanks to  Hoffmann, the one of the clearest explanations of his science. Though other  biographies are also must-reads for Einstein devotees (Folsing and Frank,  for instance), this one goes to the top of my list.	2000-07-27
US	52706019	RDMQW40WF9BM0	0933346948	502328293	Starlight Nights: The Adventures of a Star-Gazer	Books	5	20	20	N	N	&quot;A hymn to the sky&quot; - David Levy	&quot;A hymn to the sky&quot; -Levy. To me, no book more beautifully captures the spirit of amateur astronomy that Peltier's Starlight Nights. I first read this book several years ago and still remember marveling at  Peltier's intensely personal autobiography. In writing of his childhood in  Delphos, Ohio, he spares few details of life on the early 1900's farm, and  we wait spellbound with him as he orders his first telescope after catching  the astronomy bug as a young teenager. We breathlessly await the partial  eclipse of 1918 (the teenaged Leslie lacked the funds to travel the 500  miles necessary to see totality in the US's first total eclipse of the  century), and are swept away again that very night as he was one of the  first to note the spectacular Nova Aquila as it rose to a stunning -1.4  mag.<br />Peltier's descriptions of his experiences are as elegant as they are  simple. His deep respect and admiration for nature are woven into every  page, not only for things astronomical, but terrestrial as well, for he was  a naturalist of varied interests.<br />This reissue comes with a new foreword  by David Levy, as well as several rare photographs (on the cover and back,  as well as a few in the foreword) of Peltier, his early telescopes and  homes. If you are familiar with this book, take this opportunity to read it  again. If you've never read it before, set aside a long evening - you won't  put it down after you start.	2000-07-27
US	52706019	RBJNJ4DP9LW2I	0521326885	200100793	The Great Copernicus Chase and Other Adventures in Astronomical History	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great collection of essays for the astronomy lover.	A collection of 36 Gingerich articles that appeared in various magazines in the 1970's and 80's, all with a brief introduction by Gingerich. This collection is immensely entertaining, as he tackles such issues as  Ptolemy's attempts to explain the motions of Mercury to the discovery of  the Milky Way's spiral structure. Every essay is meticulously researched  and will present a rich source for the amateur historian of astronomy and  science.	2000-07-27
US	52706019	R3K1JFNU3RTNP	0374157065	503232720	Flu: The Story of the Great Influenza Pandemic of 1918 and the Search for the Virus That Caused It	Books	5	0	2	N	N	A fascinating story.	A fascinating and worthy book. The flu outbreak of 1918 was the deadliest disease outbreak of all time. During a period of less than two months, between 20 and 50 million people perished worldwide. Gina Kolata does an  excellent job of reconstructing the outbreak itself from the perspective of  eyewitness and newspaper reports from the time, and brings the story into  the modern age as she goes into the laboratories of molecular biologists  and viriologists who are involved cracking the genetic secrets of flu  viruses today. She chronicals the exploits of teams of scientists who  traveled to Alaska and Norway to exhume bodies buried during the 1918  pandemic. Researchers hoped to find bodies which had remained frozen since  burial due to the deep permafrost that permeats those areas. Scientists  also had a few tissue samples which were stored at the Army's pathology  warehouse outside of Washington. There, samples of lung tissue from 1918  flu victims had sat for 80 years soaked in formaldahyde and encased in  parafin wax.	2000-07-27
US	52706019	R31GLGOHPA9DZZ	0684838613	260851577	The Whole Shebang: A State-of-the-Universe(s) Report	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Ferris is one of the best...	A nice companion volume to Coming of Age in the Milky Way. Ferris surveys the current state of modern cosmology and astrophysics. This book could serve as an excellent introduction or review of the state of such topics as  string theory, the dark matter debate, the Hubble constant, etc. As always,  Ferris' writing is clear and a pleasure to read.	2000-07-27
US	52706019	RZEJKGD9DW9H5	0671766066	273444899	365 Starry Nights : An Introduction to Astronomy for Every Night of the Year	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Raymo is a class act.	An introductory level book on astronomy organized by the calendar with a brief essay for every day of the year. Raymo gives a guided tour of the night sky, spending several nights on each topic, and covers such topics as  star formation, galaxy clusters, and some of the weightier questions of the  universe.	2000-07-27
US	52706019	RUQ7YJOQCSJZY	0684856174	729545558	The Real Science Behind the X Files: Microbes, Meteorites, and Mutants	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great science book!	Not being a fan of the fantastically popular Fox series, I picked up this book as a curiosity, and was pleasantly surprised by the depth to which Simon, the &quot;science advisor&quot; to the show, goes to elaborate on  some of the plots to the TV show. Simon is a molecular biologist, and her  discussion tend toward cell biology, but are written with such clarity that  even those largely ignorant of life sciences (like me) won't be put off.  For instance, her discussion of the the mystery of aging goes on for a  fairly dense 20 pages, having been introduced by the episode plot  &quot;Turning Back Time&quot; where Mulder and Scully search for the  missing Dr. Ridley, who was conducting illegal research aimed at modifying  the process by which cells age and eventually die. Anyone who enjoys a good  scientific detective story will enjoy this book. Simon presents countless  real-life mysteries from the recent research of biologists and geneticists.  My only real complaint was arriving at the end of the book and NOT finding  a &quot;recommended reading&quot; list. Reading this book really piqued my  interest in some of these scientific hunts.	2000-07-27
US	52706019	R1YG74KWM0G4ID	1886913110	888666912	The Soul of the Night: An Astronomical Pilgrimage (A Ruminator Find)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Anything by Raymo is worth picking up...	&quot;Soul&quot; is one of my favorite books of all time. Raymo is to astronomy what Thoreau is to naturalism. This book will stir the wonder in anybody and renew your appreciation for the wonders of the sky.	2000-07-27
US	52706019	R3L5NC0J7UAE8	0802713513	121801418	Measuring the Universe: Our Historic Quest to Chart the horizons of Space and Time	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A great read, interesting and perceptive	A very nice history of astronomy and cosmology written from the angle of determining the distance scale of the universe. Ferguson starts with an anecdote from her childhood when her father challenged Ferguson and her  brother to measure the height of a windmill without touching it. They came  upon the solution of using the shadow of the windmill and some basic  mathematics. From there, Ferguson launches into the stories of  Eratosthenes, Aristarchus and other ancients, right up to modern day  debates over the value of Omega, the cosmological constant, and standard  candles. This is a very readable and enjoyable account and is not overly  technical.	2000-07-27
US	52706019	R1KIC7CUQQGX7F	0684847655	932917727	Journey Beyond Selene: Remarkable Expeditions Past Our Moon and to the Ends of the Solar System	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Superb. Inside the space exploration industry...	A wonderful book on the history of space exploration. Kluger concentrates mainly on the initial efforts to reach the moon with unmanned craft, but has good sections on one of the Apollo missions, as well as Pioneer and  Voyager. For a breathtaking look at the inner workings of a space mission,  read this book!	2000-07-27
US	52706019	RHTFIIZP7A84F	0813527015	438596742	The Star of Bethlehem : The Legacy of the Magi	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Surprising and worthwhile!	This book surprised the heck out of me. I expected another typical rundown of the usual astronomical suspects (comets, supernova, planetary massings and conjunctions, etc.) but was pleasantly surprised to find instead a very  serious and scholarly treatment of first century astrology. As a certified  skeptic, I've always given fairly short-shrift to astrology in general, but  until reading Molnar's book, I don't think I ever understood how truly  complex and technical it is. Certainly the &quot;science&quot; of the  ancient world, Molnar argues that without such an understanding of  astrology, the biblical clues as to the identity are simply missed by  virtually all researchers of the star of Bethlehem. For good reason, most  astronomers and biblical scholars have largely avoided the role of  astrology other than casual mentions. Instead, they have focused on  astronomical phenomena that are visually striking, and which they believe  would have been meaningful to the visitors from the east.<br />Molnar takes  the astrological bull by the horns, and, combined with the very novel angle  of first century coinage, provides a compelling and persuasive new theory  of the true nature of the Matthean &quot;star.&quot; Briefly, Molnar points  to the language of the original Greek text of Matthew 2, and identifies  unmistakable allusions to a star's helical rising, and to features of a  planet's &quot;retrograde&quot; motion (he argues that the Greek for  &quot;went before&quot; and &quot;stood over&quot; are clearly references  to a retrograde loop and stationary point).<br />In a very well documented and  easily readable account, Molnar traces the evidence to a helical rising and  subsequent lunar occultation of Jupiter in April of 6 BC. After this event,  which took place in the constellation of Aries, Jupiter proceeded to travel  east, go retrograde, and resume its eastward journey over the next several  months. Though the occultation would not have been observable (it happened  after noon on April 17th), Molnar argues that this is inconsequential since  all astrology was done via charts based on Ptolemy's tables of planetary  positions anyway. Astrologers were much more interested in the significance  of their charts and rarely made any effort to observe the events they  portrayed. Furthermore, many significant astrological events are visually  unimpressive even if they are observable.<br />I don't know if Molnar is  right. Others take the approach that the star must have been a series of  conjunctions or nova phenomenon (Kidger and Hughes). Some say the whole  event is a myth (Gardner). Molnar's contribution is certainly worth reading  and has gained the approval of some fine authorities (Gingerich and Trimble  both wrote jacket reviews).	2000-07-27
US	52706019	R657OPW9KO3KA	0440235561	924823091	Genesis: The Story Of Apollo 8	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Worthy addition to the history of manned space flight...	Makes the assertion that Apollo 8 was a more revolutionary flight than Apollo 11 because 8 was the first time humans left the vicinity and gravitational influence of Earth. The story is told against the backdrop of  the world history of the time, the cold war, Vietnam, the Berlin airlift,  the erecting of the wall, etc. Borman, Lovell and Anders were interviewed  and contributed their perspectives on the flight as well as on the  experiences that happened as they came up through the ranks of test pilots  and astronauts in training.	2000-07-27
US	52706019	R7GXXF141WNGA	0385312113	568346364	The God Particle: If the Universe Is the Answer, What Is the Question?	Books	5	17	21	N	N	A great mix of serious science and lighthearted humor...	A tremendously entertaining book covering much of the history of physics by one of the best known particle physicists. Lederman's book is interspersed with some of the most humorous stories I've ever read in a  science book and I can't resist sharing two of them here. In an imaginary  conversation with the greek philosopher Democritus, Lederman is talking  about how elusive the Higgs particle is, and comments that the book's title  refers to this particle, but that his publisher wouldn't allow the book to  be called &quot;The God-damned Particle. The second is from a discussion of  building a piece of laboratory equipment to use in a particle accelerator.  They acquired a 12 inch naval cannon to use as a collimator, and needed to  fill it with beryllium as a filter, but the inside of the bore had deep  rifling grooves. He sent a skinny graduate student inside the tube to stuff  steel wool into the grooves. After a few hours of work, the graduate  student crawled out all hot, sweaty and irritated and said &quot;I  quit,&quot; to which Lederman is said to have replied, &quot;You can't  quit, where will I find another student of your caliber?&quot;	2000-07-27
US	52706019	R2AO8JPAESNFTE	093334693X	287201242	Deep-Sky Wonders	Books	5	41	41	N	N	A &quot;must have&quot; for any amateur astronomer!	Walter Scott \\"Scotty\\" Houston is a name many astronomers know well. Author of the Sky &amp; Telescope Deep Sky Wonders column from 1946 until his death in December of 1993. He was a passionate amateur astronomer to the end of his long life. Houston's last column appeared in Sky &amp; Telescope  in July 1994 issue, and since that time, amateurs have had to scour back  issues to excavate Houston's gold mine of observational knowledge. Enter  Stephen James O'Meara. O'Meara has been on the staff of Sky &amp; Telescope  magazine since the late 70's, and was editor of Houston's column from 1990  until his death.   O'Meara began the compilation by working with  photocopies of the nearly 550 individual columns spanning Houston's career.  He sorted, organized, and collated each of the works and produced a chapter  for each month of the year, into which he inserted Houston's colorful  prose, descriptive history, and observational commentary. O'Meara begins  each section with some light annotation, but most of the words in this book  are Houston's, and as a collection, they jell beautifully into a seasonal  observer's guide that challenge Burnham's for the sheer elegance and depth  of feeling that emanates from the pages. Upon receiving the book, I quickly  turned my attention to a few of my favorite deep sky objects and marveled  at the timelessness of Houston's descriptive prose. Before I knew it I had  been reading for over an hour and could have spent several more lost in the  beauty of Houston's finely knit web of description, quotes from other  authorities, and the words of his readers. An example from his description  of NGC2403, a little known but beautiful galaxy in Camelopardis:<br />&quot;My  4-inch Clark refractor shows it as a lovely gem. I logged it as an \\"ocean  of turbulence and detail\\" as seen with a 10-inch reflector under dark  Kansas skies in the 1950's. In 1992 I saw it with a 20-inch telescope from  the Florida Keys - a view that transformed it into a hurricane of cosmic  chaos.&quot; (pp 28-29)<br />O'Meara's compilation of Houston's works has  quickly taken its place as one of my favorite cloudy night books. It is  also a valuable resource for planning observing sessions. It's organization  by month lends itself well to selecting some prime targets for easy  observing, with a generous does of difficult challenges for the more  adventurous. This book is destined to be an instant classic.	2000-04-18
