US	52700917	R1YMGXD1VUT6RK	0312114826	78038514	All You Need Is Ears: The inside personal story of the genius who created The Beatles	Books	5	38	39	N	N	As unique as his producing	There are very few memoirs published by record producers, especially producers as important as George Martin, producer and ?discoverer&quot; of the Beatles. I do call it a memoir because that's what it is - much more is covered than the Beatles. This is a book about George Martin, through and through.      The first 100 pages or so recount Martin's early history in the British military up through his first job in the recording industry. There is staggering detail to this, naming even the most insignificant people he met along the way. But since we know this is all contributing to what would become Martin's genius, it really isn't all that tedious. Eventually we come to the chapter on the Beatles - how he discovered them, how he recorded them, and then single by singe, how they became the biggest band in the world. Whether he intends it or not, there is an epic quality to practically every word Martin writes (or rather, has ghostwritten for him).      Being a professional in today's music industry and seeing literally all music being recorded on computers, it's fascinating to see the technology they were working from. He writes of actually recording to *wax records*. It's also nice to see someone getting so excited about the advent of stereo recording. It's something we don't even think about today, but to the producers of Martin's era, recording in stereo was as profound as recording to hard drives today.       I also was amazed to learn that he made almost no money off the Beatles records. Today, a comparable producer - say Glenn Ballard, Alanis' former producer - has probably made in the dozens of millions of dollars. Martin didn't earn any royalties on those records, and he also refused an ownership stake in the publishing company set up exclusively for Beatles songs. This probably cost him upwards of $50,000,000 if not more. He goes on to say that he has no regrets in refusing the ownership, and whether or not you believe him, he does lay out a pretty impressivespiel about not doing it for the money. I arrived at the conclusion, however, that while a genius producer he is possibly the world's worst businessman. Hundreds of people made millions off the Beatles and the one closest to them - Martin - managed to make almost nothing. That is truly staggering.       This is the kind of book that's a must-have for a Beatles fan or aspiring musician, and will proselytize everyone else. A classic book from a classic producer.	2004-07-23
US	52700917	R18R3AN1DGN2DZ	1879505703	480668053	Screenplay: Writing the Picture	Books	5	19	21	N	Y	The new favorite	The vast majority of screenwriting books fall into 2 categories: pretty good, or pretty average. Then there is the occasional book that is horrible - Robert Berman's \\"Fade In\\" for example - and the very rare book that is extraordinary. Screenplay: Writing the Picture falls into this last category.     The problem with most screenwriting books is that they manage to cover only a small angle of the process, or they try to span the gamut and do it so thinly as to be useless. Writing the Picture succeeds in covering every aspect of writing a screenplay (or any work of fiction for that matter), and presenting the info in a way that makes it sink in to an applicable level - more than any other book available.     It's written as a textbook, and will surely work its way into all screenwriting classrooms across the country within the next few years. Aside from the instruction, there are several great appendices, including a list of other screenwriting books that you need to have, specific clich?s to avoid for each genre, where to find scripts and where to attend graduate screenwriting programs.     I do have one complaint though. The degree to which these guys pander to political correctness in the use of gender-specific pronouns is truly staggering - I've never seen anything like it. If a subject is of an unspecified gender, they will always go with \\"she,\\" and on the rare occasion they do use \\"he\\" they always write \\"he or she\\" or \\"s/he.\\" They can't even write a simple euphemism like \\"The main man.\\" They write - and this is not a joke - they write \\"the main wo/man,\\" and then a page later write \\"right hand wo/man.\\"     Personally, this really annoys me. It's distracting from the text, and approximately 1% of the population actually gives a rip about this anyway. It's unfortunate they chose this route over the much more readable usage in Robert McKee's \\"Story.\\" In his book he states very simply, right up front, \\"...I have avoided constructions that distract the reader's eye,such as the annoying alternation of `she' and `her' with `he' and `him,' the repetitions `he and she' and `him and her,' the awkward `s/he' and `her/im,' and the ungrammatical `the' and `them' as neuter singulars. Rather I use the nonexclusive `he' and `him' to mean `writer.'\\" We have no such luxury in Writing the Picture, which is filled with enough \\"wo/man's\\" and \\"he or she's\\" to, well, write a book.	2004-07-05
US	52700917	R3R4O2BGA82HOI	0345463919	152584382	Ghost Ship: The Mysterious True Story of the Mary Celeste and Her Missing Crew	Books	4	33	34	N	N	Fun reading, but be prepared for some wading	Ghost Ship is the detailed history of the Mary Celeste, a ship found abandoned in the late 1800s. It's considered one of history's greatest maritime mysteries, since nothing was found out of order on the ship. All the foul weather gear was intact, all the crew's belongings were still in their proper places - in other words, there wasn't the slightest hint of foul weather or piracy. The crew had simply vanished with no mention of anything out of the ordinary in the captain's log. <br />Brian Hicks first gives a broad overview of the ship's bizarre past, and then launches into one of the most detailed accounts of anything I've ever read on any topic. He begins with the ship's construction, including not only the man who built it but a brief history of the town he lived in and the economic impact it had on his community. From here he traces the Mary Celeste, then known as the Amazon, through its first captain's strange death while on his first sailing, up to its second captain, Benjamin Briggs. At this point the Briggs family history is given - everything you could possibly want to know about the Briggs' is included here. From the patriarch, Nathan Briggs and his marriage into the Cobb family, to the birth of every Briggs child and each of their own marriages and eventual deaths at sea, Hicks covers minutia at an almost unparalleled depth. <br />It's at this point that I got slightly annoyed with the book. Since the Mary Celeste is shrouded in mystery, Hicks adopts sort of a &quot;well this is what we *do* know&quot; attitude, and every detail - and I mean every detail - that we actually know of from diaries and newspapers is included in his early chapters. <br />For the next couple hundred pages this continues, as the history of the Mary Celeste's actual discovery is chronicled, the trial that ensued, and eventually the hoaxes and theories that sprung up, mostly after Conan Doyle's fictional account appeared in Cornhill Magazine. At times the reading is very slow anddense and Hicks refuses to give any hints of what he proposes actually happened, although you know it's coming. While Hicks effectively utilizes the technique of building suspense, he does it to an almost annoying level. Ultimately the excruciating detail that fills this book isn't really enough to satisfy until the anti-climactic ending, where Hicks almost sheepishly reveals his own theory of what happens. With all the tension he tries to create throughout the earlier chapters, I found it surprising that I was halfway through his own explanation before I realized that's what it was. <br />Having said that, his explanation is a pretty good one. It's by far the most plausible of anything previously put forth, and doesn't leave many holes. The major problems with his idea are that of industrial alcohol transportation safety guidelines. One, it's hard to believe that the shipping companies wouldn't have been aware of the dangers of transporting dangerous substances (and thus taken more precautions against leakage), and two, if they didn't regularly take these precautions it seems like what Hicks suggests as his solution would've happened much more frequently. <br />Ghost Ship is ultimately a quick and fun read. I recommend it, but be prepared to wade through some dense sections. And after a few days of digesting it, you might come to realize that while the best solution yet, Hicks' ideas are ultimately just one more offering in the dozens of theories already out there.	2004-06-23
US	52700917	R2CLSO44G48CNS	0750932716	627030500	The History of Torture (Sutton History Classics)	Books	5	64	67	N	N	Fascinating and terrible	Daniel Mannix has written an extraordinarily detailed and intriguing treatise on the history and validity of torture, through every culture, era and continent in the world. From the earliest societies in Greece to modern-day usage, every aspect of torture is covered in this exhaustive volume. <br />It took me a while to get through Mannix's book, since I often read it in small blocks. Too much of this sort of information at once can be an almost nauseating experience - and I'm not particularly squeamish. However, after finishing it I found it to be a pretty rewarding venture that really gets you thinking about some important philosophical and historical concepts. I'll come back to this.<br />Mannix writes rather tersely and emotionally detached about the most unthinkable acts of humankind. He covers specific torture devices - what they were and how they were used - and then often recounts several specific situations when the device was used and what the results were. Every society and age has \\"contributed\\" something to the legacy of torture and Mannix leaves nobody out. Whether it's the Aztecs who once sacrificed 70,000 people in one event, to the Australian penal colonies, he not only covers it but also relates the differences and similarities between the devices and methods employed. Just some of the groups covered are the Native Americans, the Nazis, the Europeans throughout every century, Africans, South Americans, the North American colonies, the Inquisition, modern-day police in every major country, Asians of every era and dynasty, Vikings, African-American slaves, and the witch trials. He makes careful notes of when a torture device was reused or modified in some way from society to society.<br />The specific stories he relates are always shocking and beyond belief, yet they are well-documented accounts. The ingenuity of torturers is truly staggering, rivaling some of the greatest inventors of all time. How these monsters came to devote enough of their mindsand time to devising these horrible instruments is unthinkable. Yet Mannix explores every last deep, dark corner of these demented minds.<br />There are several areas of the humanities that Mannix touches upon, sometimes deliberately, sometimes inadvertently. In general he tries to stick to the facts and avoid inserting his opinion. On occasion, however, he can't resist and shows his hand with a carefully written sentence or a colorful adverb. One area that he didn't specifically touch upon that got me thinking a great deal, is that of the reparations forced on certain social groups by other social groups for past crimes. Various races, even in America, consider the atrocities enacted on their race to be the worst in humankind's history. Reading Mannix's book will show that this is the result of a very narrow and uninformed view of history. The brutal decimation of hundreds of thousands of Aztecs, the mass executions of nearly two million people by Ghengis Khan, the horrible slave trades of the ancient Romans, the demented torturings of the Inquisition - in modern times only the atrocities of Hitler seem to directly compare to these events. While Mannix deftly avoids opinions for most of the book, he does close his work with a chapter on corporeal punishment and its effectiveness as a deterrent of crime. This chapter was remarkably well-written and presents thought-out arguments presenting both sides of the debate. He gives no-nonsense, logical examples of why in some cases corporeal punishment can never work, and in other cases where it clearly has proven effective. It was a surprisingly well-done cap to his book. After reading hundreds of pages of what the worst of humankind is capable of, it helped put things in perspective. <br />As a book, it could be a little tighter. There is no logical flow from chapter to chapter, nor is there an index. As a result it sometimes feels as though Mannix is repeating himself, and you are a little lost as to the overall historical context of the situation. The chapters are also not titled, nor is there an index, so there is no easy way to go to a specific era or torture device you want to research. <br />This book also scared me slightly, since it showed me just what human beings are capable of doing to each other. The Romans killed each other for sport. They would crucify slaves in the Coliseum and then gamble on who would die first, die last, etc. There was a time when humans - the same specie that lives today - considered this entertainment. To be honest, this is one of the reasons why Reality TV bothers me so much. Aside from putting completely talentless people on television, it also harkens back to the days when blood-thirsty fans screamed and applauded the misery of others. While it's very different to watch a person eating a live cockroach than to watch a lion eat a person, I believe the same sick desire is at the root of both audiences. It may seem a very big leap, to go from where we are now to watching a TV show where someone may die, but five years ago I would never have dreamt people would be picking a spouse from a game show, or eating the genitalia of a pig as \\"entertainment.\\" It happens every week now on primetime. Even the show Jackass on MTV, while often funny, still puts these men in situations where they might be killed by several different methods. Mark my words, it will get worse. In the same way that this book became easier for me to read after the first fifty pages - as I became desensitized to it - so will we as a nation become more and more desensitized to what we consider entertaining. If you doubt we can go so far as to kill people for entertainment, I only point you to Mannix's book for a quick reminder of where we once were, not so long ago.	2004-06-18
US	52700917	R2U36ZFIIGEZTW	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	A Rough Draft of The Da Vinci Code...	Dan Brown is a good writer in many respects. He knows how to milk a scene for all it's worth, he knows how to create conflict, and he's very well researched. He also knows that Americans love a good conspiracy and that knowledge has kept him at the top of the best-seller's list for a year with The Da Vinci Code.<br />Angels and Demons is &quot;Robert Langdon's First Adventure,&quot; according to the advertising on the book's front. In Langdon, Brown has created the new Indiana Jones - an adventure-seeking academic - only Langdon is smarter than Indy ever dreamed of being.<br />He's also much more of a dork. This fact isn't quite so clear in The Da Vinci code, but in Angels and Demons, where Brown was obviously still honing his chops as a writer, Langdon is an emasculated pansy for the vast majority of the novel. He's afraid of guns, tags along as the female protagonist leads us through the plot, and always realizes everything just a little too late. Typical of a Dan Brown novel, to talk much about the plot would be to give away his much-used secrets, so I really can't get too into it, but suffice it to say that if anyone else had written Angels and Demons they would've been sued for plagarism - it's unbelievably similar to The Da Vinci Code. Secret Sect, huge cover-ups, holy church doctrines - all the same stuff. <br />Aside from a limp hero and its unabashed similarity to his more recent work, Angels and Demons also suffers from the staggering leaps of faith it demands on the audience. There is, quite literally, a &quot;Deus ex machina&quot; ending, 20,000 foot freefalls from helicopters without parachutes, and a total pilfering of the Vatican secret libraries. This is meant to be an epic tale told on an epic scale, and I suppose it loosely succeeds, but whereas Da Vinci Code was impossible to put down, you may not even make it through the exceptionally long Angels and Demons.<br />I respect Dan Brown greatly and I'm excited to read what he comes out with next. Butdespite Angels and Demons' similarity to the Da Vinci Code I can see why it never enjoyed even a fraction of its success (for the above reasons). This feels like a first novel - the one you don't publish, but keep on the shelf and rewrite after you've made it big. I guess Brown's doing it the other way around.	2004-06-05
US	52700917	R25TZG4W5G0DN0	0971727910	992954703	The Ultimate Kauai Guidebook: Kauai Revealed	Books	4	8	10	N	N	The best and worst	This is a hard one to review, because while this and the others in the series are wonderfully organized, expertly written and unbelievably detailed, they also reveal the deepest secrets of the Hawaiian Islands, previously only known to locals. <br />First, the positives. You won't find a better tour book for Hawaii, on or off the islands - period. This goes for every book of the series - Maui, Oahu, Kauai and the Big Island. Doughty and Friedman expertly steer you around the islands, avoiding the crowds and avoiding the tourist traps (like the bike ride down Haleakala). You'll get tons of practical touring strategies, like, for example, on Maui, taking the Road to Hana later in the day and spending the night in Hana so you can have the Seven Pools to yourself for a few hours in the morning. That's just one example from the series; each and every book is loaded with this kind of pragmatism, so even on your first trip you'll feel like a seasoned visitor.<br />Every aspect of your trip is covered in the books, from the sites to see and avoid, the restaurants to hit, the best hotels, camping options, and island history. Every type of traveler from the luxury $1000 per night tourist to the canvas tent hiker will find useful info. More than anything, while realizing how much of Hawaii is truly still hidden to you in the almost uninhabitable reaches of the jungles and volcanic residues, you'll still feel as though you're seeing as much of it as any outsider can see.<br />Now for the bad. Because Doughty and Friedman live on the islands and have explored every hidden waterfall and pool, they are privy to spots on the islands that even many locals are unaware of. And naturally, many of the areas are located on private property. This however, doesn't seem to bother the writers. After giving a detailed description of how to access a remote waterfall on private property (stuff like, &quot;Park on the pull-off a few hundred yards after mile-marker 23, and scale the guardrail. You should see a path that winds down into a bamboo forest. At the bottom of the path, go *left*, not right, away from the river...&quot; etc.), they follow it up with a limp disclaimer, like &quot;Technically, this is Hawaiian Forest and Game property, but we've been hiking on it for years without a problem...&quot; The bottom line is that while the places they tell you to go are private and amazing, by definition these magnificent spots can't last. Because they've been revealed (as the book titles promise), a hidden location that may have previously had only a few dozen visitors per year now gets five or six visitors a day, thus destroying the serenity and privacy of the location, ruining what is the reason for going there in the first place. So it's somewhat of a self-defeating book, since by revealing these remote locations they are also condemning them to extinction.<br />Lastly, these books are quite popular and already the hidden waterfalls and trails are not so hidden. More than once I hiked a mile or two through rough, muddy terrain and rushing rivers to reach a waterfall, where I found a soccer mom, an over-weight dad in flip-flops, and two four-year olds frolicking in the pool, one of the inevitably clutching their copy of &quot;Maui Revealed&quot; or &quot;Oahu Revealed.&quot; That sort of detracts from the sense of adventure I built up on the way there. In addition, some of the private property areas that he says have no signs posted now have &quot;Keep Out!&quot; signs posted in response to the hundreds of trespassers following Doughty and Friedman's advice. So be aware that some trails they mention as remote and tolerant of hikers may now be *very* intolerant to trespassers.<br />While this book is an incredible guidebook and you *should* use it to plan your Hawaiian vacation, ultimately, let your conscience be your guide as to where you do and don't venture.	2004-05-27
US	52700917	R2VT4VNIKKNK4H	0963942999	834872933	Hawaii the Big Island Revealed: The Ultimate Guidebook	Books	4	420	449	N	N	The best and worst	This is a hard one to review, because while this and the others in the series are wonderfully organized, expertly written and unbelievably detailed, they also reveal the deepest secrets of the Hawaiian Islands, previously only known to locals. <br />First, the positives. You won't find a better tour book for Hawaii, on or off the islands - period. This goes for every book of the series - Maui, Oahu, Kauai and the Big Island. Doughty and Friedman expertly steer you around the islands, avoiding the crowds and avoiding the tourist traps (like the bike ride down Haleakala). You'll get tons of practical touring strategies, like, for example, on Maui, taking the Road to Hana later in the day and spending the night in Hana so you can have the Seven Pools to yourself for a few hours in the morning. That's just one example from the series; each and every book is loaded with this kind of pragmatism, so even on your first trip you'll feel like a seasoned visitor.<br />Every aspect of your trip is covered in the books, from the sites to see and avoid, the restaurants to hit, the best hotels, camping options, and island history. Every type of traveler from the luxury $1000 per night tourist to the canvas tent hiker will find useful info. More than anything, while realizing how much of Hawaii is truly still hidden to you in the almost uninhabitable reaches of the jungles and volcanic residues, you'll still feel as though you're seeing as much of it as any outsider can see.<br />Now for the bad. Because Doughty and Friedman live on the islands and have explored every hidden waterfall and pool, they are privy to spots on the islands that even many locals are unaware of. And naturally, many of the areas are located on private property. This however, doesn't seem to bother the writers. After giving a detailed description of how to access a remote waterfall on private property (stuff like, &quot;Park on the pull-off a few hundred yards after mile-marker 23, and scale the guardrail. You should see a path that winds down into a bamboo forest. At the bottom of the path, go *left*, not right, away from the river...&quot; etc.), they follow it up with a limp disclaimer, like &quot;Technically, this is Hawaiian Forest and Game property, but we've been hiking on it for years without a problem...&quot; The bottom line is that while the places they tell you to go are private and amazing, by definition these magnificent spots can't last. Because they've been revealed (as the book titles promise), a hidden location that may have previously had only a few dozen visitors per year now gets five or six visitors a day, thus destroying the serenity and privacy of the location, ruining what is the reason for going there in the first place. So it's somewhat of a self-defeating book, since by revealing these remote locations they are also condemning them to extinction.<br />Lastly, these books are quite popular and already the hidden waterfalls and trails are not so hidden. More than once I hiked a mile or two through rough, muddy terrain and rushing rivers to reach a waterfall, where I found a soccer mom, an over-weight dad in flip-flops, and two four-year olds frolicking in the pool, one of the inevitably clutching their copy of &quot;Maui Revealed&quot; or &quot;Oahu Revealed.&quot; That sort of detracts from the sense of adventure I built up on the way there. In addition, some of the private property areas that he says have no signs posted now have &quot;Keep Out!&quot; signs posted in response to the hundreds of trespassers following Doughty and Friedman's advice. So be aware that some trails they mention as remote and tolerant of hikers may now be *very* intolerant to trespassers.<br />While this book is an incredible guidebook and you *should* use it to plan your Hawaiian vacation, ultimately, let your conscience be your guide as to where you do and don't venture.	2004-05-27
US	52700917	R3J8J6N1SN8SD9	0971727902	371553693	Maui Revealed: The Ultimate Guidebook, Second Edition	Books	4	30	35	N	N	The best and worst	This is a hard one to review, because while this and the others in the series are wonderfully organized, expertly written and unbelievably detailed, they also reveal the deepest secrets of the Hawaiian Islands, previously only known to locals. <br />First, the positives. You won't find a better tour book for Hawaii, on or off the islands - period. This goes for every book of the series - Maui, Oahu, Kauai and the Big Island. Doughty and Friedman expertly steer you around the islands, avoiding the crowds and avoiding the tourist traps (like the bike ride down Haleakala). You'll get tons of practical touring strategies, like, for example, on Maui, taking the Road to Hana later in the day and spending the night in Hana so you can have the Seven Pools to yourself for a few hours in the morning. That's just one example from the series; each and every book is loaded with this kind of pragmatism, so even on your first trip you'll feel like a seasoned visitor.<br />Every aspect of your trip is covered in the books, from the sites to see and avoid, the restaurants to hit, the best hotels, camping options, and island history. Every type of traveler from the luxury $1000 per night tourist to the canvas tent hiker will find useful info. More than anything, while realizing how much of Hawaii is truly still hidden to you in the almost uninhabitable reaches of the jungles and volcanic residues, you'll still feel as though you're seeing as much of it as any outsider can see.<br />Now for the bad. Because Doughty and Friedman live on the islands and have explored every hidden waterfall and pool, they are privy to spots on the islands that even many locals are unaware of. And naturally, many of the areas are located on private property. This however, doesn't seem to bother the writers. After giving a detailed description of how to access a remote waterfall on private property (stuff like, &quot;Park on the pull-off a few hundred yards after mile-marker 23, and scale the guardrail. You should see a path that winds down into a bamboo forest. At the bottom of the path, go *left*, not right, away from the river...&quot; etc.), they follow it up with a limp disclaimer, like &quot;Technically, this is Hawaiian Forest and Game property, but we've been hiking on it for years without a problem...&quot; The bottom line is that while the places they tell you to go are private and amazing, by definition these magnificent spots can't last. Because they've been revealed (as the book titles promise), a hidden location that may have previously had only a few dozen visitors per year now gets five or six visitors a day, thus destroying the serenity and privacy of the location, ruining what is the reason for going there in the first place. So it's somewhat of a self-defeating book, since by revealing these remote locations they are also condemning them to extinction.<br />Lastly, these books are quite popular and already the hidden waterfalls and trails are not so hidden. More than once I hiked a mile or two through rough, muddy terrain and rushing rivers to reach a waterfall, where I found a soccer mom, an over-weight dad in flip-flops, and two four-year olds frolicking in the pool, one of the inevitably clutching their copy of &quot;Maui Revealed&quot; or &quot;Oahu Revealed.&quot; That sort of detracts from the sense of adventure I built up on the way there. In addition, some of the private property areas that he says have no signs posted now have &quot;Keep Out!&quot; signs posted in response to the hundreds of trespassers following Doughty and Friedman's advice. So be aware that some trails they mention as remote and tolerant of hikers may now be *very* intolerant to trespassers.<br />While this book is an incredible guidebook and you *should* use it to plan your Hawaiian vacation, ultimately, let your conscience be your guide as to where you do and don't venture.	2004-05-27
US	52700917	R3NP49AKL5EQ67	0972018417	33260681	Eating for Life: Your Guide to Great Health, Fat Loss and Increased Energy	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Puts Atkins to Bed	In this wonderful book, Bill Philips presents an overview of exactly what your body needs to be perfectly balanced and healthy, and then provides the recipes and eating schedule to achieve that result.<br />What I particularly love about this book is that it flies straight in the face of the Atkins craze, picking it apart point by point. The fact is that humans were designed to eat carbohydrates - lots of them in fact. If your end result is losing weight, then Atkins will work just fine. But if you want to lose fat, actually *look good*, feel good and keep your muscle mass, then forget Atkins and buy this book today. The problem with Atkins that most people don't realize is that the catch word of the month - ketosis - is flowery talk for \\"starvation.\\" Ketosis is what happens when your body starts eating itself - fat, muscle, even DNA breakdown in extreme cases. I've known people who have lost forty pounds on Atkins but actually increased their body fat percentage in the process. The weight they lost was muscle. These people were also miserable, not thinking clearly and completely lacking in energy.<br />Eating For Life will give you the opposite. In the short time I've been abiding by the eating program I've been eating more than I ever have, enjoying eating as much as I ever have, and have lost weight. The most impressive results are the increased energy and clarity of thought from eating a balanced diet. These latter results were really my goal in buying the book - I'm not after severe weight loss. But if weight loss *is* your goal, Phillips provides you with many inspiring personal experiences of readers who have had success with his books. There are many full-color before and after pictures of amazing transformations, folks who were over 250 lbs. who ended up exactly in their target weights and looking amazing. (You might lose that weight with Atkins, but you will be a ball of weak, muscle-less flab when all is said and done.) Along with the pictures are the stories of these individuals, including a sample menu of what they ate before Eating for Life and what they eat now. The point is you can find someone who seems similar to your age and build and then model your weight loss after them. <br />For healthy eating, this is the book to have. This is not some weird recipe book of organic foods, soy-whatever nonsense. It simply a program for eating great food, showing you what to eat, how to cook it, when to eat it, and why you should. If you take nothing else from this review, take the fact that Atkins is a marketing ploy based on terrible science. Yes it does produce weight loss, but at great expense. On Atkins you'll lose more muscle than fat, you'll be weaker than you've ever been, and you'll have as much energy as a piece of wood. It's a marketing scheme that works for all the wrong reasons. Don't buy into it.	2004-05-15
US	52700917	R3G0IZ78IP82FK	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Nanobots and nanoplots	Well, MC is allowed to write a so-so book every once in awhile - and this is it. If anything, I would normally be accused of going too easy on Crichton, since he's probably my favorite contemporary author. I've read all of his books, including the John Lange and Michael Douglas pseudonym novels, and I saw some uncharacteristic errors in &quot;Prey.&quot;<br />First, &quot;Prey&quot; is written in first person, and I don't particularly enjoy his first person writing (Case of Need, Rising Sun, etc.). It's not just a style preference - it actually stems from Crichton's intrinsic writing style. As any of his readers know, what makes his writing so amazing is his ability to seamlessly integrate in-depth research into fiction. However, the first person perspective naturally limits a writer's freedom to do this, and in Crichton's writing this tends to lead to awkward inner-reflections and cumbersome bursts of dialogue. While &quot;Prey&quot; manages this far better than say, &quot;Rising Sun,&quot; it still limits what is arguably the best reason for reading Crichton to begin with.<br />Second, this is the one novel where I would surrender to his more ardent critics that the &quot;technology&quot; portion of the novel competed with the plot. In past novels the unbelievably deep science has been woven into the story with amazing clarity, and the technology serves the story itself (Jurassic Park, Timeline). In &quot;Prey,&quot; however, I found in more than any other novel that Crichton was using a contrived and cookie-cutter plot as a soapbox to enlighten us on scientific ethics, in this case artificial intelligence. The plot is simple and in my opinion jaded - scientist screw up, release something bad into nature, it needs to be contained...I've already read &quot;The Stand&quot; and &quot;Outbreak.&quot; While Crichton normally takes the normal and elevates it to the sublime, in this case he didn't. The plot was nothing more than the obvious outcome of a given situation.The science was also much more complicated than in previous works and I would imagine the average reader will be lost throughout much of it, or at least struggling so hard to understand nanotechnology they'll miss the relevance to the story.<br />Third, the dialogue is off. Thinking back throughout his works, I realized that Crichton hasn't written many teenagers. This book shows us why. There are sections of the teenagers' dialogue that are literally embarrassing to read. Example: &quot;...I'm trying Dad. But he is a majorly turkey (...).&quot; &quot;I am not! Up yours, weasel poop!&quot; No it's not a typo - &quot;a majorly turkey (...).&quot; I don't know if Crichton (or his editor) has actually spoken to a teenager in the last 25 years, but in my experience no kids - nor any other human being I've ever known - actually talk like this. The teen dialogue is utterly unacceptable.<br />These are the major problems with the novel, and I feel it's at the bottom of Crichton's efforts. If you're a fan it's definitely worth reading, but for me it just didn't have that special thing that all his other novels have.	2004-05-07
US	52700917	R1NL1AQ4E24TR3	0517203030	549585867	The Legend of Sleepy Hollow (Illustrated Stories for Children)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Classic, but...	While The Legend of Sleepy Hollow is a timeless tale that has endured the ages and countless retellings from Disney to Tim Burton, the original work contains a rather large error in tone - a blatant one. The story is told in third person as though it's a journal - the sketch book of Diedrich Knickerbocker, in fact. This is fine, except for the climax scene in which Ichabod journeys home through the hollow from Van Tassel's house, and is confronted by the Headless Horseman. This scene is written with all the detailed minutia that characterizes Irving's style, but the obvious problem is that, of course, nobody was there to witness what happened to Ichabod Crane while he was alone in the wilderness, so therefore it could not possibly be communicated by means of somebody's journal - this person would never have known what actually happened in the Hollow since nobody was there to witness it, and apparently Ichabod never survived or stuck around to tell anyone. Irving never deals with this obvious problem in the text (a simple \\"This is what we think happened...\\" would've sufficed). The story probably would've worked much better with a traditional \\"God-perspective\\" narrator rather than a fictional character's journal. It is nonetheless, a classic work of American literature and should be read by everyone.     This is a fine edition and also includes Rip Van Winkle, another story of paranormal experience and also of the Knickerbocker sketch book. It's a similar tone to Sleepy Hollow, but the characters aren't as memorable.	2004-04-25
US	52700917	RKU6UENSTGTMF	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	3	0	1	N	Y	A Rough Draft of the Da Vinci Code	Dan Brown is a good writer in many respects. He knows how to milk a scene for all it's worth, he knows how to create conflict, and he's very well researched. He also knows that Americans love a good conspiracy and that knowledge has kept him at the top of the best-seller's list for a year with The Da Vinci Code.<br />Angels and Demons is &quot;Robert Langdon's First Adventure,&quot; according to the advertising on the book's front. In Langdon, Brown has created the new Indiana Jones - an adventure-seeking academic - only Langdon is smarter than Indy ever dreamed of being.<br />(...) In Angels and Demons, where Brown was obviously still honing his chops as a writer, Langdon is an emasculated pansy for the vast majority of the novel. He's afraid of guns, tags along as the female protagonist leads us through the plot, and always realizes everything just a little too late. Typical of a Dan Brown novel, to talk much about the plot would be to give away his much-used secrets(...) - it's unbelievably similar to The Da Vinci Code. Secret Sect, huge cover-ups, holy church doctrines - all the same stuff. <br />Aside from a limp hero and its unabashed similarity to his more recent work, Angels and Demons also suffers from the staggering leaps of faith it demands on the audience. There is, quite literally, a &quot;Deus ex machina&quot; ending, 20,000 foot freefalls from helicopters without parachutes, and a total pilfering of the Vatican secret libraries. This is meant to be an epic tale told on an epic scale, and I suppose it loosely succeeds, but whereas Da Vinci Code was impossible to put down, you may not even make it through the exceptionally long Angels and Demons.<br />I respect Dan Brown greatly and I'm excited to read what he comes out with next. But despite Angels and Demons' similarity to the Da Vinci Code I can see why it never enjoyed even a fraction of its success (for the above reasons). This feels like a first novel - the one you don't publish, but keep on the shelf and rewrite after you've made it big. I guess Brown's doing it the other way around.	2004-04-07
US	52700917	R2BZU0EIDTU22M	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	A Rough Draft of The Da Vinci Code	Dan Brown is a good writer in many respects. He knows how to milk a scene for all it's worth, he knows how to create conflict, and he's very well researched. He also knows that Americans love a good conspiracy and that knowledge has kept him at the top of the best-seller's list for a year with The Da Vinci Code.<br />Angels and Demons is \\"Robert Langdon's First Adventure,\\" according to the advertising on the book's front. In Langdon, Brown has created the new Indiana Jones - an adventure-seeking academic - only Langdon is smarter than Indy ever dreamed of being.<br />He's also much more of a wuss. This fact isn't quite so clear in The Da Vinci code, but in Angels and Demons, where Brown was obviously still honing his chops as a writer, Langdon is an emasculated pansy for the vast majority of the novel. He's afraid of guns, tags along as the female protagonist leads us through the plot, and always realizes everything just a little too late. Typical of a Dan Brown novel, to talk much about the plot would be to give away his much-used secrets, so I really can't get too into it, but suffice it to say that if anyone else had written Angels and Demons they would've been sued for plagiarism - it's unbelievably similar to The Da Vinci Code. Secret Sect, huge cover-ups, holy church doctrines - all the same stuff. <br />Aside from a limp hero and its unabashed similarity to his more recent work, Angels and Demons also suffers from the staggering leaps of faith it demands on the audience. There is, quite literally, a \\"Deus ex machina\\" ending, 20,000 foot freefalls from helicopters without parachutes, and a total pilfering of the Vatican secret libraries. This is meant to be an epic tale told on an epic scale, and I suppose it loosely succeeds, but whereas Da Vinci Code was impossible to put down, you may not even make it through the exceptionally long Angels and Demons.<br />I respect Dan Brown greatly and I'm excited to read what he comes out with next. But despite Angels andDemons' similarity to the Da Vinci Code I can see why it never enjoyed even a fraction of its success (for the above reasons). This feels like a first novel - the one you don't publish, but keep on the shelf and rewrite after you've made it big. I guess Brown's doing it the other way around.	2004-03-10
US	52700917	RJVB3S1FN4DTF	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Rough Draft of The Da Vinci Code...	Dan Brown is a good writer in many respects. He knows how to milk a scene for all it's worth, he knows how to create conflict, and he's very well researched. He also knows that Americans love a good conspiracy and that knowledge has kept him at the top of the best-seller's list for a year with The Da Vinci Code.<br />Angels and Demons is \\"Robert Langdon's First Adventure,\\" according to the advertising on the book's front. In Langdon, Brown has created the new Indiana Jones - an adventure-seeking academic - only Langdon is smarter than Indy ever dreamed of being.<br />He's also much more of a wuss. This fact isn't quite so clear in The Da Vinci code, but in Angels and Demons, where Brown was obviously still honing his chops as a writer, Langdon is an emasculated pansy for the vast majority of the novel. He's afraid of guns, tags along as the female protagonist leads us through the plot, and always realizes everything just a little too late. Typical of a Dan Brown novel, to talk much about the plot would be to give away his much-used secrets, so I really can't get too into it, but suffice it to say that if anyone else had written Angels and Demons they would've been sued for plagiarism - it's unbelievably similar to The Da Vinci Code. Secret Sect, huge cover-ups, holy church doctrines - all the same stuff. <br />Aside from a limp hero and its unabashed similarity to his more recent work, Angels and Demons also suffers from the staggering leaps of faith it demands on the audience. There is, quite literally, a \\"Deus ex machina\\" ending, 20,000 foot freefalls from helicopters without parachutes, and a total pilfering of the Vatican secret libraries. This is meant to be an epic tale told on an epic scale, and I suppose it loosely succeeds, but whereas Da Vinci Code was impossible to put down, you may not even make it through the exceptionally long Angels and Demons.<br />I respect Dan Brown greatly and I'm excited to read what he comes out with next. But despite Angels andDemons' similarity to the Da Vinci Code I can see why it never enjoyed even a fraction of its success (for the above reasons). This feels like a first novel - the one you don't publish, but keep on the shelf and rewrite after you've made it big. I guess Brown's doing it the other way around.	2004-03-07
US	52700917	R2RYG02ESFQNG	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	3	5	7	N	Y	A Rough Draft of The Da Vinci Code...	Dan Brown is a good writer in many respects. He knows how to milk a scene for all it's worth, he knows how to create conflict, and he's very well researched. He also knows that Americans love a good conspiracy and that knowledge has kept him at the top of the best-seller's list for a year with The Da Vinci Code.<br />Angels and Demons is \\"Robert Langdon's First Adventure,\\" according to the advertising on the book's front. In Langdon, Brown has created the new Indiana Jones - an adventure-seeking academic - only Langdon is smarter than Indy ever dreamed of being.<br />He's also much more of a wuss. This fact isn't quite so clear in The Da Vinci code, but in Angels and Demons, where Brown was obviously still honing his chops as a writer, Langdon is an emasculated pansy for the vast majority of the novel. He's afraid of guns, tags along as the female protagonist leads us through the plot, and always realizes everything just a little too late. Typical of a Dan Brown novel, to talk much about the plot would be to give away his much-used secrets, so I really can't get too into it, but suffice it to say that if anyone else had written Angels and Demons they would've been sued for plagiarism - it's unbelievably similar to The Da Vinci Code. Secret Sect, huge cover-ups, holy church doctrines - all the same stuff. <br />Aside from a limp hero and its unabashed similarity to his more recent work, Angels and Demons also suffers from the staggering leaps of faith it demands on the audience. There is, quite literally, a \\"Deus ex machina\\" ending, 20,000 foot freefalls from helicopters without parachutes, and a total pilfering of the Vatican secret libraries. This is meant to be an epic tale told on an epic scale, and I suppose it loosely succeeds, but whereas Da Vinci Code was impossible to put down, you may not even make it through the exceptionally long Angels and Demons.<br />I respect Dan Brown greatly and I'm excited to read what he comes out with next. But despite Angels andDemons' similarity to the Da Vinci Code I can see why it never enjoyed even a fraction of its success (for the above reasons). This feels like a first novel - the one you don't publish, but keep on the shelf and rewrite after you've made it big. I guess Brown's doing it the other way around.	2004-03-04
US	52700917	R30NQ5XVHZ7FHT	1879505495	252601065	Making a Good Writer Great: A Creativity Workbook for Screenwriters	Books	5	22	23	N	N	A Misnomer	I've always felt this book had an unfortunate title and may have done much better without the \\"Screenwriter\\" addendum. The fact is that the advice and exercises that Seger gives is germane to all writers - the novelist, short story writer, as well as the screenwriter. <br />The \\"Creativity Workbook\\" aspect is a true title, however. This is a wonderful book for those of you who feel you're suffering from writer's block. The only solution, of course, is to just write. Even if you're writing \\"I don't know what to write...this is awful...I have no idea what to write...\\" still do it. Eventually you'll have a break through. Seger hides this simple fact into her ingenious exercises, giving you situation after to situation to write about, all the while developing characters and plot ideas.<br />Her focus is to truly help you develop as a writer, not merely beef up your script with cheap, dime-a-dozen plot methods. In that aspect, this book is rather unique and very successful. One of the better writing books available.	2004-03-04
US	52700917	R2Z1LVD7ECDDJ3	039952827X	831664095	Nonfiction Book Proposals Anybody Can Write: How to Get a Contract and Advance Before Writing Your Book, Revised and Updated	Books	5	20	22	N	N	The Best of its Kind	Elizabeth Lyon has identified a need and then filled it, with \\"Nonfiction Book Proposals Anybody Can Write.\\" She states clearly in the introduction that she noticed there were no good resources available to writers who wanted to craft a nonfiction book, so she set to researching the topic and this is the result. I understand this is the second pressing of the book, as the first contained many publishing errors (table of content errors, pagination errors, etc.). These are all corrected in the current edition. <br />The book delivers what it promises. Lyon simplifies the process of writing the book proposal to its individual parts and provides an outline for anyone wanting to write a nonfiction work on any topic. She tells you exactly what editors will be looking for and outlines how to give it to them. Some of the major points of surprise to me were... 1) A nonfiction publisher actually prefers a proposal to a completed work, and 2) the editor will expect you to have researched the market and identified the need for the book you are writing.<br />If you are tinkering with the idea of writing a nonfiction book, you need Lyon's manual on how do it. She will save you an inestimable amount of work on the front end, and show you the steps to take to have success your first time out.	2004-02-15
US	52700917	R1Z293JYQB8EK	0060006641	545117488	On Writing Well, 25th Anniversary: The Classic Guide to Writing Nonfiction	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Indispensable nonfiction writing book	Williams Zissner has written and edited dozens of books, many of them on the craft of writing. He's seen plenty of bad writing in his lifetime, and in \\"On Writing Well\\" he shows you how to avoid it. <br />The book is divided into 4 sections and several chapters. The first 2 sections (pages 1-92) deal with the craft of nonfiction itself. Topics such as avoiding clutter, writing for the appropriate audience, word usage and beginning/ending the piece are covered, among several others. In section 3 (pages 95-229) he deals with specific forms of nonfiction, including travel writing, science and technology, sports and humor genres.<br />The last section (pages 233-294) addresses finding your voice and general topics about the career and choices of the professional writer.<br />This is a wonderful book for any prose writer, whether it's fiction, screenplays or travel articles. Zissner's love for the English language is transcended onto the page with each word he writes. He isn't afraid to say it like it is, mentioning that most people just simply write horribly and then offering his own opinion as to just why this is. <br />\\"On Writing Well\\" should be in every writer's collection.	2004-02-15
US	52700917	R2CWQ07QWGQEED	1582970645	17923208	Writing Better Lyrics	Books	5	82	83	N	Y	Best available for its type	Pat Pattison has produced what is the ultimate book on lyric writing. Actually, Pattison's exercises and techniques are valuable for any aspect of creative writing, from poetry to fiction.<br />He begins the book with the staple of his teaching, \\"Object Writing\\". Object writing is defined as writing on a specific thing - it can be anything from polyester to holding your breath - while incorporating as many senses as you can: touch, taste, smell, etc. The exercises last for 10 minutes, exactly, and you do it every day. He likens this to a pearl diver holding his breath and diving for pearls. Each time you hold your breath a little longer, dive a little deeper. It's the same with object writing. At first your writing will be awkward and fragmented - and that's okay. But as you do it on and on, eventually you will hit that vein, that underground river where your creativity rolls free and the words will pour out. As you continue it day to day, you'll hit this river more and more frequently and at greater depths, until eventually you'll just exist there.<br />Here's the amazing thing - it works. Object writing on a regular basis has improved my reading ability, my writing ability, my comprehension skills - my overall thinking. It gets your brain in shape and gets you in better touch with the powerful subconscious parts of your mind, where the majority of creativity happens.<br />From here he brings you more into the disciplined aspects of writing, showing you how to build a worksheet to write a lyric from. It involves object writing on your lyric title or concept and extracting anything useful from that, then using a thesaurus and rhyming dictionary to brainstorm even more ideas, and to place these on a worksheet to write from, giving you tons of related ideas at your fingertips.<br />He then discusses verse development, song forms, rhyme structures and meter. It goes very deep into these topics, and you can go as far as you want.<br />It's one of those books that you can continually read, diving into various chapters as you get stuck in different parts of different songs you are writing. I highly recommend this book for any aspiring lyric writers, even for composers who want a better understanding of the lyric writing process.	2004-02-01
US	52700917	RV7UQIEBH7YL5	0451170113	722345215	Night Shift (Signet)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	One of our best at his peak	This is Stephen King in his best years. If you like his writing, you should definitely have this in your collection. You can always pick it up and read a 5 or 10 page story when you're in the mood for it.<br />&quot;Night Shift&quot; contains some moments of brilliance (Children of the Corn, Quitters Inc., The Ledge) and some not so great ones (The Mangler comes to mind). Overall, though, even when dealing with some absurd plot lines - like The Mangler or The Lawnmower Man - the prose is fantastic, with the brilliant metaphors, characters and dialogue King is known for. Several films have come from stories in this collection, such as Graveyard Shift, Maximum Overdrive, Children of the Corn, and Sometimes They Come Back. There's even a continuation of Salem's Lot.<br />This is a must for the Stephen King reader. It's a snapshot of one of our most brilliant writers doing his best work.	2004-01-24
US	52700917	R1JJECZ4F5QHGV	0892817100	651663620	The Lost Treasure of the Knights Templar: Solving the Oak Island Mystery	Books	4	24	26	N	N	Fun reading	The Lost Treasure of the Knights Templar is a fascinating book covering a wide variety of topics, ranging from the title topic - the Oak Island treasure - to ancient Viking history, authenticity of Shakespeare's authorship, and the family line of Christ.<br />Sora's main interest in this book is whether or not the Templars, made so popular recently by Dan Brown's \\"Davinci Code,\\" are responsible for the mysterious pit on Oak Island in Nova Scotia. <br />This is a very fascinating topic and book, presenting an extraordinarily detailed history of the pit's excavation and an even closer look at the possible explanations for its existence. The explanation Sora chooses to focus on for the majority of the book, obviously, is the Templars. In doing so he presents an intriguing look at this secret society's beginning's, the historical climate surrounding its beginning's, and then follows it through the ages to the present day.<br />My only criticism is also a praise - the book tends to diverge in seemingly random directions, and you're never quite sure where Sora is going with it. However, if you find this kind of random minutia interesting, as I do, then it also allows Sora to cover an even wider range of topics on a deep level.<br />If you find a mysterious, unreachable treasure on an unlikely island, and an ultra-secret society that has lasted for thousands of years to be interesting topics, then I recommend this book. Be aware, however, that it is quite dense at times with a detailed historical presentation of little-known topics (like the Vikings, esoteric Scottish leaders and families, etc.) - but this may be its strongest point.	2004-01-18
US	52700917	RR8F8RHWNB6SJ	0679146504	230148171	Winning Casino Craps (Other)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	The simplest, best book on craps	Winning Casino Craps is the ultimate book on craps. It's basic enough for the beginner to understand and get playing immediately, and yet has enough advanced strategy to give the more experienced player a statistical edge beyond any other game in the casino.<br />Besides covering the rules, including different sections on \\"right\\" betting and \\"wrong\\" betting, the book also distills the statistical realities of the game and outlines a specific plan to best exploit those statistics. The result? Your best chance at beating the casinos, at almost 50:50 odds. He even has a section on managing your money at the table, regardless of how deep your pockets are.<br />Speaking from experience, I have had excellent success with this book. There are three people I know of that use Silberstang's methods - myself, my father and another close friend. We are all up significantly over years of using it. Specifically - and this is 100% true - my friend was gambling in Tunica and was down to $10. With only this last $10 chip on the table and using Silberstang's strategy exclusively, there was a hot roll that lasted forty-five minutes. At the end of the roll the guy next to my friend had made over $3000. And what did my friend make on the same roll using the methods taught in this book? $10,000 on the *exact same roll.*	2004-01-18
US	52700917	R3OOK4JLBJR9WJ	0393057518	88361465	The Lie That Tells a Truth: A Guide to Writing Fiction	Books	5	36	39	N	N	I'm in love with this book	John Dufresne's \\"The Lie That Tells A Truth\\" is one of the best books on writing that I own, rivaling even Steven King's \\"On Writing.\\" From the start, TLTTAT  gets you writing, the most obvious and ironically overlooked aspect of being a writer.<br />The introduction starts, \\"I'll assume that if you're reading this introduction, then you must want to write. Why else would you be loitering around the Writing/Publishing section of the bookstore when all the really interesting and dangerous people are over in the Self-Help/Addiction aisle?\\" The book is laden with a self-aware humor, knowing writers are in a desperate state, completely miserable when they are not writing yet so prone to finding other things to fill their time.<br />TLTTAT is divided into three main sections that logically break the writing process down. The first section, \\"The Process,\\" covers the basics of getting it in gear and writing a story. He repeats again and again that a writer writes, and if you're not writing every day then you are \\"inviting madness.\\" I could relate to this deeply. There's nothing more frustrating than wanting to write but for some reason not doing it. Dufresne's solution is simple - just do it. And he gives you plenty of exercises to get you going. In this first section he also discusses rewriting, clearly driving the point home that rewriting is the essence of writing. In fact, he's able to show, in what might be the only book I know of that does this, the real process of writing a novel or screenplay or short story or poem, or any work of creativity. He tells you to disallow your critical self to sit down at the desk with you while writing the first draft, to write from the heart. Get to know your characters and then allow them to lead you through their story (and he provides exercises to encourage this). Then, discussing the revision process, he specifically outlines several steps you can take to produce stronger writing, such as eliminating adverbs, eliminating most adjectives,  avoiding the passive voice. These things may seem obvious, but he presents them in a lucid way, with actual examples of revision, that will improve your overall writing quality. <br />The second section deals with the specifics of plot development, dialogue, character growth, point of view, beginnings and endings, and settings. Taking what you know from how the writing of a story actually occurs (from the first section) you now learn the mechanics of developing that story.<br />The last section is primarily about how to glean the most from the work of others.<br />I can't recommend this book highly enough. If you are an aspiring writer, buy this book today, along with Steven King's \\"On Writing\\" and Linda Seger's \\"Making a Good Writer Great.\\" In a library full of writing books, \\"The Lie That Tells a Truth\\" shines brightly.	2004-01-10
US	52700917	RNWKQ610UVAO3	0743490304	315416156	Deception Point	Books	4	3	3	N	N	This guy can write	After enjoying The Davinci Code I was interested, like most people, to see what else Dan Brown had to offer. Deception Point is the only other book of his that I've read, and I must say, I enjoyed it. You can say what you want about wild, unbelievable plot lines, but whatever you want to call it, Dan Brown weaves it together in such a way that makes the book difficult to put down.<br />The jacket of the book keeps most of the plot line hidden, so I'll do the same in this review. Basically, the novel starts with NASA making a major scientific discovery in the polar ice cap. Certain experts are called in to verify it, and from there we travel on an adventure encompassing geology, astrophysics, political science, marine biology, elite special forces - you name it, it's probably in here - yet the novel doesn't feel crammed with useless facts. He manages to use it all to enrich the plot.<br />The praises are the fast pacing, great tension in practically every scene, characters with interesting histories, and unbelievable research depth. The intricacy with which he covers such things as special forces units and scientific issues rival Clancy and Crichton.<br />Lastly, my biggest criticism with Brown is his dialogue. The Davinci Code was better, but there are moments in Deception Point that are staggeringly awful. Astrophysicists don't say things like \\"Bite me, virgin boy.\\" He had a group of the world's most esteemed scientific researchers speaking to each other like teenagers at a mall.<br />If you like Crichton or Clancy, I can recommend this book to you with confidence. I think Brown is establishing himself as a long-running novelist in the elite ranks of popular fiction writers, and Deception Point is certainly a step in that direction.	2004-01-04
US	52700917	R28I30NWFIE0AG	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	3	4	5	N	Y	Good fiction, bad history	The Da Vinci Code is just about everything a good fiction novel should be. The topic is fresh and interesting, Dan Brown obviously has a command of the material, you'll learn a great deal while reading it (a la Crichton), the story is a page turner and Brown's prose is okay - about what you'd expect for this type of book. However, it *is* fiction, and before you run off and renounce your belief in a Christian god who isn't a woman, it's wise to remember that. As a work of fiction, \\"The Da Vinci Code\\" succeeds greatly. As a text to present facts, it is much less successful. Unfortunately, while I would love to just judge the book on things like characters, plot and dialogue, there is a great deal of information in this book that is presented in a very one-sided fashion that while entertaining, will certainly serve to confuse opinions of an already distraught religion.<br />I would liken Brown to a magician. A magician is one who creates an illusion, the audience buys into that illusion completely, and thus we have magic. Brown achieves the same result with \\"The Da Vinci Code.\\" He is able to convince the reader that the very world is at stake within the outcome of this story, and that Da Vinci's opinion on a topic is as authoritative as the Bible itself. He accomplishes the first task by alluding to supernatural secrets early on, but very gradually reveals that this \\"world changing\\" secret is nothing more than the conspiracy theory of some cultish history club. However, Brown does it in such a way that we don't even notice it and the \\"secret\\" seems important right up until the end of the novel. This is not an easy thing to accomplish as a writer and it's why I say Brown largely succeeded. (I'll come back to this.) He achieves the second task of making the reader believe in Da Vinci's opinions as gospel by showing us things we've never seen before about his paintings, even though they are right in front of us. For the reader who looks up one of these painting on the internet and follows Brown's analysis of it, it can be startling and before you even realize it, you've forgotten that Da Vinci was just a man with an admittedly warped point of view. This ends the book review. What follows is a short commentary on the topic itself.<br />First, what's the validity of this secret of the Knights of Templar? Brown writes about their secret documents and what they say, and asserts that the originators of the Bible kept those works out for political reasons. This is conspiracy speak at its best. The fact is when you delve into the documents that weren't included in the canonical scripture, yes they say certain things that seem to contradict other areas of the Bible. But many of them also contain areas of factual inaccuracy, such as historical inaccuracies, that deems them of a dubious source. Compare that with the four Gospels - the most researched, time tested writings in this planet's history - and almost no discrepancies in transcription have been found, even with the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls. Furthermore, the logic that these documents were left out for political reasons is a little sketchy, since including them in the canon would only have tightened the cords between paganism and true Christianity, which is what the conspiracy \\"experts\\" assert Constantine was attempting to achieve. Lastly, how important would revealing these secret documents be, even if they directly contradicted established biblical truths? Would the foundations of Western culture come crumbling down around the black hole of the Catholic Church? I don't think so. Just because these documents, if they even exist, say something other than established scripture says, it doesn't mean they are accurate, especially considering they would be presented by people of a very strong theological bias which automatically questions their credibility. At best, all it would do would be to expose a slightly plausible alternative to traditional Christian texts, something thathas stood the test of thousands of years and hundreds of scholars. Change the world? No more than Mormonism, Jehovah's Witnesses or Christian Scientists have, and probably less. There are masses of historical documents that say any number of things we as a culture don't largely believe. This would only be one more set. And most of what Brown criticizes about organized religion applies to Catholicism only - the horrors of the crusades, the intertwining of paganism with Christ - these things were largely addressed by something Brown conveniently ignores, something called the \\"reformation\\" which has given us the entirety of Protestantism, a tradition free from the Papal influence he calls into question.<br />And at the end of the book I was left feeling Brown had done an excellent job of making something out of nothing. He had given the faade of importance to a discovery that would probably make national news, might merit a National Geographic channel hour-long special and maybe would give those few remaining Catholics on the fence after their priests unthinkable actions an excuse to bail out.<br />So we're back to fiction. As a work of fiction, \\"The Da Vinci Code\\" stands strong. I just hope people don't take it too seriously.has stood the test of thousands of years and hundreds of scholars. Change the world? No more than Mormonism, Jehovah's Witnesses or Christian Scientists have, and probably less. There are masses of historical documents that say any number of things we as a culture don't largely believe. This would only be one more set. And most of what Brown criticizes about organized religion applies to Catholicism only - the horrors of the crusades, the intertwining of paganism with Christ - these things were largely addressed by something Brown conveniently ignores, something called the \\"reformation\\" which has given us the entirety of Protestantism, a tradition free from the Papal influence he calls into question.<br />And at the end of the book I was left feeling Brown had done an excellent job of making something out of nothing. He had given the faade of importance to a discovery that would probably make national news, might merit a National Geographic channel hour-long special and maybe would give those few remaining Catholics on the fence after their priests unthinkable actions an excuse to bail out. <br />So we're back to fiction. As a work of fiction, \\"The Da Vinci Code\\" stands strong. I just hope people don't take it too seriously.	2003-11-11
US	52700917	R2F4M6HKUQ4KAO	0521631440	705023368	Can a Darwinian be a Christian?: The Relationship between Science and Religion	Books	2	12	30	N	N	Yes	There. I just saved you twenty bucks. Seriously, I don't think Ruse ever really comes close to solving the problem and ultimately this book will leave you more confused than when you started. Something that he never completely explores (and a fellow reviewer didn't consider when he deemed this problem &quot;insoluble&quot;) is the idea that Genesis 1 and 2 are in fact a mixture of symbolic truth combined with actual theological truth. If you consider that the point of Genesis is to show &quot;who and why,&quot; not &quot;when and how&quot; (which is the actual case with these chapters and in other extra-biblical writings of the same time period) then it is well within the realm of possibility that God did insert his image into man at some point, thus making him different from the rest of the animal kingdom. This allows for a fall of man and doesn't contain the need for God to create Adam and Eve from dust in order to do it.<br />This is just one possibility that I don't think was properly explored, and ultimately no viable option is presented. I'd recommend Kenneth Miller's &quot;Finding Darwin's God&quot; as a much more informative source, a book that actually provides answers and has the courage to challenge longstanding theories and theorists.	2003-09-05
US	52700917	R2HFZWETKC3KXX	0671024256	44310359	On Writing: A Memoir of the Craft	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Instant Classic	Stephen King has produced what I believe will long be considered one of the greatest instructional works on fiction writing. If you are an aspiring creative writer, there is no excuse - you need this book.<br />&quot;On Writing&quot; is divided into two sections. The first comprises a series of essays, relating everything from his childhood to the publication of Carrie. This is entertaining writing within and of itself, and really shows King's ability to engage a reader. In the second section King tells us what he's learned in a lifetime of being one of the world's top writers. This is what you're paying your money for.<br />Unlike the many other books of this sort I've read, &quot;On Writing&quot; doesn't pull any punches and isn't afraid to state it plainly. King has something that most other instructional writer's don't have - about 8 zillion sales to back up anything he writes - and therefore isn't afraid to tell us that &quot;the road to hell is paved with adverbs&quot; and &quot;it's impossible to make a competent writer out of a bad one.&quot; There are several examples given of both good and bad writing, laced with King's observations on many of the authors he has read over the years.<br />I can't recommend &quot;On Writing&quot; high enough. This line alone was worth the price of the book - &quot;...You must not come lightly to the page...&quot; - and it's only a fraction of the wisdom you're sure to encounter.	2002-12-02
US	52700917	R31PXMHTPF34LS	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Nanobots and Nanoplots	Well, MC is allowed to write a so-so book every once in awhile - and this is it. If anything, I would normally be accused of going too easy on Crichton, since he's probably my favorite contemporary author. I've read all of his books, including the John Lange and Michael Douglas pseudonym novels, and I saw some uncharacteristic errors in \\"Prey.\\"<br />First, \\"Prey\\" is written in first person, and I don't particularly enjoy his first person writing (Case of Need, Rising Sun, etc.). It's not just a style preference - it actually stems from Crichton's intrinsic writing style. As any of his readers know, what makes his writing so amazing is his ability to seamlessly integrate in-depth research into fiction. However, the first person perspective naturally limits a writer's freedom to do this, and in Crichton's writing this tends to lead to awkward inner-reflections and cumbersome bursts of dialogue. While \\"Prey\\" manages this far better than say, \\"Rising Sun,\\" it still limits what is arguably the best reason for reading Crichton to begin with.<br />Second, this is the one novel where I would surrender to his more ardent critics that the \\"technology\\" portion of the novel competed with the plot. In past novels the unbelievably deep science has been woven into the story with amazing clarity, and the technology serves the story itself (Jurassic Park, Timeline). In \\"Prey,\\" however, I found in more than any other novel that Crichton was using a contrived and cookie-cutter plot as a soapbox to enlighten us on scientific ethics, in this case artificial intelligence. The plot is simple and in my opinion jaded - scientist screw up, release something bad into nature, it needs to be contained...I've already read \\"The Stand\\" and \\"Outbreak.\\" While Crichton normally takes the normal and elevates it to the sublime, in this case he didn't. The plot was nothing more than the obvious outcome of a given situation. The science was also much more complicated than in previous works and I would imagine the average reader will be lost throughout much of it, or at least struggling so hard to understand nanotechnology they'll miss the relevance to the story.<br />Third, the dialogue is off. Thinking back throughout his works, I realized that Crichton hasn't written many teenagers. This book shows us why. There are sections of the teenagers' dialogue that are literally embarrassing to read. Example: \\"...I'm trying Dad. But he is a majorly turkey butt.\\" \\"I am not! Up yours, weasel poop!\\" No it's not a typo - \\"a majorly turkey butt.\\" I don't know if Crichton (or his editor) has actually spoken to a teenager in the last 25 years, but in my experience no kids - nor any other human being I've ever known - actually talk like this. The teen dialogue is utterly unacceptable.<br />These are the major problems with the novel, and I feel it's at the bottom of Crichton's efforts. If you're a fan it's definitely worth reading, but for me it just didn't have that special thing that all his other novels have.<BR>-RDG	2002-12-02
US	52700917	R1I15LW4JAJ7U8	0740707507	464595759	The Far Side Gallery Off-The-Wall Calendar with Other	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Keeps Getting Better	I don't know how the guy does it. They keep getting funnier and there are always ones I've never seen before, as well as the ones I've always loved. You won't be disappointed if you are a Far Side fan. If you're not a Far Side fan, well, then I can't help you.	2001-07-26
US	52700917	R3G1G1UAA8JNHI	0385500246	600331387	Dave Pelz's Putting Bible: The Complete Guide to Mastering the Green (Dave Pelz Scoring Game Series)	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Very Disorganized	I was excited to get this book after getting Pelz's Short Game Bible, which is excellent. This book , however, is quite different. While The Short Game Bible presents a clear and simple plan to improve, the Putting Bible does not. It's quite disorganized, in fact. What is particlarly annoying about the book is that you'll read in the first several chapters &quot;...and we'll cover that later...&quot; He just starts to get into a concept and then leaves it, claiming he'll come back to it in the later &quot;technique chapters.&quot; It's just not a simple book to read and glean information from. I'd have to say that my putting did not improve as a result of the book, and that's partly my own fault. The problem is that Pelz makes it very easy to learn just enough to get you into trouble (i.e., forget how to putt), and then put the book down. Buy it, and especially read it - with great caution.	2001-07-26
US	52700917	RNGK2JRALLAA7	0312203551	289955253	Q School Confidential: Inside Golf's Cruelest Tournament	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Well-written, but a little heavy	Gould is an excellent writer and researcher and this book shows it. The book definitely gives a satisfactory overview of Q School, whether you are just curious about it or a potential qualifier. The problem is that the book goes into far greater depth than the typical reader will care about and I found myself skimming large portions of it. I think most readers expected a book that dealt with today's Q School, how it works, and colorful anecdotes from the past years.<br />However, the book is bloated with the school's history which I was not particularly interested in. In fact, the greater part of the book focused on the history, rather than the contemporary structure, which is what most of us are curious about.<br />There isn't anything else like this out there to my knowledge, so if you are really curious about Q School then by all means buy it. But be prepared for less info about contemporary players you know and love, and more about the obscure and confusing history of Q School.	2001-07-24
US	52700917	R2D2K0F0JY6MX3	0062725009	172232258	Writing Screenplays That Sell	Books	5	12	13	N	N	One of the best	This is by far one of the best books on screenwriting that I own. Hauge is a skilled and experienced teacher and his methods are communicated clearly. I find that the book is a perfect blend between the over-technical school (Syd Field) and the &quot;just write it&quot; school (Lazarus, Viki King). Highly recommended.	2001-07-19
US	52700917	R30DDBHXE89SAI	0312269080	903116031	Secrets of Film Writing	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Worth Owning	I wasn't sure what to think of this book at first. It's a little unorthodox, a little unorganized, a little rambling. But I think there is a method to Lazurus' madness. He manages to bring his ideas across in easily digestable chunks. My one complaint is that the book reads a little more like a rough draft rather than a polished manuscript. <br />Of all the screenwriting books I own (that would be all the big ones and some of the not-so-big-ones) this most clearly brings out what it is really like to be a living, breathing screenwriter. Lazurus is one. He's not the  pedantic Syd Field (who to my knowledge has never sold a script) or the methodical Michael Hauge, but what he offers in pragmatism makes up for any shortcomings in presentation.<br />-rdg3	2001-07-04
US	52700917	R3F4X9ZQ06YCN0	1879505134	296466749	Screen-Writing Tricks of the Trade	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Straight Talk - Pragmatic Advice	I've read about a dozen scriptwriting books and this was in many ways the best of the bunch.<br />Froug has taught several of today's top-paid screenwriters. His methods are time-tested and proven effective. Many myths were dispelled in this book, and I found that it contained a great deal of very practical tips that other books simply didn't deal with. For example, how do you know if your script is boring? Will it get ripped-off? How do I keep from losing the &quot;fire&quot; for writing my script? These questions and many others are answered in the book.<br />One of the best things about &quot;Tricks of the Trade&quot; is the way in which it strikes a balance between structure and &quot;feel&quot; in your writing. Froug isn't shy about questioning the rigid formulaic methods which Syd Field teaches. While acknowledging that a reasonable structure *is* important, he states that it is far more important to write from the heart. This is one of the first screenwriting books I've seen do this - to actually tell you that Act I doesn't have to end on page 25, that there musn't be a certain event on page 45, etc. While agreeing that certain elements need to be present to create a good, solid story, Froug boldly teaches us to write from out heart first.<br />I would recommend reading &quot;How to Write a Movie in 21 Days&quot; as a companion to this. It is sort of an opposite approach, being very formulaic, but once you have that perspective then you can read Froug's book and learn about the importance of the &quot;feel&quot; in your writing. <br />Lastly, what you'll find inside the covers...<br />- the process of writing, from conception to final draft  - creating a solid story  - writing powerful dialog  - finding ideas  - finding an agent/producer  - creating a strong protagonist  - much, much more<br />Enjoy, and happy writing!	2001-01-25
US	52700917	RIFGITLDDKNAY	0786866322	581501419	Shrink Your Handicap: A Revolutionary Program from an Acclaimed Psychiatrist and a Top 100 Golf Instructor	Books	2	2	3	N	N	So my swing is bad because of my mother?	A lot of psyco-babble here. The book delves into psychiatric concepts that might be a little too deep for the average golfer to wade through.<br />The major problem with this book is the writing. Apparently they tried to write it themselves. Two words: Ghost writer. They deperately needed one. It's disorganized and repeats itself frequently, but somehow never really brings the point across effectively.<br />I was excited about this book at first, but it's very difficult to stick with and get through. If you have every other book out there on golf, buy it. Otherwise you may want to pass.	2001-01-25
US	52700917	R38MGHERIGOQI	0941188582	267719354	Fade In: The Screenwriting Process, Second Edition	Books	1	2	2	N	N	*I* might as well have written this book	I am truly amazed that this book is in publication. Berman has literally no credentials to write such a book. In over ten years he has not even managed to *get an agent*! And this guy is supposed to tell *us* how to do it? Wow.<br />Aside from the obvious shortcomings mentioned above, this book requires you to read an entire screenplay by the author - and it is terrible - so he can teach you his methods. Okay. His methods haven't managed to even get him as far as acquiring an agent in ten years. What in God's name could we learn from a script that can't even land a published author an agent in a decade?<br />Under no circumstances should you waste a penny on this book. Its very existence undermines the work of others who actually have a right to author a book on the subject.	2001-01-25
US	52700917	RLKX2P30BDWHC	0060930497	922947589	Finding Darwin's God: A Scientist's Search For Common Ground Between God and Evolution	Books	5	8	11	N	Y	Challenging	Kenneth Miller has produced a thoroughly researched and convincing book dealing with an integration of science and faith. I highly recommend this work to anyone interested in the topic.<br />Miller meets every conceivable argument head-on. As I read the book, I would think ahead and say, &quot;But what about *this*?...&quot; and sure enough, a few pages later he would answer it. I was impressed at the fearlessness with which he took on all the young-Earth creationists, as well as staunch evolutionists like Gould. He deals with such tough questions as...Was man specifically &quot;designed&quot; as the final product of evolution, or was man what happened to evolve? How can true free will and an omnipotent God be possible? And of course, many more hard questions are explored.<br />The book is well organized, dealing with each camp in the debate one at a time, and thoroughly. The writing is good, and is written so as anyone can understand it.<br />This book is likely to challenge you wherever you come down on the issue, and it is well worth the read.	2000-11-19
US	52700917	R11W3C3K3DWJ5G	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	5	14	17	N	N	One of Crichton's most entertaining	I consider this to be among the best of Crichton's works, and I have read them all, even the John Lange/Michael Douglas pseudonym books.<br />I have seen this book criticized for it's lack of \\"depth,\\" which I assume means that he didn't do enough with the idea. Specifically, the novel is about a computer tycoon who invents a technology that allows people to travel in time - well, not actually in \\"time\\" but close enough. His intention is to create a \\"theme park\\" whereby customers can travel to their favorite spots in time.<br />Now, here comes the most widespread criticism. Couldn't you think of anything better than a theme park, Michael? Wouldn't this technology be worth more than that?<br />Well of course it would. But if you have read Crichton's other works, you know that he has what I would call a fairly cynical view of contemporary American culture. His point in this novel is that *despite* such an important technology, it's likely that the inventor of this gadget *would* use it for something as asinine as a theme park. That is basically the state of contemporary science - important discoveries are immediately being translated into big-money schemes.<br />At any rate, Crichton leads us through a well-crafted and exciting thriller involving that cutting-edge-impossible-science-made-plausible writing he's so well known for. He has also done his homework on medieval France, where the bulk of the story takes place. This is by far one of my most entertaining reads in some time.<br />Lastly, I'd like to mention a supposed \\"hole\\" in the plot that many critics have pointed out. This book deals with a \\"multi-verse\\" theory, whereby there is no actual travel in time, but that the characters travel to one of an infinite number of parallel universes, specifically one that exists in the exact time period that the character wants to visit. So they don't travel back in time within our own universe, but travel laterally in time to a *different* universe, one that happens to be identical to our own, but still only in the14th century.<br />To the point. There is a scene where a note left by someone in the parallel multi-verse (14th century France) shows up in our own universe, present-day. The criticism? That a note written in a 14th century parallel universe wouldn't show up in our own present-day universe. However, those critics fail to grasp the concept Crichton is working with. Given an infinite number of parallel universes, it is completely plausible that the exact same scenario (of traveling to a parallel universe) would play out countless times in countless universes. The idea is that a traveler from a parallel universe (i.e., other than ours) would have traveled to our *own* 14th century France and left the note which we would find in the present day. If you haven't read the book yet I'm sure this makes no sense. But it will come together after you have read it.<br />And I highly, highly recommend picking it up and reading it.	2000-11-01
US	52700917	R23DNE75LOEY8R	0062730665	636126079	How to Write a Movie in 21 Days: The Inner Movie Method	Books	5	109	114	N	N	Glad I Finally Bought It	I'll admit, I put off buying this book for some time. C'mon. A movie in 21 days? I'm not into &quot;get-rich&quot; quick scams. So I bought other books, and more books, and finally this one. I love it. I honestly don't think anyone will write a movie in 21 days by using this book and in my opinion the title should be changed. But what I love most about this book is this - *it gets you writing*. <br />I was sitting there with about a dozen good ideas but not really doing anything with them. Sure, I'd sit down and peck out my thoughts on one of them every day - procrastinating in the guise of progress - and then Viki King's book arrived in the mail. Through her writing I learned how to pick the best idea from my pool of several, how to develop it, and how to write it in the most effective way. Her main point is that we write from our hearts and then rewrite from our heads. She clearly instructs the writer how to accomplish this seemingly intangible task.<br />The book is also filled with great tidbits on various aspects of the writing life... paying the bills until you sell a script, dealing with loved ones, etc.<br />And lastly, as I mentioned earlier, this book gets you into gear and *writing*. She provides several easy and productive &quot;assignments&quot; that move you in the direction of completing your script. I hope this was helpful!	2000-10-05
US	52700917	RD90S5X6PGXFI	0898798108	765129834	The Complete Guide to Writing and Selling the Christian Novel	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Invaluable Resource	This is a terrific work. Ms. Stokes is an excellent writer and lucidly instructs the Christian on several relevant aspects of the CBA market. She presents the realities of being a Christian author and what the industry is like. She talks about very important issues the writer will have to face, but gives Christ-centered wisdom to help deal with them.<br />Of course you'll also find practical writing dealing with the craft itself - and I might add that whether you plan to write Christian fiction or not you will benefit from her teaching on these topics.<br />But what I found most enlightening was her insight into the Christian market... Genre definitions, what is popular now, writing proposals, etc.<br />A great book for the Christian novelist!	2000-10-05
US	52700917	RXLOP1ELKJ64S	0684859246	619339613	Harvey Penick's Little Red Book: Lessons and Teachings from a Lifetime in Golf	Books	5	10	12	N	N	It Never Gets Old	I've owned this book for a few years now, and like my caption says, it never gets old. <br />In this golfer's book you will find instruction, philosophy, and history - all woven masterfully together in the form of stories. Whether it's the lengthly section where Harvey gives his thoughts in the grip, or the extremely terse paragraph explaining why he never joined the tour, Penick uses the right words at the right times.<br />I've read it several times and often take it with me on long trips. It's broken into several very short segments, sometimes two or three on a page, sometimes two or three pages.  This means you can always pick it up, read a quick snipit, and walk away from it. <br />Lastly, I've found that whenever my golf game is struggling, I read this book and it always somehow gets back on track. I don't know if it's from the lucid instruction or the comforting philosophy, but either way this book has become an integral part of my golf regimen.	2000-10-05
US	52700917	R2COUEKM4RELED	0312187262	429526036	How to Write It, How to Sell It: Everything a Screenwriter Needs to Know About Hollywood	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Good information, but very unorganized	This book is a good introduction to screenwriting and certainly contains sound information. Let me say that first - you will learn from this book, and eventually it should be in your collection. The rating of 3 stars comes  from an almost complete lack of organization in the book. Palmer tends to  jump around from subject to subject, and the worst part is, there's NO  INDEX! Sure, you'll learn how and when to use &quot;your&quot; and  &quot;you're,&quot; or &quot;its&quot; and &quot;it's&quot; (which Palmer  overdoes throughout the book as an attempted joke), but why do I capitalize  only certain words in the screenplay? How do I superimpose words on the  screen? The book is silent on practical info such as this, and if it IS in  there, it's hard to find because of the lack of organization. For the  price, you can get much better books, such as &quot;Writing Screenplays  That Sell&quot; by Michael Hauge. It's unfortunate, because Palmer is  obviously talented and has much to say. It's just that the book needs a  little more of that germane information and it definitely needs an INDEX.	2000-07-01
