US	52705985	RGYCJOHORC96V	0380977427	727370009	Quicksilver (The Baroque Cycle, Vol. 1)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Remarkable, Clever Work of Historical Fiction	People tend to either love Neal Stephenson or hate him; at his best, he is brilliantly clever, laugh-out-loud funny, and displays a remarkable grasp not only of history, but of the history of ideas.  At his worst, he is smug, pedantic, self-indulgent, &quot;too clever by half&quot;, and somewhat coarse.  But Stephenson's virtues and flaws are both great -- he does nothing small in his literary efforts.  Stephenson is a writer of books -- books for books' sake, not books meant to be turned into movies.  They are grand adventures on a vast, thousand page scale, not meant to be digested in a weekend, but meant to be taken in over several months.  <br />Quicksilver contains all of these virtues and flaws, and in reading it, I have at times found myself alternately admiring the book and groaning over it -- but I have spent far more time admiring it than groaning.<br />The story, in short:  those familiar with Cryptonomicon will recognize that Quicksilver is, in a sense, a prequel, told three centuries before -- the intertwining fate of the Shaftoe and Waterhouse families again occurs; this time with Daniel Waterhouse -- college roommate of Sir Isaac Newton -- providing the technical, &quot;geek&quot; tour of the 17th century, and &quot;Half-cocked&quot; Jack Shaftoe providing the swashbuckling, Rabelaisan, adventure story.  Cryptography, precious metals, alchemy, and high level mathematics again provide a tapestry in which the plots and conspiracies interact.  <br />The tour is a grand one -- the slums of London and Paris, the markets of Amsterdam, the siege of Vienna, a Walpurgisnacht on a German mountainside, and escaping Blackbeard on ship in Cape Cod Bay are part of the grand vista.  <br />This is a great book for a lover of European history -- Stephenson makes the tour enjoyable, and he really is very funny.  But be prepared -- the journey is a long one, with many twists and turns along the way.	2004-01-26
US	52705985	R37ZGTSD7GEYPL	0679725733	111847135	Claudius the God: And His Wife Messalina	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Worthy Successor to I, Claudius	Claudius the God is the sequel to the legendary &quot;I, Claudius&quot;.  Though not quite as powerful as its predecessor, the book continues the story of Claudius after his ascension to the throne.  <br />The book points out the many pitfalls of ruling a state; Claudius, sadly, is as much at the mercy of his wife as the Emperor Augustus was his -- a blind spot that nearly costs Claudius his throne.  The advice Claudius receives from his friend Herod Agrippa in the beginning of the book -- to &quot;trust no one&quot;, is indeed good advice.  <br />As a character, Herod Agrippa steals the book -- the book's first seventy or so pages deal with his story, which form a very amusing and interesting digression -- and shows how Herod Agrippa's influence in Rome is instrumental in bringing the Senate around to recognizing Claudius.  <br />Claudius introduces legal reforms; converts the harbor at Ostia into an all-season port to help secure Rome's food supply, conquers Britain, and revives the Roman religion.  The book is a wealth of historical detail and interesting anecdotes.<br />The book is also engaging and entertaining; although one soon sees that the job of Emperor is no fun indeed -- Claudius has as much cause for paranoia as any of his predecessors.  <br />The book is a must read for anyone who reads &quot;I, Claudius&quot;, and is a very good work of literature that brings the Roman age to life.	2004-01-02
US	52705985	R1656V4X0C5GRZ	067972477X	111847135	I, Claudius From the Autobiography of Tiberius Claudius Born 10 B.C. Murdered and Deified A.D. 54 (Vintage International)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Masterpiece of Historical Fiction	I had been meaning to read this book for many years, and having just completed it, I wish I had never put it off.  This is a superb work of historical fiction.  Robert Graves manages to recreate the personalities, customs, and idioms of ancient Rome in a way that makes it perfectly understandable.  Reading the history of Rome in a textbook, one has a hard time sorting out the differences and the family relationships of the Julians and the Claudians; reading &quot;I, Claudius&quot; you have no trouble keeping them all straight -- the stern but virtuous Augustus, the cruel and paranoid Tiberius, and the deranged, amoral Caligula veritably leap off the page.  <br />One sympathizes with Claudius, who, alone of the family, is left to live his life without fear of being poisoned or assassinated by his family rivals because of his physical disabilities.  Claudius, who wants nothing more than to be left to his books and who secretly pines for a return to the Republic, ends up becoming the emperor who rebuilds the empire after Caligula's disastrous rule.  <br />Graves has a remarkable gift in the book for imagery and anecdote -- the book is a compendium of small tales about Rome that add up to a large and marvelous mosaic.  <br />Don't hesitate to buy the book and read it.  It is a remarkable work.	2003-12-11
US	52705985	R3S52VAXMJ3K0J	0060512806	555229230	Cryptonomicon	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Dazzling:  Computers, Codes, and Buried Treasure	Neal Stephenson's Cryptonomicon has to be read to be fully explainable or appreciated.  An epic book, it details two interlocking plots involving two interlocking families:  The Waterhouses and the Shaftoes.  Part of the novel is set in the current day, and we follow two Silicon valley types, Randy Waterhouse and his friend Avi as they set up a \\"data haven\\" in the Philippines -- and as their fiber optic cables are laid on the ocean floor by the Shaftoes, American expatriate adventurers, a sunken German submarine is discovered off of Manila, filled with Nazi gold.  Strangely enough, the submarine contains a document with the world \\"Waterhouse\\" on it, and Randy is confronted with a mystery -- what did his grandfather actually do in World War II?  <br />The other part of the story is set in World War II, and we follow Randy's grandfather, and a marine named Bobby Shaftoe, through their adventures, which involve high level crtyptograhy and a secret military detachment which exists to spread disinformation to the Nazis and the Japanese, in order to protect the secrets that the broken Enigma codes have revealed.  <br />But this is no mere Clive Cussler tale -- it contains levels of irony, comedy, and just pure information that bring it to a very high creative level.  There are portions of this work that will have you laughing out loud -- the cameo performances by Lieutenant Ronald Reagan and General Douglas MacArthur are masterpieces of sublime absurdity -- and other portions that will leave you in wonderment at Stephenson's technical erudition (van Eck Phreaking anyone? 4096 bit encryption? \\"One-time pads\\" generated by a deck of cards?).  <br />It is a breathtaking performance -- a fascinating, complicated work that can be enjoyed on many different levels.	2003-10-20
US	52705985	R1UQ0Y6J19MLQ5	0399149864	919064525	Pattern Recognition	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Gibson's usual superb effort	I consider William Gibson to be one of the finest prose stylists around today; even if he wrote about dull or mundane topics, he would be worth reading for his diamond-hard prose.  Along with being a masterful writer, Gibson is also a tremendous science-fiction visionary -- if he were a dull writer, he would still be worth reading for the beauty of his ideas.  If you have not read any Gibson, you should probably start with the classic Neuromancer -- a remarkable work of fiction, especially considering that it was published in 1984, when the Internet as we know it was still far off. <br />This book, Pattern Recognition, is in some ways the least typical of Gibson's work -- it is set in the present.  It does, however, possess some key elements of Gibson's haunted universe -- the melancholy longing for rare consumer goods from a past era, the uncomfortableness with the power of the corporate mafia, sophisticated military and intelligence equipment, the hard edge of high fashion, and a love of good old technological junk that still somehow manages to work -- discarded old computers and broken-down people.  <br />The story, in brief:  Cayce Pollard is a highly-paid consultant to big corporations on the design of corporate logos.  She has a unique talent which also forms part of her greatest phobia -- she knows good design when she sees it, and has an uncomfortable, phobic reaction to corporate symbols that do not meet her appeal -- the Michelin Man, for instance, makes her physically ill.  <br />She is recruited by a new-media CEO named Hubertus Bigend to track down some rare footage that a &quot;garage Spielberg&quot; is releasing in bits and pieces over the web to a small, but fanatical internet newsgroup -- a strange movie, it seems, shot in an unknown place and time.  Bigend suspects that the movie could be &quot;branded&quot; and released for big bucks, and wants Cayce, who is one of the avid followers of &quot;the footage&quot; -- to determine its unknown author.<br />The hunt disrupts Cayce's life -- she spends time in London, Japan, and in Russia tracking down the clues to the author's identity.  As the same time, she is also trying to resolve a mystery about her father, who disappeared in lower Manhattan during 9/11.  In that her father was a retired, high-ranking CIA operative, the search is by no means routine.  <br />The book is, like all of Gibson's work, a glimpse into the melancholy soul of another world.  Highly recommended.	2003-08-29
US	52705985	R1BK2JLI0ACPB9	0786710497	719920620	Food for the Dead: On the Trail of New England's Vampires	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Excellent New England Folklore	Believe it or not -- and after reading &quot;Food for the Dead&quot; you will indeed believe it -- Vampires are not a literary invention of the nineteenth century, but are rooted in the folklore of many cultures -- including, of all places, rural Rhode Island.  <br />Of course, they did not call them vampires, but the folklore is so similar to vampirism that it is immediately recognizable as the same mythic type.  <br />Briefly: Michael Bell explores a practice that occurred in at least three documented accounts (his research into the archives and newspapers of the time is superb) of the families of tuberculosis victims (&quot;consumption&quot;) digging up a recently deceased family member to ensure that the dead family member was indeed dead, and was not preying on the living.  Part of the New England folklore concerning consumption was that when family members started dying of the disease in succession, it meant that the first victim was feeding on the living -- and the proof of this was to dig up the deceased person's heart to ensure that it did not contain &quot;fresh&quot; blood -- sure evidence that the dead person was not entirely dead.  <br />Bell finds the practice was not limited just to Rhode Island, but indeed had passed into the folklore of Connecticut and Vermont as well, and the belief persisted among rural folk as late as the 1890s.  <br />Bell discusses many issues in the book, including the origins of the folklore, the prejudice of city people towards rural people (newspaper accounts of the period are pretty harsh in their condemnation of the practice), the history of tuberculosis, the need to protect small cemeteries from vandals and curiosity seekers, and even how some of the source material of the myth found its way into the writings of H.P. Lovecraft.  <br />The book is a very thorough and well researched, and handled sympathetically.  Well worth reading.	2003-08-28
US	52705985	R30RCACQN00K72	0553562819	511407628	Globalhead	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Hits and Misses	This collection of short stories contains some interesting \\"hits\\" (Hollywood Kremlin, Storming the Cosmos, We See Things Differently, Are you for 86?) and some disappointing \\"misses\\" (The Sword of Damocles).  <br />Sterling is at his best when he is discussing alternative futures close to our own, and he has done his homework in studying two rival cultures that play roles in his alternate universes -- the Muslim world and the world of the old Soviet Union.  He creates memorable characters (the international arms dealer/hustler Leggy Starlitz, for instance) and generates a lot of thought-provoking ideas (Will Turing-conscious AI's embrace Islam?  Was the Tunguska blast really caused by an alien speacecraft? Will Islam become the dominant superpower -- threatened only by American rock and roill?  Will genetically engineered pets capable of human-like thought and speech exist?).  <br />Sterling's prose here is not of the quality of William Gibson's, or indeed, as good as Sterling is in other works, such as Schismatrix, or The Difference Engine.  It is a good collection of stories, for the most part, and makes a good companion on a trip to the beach.	2003-08-16
US	52705985	R229555PG5UHSF	0441003702	548875680	Schismatrix Plus (Complete Shapers-Mechanists Universe)	Books	5	44	46	N	N	Superb Sci Fi Reminiscent of Heinlein and Gibson	I became interested in Bruce Sterling's writing because he co-authored a book with my favorite sci-fi writer, William Gibson, called &quot;The Difference Engine&quot; about an alternative history of Victorian England.  Sterling's Schismatrix Plus shows that he is truly Gibson's equal as a science fiction writer, capable of inventing a complete alternate universe.  <br />The Schismatrix novel, and the short stories that accompany it in this edition, take place in the future, where human beings have migrated to space stations and circumlunar colonies within the solar system.  The schism at the heart of the universe is between two sects; the Shapers, who are genetic engineers; and the Mechanists, who believe in cybernetics.  The Schismatrix novel follows the character Abelard Lindsay through his several hundred years of life, first starting out as a Shaper revolutionary, then after his exile becoming a pirate, and eventually the father of a new sect called Posthumanism.  The book is reminiscent of Heinlein's &quot;Time Enough For Love&quot; -- we follow Lindsay through his several re-creations of himself much like we do Lazarus Long in Heinlein's work. <br />The book has an eery beauty to it; the posthuman universe, although melancholy, is not without charm.  Central to the work is a distrust of ideology -- the blood feuds in the work between the various sects are extremely destructive of the characters' personal relationships; but Sterling's message is still positive -- all narrow sects are doomed in the end by the shock of the new future, and all old revolutionaries are outdone by their descendants.  <br />The short stories that accompany the novel are also very good; and they are helpgul in explaining, in shorthand, the universe of the author.  Sterling does not coddle the reader -- his universe is believable in part because he does not explain its cleverness in long narrative passages -- you discover it as you go.  This makes the book's many turns seem as shockingas they are to the characters themselves.  <br />An excellent work, a must for any modern sci-fi collection.	2003-07-29
US	52705985	R3V92VQCKJV534	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Entertaining Work of Conspiracy	Angels and Demons is a very interesting work -- say what you will about Dan Brown's rather cardboard characters, but he certainly knows good subject matter when he comes across it.  <br />This book touches on a lot of interesting ground -- CERN and nuclear physics, a papal conclave, the Illuminati, space planes, the works of Galileo and Bernini, and a race against time.  A book about any of these things would be interesting; Brown serves up a mystery involving all of these things.  His protagonist, a Harvard professor named Robert Langdon, is called to CERN to help solve a rather bizarre murder.  He soon finds that his life is turned upside down and he has less than a day to save the Vatican from destruction by the Illuminati.  To do so, he has to solve clues that lead him and his friend Vittoria -- a beautiful CERN physicist -- through a scavenger hunt of Rome's churches, looking for clues left for them by the Illuminati's founders.  <br />The book is always entertaining, and is well worth reading.  Brown has hit on a very novel formula for a his works -- an age old mystery, a smart and beuatiful woman, word games and puzzles, and a tour through Europe.  The formula works very well both here and in the Da Vinci code.  <br />One sometimes wishes that Brown had the skill and humor of Umberto Eco in developing places and characters, but perhaps this will come in time.  I recommend the book.  It is very entertaining.	2003-07-02
US	52705985	R13OHZ1Z2EKBX5	0345368754	276635923	Foucault's Pendulum	Books	5	2	5	N	N	A Dazzling Work of Conspiracy	Umberto Eco's books are not for the faint of heart.  Eco is a master of history and literature, and his books are like a quick tour through a doctorate program in Renaissance literature and history.  This is no accident; he is, after all, a professor of semiotics at the University of Bologna when he is not writing his unusual fiction.  <br />This book, Foucault's Pendulum, is a tour through the conspiracies involving the Knights Templar.  Three rather eccentric employees of a Milan publishing firm become intrigued with the story of the Knights Templar and all matter of esoterica, including the Kabalah, the Eleusinian Mysteries, the Rosicrucians and Freemasons, Brazilian religions including the umbanda and candomble, and the Templars.  Assisted by a knowledgeable and mysterious Count, who may or may not be one of the incarnations of the Comte de Saint-Germain, the three have fun in building an overarching theory of conspiracy, which they call The Plan, assisted by a primitive computer named Abulafia.  <br />But then they discover that the Plan is actually true -- and then they are on the run for their lives.  <br />The book is on many levels silly, but the tremendous skill and knowledge of Eco make it all fun, exciting, mysterious, and educational.  Eco has skills worthy of a time travelelr in that he not only has a trmeendous body of knowledge, but he has a remarkable grasp for the history of ideas -- how ideas were regarded in their own place and time.  <br />A marvelous work, well worth reading.	2003-06-10
US	52705985	R16LM3CXX6IUVV	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Controversial, but Fun	A remarkable book, reminiscent of Umberto Eco's Foucault's Pendulum and also Eco's Name of the Rose.  A Havard symbologist, Robert Langdon, is summoned by French police to the Louvre, where the chief curator has been murdered.  Langdon initially believes that the police are looking for his help, but with the help of French cryptologist Sophie Neveu, realizes that he is a suspect, and has unwittingly stumbled onto an age-old mystey -- and to solve the murder and prove his innocence, he must do no less than find the Holy Grail.<br />The book has numerous word puzzles that Robert and Sophie must solve enroute to finding the grail, with the assistance of a rather eccentric British grail enthusiast.  The book hits much of the ground covered by Baigent and Leigh in their conspiracy classic, \\"Holy Blood, Holy Grail\\", as the two race to discover the secret of the grail and its mysterious guardians, the Prieur de Sion, ahead of ruthless rivals including a devout, yet murderous, albino monk from the conservative Catholic organization Opus Dei.<br />Many people consider the book anti-Catholic, and one wonders why Brown felt he had to single out a real Catholic organization to provide his villains, but Brown does carefully exculpate the organizations in the end through a series of plot twists, preventing serious religious fury, and no doubt, some lawsuits.<br />Nevertheless, the book is a rich tapestry of fascinating facts about Leonardo da Vinci, several of whose works figure in the plot clues, as well as taking a stroll through ground Grail conspiracy researchers know well -- the Louvre, St. Sulpice Cathedral, the Temple Church in London, and Rosslyn Chapel.<br />Devout Catholics will no doubt find the book disturbing, for it is not sympathetic to the church.  It is, however, a fascinating mystery, and  lot of fun for those who love conspiracies.	2003-06-02
US	52705985	R3D5E3JAU1CMN9	044900371X	429783385	The Orchid Thief: A True Story of Beauty and Obsession (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	A Fantastic Book About An Obsession	This is one of the finest books I have read in many years.  I was introduced to it through the enjoyable movie \\"Adaptation\\", but I did not realize that the book actually existed until I saw it in a local bookstore.  <br />The author, Susan Orlean, gives a good forward to the book (a self-interview) in which she explains how the unusual movie got made from the book -- and how the movie is not to be taken seriously (her character in the movie did not really kill a screenwriter in real life).  <br />That being said, the book is wonderful -- Susan follows the legal difficulties of John Laroche, an orchid poacher and amateur botanist, as he embarks on his quest to find, clone, and mass produce the rare \\"ghost\\" orchid.  Laroche is something of an oddball, although as the book progresses, you begin to realize that Laroche is not much different from many of the more \\"respectable\\" orchid collectors in the book, and in fact is very much like the great orchid hunters of the Victorian era.  <br />Laroche is colorful and entertaining, and Susan's adventures in exploring the Florida swamps and the strange world of orchid enthusiasts is engaging, superbly written, and meticulously researched.  The book is really not just about orchids, but includes a rather interesting analysis of the state of Florida, a brief history of the Seminole Indians, a look at how hobbies become obsessions, and a good explanation of how organisms like orchids pursue evolutionary strategies to ensure their survival.  <br />I enjoyed the book immensely.  It is beautifully written, easy to read, and contains a wealth of information along with its memorable characters.	2003-05-26
US	52705985	R3KCMOT4W9BJXA	0060931841	288480034	Rule by Secrecy: The Hidden History That Connects the Trilateral Commission, the Freemasons, and the Great Pyramids	Books	4	5	8	N	N	A Grand Compendium of Conspiracy	Jim Marrs's book, Rule by Secrecy, is certainly ambitious.  It is no less than a compendium of more than 20 major conspiracies into a grand unified theory of conspiracy.  The book is certainly a good one for conspiracy buffs to have in their bookcase, because it summarizes all the major conspiracies pretty well, from the Baigent and Leigh \\"Holy Blood, Holy Grail\\" theories on the Knights Templar and the Merovingians to the manipulations of the Federal Reserve.  <br />Marrs is particularly strong on the financial conspiracies (House of Rothschild, Morgans, Rockefellers, the Fed) and on the CFR/Trilateral/Bilderberger family of foreign policy conspiracies.  I found the book somewhat weak in handling the Roswell/Area 51/Greys/Abduction family of conspiracies -- (although the aliens certainly have their place in Marrs's scheme of things), and was disappointed that he did not provide a more thorough Kennedy assassination scenario.  <br />The book is well written and methodically researched -- a tour through the authors in its bibliography would keep a good psychoanalyst busy for years -- but like all conspiracy works, it does suffer from leaps of faith, and enough logical sophistry to choke a pony.  <br />This being said, the book did not fail to entertain, and I spent about a week with it.  It is a good reference work to have if you are a student of conspiracy because of its broad nature.  It is also a good introductory work to studying conspiracies because it covers so much ground.	2003-05-26
US	52705985	R1HNZ2NQK72SDK	0440539811	727576641	The Illuminatus! Trilogy: The Eye in the Pyramid, The Golden Apple, Leviathan	Books	2	19	32	N	N	Interesting Ideas, Sometimes Amusing, Very Badly Structured	Imagine a world in which all the conspiracy theories are true, and you get the very bizarre alternate universe of the Illuminatus! Trilogy.  <br />The book is sometimes very funny, and hits on most of the major conspiracies, letting you know about the \\"death\\" of John Dillinger, the pyramid on the back of the dollar bill, the Kennedy Assassination, the theory of George Washington's imposter, and so forth.  It was written in the 1970s, so it is a bit dated, and its countercultural viewpoint is somewhat out of place today.  <br />It is a very badly structured book -- dozens of characters, hundreds of plot lines, and takes place in many different times and places.  The book also will change from one plot to another, mid page, without any type of break letting you know that the story is changing.  This is done intentionally to create a \\"mosaic\\" in which the various conspiracies and characters can interact, but to a reader it is very maddening.  <br />I love conspiracy theories, but rather than be content with existing organizations and places, the authors throw in a few of their own, each with annoying acronyms; as if to show how clever they can be.  <br />The men who wrote this are obviously very intelligent and well schooled in conspiracy theory, but the book lacks any kind of coherent structure or editorial discipline.  There is a lot of sand and a few pearls.  <br />Should be in the library of any conspiracy buff, but it is not on my list of favorites.  It also cannot hold a candle to Umberto Eco's \\"Foucault's Pendulum\\", which goes over some of the same ground in a much more coherent fashion.	2003-04-05
US	52705985	R3C7XSJ7YMPMB3	0393020185	790320833	The Seven Daughters of Eve: The Science That Reveals Our Genetic Ancestry	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Wonderful book about DNA	Bryan Sykes was one of the leaders of a great revolution in anthropology and the social sciences; the tool which he used to advance this revolution was the analysis of mitochondrial DNA.  <br />While DNA in the cell nucleus is continually recombined at each generation, the DNA of the mitochondria remain constant -- they are passed from mother to child with only very minimal mutations (a rate of 1 every 10,000 years in the areas Sykes studied).  This means that you have, stretching back into the mists of time, an unbroken chain of maternal relationships recorded in your genes.  <br />The applications of this that Sykes comes up with are interesting:  he can prove that the woman who claimed to be the princess Anastasia was not related to the tsar's family, he can show that Polynesia was settled from Asia  rather than from South America (as Thor Heyerdahl conjectured), and most astonishingly, he can break down most modern europeans as belonging to one of seven maternal clans.  <br />This information was used to solve a mystery in anthropology -- whether farmers from the near east drove the hunter-gatherer population out of Europe or whether the hunter gatherers adopted agriculture and remained -- Sykes concludes the latter.  <br />As an entertaining way of expressing the concept of the seven different clan mothers, Sykes calls them the seven daughters of Eve, and gives them names and a brief description of their \\"lives\\".  This is clearly done from a sense of whimsy, and although some feel it distracts from his scholarly tone throughout most of the book, I found it a charming was of expressing the concept -- as well as a somewhat chilling description of what life in the stone age was really like.  <br />This a wonderful summer book to bring to the beach -- enough science to be interesting, but light and entertaining enough for the beach.  Highly recommended.	2002-08-15
US	52705985	R1HK4G59RT3EX9	0815320817	991036292	The Arthurian Handbook (Second Edition)	Books	5	40	41	N	N	Excellent survey of Arthurian literature for scholars	If you want to know about the evolution of the Arthurian legends, from their basis in history to their literary evolution, this is a perfect book for you.<br />The book traces the history of tales through the most ancient works from Wales and Brittany, through the evolution of the stories by various authors -- Chretien de Troyes, Wolfram von Eschenbach, Thomas Malory, and even considers works from the nineteenth and twentieth century (Tennyson, the marvelous though largely unread works of Charles Williams, T.S. Eliot, T.H. White, and even Monty Python and the Holy Grail)<br />The book is an indispensable reference for keeping the legends straight in your mind, especially where there are differences of opinion (for instance, was the Grail a platter, a stone, or a chalice for the author).<br />The book is intended as a reference book, so it is not for someone looking to read a story or two -- it is meant to be a guide to understanding the literary development of the cycle.<br />As such, it is an indispensable guide to the various works out there.	2002-08-15
US	52705985	R9RPH762CMMNR	0395193958	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	3	3	N	N	There is Nothing Quite Like It	This work is far more than a fantasy novel, it is the creation of a virtual world, very much like ours, yet peopled with strange races and heroic quests.<br />Tolkien's universe is very real; this is beacuase he has gone to tremendous lengths to write its history, complete with its creation myths, lost civilizations, and folklore.<br />I read this work many times when I was young, and the lessons it taught me about honor, friendship, right and wrong, courage, and life itself have stayed with me throughout my life.<br />The story itself forms a bridge between Tolkien's children's story, the Hobbit, and his works of mythology (The Silmarillion).  The story is about a heroic quest in which an unlikely hero, Frodo Baggins, a hobbit, is called upon to challenge the very Dark Lord himself, Sauron, in completing a quest to destroy a magical gold ring that would give Sauron domination of the world.  Frodo is assisted by a cast of characters including the great wizard Gandalf, who undergoes a death an resurrection in the course of the quest; an outcast king named Aragorn who regains his kingdom; his faitful servant Sam; and other hobbits, elves, dwarves, and men who stand against the Dark Lord in challenges that take place both on a personal level and on the field of battle.<br />It is a world of remarkable beauty, told by a master storyteller who also happened to be an Oxford professor of languages.  This is no amateur tale, but a profound work of myth and literature.	2002-07-28
US	52705985	R8GLDC8IDI7A4	0679734465	131170192	Valis	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Somewhere between Vonnegut and Eco	This is a very funny, strange, and thought-provoking book.  Philip K. Dick's world is somewhere between those of Umberto Eco (there is a lot of theology here) and Kurt Vonnegut (surreal 1970s setting).  The main character, with the unlikely name of Horselover Fat, is confronted with the fact that the universe is fundamentally irrational when a friend of his commits suicide.  This flaw in the universe then proceeds to destroy Fat's sanity.  He believes he has an encounter with god -- a perfect, gnostic god who exists outside of the flawed universe who has transmitted knowledge directly into his head by means of a pink laser.  <br />The ideal reader for this book should be a person who has studied theology at the college level, and who has an open mind.  It is a very entertaining book with a lot of insight into our strange world, but it is by no means easy.	2002-07-27
US	52705985	R2XT2JG918A0A8	0195144201	433958284	What Went Wrong?: Western Impact and Middle Eastern Response	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Good Description of the issue, but not many answers	Bernard Lewis gives a good description of the problems that beset the Arab world after the middle ages and how the Arabs world fell behind the west in its development.<br />Lewis describes the changes within the Arab world by giving both fact and anecdote, and his work covers the sphere of the military, technology, the world of politics, the role of women, and the structure of the church.<br />This is an excellent short work for getting &quot;up to speed&quot; quickly on the Arab world after the events of September 11, 2001, and Lewis provides his arguments clearly and without any undue bias. He is not an apologist for the Arab world, nor is he scornful of it. He simply tells it like it is.<br />This is a good introduction for readers who want to delve deeper into Lewis's other works on the Arab world.  Excellent reading.	2002-07-09
US	52705985	R2IPFMDKWVQAYC	030681076X	618118264	The Art Of War	Books	4	7	11	N	N	How to Run a Renaissance Army	Niccolo Machiavelli is commonly known as an abstract, political thinker, but this work shows an entirely different side, being a compendium of Renaissance military tactics and equipment.  <br />If you were ever transported in time and place to 16th century Italy, this book would be an excellent guide in how to raise, train, and equip a citizen army that could fight for your city state.  He also goes into some depth abvout military fortifications, as well. <br />Macchiavelli argues in the book for a citizen-army; given the troubles of Italy with roving mercenary armies in his day, one can see why his arguments make sense.  <br />A profound work for a military historian to read, although a casual reader might find it too pedantic.	2002-07-09
US	52705985	ROA8XT02EV7O6	0440136482	598516960	Holy Blood, Holy Grail	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A Rather Silly Conspiracy Theory	This is perhaps the best of the works of modern conspiracy theory, and is a highly entertaining book, although it is along the lines of a vice to read it.  Although it is meticulously footnoted and researched, it is implausible on many levels, and clearly a work of speculative fiction.  <br />Briefly:  Christ did not die on the cross, but rather was brought to the south of France, where he and his wife, Mary Magdalene, gave birth to a line of Kings, the Merovingians.  This family of kings later, after losing the throne, becomes instrumental in the founding of the Knights Templar (of course the Templars have to be involved -- no good conspiracy can exist without them) and the Templars shadowy sister organization, a brotherhood known as the Prieur de Sion (the Priory of Sion).  With the reconquest of the Middle East in the crusades, the family is prepared to put a Merovingian back on the throne, but the plot does not succeed.  So they go underground.  Periodically hints of their existence come to light in Freeemasonry and the mystery of Rennes-le-Chateau.  The secret head of the order has always been a highly influential person in the world of politics, science, or culture, (Victor Hugo, Isaac Newton are said to have been in charge of the Prieur de Sion), and the organization is said to be playing a part in several Gaullist conspiracies.  <br />The books leaps of logic (if A is possibly true then B is certainly true, so we can now assert the implausible C) and the want of motive for an organization liek the Prieur de Sion to be secret these days -- this isn't the fourteenth century, and even if you are plotting to restore the Merovingian dynasty, well, who cares? -- makes a reasoning person able to shatter its notions pretty easily.  <br />Nevertheless, a good read.	2002-07-09
US	52705985	RF74DK6Q432VA	030681076X	618118264	The Art Of War	Books	4	6	10	N	N	How to Run a Renaissance Army	Niccolo Machiavelli is commonly known as an abstract, political thinker, but this work shows an entirely different side, being a compendium of Renaissance military tactics and equipment.  <br />If you were ever transported in time and place to 16th century Italy, this book would be an excellent guide in how to raise, train, and equip a citizen army that could fight for your city state.  He also goes into some depth abvout military fortifications, as well. <br />Macchiavelli argues in the book for a citizen-army; given the troubles of Italy with roving mercenary armies in his day, one can see why his arguments make sense.  <br />A profound work for a military historian to read, although a casual reader might find it too pedantic.	2002-07-09
US	52705985	R26XVGIAAO9TUH	0917974573	754609298	Mandragola	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Excellent Renaissance drama	Most people think of Machiavelli as only a political thinker; but he was also an accomplished military tactician and playwright.  The Mandragola is a classic Renaissance comedy; somewhat reminiscent of the works of Shakespeare or Marlowe, and the play, a farcical work involving love potions, and mistaken identity, and is quite funny even today.  <br />Good reading for any drama student interested in the period.	2002-07-09
US	52705985	R3J4N61Z8EYU3F	1893224546	477056924	The Theory of Everything: The Origin and Fate of the Universe	Books	3	53	56	N	N	Good introduction, but somewhat oversimplified.	Stephen Hawking's The Theory of Everything is a short book that can act as an introduction to the subjects of cosmology raised by modern science, but the book is only that; I preferred his Brief History of Time to this work because it was longer, more detailed, and covered more ground.  If you are looking for a very basic introduction to the current thinking of astrophysicists, this is a good book; if you really want to wrestle with the subject at length, you should buy a Brief History of Time, or one of Paul Davies works, such as About Time.  If you are looking for a good lecture series on physics, Richard Feynman's Six Easy Pieces and its sequel, Six Not So Easy Pieces is really the finest of this genre.  <br />That being said, the book does a good job in outlining the basic subject matter, discussing the development of the Big Bang theory, and the implications of both the general theory of relativity and quantum physics on the formation of the universe.  Hawking is at his best when discussing singularities -- the points of the universe, such as black holes, where the laws of physics break down.	2002-06-27
US	52705985	RL2PR2T3FT633	0312295111	378582857	Michael Collins: The Man Who Made Ireland	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Excellent History of an Elusive Man	Tim Pat Coogan's Michael Collins is an excellent biography of the man who ran the day to day war for Irish independence.  Collins orchestrated the \\"direct force\\" strategy against British rule, that, after several years of bloodshed, led to a settlement that rendered most of Ireland free.  For his efforts in achieving more than any Irishman had achieved in 500 years, including legendary figures such as O'Connell and Parnell, Collins was assassinated by his allies, who felt that the peace treaty with Britain and freedom for the south were just not good enough.<br />Coogan does an excellent job detailing the man as well as his accomplishments; he has a host of anecdotes about Collins's youth and the years he lived under constant risk of death while carrying out the guerilla war.  The book, despite its rather grim subject matter, is also not without its moments of humor -- the stories of many of Collins's narrow escapes from his British pursuers and his incredible luck also lighten the story.<br />Coogan does an excellent job outlining the divisions that formed within  the IRA, the IRB, Sinn Fein, and the Catholic church throughout the struggle, and explains clearly the politics behind Collins's assassination.  He makes clear what other historians with a lesser grasp of the subject only manage to make a muddle of.<br />Highly recommended.	2002-06-27
US	52705985	R1RPURYCYZUR6C	0060193611	112419171	The Map That Changed the World: William Smith and the Birth of Modern Geology	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Solid Work of Scientific History	The Map that Changed the World is a solid work of history reminiscent of the book \\"Longitude\\" -- it is a history of a man (in this case, William Smith) to whom the world owes a debt of gratitude about which it has largely forgotten. <br />The book details how Smith's childhood fascination with stones and fossils led to his life's work -- a quixotic quest to map the geological strata of England. Smith largely invented the science of geology; and invented the concept of determining the age of a rock formation by identifying the fossils found within. <br />The book also details the financial and personal difficulties Smith encounters on his quest as his singlemindedness leads him to bankruptcy prison and other, lesser scientists steal his ideas. <br />Nevertheless, Smith's work is rediscovered when he is in his old age; he eventually enjoys the triumph of his life's work, and his sad and lonely quest is rewarded. <br />The book is a great one to give to a young person of a scientific bent if they are interested in rocks or fossils. It does get a little detailed for the layman, and one could really use a chart to keep the various eons, epochs, and ages straight, but nevertheless, the book is an interesting one; a good book to bring to the beach in summer. <br />The author also in troduces some autobiographical stories to tell us how he became interested in William Smith's work due to his own childhood experience with fossils; he clearly sees himself as a kindred spirit and commiserates with Smith's long journey.	2002-06-03
US	52705985	R2J0QJDDDVNG70	0670030635	146837958	How to Build a Time Machine	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Good Book, But Somewhat Derivative of His Earlier Work	Paul Davies book &quot;How to Build a Time Machine&quot; is a good book with an entertaining thesis:  he is of the opinion that it is theoretically possible to build both a forward and backward time machine.  The engineering problems, however, are of an aboslutely staggering scale, and the project is not, by current standards, a practical one.  Nevertheless, Davies has fun with the concepts.  <br />Davies also gives a good overview of the various theories of how time travel might be accomplished, and the book is very useful in showing the layperson that time is, indeed, relative.  <br />My only complaint with the book is that it is somewhat derivative of his earlier work, About Time.  Part of this is not Davies' fault -- the concept of the flexibility of time is usually so shocking for people that he feels the need to explain this first, and so both books discuss some similar ideas, such as the Paradox of the Twins, etc.  <br />I recommend About Time to people (usually who don't believe me when I explain that time is relative), and those who read it come away stunned; the book is a marvelous explanation, in layman's terms, of how Einstein's theories work with regard to time.  If you have not read About Time, read this one first as it will familiarize you with the concepts Davies' discusses here.  This book is a good follow up to About Time in that it turns to the &quot;engineering&quot; problems involved in building a time machine.	2002-06-03
US	52705985	R35TQNPYREX9V0	0451191145	604964480	Atlas Shrugged	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Ayn Rand's Magnum Opus	Ayn Rand's two most famous works, the Fountainhead and Atlas Shrugged, express her fervent belief in the dignity of individualism.  While the Fountainhead is a book that shows \\"one man's story\\", that of the architect Howard Roark, Atlas Shruigged is written on a far broader philosophical canvas -- it shows what happens to the world when the few creative and talented individuals, led by the engineer, John Galt, decide to withhold their talent from an ungrateful society.  <br />The book is fascinating in that it celebrates the ambitious  individuals who, for a sense of personal achievement or gain, decide to make the world better.  These are the healthy ones.  Those who try to redistribute wealth, who act out of a misguided sense of fairness, or who downplay the individual, are revealed for what they truly are: \\"looters\\", who are living off the work of the few.  <br />Rand's personal life experience, growing up in Russia during the communist revolution, gives her a first-hand legitimacy in denouncing communism and socialism; her work is unusually prescient -- communism implodes in the real world just as it does in the world of fiction.  She also captures the arguments used by the looters perfectly, and the tone of the characters feels eerily like today's Democratic party -- one feels behind their professions of virtue the iron fist of the culturally bankrupt mob.  <br />Although I enjoyed the book, and feel it is an excellent work in showing the importance of capitalism; it does seem to me that Rand's philosophy is a little narrow.  Western culture has three great underpinnings -- Christianity, representative democracy, and capitalism.  Rand rejects the first of these as being from the same redistributive font as communism, rejects the second of these as hopelessly corrupt, and instead places her faith solely in capitalism.  <br />Nevertheless, she makes a wonderful argument about the achievement and dignity of the individual, and her place in history is secure because of it.  Well worth reading.	2002-05-14
US	52705985	RS9FX17SN7NWW	0312300336	135249473	Banvard's Folly: Thirteen Tales of People Who Didn't Change the World	Books	5	29	31	N	N	A Walk Through A History of What Might Have Been	This is a great book. A current trend in popular history is to write histories of great people who achieved success but who are not household names (consider the book &quot;Longitude&quot;); Paul Collins turns this idea on its head by writing the stories of 13 people whose ideas, frankly, did not have a lot of merit, but who were famous in their day.  <br />The title story, Banvard's Folly, tells the tale of the artist John Banvard -- world famous in the 1850s, but utterly forgotten today, whose great moving panorama of the Mississippi River made him rich, but who ultimately was destroyed competing with P.T. Barnum.  <br />Other stories include &quot;The Man With N-Ray Eyes&quot;, which relates how a French scientist believes erroneously that he has found a new source of radiation; &quot;A.J. Pleasonton's Blue Light Special&quot;, which discusses the 1870s fad concerning the healing properties of light reflected through blue glass, and numerous others, including the story of a Shakepeare forger, a woman's quest to prove Shakespeare's works were written by Francis Bacon and others, and the development of the pneumatic train.    <br />The book is a little sad, because each of the characters really believes in their ideas, even though they are rejected by society.  But instead of a happy ending, these stories all end badly for the protagonists -- they end up mocked and forgotten.  <br />The book is remarkable for its scholarship -- researching the forgotten intellectual and cultural history of a previous century is no easy task; but Mr. Collins brings the reader back into the culture of the times easily.  The stories are entertaining and very amusing.	2002-05-14
US	52705985	R1M0OFRNDQSXZ7	0813338603	165400302	The Fields Of Athenry: A Journey Through Irish History	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Entertaining work of Personal and Irish History	Mr. Roy's work is really two books in one -- a history of Ireland and its relationship with its Englsih invaders, and the personal story of how he bought a castle and restored it. Mr. Roy weaves the two stories together in alternating chapters, and does so with great skill.   <br />The Irish history is sound, concise, and informative -- Mr. Roy explains how the Norman invaders became co-opted by their Irish subjects and how running through the whole complicated skein of Irish history is the story of the great, but quarrelsome Irish families -- The O'Connors, O'Briens, Burkes, and Fitzgeralds.  This focus provides a great deal of clarity to understanding the history of the Island.  <br />The story of Moyode Castle (Roy's personal story)is also fascinating, especially in detailing how the Irish accept this &quot;foreigner&quot; among them and how Mr. Roy comes to know and appreciate the local Irish culture.  The book has many amusing tales of his encounters, although it is a little wistful, because he realizes that the Ireland he celebrates is gradually being lost to history.  <br />Well worth reading, particularly if you are looking to travel in rural Ireland, or ever hoped to buy a castle.	2002-05-14
US	52705985	R1NUXVLPY6KSM5	0306810719	733944985	The Templars: The Dramatic History Of The Knights Templar, The Most Powerful Military Order Of The Crusades	Books	4	5	7	N	N	The Real Templars	I have as a hobby been researching the various historical intrigues and conspiracies in which the Knights Templar are said to play a part. <br />This book, the Templars, is not a book like this:  it is a solid, historical work which does not indulge in any wild speculation, but instead works from the historical record. As such, it is a very good book; but poor Mr. Read will undoubtedly have his book quoted in the footnotes of every crackpot work of every conspiracy theorist from now until time immemorial.  <br />The book is a very solid history; at time Read does get mired in the details of the timeline of his story and its narrative suffers a little; part of the difficulty in any medieval history is piecing together a history from very dry records, which is what Read is working with.   <br />The book contains a few pictures of the Templar castles which still exist as ruins in the Middle East; and gives a detailed account of the heresy trials instigated against them by Philip IV of France.  The book is sympathetic to the Templars because the historical record is sympathetic -- the Templars did not confess to any wrongdoing except where torture was liberally applied to them.  <br />It also details the military misfortunes into which the Templars blundered -- they were knights errant in the worst sense of the word.  <br />A good book; a bit dry at times, but an excellent work of medieval history, especially considering the lack of engaging source material for a historian to work with.	2002-04-08
US	52705985	R2PN0J0O74MTF7	0671865412	543869927	Sign and the Seal: The Quest for the Lost Ark of the Covenant	Books	4	8	9	N	N	An Entertaining Book	Like all speculative literature, Graham Hancock's methodology in &quot;proving&quot; the Ark of the convenant is in Ethiopia relies on a chain of assertions.  If you half-believe the first assertion, then a second assertion can be made, and if you half-believe it, then you now must fully believe the first assumption. Continue down this logical road, and you will soon find that the Knights Templar are involved in just about everything -- which is what we suspected all along, right?<br />But even though there is not a lot of merit in this sort of reasoning, Graham Hancock at least writes an interesting and entertaining book, which is far better than being logically consistent.  <br />His journey begins in Ethiopia, where he hears that there is a legend about the Ark of the Covenant being brought there -- a legend which does not date earlier than the 13th centruy text which asserts this.  Hancock could have decided that the 13th century tale was merely an invention of storytellers trying to make an upstart dynasty look respectable (consider, for instance, the genealogies that were used by Irish bards to prove that Brian Boru was actually a true claimant to the throne of Ireland), but instead, Hancock works from the position that the 13th century tale is true. From this humble beginning, Hancock then build his edifice of progressively unlikely assertions.  <br />He ends up with the Ark being taken to Egypt, then to Ethiopia, discovered by the Knights Templar, lost by the Knights Templar, and travelling around quite a bit within Ethiopia before resting at Axum.  Is it there?  The guardian whom Hancock met claims it is, but won't let anyone see it.    <br />Hancock also speculates that the Ark was built by Moses, who had received instruction while growing up from a secret society of Egyptian priests from a cult whose origins lie in the ruins of an Indian Ocean Atlantis founded by the Egyptian god Thoth -- a society which secretly has been kept alive by organizations likethe Templars and Freemasons.   <br />He also asserts that the Holy Grail (another medieval literary invention) and the Ark are one and the same -- and that the Grail legends and the architecture at Chartres are actually a secret code pointing to the Ark, and its location in Ethiopia.  <br />This is a very fun book, with a lot of twists and turns, and always entertaining. It is not at all hampered by its conclusions, which are all undoubtedly nonsense. Don't take it too seriously, but enjoy it for what it is.	2002-04-04
US	52705985	R11CCABWR4KL4Y	0892817100	651663620	The Lost Treasure of the Knights Templar: Solving the Oak Island Mystery	Books	4	4	10	N	N	Combining Two Mysteries into One Book	Combine the Oak Island Money pit mystery with the missing fleet on the Knights Templar and you have an interesting theory.  <br />Steven Sora's book does this, but the two mysteries are joined only by a great deal of speculation, and the assumption of certain facts which are, to say the least, a stretch:<br />a)  The Templars and their French fleet fled to Scotland, where they assisted Robert the Bruce.  <br />(My problem with this is that there is simply no evidence.  It is a speculation, based on the idea that the fleet has to go somewhere).  <br />b)  The Templars concealed their identities, married into the Sinclair family, and founded the Freemasons.  <br />(Although those who write about the Masons often try to prove a long lineage back to the Temple of Solomon through asserting descent from groups like the Templars, there is very little evidence that the Masons existed much before the 1600s).<br />c) The Sinclairs sailed to the New World<br />(No real evidence of this).  <br />d) The Sinclairs built the Money Pit to conceal the Templar treasure <br />(Rather than, say, just spending it?)<br />I found the book to be implausible, but nevertheless, I enjoyed reading it.  The account of both Oak Island and the Templars is thoroughly researched and well written.  It is a nice theory, but unfortunately, like most speculative histories, falls apart when you apply &quot;Occam's razor&quot; to it -- which is the idea that the simpler story is more likely to be the true one.  I think it far more likely that, <br />a) the Templars simply joined other orders (like the Hospitallers, the Portuguese Knights of Christ, or the Teutonic Knights) or disbanded and rejoined the populace in order to avoid association with the scandals alleged against them, and <br />b)  Oak Island is just a naturally occurring sinkhole which has subsequently become a hoax.  <br />Nevertheless, I enjoyed the book.	2002-04-04
US	52705985	R1KT6SVBZFFB7A	0140288503	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An Excellent Book about The Somalia mission	I have not seen the movie, so I can offer no comparison to it, but the book is a small classic as a book about small units at war.  It is worthwhile reading for any citizen who wants to know what uses the military is sometimes put to, and what soldiers in combat are called upon to do.  It is my understanding that this book has virtually become required reading in the officer corps of the U.S. Army; I think this is a good thing.  I was an Army officer myself (First Lieutenant, Infantry) who never saw combat; I cannot attest to the accruacy of the battle scenes but I can say that he gets the details of the equipment and the culture correct.<br />Mark Bowden, in writing the book, had no agenda or axe to grind:  he merely wanted to find out what happened.  As such, he gives a pretty objective overview of the situation in Mogadishu from all the parties involved:  the UN and Adminral Howe, the Somalis, and the servicemen involved.  His research even included travelling to Somalia to interview the Somali militia who faced the Rangers and Delta Force soldiers -- so the book has a good balance of perspectives on the battle.  <br />Bowden also gives a good account of the strains between the leadership of the Rangers and Delta -- how the more rigid discipline and formality of the Rangers contrasted with the more freewheeling Delta \\"operators\\" who, as the elite among the elite, seemingly answered to no one.  <br />The book is about a mission gone wrong -- how a plan which contained contingencies for one chopper being lost did not have contingencies for multiple choppers going down.  In addition, the troops were not prepared for night operations (plan was for a one hour mission) and did not have adequate water, night vision equipment, etc., available.  <br />The book does revisit the issue of whether if tanks were available to the units, it would have made a difference.  There was definitely not enough quick reaction forces available for a \\"mission gone bad\\"; the hours it took to assemble a U.N. relief force is an excellent example why units should always plan for the worst.<br />The book doesn't address the larger issue of whether the mission was proper for the U.S. troops; one comes to the conclusion that \\"mission creep\\" -- the temptation to use the troops for a greater role than they are configured to fight -- was and is a real problem.  Because of the past successes of the Rangers and Delta, and their overwhelming competence as soldiers, there was an aura of invincibility about them.  When they were overextended, as they were here, they proved vulnerable.  <br />This is a valuable lesson to civilian policy makers as well as to soldiers -- try to heep the mission to its original scope, or demand the assets necessary to do the job properly.  <br />That being said, the decision to leave Somalia was almost certainly the wrong one.  It gave the impression of weakness, and everyone -- especially the Somalis -- have suffered more because of it.  <br />An excellent book.	2002-04-04
US	52705985	R3EHKPWPKHND55	0671600419	891050513	The Teachings of Don Juan: A Yaqui Way of Knowledge	Books	4	58	66	N	N	An Excellent and Entertaining Book	I enjoy Carlos Castaneda's books because they always offer an escape from reality -- in this case, I mean that quite literally.  <br />Castaneda's books involve an age-old technique of storytelling, the teaching of a body of knowledge from a master to a pupil.  In this case, the master, a Yaqui Indian known as Don Juan, teaches the ancient Toltec art of sorcery to a young, first-person narrator, Carlos Castaneda.  This narrator is dubious and incredulous as Don Juan shows him things about the nature of reality and our perceptions of it, but increasingly he has to conclude that the world of Don Juan is an accurate description of the may facets of reality, and our modern world is merely one narrow view.  <br />There is controversy over whether Castaneda's books are &quot;real&quot; --Castaneda was granted a PhD for his &quot;field&quot; work; but other scholars have found a lot of Castaneda's research to have no anthropological authenticity.  Supporters of Castaneda dispute this.  <br />That there is even an argument over whether the books are &quot;real&quot; or not indicates how good the stories are -- like the world of J.R.R. Tolkien, people really, desperately want to visit Castaneda's world.  His books are riveting, fascinating, beautiful, and also very scary.  <br />Although later books in the series (Tales of Power, for instance) are better than this introductory work; I think it is important to read the books in their order of writing, in order to get the &quot;lessons&quot; that Castaneda learns in the correct order.  <br />I am a great fan of the books, even if they are 100% fiction.  But one is really just never sure if they are. . .	2002-04-04
US	52705985	R3IN5P0BOGO57Y	1567181732	188878225	The Vodou Quantum Leap: Alternate Realities, Power and Mysticism	Books	4	17	18	N	N	An Interesting Book, Good Primer on Vodou	Reginald Crosley's book has an interesting thesis, which is that the world of the Vodou loas (or Voudon, as he names them) is actually a real world, a parallel universe, which is the same universe as the world of &quot;dark matter&quot; explored by particle physicists.  <br />Crosley's technique for advancing this argument is to explain first the findings of particle physics and the strange behavior of subatomic particles, their fuzzy relationship to time and space, and the existence of dark matter, and then to explain the world of Vodou.  He then assumes the two worlds are the same world, while offering no evidence that this is the case.  It is a clever act of sophistry.  <br />But nevertheless the book is intriguing, offering a good explanation of the findings of particle physicists, as well as an excellent history of the creation of the religion of Haiti and the &quot;gods&quot; of its pantheon.  He gives an excellent, and somewhat disturbing account of &quot;adorcism&quot;, the crisis of possession that people attending Vodou ceremonies experience at the hands of the various Voudons, and a good overview of the relationship between the various sects of Vodou, both &quot;good&quot; and &quot;bad&quot;.  If you are looking for a good overview of the Vodou religion, this book contains it.  <br />The book is always interesting, and is a neat hypothesis, even if his case is not compelling.  I enjoyed the book immensely.	2002-02-11
US	52705985	R2PXTMBCHEFRE9	0345375564	836091346	Dreadnought: Britain, Germany, and the Coming of the Great War	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Fine History of the Naval Arms Race	Peter Massie's Dreadnought is a very fine history of the naval arms race that began with the ascension of Kaiser Wilhelm II to the throne of Germany, and ended with the battle of Jutland.  <br />Massie's book includes wonderful details of the people involved, from the Kaiser and his strained relationship with his English mother and with his grandmother, Queen Victoria, to Prince (and then King) Edward's love affair with ships, to the great admirals who had the vision of what the modern battleship should look like, von Tirpitz for the Germans and Sir John (\\"Jacky\\") Fisher for the English.  Massie gives excellent details of the ships' design and construction, and of the battles in each country to get them funded -- the German army begrudged the expenditure and saw the battleships as a dangerous adventure, and British politicians such as Lloyd George and Churchill, who were interested in social reform, regretted their expense (Churchill, however changed his mind when he saw the growing German naval threat, and as First Lord of the Admiralty, sped up the modernization of the fleet in time for the war.).  <br />This is a good book to help understand the naval strategy of the times, and of the general atmosphere of Europe before the frist war.  <br />My only complaint with the book is that it ends too soon -- I would love to see Massie give an account of Jutland, the major sea battle of World War I, in which the ideas of Fisher and von Tirpitz were tested in actual battle -- as the book is, we never see the great ships actually employed in battle.  I would also have liked to see Massie's opinion on Fisher's return to the Admiralty during the war under Churchill, and his abandonment of Churchill when he could not face the potential destruction of the ships at the Dardanelles -- which was a cause of Churchill being driven from office.  I would also have like to see Massie's opinion of whether Churchill or Fisher's judgment was the correct one.  <br />But these are minor criticisms -- this is a very fine work of history, and is an excellent basius for understanding the naval arms race that was one of the proximate causes of the First World War.	2002-01-28
US	52705985	R1E0GLNZHEV6RJ	0345375564	836091346	Dreadnought: Britain, Germany, and the Coming of the Great War	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A Fine History of the Naval Arms Race	Peter Massie's Dreadnought is a very fine history of the naval arms race that began with the ascension of Kaiser Wilhelm II to the throne of Germany, and ended with the battle of Jutland.  <br />Massie's book includes wonderful details of the people involved, from the Kaiser and his strained relationship with his English mother and with his grandmother, Queen Victoria, to Prince (and then King) Edward's love affair with ships, to the great admirals who had the vision of what the modern battleship should look like, von Tirpitz for the Germans and Sir John (\\"Jacky\\") Fisher for the English.  Massie gives excellent details of the ships' design and construction, and of the battles in each country to get them funded -- the German army begrudged the expenditure and saw the battleships as a dangerous adventure, and British politicians such as Lloyd George and Churchill, who were interested in social reform, regretted their expense (Churchill, however changed his mind when he saw the growing German naval threat, and as First Lord of the Admiralty, sped up the modernization of the fleet in time for the war.).  <br />This is a good book to help understand the naval strategy of the times, and of the general atmosphere of Europe before the frist war.  <br />My only complaint with the book is that it ends too soon -- I would love to see Massie give an account of Jutland, the major sea battle of World War I, in which the ideas of Fisher and von Tirpitz were tested in actual battle -- as the book is, we never see the great ships actually employed in battle.  I would also have liked to see Massie's opinion on Fisher's return to the Admiralty during the war under Churchill, and his abandonment of Churchill when he could not face the potential destruction of the ships at the Dardanelles -- which was a cause of Churchill being driven from office.  I would also have like to see Massie's opinion of whether Churchill or Fisher's judgment was the correct one.  <br />But these are minor criticisms -- this is a very fine work of history, and is an excellent basius for understanding the naval arms race that was one of the proximate causes of the First World War.	2002-01-28
US	52705985	R25GC69N2EAR3P	0786707518	592701669	The River War: An Account of the Reconquest of the Sudan	Books	5	56	58	N	N	Wonderful Early Churchill	Winston Churchill is one of the greatest figures of world history; this book, written when Churchill was in his twenties, is a wonderful book that considers the reconquest of the Sudan both from a first person point of view (because Churchill was there), and from a broader historical perspective.  <br />Churchill begins the work some 13 years before the war, with the killing of the legendary General Gordon in Khartoum at the hands of the fanatical Dervishes.  Churchill lays out in detail the reaction in Britain, the political reasons for why no action was taken at the time, and then goes into a wonderful segue about the intervening years of the wars of the Mahdi and his successor, the Khalifa.  <br />The book is painstakingly researched; and the young Churchill is obviously trying to &quot;get it right&quot;; interjecting his opinions where it is relevant and introducing facts and tables where it is necessary to make his case.  <br />The military buildup, the logistical and technical feat of the railroad built to support the army, the manufacture and employment of river gunboats, and the precise orders of battle and description of equipment -- these are details that show Churchill's immense grasp not only of the broad strategic picture but also a consummate mastery of the details of nineteenth century soldiering.  One can see at work the mind that made Churchill a valuable cabinet member in the following thirty years, and an invaluable Prime Minister in wartime.  <br />The prose style is a bit heavy, and Churchill's writing is not at the same level that won him the Nobel Prize, but it is a fine early work about an interesting, if little known, war.  <br />The book itself also caused a rift between Kitchener and Churchill that was never really mended; as a result, Churchill's fall from the Admiralty and the failure of Gallipoli may have had this book as a very small cause.  But this is not the book's fault!  <br />A very good work of military history, and an excellent insight into the incredible mind of Winston Churchill.	2001-12-18
US	52705985	RXBLBN43ETGZ0	0915144867	656404453	Second Treatise of Government (Hackett Classics)	Books	5	37	41	N	N	American Revolution would have been impossible without it!	It is difficult to write a review of the Second Treatise of Government in that it is a book whose central ideas so permeate both British and American thought that no review can do it justice.<br />Any student of American history, particularly of the revolution and the formation of the Constitution, out of necessity should read this book.  It is a book that the revolutionaries themselves were well acquainted with, and formed the rational basis for justifying both the Revolution and the establishment of the Constitution.<br />Locke is, also, suprisingly easy to read, even today.  Cogent, well-formed arguments inform every page of this masterwork.  This is a fascinating book that shaped history itself.	2001-12-18
US	52705985	R148YFKDMU8VKD	0300089163	912325621	The Duel: The Eighty-Day Struggle Between Churchill and Hitler	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Good Book for those already knowledgeable of the period.	John Lukacs book has an excellent premise; which is that the period of 1940 generally known as the Battle of Britain represented, for the leaders of Britain and Germany, a personal duel in which their ability to motivate and lead their respective governments were critical to the outcome.  He makes his case very convincingly; while Britain would certainly have fought under a number of possible wartime PM's (Anthony Eden, perhaps, or Lord Halifax), the personal leadership provided by Churchill was critical to Britain's success.<br />The book assumes a good working knowledge of the players involved and of the period; this is a good book for a World War II history buff, but is not intended to be a primer.  This aspect of the book makes it difficult for novices; after having read Churchill's 5 volume history of the war and half a dozen other works, I understood the nuances of the book.	2001-12-18
US	52705985	R1FQ3QDNZEX3H9	0394555082	642527170	Dutch: A Memoir of Ronald Reagan	Books	1	130	148	N	N	A Disservice as a History, A Displeasure as a Novel.	Given that Edmund Morris had an unprecedented amount of access to Ronald Reagan and the White House, he had a duty as a historian to write a solid, historical work, impeccably researched, well annotated, and one that could form, at a minimum, a baseline for other future efforts.  <br />Instead, the book he wrote is a travesty; a series of ramblings presented from a bewildering array of real and fictional characters.  Morris unbelievably writes from the first person -- and writes of times, palces, and events which he could not have experienced first hand, except through his imagination. One never knows whether an insight or an opinion is that of the actual Morris or the fictional Morris whom he invented that went to Eureka College with Reagan in the 1930s.  Given this, can one take the quotes Morris includes from Cap Weinberger or James Baker seriously?  Legitimate and interesting historical questions Morris raises (did Reagan, the idealistic young Democrat, flirt with Communism in the 1940s?) are ruined because the author does not maintain the appropriate distance.  <br />For such an important historical figure as Reagan, this is especially unfair treatment. <br />Morris is trying to make a point with all this -- which is that if you scratch the surface of Reagan, you will find that there is nothing there.  But instead of using this to write a legitimate history, he becomes so disillusioned that he can only write this disturbing act of literary and historical vandalism. If Morris beleives that Reagan &quot;was an airhead&quot;, he should lay out the facts, back it up with research and quotes, and lay the record bare.  This collection of musings, half-truths, and speculation ultimately is an unfair assassination of character.   <br />Although Morris is a far bettter writer than Dinesh D'Souza, I am forced to conclude that D'Souza's book, which is a one-sided apologia for Reagan, not only is more accurate but is a better work of history.  <br />I am saddened by this book, Dutch, as I have been by few others.  Reagan, the American people, and history deserve better.	2001-12-18
US	52705985	R20HDXNSNJTY0G	0385497709	548814469	London: The Biography	Books	5	135	139	N	N	A Remarkable Work	Everyone can tell stories about their hometown and anecdotes about the place they grew up, some of which are true, some of which are dubious, and some of which are outright fabrications.  I can tell you stories about my small hometown in Massachusetts which can alternately put you to sleep or amuse you.  <br />Imagine someone telling you stories about London; stories which over 2000 years have been embellished and polished to the point where they might be considered mythology.  Consider these stories ranging over the whole course of the city's life, and you have some idea of what this book is like.  It is a breathtaking book, where anecdotes of Rome, the Middle Ages, the Renaissance, The Victorian Era, and today are all seamlessly mixed in a wonderful stew.  I cannot imagine the amount of scholarship that went into this work; I rather think that Mr. Ackroyd is some type of immortal who has experienced these stories and anecdotes of London firsthand.  <br />This is a truly wonderful book to give to any Anglophile friends you may have; it is history at its compelling best, long on anecdote and short on drudgery.  It is also written extremely well; there is never a jarring turn of phrase in the book.  Well worth the hardbound price, this is the perfect Christmas present to anyone you know who has lived in London, been to London, or who loves history.	2001-12-04
US	52705985	R3JSOGY2N5MKBQ	0684846098	975528807	Nothing Like It in the World: The Men Who Built the Transcontinental Railroad, 1863-1869	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Solid History of the Transcontinental Railroad	Stephen Amrose has a wonderful gift for finding interesting things to write about; this book is another example of this.  <br />The book covers the period from the 1830s, when the idea of the transcontinental railroad is first broached, to the 1850s, when the idea is seized upon by railroad-savvy politicians like Abraham Lincoln, to the 1870s, when the idea becomes feasible for two reasons -- the ability of capital markets to generate enough capital for the project (even though it involved scandals like Credit Mobilier) and the creation of large scale industrial enterprises using quasi-military organization that became feasible after the experiences of the Civil War.  <br />The book is full of good thumbnail sketches of visionaries like Theodore Judah, who conceives of the route that the Central Pacific must take to get through the Cascades, and the practical men who cut deals to make the reality happed, such as Durant of the Union Pacific and Brigham Young, who negotiates shrewdly in providing a labor force to cross the Utah desert.  <br />Ambrose's prose style is somewhat flat, though never jarring, so the information is presented in a straighforward way.  A good book for a railroad enthusiast who wants an introduction to the technologies used and the people involded in the project.	2001-11-13
US	52705985	R2MH8UBPM2FAOG	0451165209	137132039	The Richest Man in Babylon	Books	5	192	211	N	N	An Old Book with a Fair Amount of Wisdom	I often give this book out as a gift whenever a person younger than me asks for my advice on money.  I always present this book to them saying &quot;if you read it and do as it says, it will work magic.&quot;  It really contains excellent, time tested advice, and would make a good gift for someone in their early 20s who is on their own for the first time, and struggling.<br />The book is a series of parables about money written in the 1920s by George Clason.  They were written as individual essays of a few thousand words, but the theme throughout them is consistent -- save 10% of your money, give 10% away, use 10% to reduce your debt load, and live on the remaining 70%.<br />The stories in the book are entertaining; they are reminiscent of some of the parables in the Bible, such as the Prodigal Son or the story of the Workers in the Vineyard.  I think this is intentional on the part of the author; certainly readers in the 1920s had an appreciation for &quot;old fashioned stories with a moral&quot; that people today seem to have lost.  I enjoy the book greatly, though, and any thoughtful person who reads the book should find it interesting, especially if they are trying to get their finances in order.	2001-11-08
US	52705985	RX16MKXL4SZRW	0140132716	961055788	Eastern Approaches	Books	5	37	37	N	N	A Marvelous Book; Wouldn't Be Believable as Fiction	This book is one of my three or four favorite books of all time.  I am rereading it to keep up with current events; Macleans's adventures in Kazakhstan and Afghanistan in the 1930s give a view of this part of the world that is still relevant; he captures all the sights, sounds, and smells.  <br />The book is really three books:  <br />Part 1 contains Maclean's travels through the Soviet Union as a diplomat, spy, and adventurer in the late 1930s, including his description of the show trial of Bukharin, and his comical adventures going to see Samarkand, Tashkent, and Bokhara -- more out of romantic curiosity than for conducting any official business.  A wonderful book about Russia under Stalin.  <br />Part 2 -- Maclean joins the war, even though the foreign office has forbidden him to leave his post; he does so by running for Parliament (hence loving his civil servant status), and after winning election, he promptly &quot;runs away&quot; to join his regiment.  He ends up in the Long Range Desert Group, doing all kinds of commando work agains the Germans in North Africa.  <br />Part 3 -- Maclean becomes the liason to Tito, whom the British are not sure even exists, by parachuting into Yugoslavia. Maclean and his team supply Tito's partisans and coordinate raids that tie down German divisions.  Maclean cannot keep Tito from being other than what he is -- a communist, and so the book ends a little poignantly.  <br />This is one of the finest -- perhaps the finest -- first hand account of history, ranking right up there with Chruchill's 5 volumes on the second world war.  This book is told on a much lower level, but the canvas Maclean covers is nearly as broad. <br />How this was never made into a movie with Sean Connery is beyond me.  Some people maintain that Maclean was the prototype of James Bond, but there is a much more human, almost Don Quixote quality to him that makes him and his book unforgettable.	2001-11-05
US	52705985	R2F8NV3HUQMGGX	0571200168	72173909	Gilbert and Sullivan's London	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Good Travel Guide	Well researched, the book would make an excellent companion on a walking tour of London.  The author knows what buildings are still standing from Gilbert and Sullivan's world, which have been demolished, and which have changed.  Gives great descriptions of the theaters, including the Savoy, where the productions were staged, and so forth.  <br />If I have a criticism of the book, it is laid out geographically -- so you might be discussing Gilbert in 1876 at one minute and Arthur Sullivan in 1885 at another, because that is where the next building on the street leads you.  The continuity suffers a little because of this.  <br />But if you know a Gilbert and Sullivan fan who is making a pilgrimage to London, this is the perfect book for them.	2001-11-01
US	52705985	R1ZBDFPXVH7Q04	0452272459	535183075	Elemental Mind: Human Consciousness and the New Physics	Books	4	16	18	N	N	An Interesting Look at Mind/Body	Nick Herbert's Elemental Mind makes an interesting supposition -- that the mind, or consciousness, is a force that interacts with the world, like gravity or electromagnetism.  He makes a pretty good argument that ESP and  Telekinesis would prove that this is so; unfortunately, his examples (the  typewriter open to the quantum void and the branching photon experiment)  don't seem to show any evidence that the greater supposition is correct.  The book is very interesting, though, and leads one into all manner of  speculation about how peculiar the quantum universe and though actually  are.  A well written, entertaining, and informative book.	1998-11-19
US	52705985	R3DSHMGDTIF4FF	0201408252	165980351	Six Easy Pieces: Essentials Of Physics Explained By Its Most Brilliant Teacher (Helix Book)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Physics Explained Simply and Honestly	What is remarkable about the book Six Easy pieces is that Richard Feynman is able to explain concepts in physics with simple examples that anyone can understand.  He is also refreshingly honest -- he says &quot;This is what  we know&quot; and &quot;This is what we don't know&quot; in a very  straightforward way.  The book is very good at explaining physics concepts  and would make a good primer for someone who skipped high school physics.   The book also explains the relationship of physics to other sciences  (chemistry, biology, etc.) in a way that is simple and yet clear.	1998-11-19
US	52705985	R125KVZWV3WC9Z	0262011212	191461507	John von Neumann and the Origins of Modern Computing (History of Computing)	Books	4	33	33	N	N	An Overview of Von Neumann's Contributions to Computing	No one has yet written a biography of John von Neumann that sums up both his intellectual achievements and his curious personality.  William Aspray's book, John von Neumann and the Origins of Modern Computing, at  least makes a good effort at explaining von Neumann's intellectual  accomplishments, although it is not a complete biography in explaining the  man.   Granted, such a biography might be impossible, given the breadth and  profundity of von Neumann's contributions to thought.  It is hard to  conceive of another person who left more of a mark on the twentieth century  world of science, with the exception of Einstein himself.   For a look at  von Neumann the personality, one can find good character sketches of him in  Ed Regis's &quot;Who Got Einstein's Office?&quot; and in Joel Shurkin's  &quot;Engines of the Mind&quot;, but neither of these works presents a  complete view of von Neumann's intellectual achivements.   Aspray's book  does a thorough job of covering von Neumann's thoughts on computing..  It  is thorough in dealing with von Neumann's contributions to mathematics, to  the building of the IAS computer, to problems in information theory, and  outlines more of von Neumann's thought on the analogy between computer  processing and the human mind than most writers ever notice.  Additionally,  von Neumann made contributions to meteorology that are usually overlooked,  which Aspray outlines more thoroughly than other writers.  The book does  not address much about Game Theory (William Poundstone's book, Prisoner's  Dilemma, outlines von Neumann's contributions in that field of study),  which is another huge area of study that von Neumann pioneered.   Aspray's  book is required reading for anyone wrestling with John von Neumann's  ideas, he outlines perhaps 60% of von Neumann's career better than any  other writer, but one wonders when the truly comprehensive biography of von  Neumann will be written.	1998-10-28
US	52705985	R2BV5TZ4L8DFF4	0385484992	880135677	Visions: How Science Will Revolutionize the 21st Century	Books	5	72	80	N	N	A Physicist Looks at the Future	Superstring physicist Michio Kaku turns his eyes to the future, and sees many bright developments in the 21st century.   What is really remarkable about this book is Kaku's ability to explain in a clear way how the Quantum  revolution of the turn of the previous century has dramatically effected,  or perhaps invented, the three great revolutions of the 20th century:   computers, biotechnology, and quantum physics.  Kaku is especially good in  outlining his reasons for his view of the future; and gives pretty  reasonable timelines for the achievement of certain goals.  The book is  easy for a layperson to read and understand, and gives a good overview of  scientific development.  Well worth reading, at times profound.	1998-10-28
US	52705985	R1MGMZOZ4NM3VF	0679740392	916608409	The Evolution of Useful Things: How Everyday Artifacts-From Forks and Pins to Paper Clips and Zippers-Came to be as They are	Books	4	19	21	N	N	An interesting look at the development of everyday objects	Things get improved because in their current form, they do not work  properly.  Henry Petroski's book, The Evolution of Useful Things, traces  the development of objects in our everyday life, including detailed  histories of the development of the staple, the zipper, silverware, and  hand tools.  The book is interesting, although Petroski does tend to shy  away from offering a theory of development, and instead offers a  conjectures about how things might have developed.  He explains, but he  does not offer a theory or an argument that explains everything.  Overall,  though, a goos book, well researched, well illustrated, and interesting on  many levels.	1998-10-11
US	52705985	R12QP1K1FFKR1L	0316545120	140919625	The Last Lion: Winston Spencer Churchill, Alone 1932-1940	Books	5	59	59	N	N	An Excellent History of Churchill's Wilderness Years	As one reads William Manchester's second volume on Churchill, one is  struck by Churchill's uncanny grasp of the threat of Nazi Germany, and his  many attempts to warn Britain of its peril.  Like Cassandra in Greek  mythology, though, Churchill's predictions are not believed, and he is only  included in the War Cabinet when war was inevitable.   William Manchester's  book is thoroughly researched, and is at least as good as that of  Churchill's official biographer, Martin Gilbert, with one important  difference: Manchester's book is written on a far larger canvas, and the  level of detail he is able to devote to Churchill is far greater -- and the  subject is more than worthy of it.  Mandatory reading for anyone studying  Churchill, a good prelude to read before reading Churchill's own five  volume history of World War II in that it gives insight into Churchill's  mind.   On a personal level, I know that Mr. Manchester is advanced in  years, and I cannot help thinking, in my selfishness as a historian, that I  hope he completes volume III soon.  It would be a tragedy if the task of  completing this wonderful history proves to be too much for him.	1998-09-29
US	52705985	RVRZI44LWXKMN	0385313489	140919625	The Last Lion: Winston Spencer Churchill: Visions of Glory, 1874-1932	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An Excellent History of Churchill's Early Years	The beginning of William Manchester's (planned) three volume history of  Winston Churchill, this book is an excellent history not only of Churchill,  but of Victorian and Edwardian England, colonialism, Victorian social and  sexual mores, World War I, and the 1920s.   The book is diligently; one  might say obsessively researched, and is written on a huge canvas.  Many  myths about Churchill are addressed and repaired in this work; and the full  story of Gallipoli and Churchill's war as a battalion commander in the  trenches is also addressed.  Mr. manchester also does not shy away from the  difficult task of addressing the death of Churchill's father from a  progressively encroaching syphilis, or Churchill's mother's role in  advancing his career.  although Mr. Manchester is clearly an admirer of  Churchill, he presents a very balanced view of Churchill's successes and  failures.     A marvelous book, eclipsed only by the second volume of this  series.	1998-09-29
US	52705985	R3Q7YN85OVUUUJ	0679747567	902761732	Why Things Bite Back: Technology and the Revenge of Unintended Consequences (Vintage)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Examples of The Law of Unintended Consequences	Tenner's book is a short history of things going wrong -- from the  introduction of carp and mollusks into the American great lakes to  industrial accidents.  A very good review of how things can go wrong in our  complex world; very well researched.	1998-09-29
US	52705985	R1ESS6PZTG1WJI	0024040908	57657795	Statistics Without Tears: A Primer for Non Mathematicians	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Excellent Primer on Statistical Methods for Amateurs	Derek Rowntree's Statistics Withuot Tears is an excellent primer on  concepts in statistics, written in very easy-to-understand language.  It  has just enough mathematics in it to be useful as a reference without being  opaque.  <br />Several books I have read written for  &quot;non-mathematicians&quot; have not fit the bill, but this book  explains statistics in a way that an average person can understand.  <br />A  friend of mine says that he recommends this book to friends when they are  having difficulty in college statistics courses; it is an excellent tool  for explaining concepts in a subject that mathematics instructors sometimes  do not explain well.	1998-08-23
US	52705985	R2WOGWDL1PVEK5	0684819066	87039745	A Beautiful Mind : A Biography of John Forbes Nash, Jr.	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Good biography of an interesting subject	A very interesting book about John Nash, the mathematician who extended  John von Neumann's work on game theory into the realm of multi-player  games.  <br />It is also an interesting look at Nash's schizophrenia, his  descent into madness and his slow struggle to emerge from it.  This element  of the book is probably its best part; the chapters about how the spectral  Nash haunted Princeton in the 1970s and 1980s as he slowly recovered his  rationality are particularly fascinating.  The book is very well written  and readable.  <br />My criticism of it is basically on two minor counts:  first, the book doesn't give enough information on the importance of John  Nash's work on the study of economics, and therefore one is not sure where  Nash's work stands in the scheme of things; second, the young Nash is a  somewhat unsympathetic character and without the perspective of his  relative importance or unimportance, one doesn't know how to judge this.   Was he a jerk who advanced mankind's knowledge significantly or was he just  a jerk?<br />Overall, though, the book is very good.	1998-08-23
US	52705985	RY6DOFD46EO7A	0871136643	331588213	The Lucifer Principle: A Scientific Expedition into the Forces of History	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Interesting opinions, somewhat derivative work of sociology	A somewhat interesting book that boils the entire world down to superorganisms (i.e., societies), governed by a pecking order.  <br />I am somewhat skeptical of Bloom's conclusions that the answers to questions of geopolitics are not more complicated than an analysis of chickens in the barnyard.  <br />The book is reminiscent of Marvin Harris's &quot;Our Kind&quot; and uses many examples that are similar in studying primitive tribespeople and from them, extrapolating the behavior of the larger society.  While I think the stories of tribespeople in New Guinea, the Amazon, and the Kalahari are interesting aberrations in the story of mankind's development and increasing knowledge, it is a somewhat flawed methodology for drawing universal conclusions.  <br />On the positive side, it is an interesting, often entertaining book that is on balance pretty well written.	1998-08-09
US	52705985	RRCR5NJZWLPMH	0802713319	603019861	Fermat's Enigma: The Epic Quest to Solve the World's Greatest Mathematical Problem	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An elegant, accessible, fascinating little book	Simon Singh's Fermat's Enigma is a very elegant book that accomplishes several difficult tasks:  it acts as a brief history of number theory, explains the culture of the world of mathematicians, and acts as a window looking into the personal struggle of Andrew Wiles as he spends seven years attempting to solve a 350 year old riddle. This book is very accessible for non-mathematicians, and is the type of book that can inspire a young person who is mathematically inclined to become a mathematician -- similar to how Andrew Wiles himself became a mathematician. I particularly liked the portraits of the famous mathematicians who contributed to the proof over the period of time involved: Euler, Galois, Taniyama, Shimura, etc. The book is very nicely written; one never finds the book to be jarring or difficult to read.  In its small format it is over 300 pages long, but it reads very quickly (less than 5 hours for me).  The appendices contain some very elegant, simple explanat! ions of mathematical proofs.  The manner in which the subject is made accessible is a testimony to the author's literary as well as technical skill -- something this easy to read must have been exceptionally difficult to write.   Well worth reading, very high on my personal list.	1998-08-01
US	52705985	R1V3PFNCDLBSLJ	0385415672	989227982	Prisoner's Dilemma	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Von Neumann as seen through the lens of the Cold War	William Poundstone's book is an interesting work that really discusses three subjects: the Cold War, Game Theory, and a biography of  John von Neumann, the Hungarian mathematician who, along with Einstein, was a founding member of Princeton's Institute for Advanced studies.   The book is not a comprehensive look at any of the three subjects, but rather uses the concept of the Prisoner's Dilemma (games in which players are incented to act &quot;badly&quot; rather than in their best interest) as a metaphor for the Cold War and unifies von Neumann's interest in both subjects.   The book is the kind that you think about for weeks after you read it; because after understanding the Prisoner's Dilemma you see it cropping up everywhere -- I have used it to analyze behavior of people in my organization and it yields fascinating insights.  The book is a very interesting introduction to any of the three subjects, particularly game theory. The book itself has a rather ugly cover de! sign, but once you get past it, it is a very interesting work.	1998-07-26
US	52705985	RDIGPM94K69CE	0393314715	397425836	Engines of the Mind: The Evolution of the Computer from Mainframes to Microprocessors	Books	5	12	13	N	N	An excellent book on the history of early computers	I have read over 50 books on the subject of computers in the last year (I am a computer trainer), and the book I put at the very top of this list is Joel Shurkin's Engines of the Mind.   The book is a look at the early development of computers, and contains particularly fascinating portraits of Charles Babbage, Herman Hollerith, Eckert and Mauchly,  and John von Neumann.  It is an excellent history of computers from Babbage to the 1960s; my understanding is that it was not the author's intent to address PCs in the book. I usually recommend this book to people along with Robert Cringeley's Accidental Empires -- Shurkin's book as the &quot;pre-PC&quot; book, and Cringeley's as the &quot;post-PC&quot; book.   Shurkin's book is extremely well written, and well worth reading.	1998-07-13
US	52705985	R1AHFLZUW3K6G	0316738522	39565410	Nano : The Emerging Science of Nanotechnology	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Entertaining look at a fascinating subject	A highly entertaining look at the emerging science of nanotechnology and its leading visionary, K. Eric Drexler.  The subject matter is fascinating, and Regis tells the story with his usual wit and humor.  Well worth reading as a quick primer on the subject; not intended to be a dry technical text on the subject.  Much in the spirit of Regis's Great Mambo Chicken; I think this one is actually a better book, but one should probably read Great Mambo Chicken first as an introduction to Regis's work.	1998-07-13
US	52705985	R2F45CMCI1XW49	0201567512	307953077	Great Mambo Chicken And The Transhuman Condition: Science Slightly Over The Edge	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Very amusing look at outrageous science	This is a highly entertaining look at the far edges of science: cryonics, living in space, nanotechnology, low cost rocketry, etc.  Regis is a very gifted, very funny writer, and the whole book is told in a tongue-in-cheek style that makes it well worth reading.   If you've got a teenage son, daughter, niece, or nephew that has a scientific bent, this is a very fun book to share with them -- the characters in it demonstrate a passion for science that is almost childlike in its sense of wonder.  But DON&quot;T TRY THIS AT HOME . . .	1998-07-13
US	52705985	R2YFSHI1ETS6Y3	0201442302	781844465	Hidden Order: How Adaptation Builds Complexity (Helix Books)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Superb book about evolution and computers	John Holland's work &quot;Hidden Order&quot; is a treatise from the creator of the genetic algorithm on &quot;Complex Adaptive Systems&quot; or CAS.  Holland explains in easy to understand language the concept of CAS, how one goes about designing them, and how one can use them to make observations about the universe.   Holland is not well known to the general public, but his work in this field is ground breaking and of great importance, and carries on the tradition of logicians such as John von Neumann and Alan Turing.  I would advise reading this book before moving on to his later work, &quot;Emergence,&quot; as this gives one a sound basis in Holland's thought, and &quot;Emergence&quot; is a slightly more difficult read.  A wonderful book.	1998-05-08
US	52705985	R2585JZORXIA4T	0201149435	199308031	Emergence: From Chaos To Order (Helix Books)	Books	4	8	13	N	N	More good ideas in 10 pages than most authors have at all.	John H. Holland is known to complexity theorists and computer programmers as the creator of the &quot;Genetic Algorithm&quot;, a method of modeling evolutionary systems on PCs.   <br /> <BR> Holland's book Emergence is an attempt at a mass-media audience; the book is well written and easy to understand, but the subject matter is daunting.  <br /> <BR> Great stuff if you like computer modeling of systems.	1998-04-27
