US	52704031	RKPWH1MRVCXBI	0803925581	864393604	Intercultural Interactions: A Practical Guide (Cross Cultural Research and Methodology)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	excellent resource for teachers and cross-cultural trainers	Cushner and Brislin's Intercultural Interactions is perhaps the most useful cross-cultural studies book that I have ever read. <BR>Designed to be helpful regardless of the cultural background of those in the critical incidents, or the reader's particular culture, it is both highly useful as a reference book and as a teaching resource. <BR>The first chapter is an excellent introduction for people who are about to enter another culture extensively. The second, which is full of information for teachers and cross-cultural trainers, is also an enjoyable read. The main focus of the book, however, is in the next eight chapters, which present over one hundred examples of critical incidents under themes such as host customs, family, tourist experiences, the workplace and education. The cultural backgrounds of the people involved in these incidents are very diverse, and include Americans (and their many cultures), Europeans, Asians, Latin Americans, Arabs, and also the physically disabled and the deaf. All the stories are believable, having been well researched, and well written. What is more impressive, however, is the trouble the authors have taken to validate them, asking no fewer than sixty professionals from a diverse range of disciplinary backgrounds to offer an interpretation. This kind of scientific approach is excellent, I think, and I also welcomed there being no right answer; only preferred ones, since the experts could never agree unanimously.<BR>The final three chapters deal with issues of culture in greater depth, and also point to additional resources for teachers and cross-cultural trainers, which is all very useful.<BR>If I were to have to find fault with this book - which I do not want to do, then it would be that I found interpreting some of the stories rather easy once I read the options, since they had just one juicy morsel of information about a culture that gave the whole game away. This is a very minor point, of course, and teachers and cross-culturaltrainers who plan to use such stories in class will surely be able to manage.<BR>I have not used Intercultural Interactions with my students yet, but I do plan to do so, and I am sure that they will enjoy learning from it, as much as I am sure that I will be using it for many years to come.	2003-11-07
US	52704031	R24CRTFUM6KZ4G	0471595284	737989768	Do's and Taboos Around The World	Books	3	14	14	N	N	advice for the business traveler, tourist, or EFL teacher	Dos and Taboos Around the World was written in the mid-eighties for American businessmen who regularly traveled abroad meeting foreign clients. I bought this book to help teach culture shock to my Japanese EFL students, and, by and large, I am quite pleased that I have it on my shelf. Even though there is a lot less information about women than men, and some information, such as gift giving, appears to be specifically for business people, there is enough general information about many different countries cultures to make interesting reading. The chapter on body language and gestures appeared to be well researched, and my students were able to learn many things from teaching material that I made using the book as a reference. There may be some people who would read Dos and Taboos and say that the author has distilled a nations people to a simple stereotype, and to a point I wouldnt be able to disagree with that. However, if I ever found myself in the company of people whose culture I were ignorant of, it would be nice to be able to scan this book for dos, taboos, likes and dislikes, and give myself a reasonable introduction on what I might be likely to encounter. This book is most useful for business travelers, but it is also useful for tourists and travelers, or anyone living in a culture other than their own.	2002-10-22
US	52704031	R3APF65E9WXNSP	0201895293	727069997	101 Bright Ideas: Esl Activities for All Ages	Books	1	26	30	N	N	101 ESL activities that are not bright nor for all ages	101 Bright Ideas: ESL Activities For All Ages does not have many activities that would be beneficial to a student of English as a second or foreign language hoping to improve her language skills. Far too many of the suggestions deal only with letter or word games requiring little or no communication. Perhaps one or two, such as categorization or association, may be useful for vocabulary building, but I felt that many others lacked any obvious pedagogical purpose. Activities that could be classed as communicative were a perplexing mixture of either boring and easy, or interesting but too difficult without considerable language support from the teacher. Some suggestions entailed bribing students with fake money in order to get them to participate, a ruse that will wear thin if the activity is not worthwhile. Others, based on TV game shows, looked fun, but perhaps teachers will already be familiar with most of these anyway. <BR>Although I liked the organization and simple layout of the book, some activities were also no more than simple layouts, such as calendars or blank Valentine cards that students were expected to complete. When language was presented, it was not always satisfactory. For example, \\"Who is the bald Irish female singer?\\" \\"Where do the pygmies live?\\" and \\"Who is the best basketball player in the NBA?\\" were suggestions, with answers, for a \\"mega quiz\\".<BR>If you are an EFL or ESL teacher interested in developing your students' communication skills or language proficiency, and want them to engage in critical and purposeful language learning, then I cannot recommend this book.	2001-12-19
US	52704031	R1IJFIM2H2ZTEW	0521397812	219247518	Five-Minute Activities: A Resource Book of Short Activities (Cambridge Handbooks for Language Teachers)	Books	4	66	67	N	N	English for EFL purposes?	Five-minute Activities contains over 130 ideas for the foreign language classroom in its 100 pages. I read this book from cover to cover, and was pleased to be able to make many notes for my future lessons. Some of the activities are actually quite common, and perhaps most teachers would be aware of them, but there were many good ones that I'd never come across, including a few gems. Some are literally five-minute fillers, while others are worthy of spending maybe a whole lesson on. If I had to make a tentative criticism, it'd be that many of the suggestions have students generating language that would never be heard beyond the walls of an EFL classroom. For example, &quot;A pencil is thinner than an elephant.&quot; I have mixed feelings about whether this is such a bad thing or not. On the one hand, students can practice structurally correct forms of language and learn whilst having fun. On the other hand, Five-minute Activities doesn't really present them with many opportunities to practise for situations in the real world, which may, of course, not be as fun. Also, I felt that there was a bias for activities that focused on self-disclosure, or competing to be the best in the class. Great, perhaps, for European or South American students of English, but not quite so good for students at my secondary school here in Japan. Overall, I'm pleased to have this book for reference, and I'd recommend it to most of my colleagues, even if some of the suggestions reminded me of what it used to be like as a pupil at a British elementary school.	2001-11-20
US	52704031	REO7LK5CYZ1RT	0582040922	822441475	Longman Language Activator (LLA)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	a must have for the advanced learner	The Longman Language Activator is a new kind of dictionary - it is a dictionary that enables language students to selectively encode what they want to state in English to a degree of linguistic accuracy that had hitherto been impossible using conventional dictionaries. Basically speaking, the Longman Language Activator is a dictionary of ideas. These ideas are the1052 key words that have been distilled from a spoken corpus of 10 million words and a written corpus of 30 million words. From these key words, the student is presented with options to help guide her in homing in on the most semantically relevant word for a particular context or situation. All the options are common, and are shown in order of frequency. The great strength of this dictionary is that it gives clear guidance on how words are normally used, and in which context they are appropriate, whether it be spoken or written, formal or informal, child or adult, or American or British. I particularly liked the dozen or so illustrations that demonstrate how proper use of the dictionary can train the learner to select words and phrases that a native-speaker would use, and perhaps I would have liked to see more of them. The Longman Language Activator is an excellent reference guide for teachers, and simply a must have for any advanced learner hoping to turn passive knowledge into active use.	2001-08-02
US	52704031	R1PBJ7JE9SYBCR	0521277736	409218951	Grammar Games: Cognitive, Affective and Drama Activities for EFL Students	Books	3	42	43	N	N	And now for something completely different...	Grammar Games contains fifty-six language learning activities divided into five sections; competitive games, collaborative sentence-making games, awareness activities, grammar through drama, and miscellany. About one fifth of the games deal directly with grammatical accuracy by exposing students to correct or incorrect sentences, with a caveat from the author urging us to accept that students who are highly focused will not imprint the wrong sentences that the theories of Skinner or Krashen may suggest.  I can't say for sure whether incorrect grammar will be unconsciously learned or not, but it is clear that not everyone will be interested in these kind of activities anyway.  I was therefore pleased that the rest of the book covered material that would appeal to many different types of learner, not just the analytically inclined. Grammar Games has a distinctly British, slightly seventies, and somewhat eccentric feel to it. We can learn by being physically active, or by being silent and reflective. There are board games and gambling games. You can vote for the best, play snap, take part in  an auction, or do back-writing. You can even brainstorm why two people would want to exchange socks on a train - not everyone's cup of tea, perhaps.  I enjoyed reading Grammar Games because most of the activities looked interesting and highly original, and that there were many that I would like to try out with my students, someday. For the EFL teacher searching for new ideas on how to teach grammar while having fun, whether you are experienced or novice, I recommend that you take a look at Mario Rinvolucri's Grammar Games.	2001-06-18
US	52704031	RJ42XDS4EW57V	019437081X	299799255	Understanding Second Language Acquisition (Oxford Applied Linguistics)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	comprehensive and clear	&quot;Understanding Second Language Acquisition&quot; is an ideal companion for students taking an initial course in applied linguistics, or for teachers who want to improve their understanding of how learners learn a second language. This book seeks to help teachers make their theory of language learning explicit by examining language-learner language and the processes that produce it. Despite being written as long ago as the mid-eighties, it is still reasonably up-to-date. It covers all the major areas of SLA that one would expect; the role of the first language, variability in interlanguage, individual differences, input, interaction, learner strategies, the Universal Hypothesis, and the role of formal instruction. I enjoyed this book partly because it was written simply, descriptively and scientifically, and partly because the author was my professor when I was a grad student. That will be of no consequence to you, of course, but his thoroughness and clear style is something that I believe all of us can benefit from.	2001-01-13
US	52704031	R2JL926HVSLS1K	0521262798	811001882	Focus on the Language Classroom: An Introduction to Classroom Research for Language Teachers (Cambridge Language Teaching Library)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	There's still a big gap between research and teaching.	&quot;Focus on the Language Classroom&quot; was written specifically for language teachers with little or no background in research practices or statistics, with its main aim to bridge the gap between research and teaching. It is divided into five parts. The first part explains what classroom research is and why it is important. The second part looks at principles and procedures of classroom research. Both parts are quite interesting and are worth reading. The last three parts of &quot;Focus on the Language Classroom&quot;, which is the core of the book, look at specific research findings and their implications for teaching. Although I found the &quot;discussion starters&quot; and &quot;suggestions for further reading&quot; of each chapter to help, in the main, I found the latter parts of this book to be to be rather dull. Partly, it was because the book is a little old and therefore, the issues are somewhat dated. Partly, it was because Allwright and Bailey don't make data analysis look so inspiring. But mainly, I didn't like these chapters because nearly all the data were taken from sloppy teachers, real and imagined. I was also frequently peeved at the models that researchers have generated. They vary from the simple and pointless, to the complex and useless. I have one of my own that you'd perhaps like to spend the next few hours in your ivory tower pondering; if you buy this book, you will either a) put on weight, b) lose weight, or c) stay the same. If there is a conclusion, then it is that there is still a big gap between research and teaching, and this book doesn't narrow that gap.	2001-01-13
US	52704031	R3MAR8GXBX6333	0060976519	568183119	The Language Instinct: How the Mind Creates Language	Books	5	9	11	N	N	simply brilliant	&quot;The Language Instinct&quot; is probably the most enjoyable book that I have ever read about language. From start to finish, the author entertained while skilfully carving out a compelling case for why he believes that man has a unique gift for language learning. Whether you are a linguist, a sociologist, a neurologist, a language lover, or a fan of popular culture, there is something in this book for you. Pinker is erudite and eclectic, covering everything from Chomsky, grammar genes, children's language, Creoles, aphasics and the origin and evolution of language, to George Bush, Gary Larsen, Woody Allen, the Hill Street Blues, the Sapir-Whorf Great Eskimo Hoax, and Orwellian Newspeak. I liked this book not just because of the excellent way that Pinker presented his scientific argument, but also because of its richness about language and life in general. If there were one person that I could choose to invite to a cocktail party, it would be Steven Pinker. Do I believe everything he writes? Of course not!	2001-01-13
US	52704031	R3HO6M0GT1KQ8	0521574188	489343665	Materials Development in Language Teaching (Cambridge Language Teaching Library)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	something in it for everyone in the EFL profession	Materials Development in Language Teaching consists of four sections, divided into seventeen chapters on theoretical and practical issues relating to creating or evaluating EFL materials. Section A deals with data collection and language analysis, which was interesting to read, but I'm not sure if I'll ever get round to doing a concordance by hand! Section B is about the process of materials writing, from the exploration of language, its contextual and pedagogical realisations, to the physical production of materials, their use and their evaluation. These chapters also focus on learner differences and learner choice, the need for constant evaluation and revision of one's work and the importance of compromise when dealing with publishers, schools, teachers, and learners. Section C focuses on the process of materials evaluation. It includes chapters on piloting, evaluating teaching materials, evaluating communicative tasks, and an investigation into what teachers are looking for when they choose a coursebook. All these papers are well worth reading, but I particularly enjoyed Andrew Littlejohn's systematic approach to the analysis of textbooks. As there are many more teachers who use textbooks than there are writers who write them, I suspect that his chapter will also have the widest appeal. Finally, section D is called &quot;ideas for materials development&quot;, but unfortunately, rather than give much in the way of practical examples, it instead focuses on the weaknesses of present-day coursebooks, which typically do not cater to different learners or learning styles very well. One suggestion is to give students more autonomy by developing sourcebooks, which sounds like a great idea, but perhaps for practical or financial reasons, this may be difficult to realise. The final note comes from the editor, Brian Tomlinson, in the final summary when he looks ahead and behoves researchers, teachers, writers and publishers to pool their resources and expertise in order tocreate materials that will have greater value to learners. I enjoyed reading Materials Development in Language Teaching and I think that there is something in it for everyone in the language teaching profession. I only wish that I had been able to read it before I wrote and had my own textbook published!	2000-10-15
US	52704031	R3EHYL8UHQEQ2W	0521255090	841754358	Teaching Listening Comprehension (Cambridge Handbooks for Language Teachers)	Books	3	16	16	N	N	interesting and practical	Teaching Listening Comprehension begins by identifying and focusing on two of the most fundamental and pertinent questions that English foreign language teachers ought to be asking; What does listening to English in real life entail? and What problems do second language learners face when trying to listen in a foreign language?  The introduction, which is roughly one fifth of the book, deals specifically with these two issues, with the remaining hundred or so pages being made up of classroom activity examples. Ur's knowledge, experience and common sense, and her refusal to lose focus of what we are doing and why, make each of her suggestions worthy of time and consideration, and her clear and non-academic style of writing makes for easy reading, too. Although Teaching Listening Comprehension is now somewhat dated (it was written in the mid-eighties), the pedagogical principles are still basically the same as they used to be. You may not want to try out all of Ur's suggestions (who would?), but if you are looking for a thorough and practical guide to the nuts and bolts of listening in a foreign language and how to be an effective listening teacher, and you are prepared to modify Ur's exercise examples to suit your own teaching environment, then there is much to be gained from reading and using her book.	2000-09-26
US	52704031	R2YO960S3FR63Y	052135837X	882254538	Learning Strategies in Second Language Acquisition (Cambridge Applied Linguistics)	Books	3	22	23	N	N	useful to know about but difficult to teach from	Learning Strategies in Second Language Acquisition  looks at language as a  complex cognitive skill which can be defined within the context of  cognitive theory. There is a lot of research in cognitive theory as it  relates to learning in general, but as O'Malley and Chamot point out, very  little has been done specifically with SLA in mind. Consequently, although  Learning Strategies in Second Language Acquisition is comprehensive in its  overview of the techniques that learners adopt while studying a foreign  language, the paucity of research as to the efficacy of using such  strategies, and whether or not they can be taught, is still inconclusive.  Clearly more research is needed before one can suggest pedagogical  implications. What I liked about this book is that it develops a taxonomy  of language learning strategies that any teacher will find very useful to  be aware of. What I was not so sure of, however, was in being able to pass  on this new knowledge to my students by referring to this text alone. If  you are looking for ways in which to teach strategies either directly, or  by embedding them in the materials that you use or create, then I much  prefer Rebecca Oxford's Language Learning Strategies.	2000-08-31
US	52704031	R3R2SSX86APKC2	0582553776	735232544	An Introduction to Second Language Acquisition Research (Applied Linguistics and Language Study)	Books	3	19	20	N	N	not an easy introduction to SLA	I read An Introduction to Second Language Acquisition Research a number of  years ago while I was studying for my Master's in TESOL, and picked it up  again only recently in order to review it. I had no recollection of it  being a good read, but it's actually quite good. It covers just about  everything that the applied linguist needs to know, including research  methodology, data collection, modern theories of second language  acquisition together with their historical development, learner variables  and their relation to success or failure, and an excellent bibliography for  those who would like to read more. I think that although this book claims  that its intended audience needs no prior knowledge of SLA, from my  personal experience, I would contest that it takes a few years for  everything to sink in! I recommend this book only if you have been involved  in linguistics for a number of years, or are an exceptionally keen or smart  grad student. If you are considering doing your own research, then this  book is also a very worthwhile read.	2000-08-29
US	52704031	R3T84OEJ1RB4S1	019431197X	90941561	Practical English Usage	Books	5	138	141	N	N	an excellent reference book!	I have a copy of Practical English Usage on my desk at school. I have  other grammar reference books, such as Quirk and Greenbaum, at home, but  this is by far the most useful for a teacher of English as a foreign  language. Swan's style is to focus on the problem points of learners, and  explain them and in simple, pithy and purposeful, everyday language to the  extent that an advanced learner would be able to understand. As a teacher,  you can often save yourself a lot of hassle simply by quoting from it. I  like Practical English Usage because the examples are real, living English  taken from the British National Corpus, or are realistic enough to be  acceptable as such. Too many grammar books borrow their English from the  past, or from the dialects of ivory-tower academics. This book redresses  this imbalance. If you are not British, fear not, as another feature is its  thorough coverage of the differences between British and American usage.  (Other dialects are not covered.) If you are a teacher of English as a  foreign language, or a smart student, you will not be disappointed with  this Practical English Usage.	2000-08-21
US	52704031	R12YQY72M2W586	0521387949	621360594	The Language Teaching Matrix (Cambridge Language Teaching Library)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	TESOL methodology - plain and simple	&quot;The Language Teaching Matrix&quot; was a required text for the  methodology component of my masters course in education that I took in  1994. It is scholarly, thorough, easy to read, and a worthy choice for any  TESOL graduate program, but I'll have to admit that I didn't really enjoy  using it. In Nunan's Second Language Teaching and Learning, which was  published in 1999, we get to meet real students and hear humorous and  occasionally humbling anecdotes. The Language Teaching Matrix, however,  only talks of &quot;the teacher&quot; and &quot;the learner&quot;, and the  materials that Richards develops and uses are invariably generic and  lifeless to be beyond belief. But then again, if you are one of the world's  most successful EFL textbook writers, why change anything? Buy this book  only if you love Jack Richards' textbooks and want to emulate his  undeniable professionalism. Otherwise, go for Nunan's SLTL, which I think  is far more useful and interesting to read.	2000-08-20
US	52704031	R1XAOQDKM7J7IA	0838428630	528258953	Teaching & Learning Vocabulary (Teaching Methods)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	the best book there is on how to teach vocabulary	Paul Nation is probably the most authorative figure in vocabulary  acquisition in the English-speaking community, and this is his book  distilled from a large amount of research findings of teachers and  researchers from around the world. Nation informs us as to what learning a  word actually entails, which words need to be learned, how to teach them,  which words do not need to be learned, and how to train one's students to  cope whenever they encounter such low-frequency words. &quot;Teaching &amp;  Learning Vocabulary&quot; breaks up vocabulary learning into the four  skills (listening, speaking, reading and writing) and there are answers in  each section to most of the questions that teachers typically ask, such as  what to do when students don't have enough vocabulary to understand.  Finally, Nation presents his personally developed and efficient test format  for assessing vocabulary, which I find very useful. (I still think it's  back to front, though. What do you think?). I was also a little bit baffled  about his penchant for using the keyword technique to remember words, but  then again he's a funny guy and must enjoy learning words himself that way.  All in all, it's an excellent book. If you are a language teacher or a  researcher, then this book is well worth reading.	2000-08-19
US	52704031	R1DHN8T1E2ZTS8	0452273226	471169026	The Mind Map Book: How to Use Radiant Thinking to Maximize Your Brain's Untapped Potential	Books	2	87	104	N	N	What a shame!	The Mind Map Book tells us how to use radiant thinking to maximize our untapped potential. Presented clearly and colorfully, in linear manner, we are guided through the process of making our own mind-maps so that we can improve our memory, concentration and creativity in planning and structuring our thoughts. Do you need to buy the book? Basically - no. When I was a student, some twenty years ago, I remember meeting a very keen proponent of mind maps in the laundry, and what I learned from him in twenty minutes was enough. Also, there are enough traveling professors in this world who are just aching to tell you how much you can do with an addled brain and set of colored felt-tips that buying this book is really not worth your while. What is good about the book, is that it does tell you clearly and methodically how to create mind maps of good design. What is bad about the book is the relentless sales pitch. Virtually everything spiral or fractal that occurs in nature gets a full color plate, and there are lists of doodles from the famous that you can test your intelligence as to who the creator was (hardly mind maps). Finally, there is a long list of merchandise that mind map fans can buy if they are so inclined. You can even send a donation of at least $10 to the author so that you can aid him in building his money-making centers! Come on Tony. The only radial thinking that you're doing is in the numbers that spiral around your head every time you go to the bank.	2000-08-18
US	52704031	R8N8C4ALG2IPB	0521496160	935894828	Society and the Language Classroom (Cambridge Language Teaching Library)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Cultural relativity in the classroom	Society and the Language Classroom is a collection of case histories from language teachers and researchers of the language learning processes in  secondary and tertiary institutions from around the world, but with a major  focus on Asia and Africa. The overwhelming theme of nearly all of these  studies is that a conflict exists, either between the balancing of  pedagogical and social functions within the classroom, or in the  interpretation of what is acceptable and unacceptable behavior from the  differing points of view of the teacher, the learners or the onlooker. Most  of these essays are qualitative and ethnographic, and in nearly of them, I  agreed with the interpretation and conclusion of the essayist, with the  possible exception of that of the editor's. Apparently, in Indonesia, it's  perfectly acceptable to come and go to the lecture room as one pleases, to  bring one's mother or boyfriend, to eat, to smoke, to talk and to laugh,  because this is what goes on at shadow puppet performances in Java and  Bali. Mmm... very broad minded Hywel. Anyone western dog who would complain  at such a scenario is guilty of Tibetan tea syndrome - saying that the tea  tastes crap simply because it's called tea and is crap, not because it's  crap anyway. Perhaps I am being culturally insensitive and shouldn't impose  my western values about what to expect in a lecture theater from my limited  world view (which is what the book is all about ), but perhaps Coleman  could also have investigated whether there was any complicity between the  teacher and the students (great bloke, gives us all As.) We have a lot of  that in Japan. All in all, though, Society and the Language Classroom is  fascinating and very though provoking, and I'm still (believe it or not )  open-minded about Indonesian universities. If you are a language teacher or  researcher, or if you just happen to be interested in cultural relativity,  there is much to enjoy in this collection of essays.	2000-08-17
US	52704031	R2WED6H5Z6K3IO	0521278716	985748398	Keep Talking: Communicative Fluency Activities for Language Teaching (Cambridge Handbooks for Language Teachers)	Books	4	80	81	N	N	fun and fluency building for the language learner	&quot;Keep Talking&quot; contains over one hundred different  fluency-building activities for the language teacher to use either  directly, or with modification, in her language classroom. Each activity  has a well defined purpose, whether it be functional or structural, and is  categorized according to language level, skill and student arrangement,  stating clearly whether or not preparation is necessary, and how long the  tasks typically take. The procedural instructions are lucid and relatively  easy to convey to most groups of language learners, and there is also scope  for variation for many of these language games, along with helpful comments  on how make such activities fun and achievable. If one also includes the  importance of making notes, and obtaining feedback, which Kippel suggests  in the introduction, then it is clear just how useful this book is.  Although I was at first confused as to why the author grouped his language  learning activities under themes such as jigsaw task, interview, or story  telling, rather than according to function or structure, I think his point  is to focus on fluency and engendering a communicative atmosphere, rather  than to actually teach anything or practice something too specific. The  teacher's role, therefore, appears to be as a facilitator or classroom  manager. In any case, the indexes include language structure (but not  function) and level, making navigating relatively straight-forward.  &quot;Keep Talking&quot; also contains about sixty worksheets which can be  copied for use in class. Although I no longer use them in my teaching  situation, I borrow ideas from them all the time. This book is not suitable  for formal institutions, but otherwise, whether you are new to language  teaching, or a seasoned pro, I feel fairly confident that there is  something in this book for you.	2000-08-15
US	52704031	RAHEWNHCGJEHA	0838427715	132658580	Caring and Sharing in the Foreign Language Class: A Sourcebook on Humanistic Techniques	Books	1	4	10	N	N	Let's talk about feelings... anyone?...	You can't judge a book by it's cover, nor should you by its title. In this case, however, the title is probably sufficient for you to be able to guess  what it's all about. I was duped into buying &quot;Caring and Sharing in  the Foreign Language Class&quot; as it was required reading for a weekend  seminar I was unable to attend on humanistic language learning. After all,  don't we all want to be more human and personable in our language classes?  Having read it from cover to cover, though, I can think of only a few  scenarios in which you may want to buy this book: i) Your students have  just arrived from some remote war-torn hell-hole and throw themselves under  their desks every time the bell rings. ii) A lone gunman has just put your  village on the map. iii) Robin Williams never irritates you. . iv) You  would like to keep this book in its cellophane cover as a quirky investment  and nostalgic reminder of how lovey-dovey the seventies were when adults  actually made papier mach collages and wore &quot;Love is ...&quot;  t-shirts. This book either needs a major overhaul or to be forgotten about  altogether. Now, does anyone know of any really good 21st century  humanistic language books? Care to share it with the rest of the class?	2000-08-15
US	52704031	RKRPC8J5YQJNV	0521315514	892337767	Understanding Research in Second Language Learning: A Teacher's Guide to Statistics and Research Design (Cambridge Language Teaching Library)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	research design and statistics for the language teacher	\\"Understanding Research in Second Language Learning\\" is the perfect book  for any teacher or researcher who would like to be able to critique or  assess statistical research papers without having to spend an inordinate  amount of time studying math in the process.  The book starts off by asking  the pertinent question \\"What is research?\\", before explaining clearly and  concisely what variables are and how they can be identified, how data is  measured, and how to choose the most appropriate statistical analysis for  your particular research question. What I liked most about this book was  the methodological approach to understanding what good research design is,  and that the helpful diagrams, summaries and review questions made  understanding rather easier than may have been otherwise. With this book,  you will probably be able to understand ninety percent of the stats that  appear in language research papers, and to follow the logic of almost all.	2000-08-14
US	52704031	R12CA5MD9RK8WN	0131241575	18345644	Testing in Language Programs	Books	4	9	9	N	N	how to make good tests and good decisions about tests	&quot;Testing in Language Programs&quot; is an ideal book for teachers who  want to learn how to make good tests, analyses and interpret the results,  and how to improve such tests so that grades or placement decisions can  have meaning and be fair to one's students. I liked this book because it is  very thorough in basics. You will learn about the different types and uses  of language tests such as norm-referenced tests (eg; the TOEFL), which can  be used to ascertain general proficiency or for making placement decisions,  and criterion-referenced tests (eg; your end-of-term test), which can  inform you to what extent students are learning and meeting previously set  and well-defined objectives. You will learn how to describe the  distribution of your test results in terms of central tendency (average,  median, mode) or spread (range, standard deviation), and when to favor one  form of presentation over another, and you will also learn the various ways  of improving your tests by scrutinizing test items. After you have  understood this, you will then be able to understand reliability and error  of measurement, and how this can help you in making decisions about grades.  Finally, the chapter on validity will help you focus on what you are really  measuring in a test and how you can make your tests accountable with  respect to language constructs or other well-established tests. If you are  a language teacher because of a congenital fear of all-things-math (a myth  I used to believe and propagate as a thoroughly obnoxious pupil), then this  book may take some time to digest. If not, (or perhaps even if) then this  book is well worth buying.	2000-08-13
US	52704031	RSKWDWQRZ03WU	0582016509	474944624	Listening in Language Learning (Applied Linguistics and Language Study)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	listening skills development: from theory to practice	Listening in Language Learning is probably the most authorative and comprehensive text about listening in a second language that has ever been written with both the applied linguist and language teacher in mind. It  covers auditory perception of linguistic processing, including lexical,  syntactic and schematic effects, learner inference, collaborative and  non-collaborative listening skills and strategies, developing and assessing  listening skills, and the placing of listening in a language curriculum.  This book may not be the ideal choice for a teacher new to EFL, as there is  rather a lot of specialist terminology - so much to the extent that at  times I felt that I was reading a linguist's learner dictionary. What I  liked best about this book is that it allowed me to focus more clearly and  scientifically on creating and evaluating listening tasks for my high  school teaching situation, and for that reason alone, the book was worth  buying.	2000-07-04
US	52704031	R1J6RIOWBPDHDU	0471308412	418455902	Do's and Taboos of Using English Around the World	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A handy reference for language teachers	Do's and Taboos of Using English Around the World is primarily written with the international business traveler in mind, but it is also useful for teachers and students of English as a foreign language. Indeed, the book is  written in such a simple and entertaining style as to make it appealing to  just about anyone remotely interested in language or travel. It is divided  into three sections. The first part deals with the idiosyncrasies of  American English, the second part with English varieties around the world,  and the last part, which makes up over half of the book, with helpful  advice on becoming a global communicator. If you are a native English  speaker, then the first two sections of this book may not be that  interesting, as much of what is said may already be known to you. As an  English teacher, I found the latter part of the book to be the most useful  because of its coverage of the subtle differences in English communication  throughout the world. Of course, this book is not serious reading if you  are a linguist or a scholar, but Axtell does a fine job of offering good  advice to any newcomer to Japan, my home for the past ten years. If I were  to complain about this book, I would say that some of his anecdotes are a  little bit contrived and others rather dull. Also, the grocer's apostrophe  in the book's title; are we going to get rid of it or quote it in a later  edition in the series?	2000-06-13
US	52704031	R9160SYHQ8JUE	0138249881	661344404	Songs in Action (Language Teaching Methodology Series)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	an accessible and teacher-friendly resource book	Songs in Action is a useful, comprehensive and well-indexed resource book for any foreign language teacher who uses songs or music in the classroom, or would like to do so but doesn't yet know how. It lists seventy-six tried  and tested activities divided into five focus areas of vocabulary,  listening, singing, writing and discussion, and most of these are ready to  use or adapt from with little or no preparation. In fact, I found only two  activities which seemed to be lacking in any pedagogical purpose; one was  playing a song for no apparent reason, and the other was rank ordering  natural sounds according to personal taste. The others, however, do have a  point, and look fun to try out. Perhaps most of the author's chosen songs  will be older than your students, but this may not necessarily be such a  bad thing. In my experience, songs which are old enough for students not to  know, often turn out to be better than those which are new enough to  remember, but which evoke an emotional response unrelated to the song's  message. In any case, one of the themes of the book is action research,  implying that teachers should be using and experimenting with their own  ideas and selection of songs.	2000-05-19
US	52704031	R57KCACKD718Q	0838428622	726436558	Language Learning Strategies: What Every Teacher Should Know	Books	4	22	22	N	N	A very systematic study of language learning strategies	Language Learning Strategies is a very well organised study of the techniques that learners utilise in order to master a foreign language. The results of Rebecca Oxford's research has yielded a four-level taxonomy of  learning strategies, which she presents in outline form as well as in  depth, and which is the great strength of this book. At the lowest level of  her classification, there are concrete examples of every strategy in a  number of different languages, and no matter how hard I tried, I could not  think of a new strategy which wasn't already covered somewhere in her  diagram. The book also contains strategy awareness surveys, and a mixture  of adopted and original strategy training exercises covering all four  language skills, which most teachers should find useful. It is well  referenced and well cross-referenced, and there is a useful chapter on  networking, should you wish to pursue your studies further.  The only  slight concern that I have about this book is that some of the exercises  seem to require quite a high degree of sophistication in order to play, and  that there may be a limit to which students want to spend time talking  about such strategies in class, however useful they may be.	2000-05-16
US	52704031	R1GQAD6I3L3V3R	020111478X	869699389	Culture Learning: The Fifth Dimension in the Language Classroom (Second language professional library)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	cross-cultural awareness for language teachers	Culture Learning: The Fifth dimension in the Language Classroom  is an academic and rather dry study of the field of intercultural communication. Written primarily for foreign language teachers who teach students of  another culture, its purpose is to train teachers in becoming aware of  their own culture and that of others, and to advocate that teachers include  a culture component in their language classes. The first part of the book  is a very thorough study of the processes of language and culture learning  in general, including a look at the major variables which affect these  processes. The second part of the book looks at the practial issues, such  as planning, implementing and evaluating cuturally sensitive curricula  intended for the foreign language classroom. I was somewhat disappointed  with the latter part of this book, as even though one is made aware of the  issues, most of it is rather too highbrow to be able to use in class.  Having said that, I was pleased that I read this book at the time I did. I  had been living in Japan for a couple of years and was coping reasonably  well with the language, but somehow I felt that there were mysterious  forces subconciously affecting my perceptions of what ought to have been  everyday events. Culture Learning helped me to become aware of these forces  and to see my host culture in a different and more positive light.	2000-04-22
US	52704031	R19SEC5XPLMWTY	0156010801	357381714	Probability 1	Books	3	5	5	N	N	a good read but shame about the title	In order to estimate the probability that there is life on other planets in our universe, you need to be aware of the Drake equation, which is stated in the first chapter, and to be able to make informed guesses of the sizes of the variables in this equation, which you can read about in the  last three pages.  The rest of the book, however, is merely entertainment -  interesting science, astronomy and math, and it is fun to read. It's just  that the title is a bit of a con. &quot;After dinner topics for the  scientifically literate&quot; might be a better title, but it would sell  fewer books.  I think that the probability of reading about the chances of  life on other planets in the universe, if you turn to a page at random in  this book, is rather low. Buy the book only if you're not that concerned  about the somewhat disingenuous title.	2000-04-06
US	52704031	R3ABOXBPUZDJSR	0838408389	424943028	Second Language Teaching & Learning	Books	5	16	17	N	N	an excellent EFL reference book!	This book would almost certainly make my top ten list of EFL resource books. David Nunan very simply and clearly tells us what we know, how we know it, and what its implications for teaching are. SLTL presents both conceptual and empirical foundations to language teaching, deals with  learners, language and language learning, and gives us practical advice on  how to teach the four skills. Each chapter also contains many stimulating  review questions, mind maps for the linearly challenged, and a coherent  conclusion.	2000-04-06
US	52704031	RE399X3P7FW3U	0521281695	148853887	Discussions that Work: Task-centred Fluency Practice (Cambridge Handbooks for Language Teachers)	Books	4	74	74	N	N	Discussions that may not always work.	I don't know just how old this book is, but it reminds me of the kinds of language activities that I did as a pupil in English as my first language when I was eleven or twelve. There are lots of cognitive and logical  activities and a few balloon debates, which are fun if you like that kind  of stuff. However, these activities may not necessarily be the best way to  promote fluency in your EFL class simply because they are mentally too  taxing. They require silent reflection, which is not what you would want in  your oral English lessons. The book is divided into two parts; The first  section discusses general principles, which is both lucid and informative.  The second section, which is about three quarters of the book, gives  practical examples.  The best activities for me in my high school teaching  situation, are the simple ones which have a real-life purpose, such as  planning for a trip or doing a survey, and which are easy enough to get  students talking straight away. Overall, this book does have quite a lot of  useful and workable activities and I'm pleased that I can refer to it from  time to time. If you are an EFL teacher looking for new ideas for  facilitating discussion in your language classes, then most likely, you  will not be disappointed with this book.	2000-04-02
US	52704031	R315GI52XMCV4C	0838426727	725278224	The Research Manual: Design and Statistics for Applied Linguistics	Books	5	9	9	N	N	a comprehensive guide to statistics in language research	If you want to understand more about why second language researchers use certain statistical procedures rather than others, and how they go about it, then this book is a must for you. Divided into four parts, the main areas of focus are;  i) planning a research project, ii) describing data,  iii) comparing groups and iv) describing relationships.  Part 1 deals with  defining the research question, stating hypotheses and constructing  research designs, as well as giving good advice on how to write the  research proposal or report. Part 2 is a basic introduction to statistical  concepts such as mean, standard deviation and z scores, and is written in a  clear and logical style. Part 3 is a little heavy going at times, but the  authors have a knack of being able to anticipate the reader's frustrations  and go to good lengths to be made understood. T-tests and ANOVA in their  various forms, and their non-parametric equivalents such as the signed rank  test and Friedman are all covered in detail, with worked examples, as in  the other parts of the book. Part 4 deals with correlation, such as  chi-squared and Pearson, regression, and principal component analysis and  factor analyis. In addition, the appendices contain lists of all the  formulas and statistical tables you will ever need should you wish to  compute by hand. This is a very thorough and useful book for anyone with an  interest in linguistics, or for those who are  contemplating doing their  own second language research.	2000-04-02
