US	52717582	R1974QM9Y4PK1M	0316362360	709073431	A Necklace of Fallen Stars	Books	4	7	7	N	N	'Stars' just short of brilliance	As many fantasy novels have documented, being a princess is no guarantee of perfect happiness in life.  Quite the contrary: most seem to suffer from a spate of tyrannical fathers, odious suitors, dastardly wizards, and unpleasant (step)sisters, all of it topped off with rounds of mind-numbing embroidery.  What distinguishes Beth Hilgartner's Princess Kaela from hoards of other sixteen year old, rebellious, runaway princesses is the quality and quantity of the stories she tells throughout the novel while fleeing from her oppressive father. <br /> <br />Storytelling is Kaela's gift; not a magical, convenient one like telekinesis or shapeshifting, but one that, like Scheherazade's, allows her to save her own life and freedom in a dangerous situation.  With her story, she also rescues a young minstrel named Kippen, gaining a travel companion and ally against the unscrupulus wizard sent to fetch her home.  Escaping to the neighboring country of Cymyl, she poses as a simple storyteller, captivating a diverse audience with her magical tales. <br /> <br />But they are not just stories.  More personal than Scheherazade's, Kaela's stories, while entertaining and well told, are also thoughtful explorations and subtle refractions of her own preoccupations.  The relationship between the frame story and its embedded stories is intriguingly complex.  Cruel kings, corrupt wizards and jealous lovers parade through her stories in an increasingly close relationship to her external reality.  Kaela's final, most personal tale, \\"A Necklace of Fallen Stars,\\" can only be ended by the actions of the two people involved in telling and listening to the story.   <br /> <br />All of the stories are unique in tone, intent, and subject matter and are compulsively readable in themselves and as reflections of Kaela's tale.  \\"Bottled Palindrome\\" is a humorous, rather Lloyd Alexander-esque story in which an evil wizard intent upon capturing a boy named Muffum for a special spell is faced with a mysterious and crabby cat that may (or may not) be more than it seems.  \\"The Knave and the Player,\\" told to Kippen, the robber baron's court, and his beautiful daughter Alyi, is a slightly edgy romance that has considerable bearing on Kaela's relationship to Kippen.  More solemn is \\"The Colors of the Wind,\\" a contemplation on the consequences of intolerance and misunderstanding that just skirts the annoyance of outright didacticism. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, the frame story just isn't quite as good as the stories that comment upon and engage with it.  Perhaps the consequence of devoting so much of the book to these stories is that the characters, relationships, and actions in the frame story sometimes feel rushed and incompletely explored.  A number of repentances and rescues pivotal to the admittedly slight plot come a bit too easily.  And while it is refreshing to have characters who are neither wholly good or bad, few of these many characters are actually thoroughly developed.  Some, like the sharp tongued Lord Talmot and the robber baron's daughter, are little more than potentially interesting sketches.  Kippen himself is so disappointingly bland as the love interest that I preferred the livelier romance in \\"The Knave and the Player.\\"  <br /> <br />Like the strand of pitted and misshapen fallen stars that features in the last of Kaela's stories, Beth Hilgartner's little known fantasy is unusual, memorable, and quite unique--yet not entirely satisfying.  But Beth Hilgartner's wry, fluid prose should appeal to fans of Lloyd Alexander and Elizabeth Marie Pope, and her subject matter is perfect for all fairy tale aficionados.  A Necklace of Fallen Stars, despite its imperfections, remains an extremely intelligent and thought provoking novel that, in its quiet wisdom and layered complexity, provides a perfect antidote to more conventional blockbuster fantasies.	2005-07-04
US	52717582	R3M2G582YS4PBC	0689861753	762887058	Bound	Books	4	23	26	N	N	Cinderella unbound	This is not your familiar, comfortable Cinderella story.  There are no magic wands or pumpkin coaches, and happily ever after happens only in, well, fairy tales.  Real life offers few of these sugar spun fantasies, particularly for three unsupported women in a Ming dynasty Chinese village.  Fourteen year old Xing Xing, her stepmother, and her half-sister Wei Ping are each bound: socially, ideologically, and financially.  The physical, crippling binding of Wei Ping's feet is a metaphor for an encompassing system of patriarchal privilege.  But in another sense of the word, to be bound is also to be heading towards something-- not so much a fate, as a rare and precious choice of fates.  <br /> <br />That freedom of choice is the greatest of presents from Xing Xing's dead mother.  She may (or may not) be incarnated as a giant white and red carp, in a pond near the potter's cave in which the three women continue to live with increasing poverty after the death of Xing Xing's father.  The orphaned Xing Xing lives on her stepmother's charity, such as it is, as a virtual slave.  Life isn't all bad, of course.  Xing Xing finds joy in writing calligraphy and poetry into the sky, in visiting the beautiful carp, in the beauty of a painted pottery shard, and in the green dress and very special pair of slippers her mother secretly left behind for her.   <br /> <br />These four women-- Xing Xing, her dead mother, Stepmother, and Wei Ping-- and their relationships to each other are at the heart of the story.  Napoli redraws Stepmother as an understandable, if not likable, figure who behaves as she does for very good reasons:  ideology, jealousy, and an anxiety for Wei Ping's and her own wellbeing, for which she is willing to sacrifice Xing Xing's.  The psychological undercurrents, particularly the hint of tensions between Stepmother and Xing Xing's mother when they were both alive as the potter's two wives, drive and fill in the frame of the story.  No effort is made to make a traditional villain into a heroine, as with Napoli's earlier retelling of Hansel and Gretel (The Magic Circle), but Stepmother is a fully realized and complex character. <br /> <br />Other characters are less well drawn than Stepmother.  Xing Xing is a little bland in comparison, though her conflicting desires to conform to social norms for women and to find her own voice make her a likable heroine who, though forward thinking, is not jarringly anachronistic.  The prince is appealing, but he appears only briefly and rather belatedly.  Despite (or because of) this, Napoli pens a conclusion as convincingly real as it is satisfying. <br /> <br />It doesn't all work perfectly.  The magic is incorporated with subtle ambiguity in the figure of the carp, but it seems to be almost a cop out to have a blatantly magical slipper that is too small for bound feet (only when belonging to the wrong people) but fits unbound ones (belonging to the right person).  The details of historical setting can also be rather awkwardly introduced, like when Stepmother mentions the \\"jiang hu lang zhong,\\" immediately adding, \\"a barefoot wandering doctor.\\"  Overall, however, Cinderella fits in so well with a Chinese setting-- unsurprising, given that the oldest recorded versions of the tale are Chinese-- that it seems odd that Cinderella isn't set there more often. <br /> <br />Napoli rewrites a tale that traditionally takes place, once upon a time, in a kingdom far away, with an unflinching honesty that comes with its own brand of wisdom, logic, and magic.  Bound is no longer quite a romance, in either form or content, but it is a deeply thoughtful retelling that reads as though a slipper were finally returning to its proper owner; that this was the way it really happened.	2005-01-18
US	52717582	R27VK9XVI302GY	006008992X	624428807	An Earthly Knight	Books	3	21	25	N	N	O, I forbid ye maidens all, that wear gold on your hair...	Set in twelfth century Scotland, An Earthly Knight is a strongly historical Tam Lin retelling, which, as its title suggests, is much more interested in the earthly elements of the tale than the fantastic.  There may be fairies in the woods, but they are little seen amidst the bustle of banquets, weaving, dowries, pilgrimages, and contemporary Scottish politics that fill the life of Lady Jeanette Avenel, youngest daughter to an ambitious Norman vicomte.  At sixteen, Jenny is outspoken, strong willed, and fond of wandering the woods alone.  Neither entirely sharing nor disdaining her father's ambitions for connections with the Scottish crown, she is resigned to being married off to advance his interests-- until she meets the mysterious Tam Lin on one of her forest rambles...  <br /> <br />Painstakingly faithful to the ballad, to the point where it quotes actual lines with little modification, An Earthly Knight is a retelling, not any real reinvention or reworking.  Unoriginality of plot isn't the problem, however, since an original plot can hardly be demanded of a retelling; rather, it's the fact that the story of Tam Lin, when dominated by uninspiring protagonists and a truly unconvincing romance, becomes the tale of a rather clingy girl who pulls some bloke off his horse. <br /> <br />Jenny Avenel, despite being all the things likable young fantasy heroines generally are these days, is rather bland and occasionally irritating, basking in the glow of other characters' and McNaughton's own clear admiration.  An anachronism of her time, Jenny alone sees clearly and critically through the oppressiveness of her society and acts with great courage to change her fate, etc., etc.  She avoids the sin of dull, perfect, goodness, but her bouts of selfish and immature behavior make her no more likable, and she never fully comes together as a person.  Conversely, Tam Lin is a contemporary female fantasy of Mr. Right transported directly into 1162 Scotland.  Not only is he gentleand handsome (with long blonde hair!), he also cooks, cleans, and plays shrink/doctor/fairy godmother for Jenny.  There is almost as little personality evident in his character as there is chemistry in their romance.   <br /> <br />Supporting characters like Jenny's sister Isabel and the bard Cospatric can be interesting, but they are explored too little to compensate for the lackluster quality of the romance that occupies the center of any Tam Lin.  The fairy queen is a particular disappointment.  Like most fantastic elements in the novel, she almost fails to put in an appearance; and when she does, she clashes violently with the prosaic historical setting that dominates the book. <br /> <br />An Earthly Knight isn't so much steeped in history as it is stuffed with it, to the point where it is actually awkward and intrusive.  Jenny can hardly take a sip of wine without being interrupted by chatty narratorial comments on Norman beverage preferences and transportation problems.  Characters insist upon telling other things (i.e. that Queen Maud was King David's sister) that everyone at that time and location should already know.  The overabundance, and often awkward insertion, of historical sidenotes actually has an adverse effect on how convincing Jenny's world is.  At the same time, anachronisms in the way the characters speak and act further disrupt the spell that historical fiction should ideally cast.  In particular, the glaringly modern usage of words like \\"nicer\\" and \\"grumbly\\" give the book the feel of a play in which contemporary actors have imperfectly learned their roles.   <br /> <br />Neither quite adequate as historical fiction nor as fantasy, An Earthly Knight still retains some appeal for ballad lovers.  One of its gems is the surprising and graceful interweaving of another ballad with Jenny's story.  Their juxtaposition, which raises some really interesting questions about heroines, their actions, and others' perceptions of both, is the single most compelling reason to read this book.  As it is, An Earthly Knight is moderately enjoyable, if far from groundbreaking.  Other authors, like Diana Wynne Jones in Fire and Hemlock and Elizabeth Marie Pope in The Perilous Gard, have written considerably more innovative and satisfying explorations of Tam Lin.	2005-01-09
US	52717582	R2BK1S2EYPX3YX	0862410967	228362652	Kate Crackernuts (Kelpies)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	3.5 stars - an ambitious historical fairy tale retelling	The fairy tale \\"Kate Crackernuts,\\" on which Katherine Briggs bases her retelling, is a splendid one which deserves to be better known.  The story has all the usual elements of fairy tales and ballads: an evil stepmother, a curse, handsome princes, a lovely princess, and fairies-- and then there is Kate.  Neither beautiful nor royally born, Kate is a refreshingly brave and resourceful heroine who, like Janet of Tam Lin, is instrumental in saving those she loves and bringing about her own happily ever after. <br /> <br />Katherine Briggs's novel is a largely faithful retelling of the original story.  Her most substantial change is to set Kate Crackernuts in a solidly historical time and place:  17th century Scotland.  Kate Maxwell is still the daughter of a poor widow, but her stepsister Katherine Lindsay is no longer a princess, only the daughter of a Scottish laird.  However, this is not quite the Scotland of history books-- along with clan politics, feuds with the English, and zealous witch hunts, there are real witches with real power to do harm.  Kate's own mother, Grizel Maxwell, is one; her friend, the grotesque hag Mallie Gross, is another.  When they put a curse on Katherine, both Kates run away to England to seek a remedy.  But while posing as a servant in an English household, Kate finds yet another spellbound mortal in young Will Frankland, and begins to realize that the strange and treacherous fairy realm which has captured Will also possesses cures for both Will and Katherine-- if only Kate can be clever and brave enough to secure them before Halloween. <br /> <br />There is a fair amount to admire in this ambitious amalgamation of history, fantasy, fairy tale, and ballad, from the meticulous historical detail of 17th century Scotland, to the audibly authentic Scottish and Yorkshire dialects.  However, the large amount of Scottish politics in the first half of the book is at once too detailed to be mere background and too incidental to Kate and Katherine's less prosaic adventures to be absorbing or even necessary.  It is not particularly enthralling in its own right, and only bogs an already stately pace down further. <br /> <br />Really likeable characters can obscure any number of other faults, but Briggs's prose is stylized and a little anachronistic, which has the effect of distancing the characters.  Katherine is unchangingly sweet and good, and Kate herself is loyal, brave, resourceful, and little else.  Their suitors, being absent for most of the novel, are even less developed.  Grizel is arguably the most interesting character, caught between a real, though unhealthy, love for her daughter, and a vicious resentment for the stepdaughter who outshines Kate.  The tense triangle between Grizel, Kate, and Katherine is all but resolved within the first half of the book, and no similarly interesting relationship replaces it. <br /> <br />Still, Kate Crackernuts has plenty to recommend itself to fairy tale, Scottish history, and ballad (particularly Tam Lin) lovers.  A number of scenes and images are extremely memorable, and Katherine Briggs's prose is graceful, if a trifle chilly.  Related books include Sophie Masson's Malkin, Janet McNaughton's An Earthly Knight, and Clare Dunkle's Hollow Kingdom, which features yet another brave heroine called Kate.  However, my favorite Kate will always be the heroine of Elizabeth Marie Pope's Perilous Gard, which succeeds in the seamless blending of history, ballad, and good storytelling that Briggs doesn't quite achieve.	2005-01-05
US	52717582	R2STA41C9JMAJ7	0689855915	350761390	A Wizard Named Nell (The Keepers, Book 1)	Books	2	10	13	N	N	Pedestrian but inoffensive children's fantasy	The best children's fantasy books, like Lloyd Alexander's Chronicles of Prydain and Norton Juster's Phantom Tollbooth, appeal to both children and readers well out of childhood.  This is not the case with Jackie French Koller's undistinguished fantasy series.  Colorful, brisk, easy to follow, and featuring a brave young heroine of just eleven years of age, A Wizard Named Nell has qualities that may recommend it to very young fantasy readers.  However, reduced down to basics, it is the tale of a princess on a quest to save her world from an all powerful Dark Lord-- a tale that is very familiar and has been told, rather better, many times before. <br /> <br />Originality never once rears its head in the tale of Nell's quest to become the next apprentice to the Keeper of the Light, whose job it is to hold the Dark Forces (capitals absolutely required) at bay.  The extent to which A Wizard Named Nell falls into fantasy cliches can be verified by looking at entries for \\"Dark Lord,\\" \\"Missing Heirs,\\" and \\"Minions of the Dark Lord\\" in Diana Wynne Jones's mercilessly satirical Tough Guide to Fantasyland, published in 1996.  Nothing is actually wrong with using a few fantasy tropes, but Koller slaps these in her story without ever pausing to fully explore any of them.  Eldearth feels like a movie set rather than a full realized world with its own history and rules.  Incongruous bits of modernity in what is otherwise a generic, quasi-medieval fantasy world are particularly apparent in the dialogue.  Raechel, the sweet, terminally ill child (see \\"Plague\\" in the Tough Guide) remarks of Nell's inevitable dragon sidekick, \\"She be so cute.\\"  Thankfully, the writing isn't always that bad, but some of it, combined with some very sloppy copyediting, is worth a cringe or two. <br /> <br />Good characterization might compensate for some of the book's other flaws, but Nell and her supporting cast possess little depth.  Adults, as in Harry Potter, tend to be either totally ineffectual (ifwell intentioned), or narrow minded, incompetent, and ultimately obstructive to the execution of Good by the young protagonist.  Nell herself is irritating in her perfection.  She is alone in being progressive, compassionate, and clear-sighted, but there is never any doubt that the conservative adults who surround her are uncomplicatedly wrong in their views.  (Most of them, however, praise her bravery and kindness.  Often.)  Koller's messages are perfectly sound, but the repeated emphasis on the need for social consciousness between different species, classes, and genders comes across as heavy-handed and unnecessarily didactic.   <br /> <br />There is no reason why children's fantasy cannot be original, intelligent, and profound, as well as entertaining.  Unfortunately, the Keeper series, despite its attractive covers (kudos to artist Rebecca Guay), isn't really any of the above.  There are, however, plenty of books that are.  Young fantasy readers are much better off with Sherwood Smith's Wren books, Tamora Pierce's Magic Circle quartet, or Diana Wynne Jones's Chrestomanci books, which all feature more interesting young protagonists and thoughtfully crafted magical worlds.	2004-12-26
US	52717582	R2TX9YJNDE203V	0689870639	901943404	Spirited (Once upon a Time)	Books	2	49	56	N	N	Spiritless	It is a pity that Nancy Holder's Spirited is set in 1756, a good thirty years before Jane Austen wrote, \\"Beware of fainting-fits...Though at the time they may be refreshing and agreeable yet believe me they will in the end, if too often repeated and at improper seasons, prove destructive to your Constitution.\\"  Isabella Stevens, Holder's less than intrepid heroine, could benefit by such excellent advice.  She spends the majority of the novel either screaming or fainting and awaiting rescue from her tall, dark, handsome, and brooding captor. <br /> <br />Oh dear.  <br /> <br />Spirited attempts to be a romantic, historically set, fairy tale retelling.  What it is is a tamed bodice ripper with an incongruously tasteful cover.  As such, it is unlikely to appeal to anyone who picks it up expecting an insightful exploration of Beauty and the Beast or even a decent historical fantasy.   <br /> <br />The few parallels that exist between Spirited and the fairy tale it retells are tenuous and oddly distorted.  Isabella does offer to remain captive to Wusamequin's tribe in exchange for her father's freedom.  However, she actually ends up staying because of a botched escape attempt in which she nearly impales herself upon a branch in the forest.  If anything, Spirited uses the basic framework and fantasy of the fairy tale as an excuse for a bad romance with remarkably little awareness of its own absurdity.  The fantasy elements are incorporated badly, making suspension of disbelief difficult, particularly in the ending scene, which unfolds with all the cheap flashiness of a B grade horror flick.  <br /> <br />Spirited works no better as historical fiction, though Nancy Holder has clearly done some research into Native American names and traditions, and Isabella's initial prejudice towards the Native Americans as savages is understandable.  However, the fairy tale parallel which makes Wusamequin (the quintessential noble savage) the beast is a disheartening echo of colonial ideology.  Holder's portrayal, while sympathetic, is not sensitive.  It is both a surprise and a relief that she does restrain from completely vilifying either settlers or Native Americans.  <br /> <br />Any redeeming value of the novel stems from the fact that Spirited can be genuinely, laugh-out-loud, funny.  Holder's overwrought prose and tendency toward melodrama make many of Isabella and Wusamequin's adventures unintentionally hilarious.  Isabella and her appropriately tormented lover take themselves so seriously that they almost deserve each other.  Still, it's difficult to recommend Spirited when there are so many books that succeed in what it fails, like Robin McKinley's two retellings of Beauty and the Beast and Jackie French Koller's YA colonial romance, The Primrose Way.  The Once Upon a Time series is stylishly designed and occasionally charming, but Nancy Holder's Spirited is not amongst its better entries. <br /> <br />Ailanna <br />	2004-12-23
US	52717582	R38U0S10ULYUH0	0439554780	890779868	1: The Singer of All Songs, The: Chanters of Tremaris, Book One: Chanters Of Tremaris Book One (Chanters of Tremaris Trilogy)	Books	4	55	58	N	N	3.5 stars for content, plus .5 for promise...	I've reached a point where the thought of reading about yet another fantasy heroine who is a) sixteen, b) spunky, c) beginning to discover a vast amount of magical potential, and/or d) of mysterious parentage, makes me groan and reach for another book.  It is a sort of compliment to Kate Constable that, in spite of endowing her heroine Calwyn with all four qualities, she has written a book I enjoyed and think I'll probably read the two forthcoming sequels to. <br /> <br />The plot of The Singer of All Songs, reduced to basics, involves the quest of a small group of young people trying to prevent a power-hungry prince from achieving world domination through the mastery of magic.  This should sound familiar to all fantasy readers, and it isn't necessarily a discommendation-- after all, everyone from Tolkien to Lloyd Alexander has used something similar.  The details, of world, characters, and magic, are what determine merit, and Kate Constable's aren't quite up there yet.  The Singer of All Songs is a very readable YA fantasy that falls short of true excellence. <br /> <br />The magic of the world of Tremaris is based on sung 'chantments' in nine disciplines: ice, iron, wind, fire, tongue, beast, seeming, becoming, and a final ineffable one related to the Goddess.  Differing vocal range and pitch have something to do with the practice of each, but exactly how the chantments work and why is largely left unexplained.  It's an interesting idea, but as a previous reviewer has pointed out, there aren't enough guidelines to govern the magic.  Similarly  what details are provided about the lands of Tremaris are wonderful, from the way honey is integral to Antaris's culture and used at breakfast and in the sickroom alike, to the unvocal speech of the tree people and the university at Mithates.  They are too few of them to make the world feel convincingly real.  It's like getting snapshots when you've been promised a full tour.  It's also a shame that a map hasn't been included inside an otherwise beautifully designed book.     <br /> <br />The Singer of All Songs has so much potential that it is frustrating that it doesn't realize it to the fullest.  Kate Constable's clear prose is capable of a brilliance and beauty that it only periodically delivers.  Her characters are similarly uneven.  Trout, a school boy who has 'mad inventor' written all over his future, is also refreshingly down to earth and likable; on the other side of the spectrum, the healer boy Halasaa, with his quiet insistence that \\"this life is a dance, not a battle,\\" is an intriguing and mystical figure.  Unfortunately, the story centers around sixteen year old Calwyn, an acolyte of the priestesses of Antaris.  She is virtually undistinguishable from a host of other sixteen year old fantasy heroines with unknown origins and an abundance of powers.  Calwyn isn't dislikable, but nor is she a compelling enough character to really make her tale sparkle.  And I *will* groan if there turns out to be a Star Wars type revelation about her father's identity in later books... <br /> <br />For being the first in a proposed trilogy, Kate Constable's debut stands pretty well on its own, perhaps to the detriment of relationships that could be (and ought to be) more thoroughly and convincingly developed throughout the series.  Without being enamored of The Singer of All Songs, I'm still definitely interested in seeing where Kate Constable takes her world and characters in subsequent books.  Recommended, with some reservations, to YA fantasy readers, especially those interested in the combination of music and magic.  Also try Katherine Roberts's Song Quest and Shalanna Collins's Dulcinea: Wizardry A-Flute for more musical YA fantasy.	2004-10-10
US	52717582	R7DCCQ3I1J0JI	1582347999	704051695	The Frog Princess (Tales of the Frog Princess)	Books	3	23	32	N	N	Enjoyable but insubstantial fairy tale fluff	It has been well documented that a kiss is much more than the brief contact between two pairs of lips.  <br />Indeed, as E. D. Baker points out, its transformative abilities have been well noted in stories as disparate as Sleeping Beauty, Snow White, and, of course, The Frog Prince.  The kiss has lost none of its potency in Baker's skewed fairy tale, as fourteen year old Princess Emeralda discovers.  Succumbing to the pleas of yet another talking frog claiming to be an enchanted prince (goodness, there seem to be rather a lot of those around), she reluctantly puckers up-- and is herself changed into a frog.  She and her froggy companion, Prince Eadric, embark upon a quest to regain their humanity; it is, as Eadric puts it, \\"a matter of life or froghood.\\"  Their everything-but-the-kitchen-sink adventures include amusing episodes with Vannabe, the would-be wicked witch, a disgruntled swamp fairy, various enchanted and/or talking creatures, several kisses (few of them between humans), and insects of varying degrees of tastiness. Fireflies, anyone?  Or perhaps a nice, crunchy dragonfly?<br />The first person narrative has a certain sprightly charm with a number of humorous and clever garnishes (the trash can vs. the trash can't; the difference between them becomes crucial when the contents of the trash can't are freed by Emma's spell), and as a whole is seldom less than enjoyable, though I was rolling my eyes when it came to a cartoonish talking bat named--wait for it--Li'l Stinker.  The dialogue can be a bit wooden and very occasionally descends into downright corniness (\\"I would never have met the best friend I've ever had,\\" says Emma to Eadric in a particularly cliche instance), but the book works well when being flippant and tongue in cheek, which it mostly is.     <br />The greatest problem with the book is not what it does wrong, but what it fails to do, i.e.  to be a really clever, memorable modern fairy tale.  All the stereotypes of fairy tales are present, mostturned on their heads with moderate success.  But while they do subvert fairy tale conventions, neither characters, story, nor world really take on a life of their own.  There is nothing to make Baker's enchanted forest or generic fantasy world stand out from any other, and the characters are almost equally wanting.  Even as the narrator of her own story, Emma comes across as just another member of a new generation of unconventional princesses (brave, kind hearted, but also shy and clumsy), and Eadric, amusingly self centered and imperfect, is only a little more individual.  While reading The Frog Princess, I was reminded of a host of other modern fairy tale characters with more, well, character.  Grassina pales beside the forceful, relentlessly no-nonsense Morwen of Patricia C. Wrede's Enchanted Forest Chronicles, and Eadric is nothing to Diana Wynne Jones's flamboyantly egotistical and selfish but lovable Howl.  The pointed wit and skilful manipulation of fairy tales seen in Patrice Kindl's Goose Chase and Vivian Vande Velde's The Rumpelstiltskin Problem make The Frog Princess seem a trifle labored in comparison.    <br />Writing skewed, young adult fairy tales has become a very popular thing to do, with the result that a number of books have been recently published that deal with the same basic themes.  Fairy tale aficionados will enjoy Baker's offering, but may find themselves returning to stronger novels in this subgenre.  The Frog Princess is an amusing little book, but it covers no new ground and leaves no deep impression.	2004-06-11
US	52717582	R12QK2B3ABVD4J	061816684X	280143968	Lost in the Labyrinth	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Somber and compelling	The epic adventures of Theseus have never been among my favorite Greek myths.  They always seem so polarized, with a clear antagonist (the Minotaur, in this case) who, by the end of the story, is always neatly dispatched by the heroic Theseus.  <br />But that is the version told by Greek men.  Lost in the Labyrinth is Xenodice's version.  <br />And who, you may well ask, is Xenodice?  She is the third, unambitious, sometimes overlooked daughter of Queen Pasiphae and her consort King Minos of Crete; younger sister to haughty Ariadne (yes, *that* Ariadne); half sister to Asterius, better known as the Minotaur; friend to exiled Athenian craftsmen, Daedalus and his handsome son Icarus.  In short, standing as she does at both the center and the circumference of a labyrinth of myths, close to the main actors but rarely one herself, she is in the perfect position to tell it like it really happened.  <br />All is not well in the labyrinthine palace of Knossos.  Years ago, Queen Pasiphae's eldest son was killed.  She blames his death upon Athenian treachery and King Minos's carelessness.  In vengeance, she demands an annual tribute of fourteen Athenian youths; and to forever shame her husband, she conceives a monstrous son with the bull god.  Their relationship, as you might imagine, never quite recovers.  But it isn't until Theseus arrives among the latest shipment of Athenian youths and vows to dispatch the flesh eating Minotaur (who actually has no part of Minos in his parentage and is moreover strictly vegetarian) that old resentments give rise to new mutiny and increasing hostilities and plotting at court.  Worse yet, Ariadne falls in love with Theseus and, in her determination to save him at any cost to herself or those around her, triggers a series of tumultuous events.  Caught in between, a troubled Xenodice finds her own loyalties increasingly divided between those she loves and their private agendas.   <br />Patrice Kindl does an excellent job with the often trickyfirst person voice.  Xenodice's narrative is direct, immediate, and compelling, and the many details of her world are mentioned unobtrusively, since they are ordinary to her, and the more effective because of it.  Seeing the events from her eyes also brings the epic nature of her story down to a more human and intimate level.  Characters, despite imposing names and famous (or infamous) fates, come across as believable people-- mothers, fathers, sisters, and friends-- with sympathetic motives.  There are no heroes in her direct, unornamented narrative, and no true villains, either: Asterius is a simple creature, violent only when provoked, Theseus is a typical hero, carelessly leaving a trail of bodies and broken hearts behind him, though doing no intentional evil.  <br />Lost in the Labyrinth has much to recommend itself, but what I wanted was more-- even more detail about Xenodice's life in ancient Crete, and further acquaintance with the various characters, many of whom are seen only briefly.  And be forewarned!  This book has little of the frothy wit and lightness that characterized Kindl's earlier novel, Goose Chase.  Being familiar with the myths on which Lost in the Labyrinth is based, I winced as the young Xenodice vowed to marry Icarus or no one early on in the book.  And Kindl never allows the reader to forget that what is seen from one perspective as a triumph is, in another, a tragedy.  <br />Although not the first exploration of Theseus and the Minotaur, Lost in the Labyrinth is one of the most thoughtful.  Richard Purtill's out of print fantasy, The Golden Gryphon Feather, makes an interesting companion book, as it details many of the same events and characters from the perspective of one of the Athenian youths brought to Crete.  Greek mythology fans may also want to try Lloyd Alexander's whimsical The Arkadians, and Megan Whalen Turner's The Thief, which is not based on any myth in particular but reads like it could be.  And for those interested in other books featuring overlooked or unusual perspectives, there are Donna Jo Napoli's retold fairy tales. <br />Patrice Kindl is a strong writer and a highly versatile one.  I hear her next book has lots and lots of insects...	2003-09-08
US	52717582	R36R2PDMCHRLDW	0805068473	112121617	The Ugly Princess and the Wise Fool	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Light hearted and fun	The once popular type of princess-- the sort with guileless blue eyes and more beauty than brains-- has gone quite out of fashion.  Princesses in more recent books are, more often than not, antidotes to the earlier stereotype, to the point where the plain, smart, and plucky princess has become a new stereotype.  I hesitated at picking up Margaret Gray's version of the unusual princess because I had already made my acquaintance with Gail Carson Levin's Ella, and Patricia Wrede's Cimorene, and Vivian Vande Velde's Princess Jennifer, and half a dozen other such atypical princesses.<br />But The Ugly Princess and the Wise Fool is filled with such good humor and wit that I was caught from the first sentence and didn't put the book-- chest protector, rather-- down until I had finished it.  The familiar elements of fairy tales are all there.  But Princess Rose has a snub nose and buck teeth and isn't by any stretch of the imagination beautiful.  The court jester, Jasper, is a former wise man on the run after the king outlawed wisdom in the kingdom of Couscous.  The fairy godmother is answerable to the Godmother Board of Trustees.  And the glass slippers, as might be expected, are your podiatrist's worst nightmare...  <br />The fantasy world Margaret Gray creates is delightfully tongue in cheek.  There are kingdoms called Couscous and princesses named Asphalt and Concrete-- after all, there's no point in giving the older princesses decent names if only the youngest one is going to succeed.  You can obtain degrees in wisdom from the Wise Man's Academy after learning to instantly assume the Air of Wisdom (one hand stroking beard, one eye wide open, the other tightly shut, and one leg bent) upon the sound of a whistle.  And if you happen to be in a hurry, you have the option of going on an Express Quest (offered only in extreme circumstances), as opposed to a regular Quest.<br />Margaret Gray's writing is sprightly and energetic and often laugh out loud funny, and the wacky illustrations by Randy Cecil add to the fun.  It's like M. M. Kaye's The Ordinary Princess meets Vivian Vande Velde's witty and rather modern treatments of Rumpelstiltskin, but without the slightly sugary quality of the first or the sharp sarcasm of the latter.  Fairy tale fans who loved Kindl's Goose Chase and Ferris's Once Upon a Marigold should find The Ugly Princess and the Wise Fool to be similarly enjoyable.  It isn't profound or groundbreaking, but it is a thoroughly entertaining concoction of wisdom and nonsense in exactly the right proportions.  <br />Ailanna	2003-08-13
US	52717582	R2QUZ1RHVLSP6Z	0152045600	739677228	Heir Apparent	Books	5	36	38	N	Y	Reader Friendly	User Unfriendly is the one Vivian Vande Velde book I come close to actively disliking, so I was disappointed when I discovered that Heir Apparent would be a sort of companion book, also dealing with fantasy role playing games.  Happily, it isn't at all necessary to have read User Unfriendly to enjoy Heir Apparent, which is by far the best of Vivian Vande Velde's more recent books.<br />Heir Apparent is an entertaining twist on the been-there-done-that fantasy cliche of Lost Heirs.  (See Diana Wynne Jones's entry in The Tough Guide to Fantasyland.)  Giannine, the protagonist and narrator, plays one of those ubiquitous misplaced heirs in what at first appears to be a standard fantasy setting in a virtual reality game, full of courtly intrigue, wizards, magic rings/boots/crowns, dragons, etc.  The only problem:  the virtual reality equipment has been damaged, and Giannine must finish the game within a certain amount of time before suffering very real brain damage in actual life.  Every poor decision resulting in death means starting over at the beginning of the game, and Heir Apparent is lacking that most essential option of all computer games-- the ability to save a game.<br />Because Giannine dies so many times, particularly at first, the beginning sequences can become a little repetitive.  But she learns very quickly, and every mistake makes her warier, wiser, more diplomatic, and better prepared to make good judgments.  In the end, navigating through a maze of people and events, equipped with newly gained assurance and leadership, Giannine is seriously kicking...  Unfortunately, it isn't just a matter of winning the game; it's winning the game within a set period of time, and she's running seriously short on time...<br />Giannine is an instantly likable narrator, smart, sarcastic, and far from perfect.  Her first person narration makes Heir Apparent very immediate and accessible, and the rising tensions from both the internal world of the game and Giannine's external reality make the book nearly impossible to put down unfinished.  The framing device requires a little suspension of skepticism, but the science fiction of Heir Apparent is no less plausible than, say, hyperspace engines and little green men.<br />The pace is rapid, the dialogue snappy, and the characters quirky. In other words, Heir Apparent is Vivian Vande Velde at her best; thoroughly entertaining, and yet with some substance.  As earlier reviewers pointed out, the intersections between Giannine's experiences in her two worlds are particularly thoughtful, as is its commentary on censorship.  This is not a book for anyone who thinks Harry Potter should be banned!  Although technically science fiction, Heir Apparent should be readily accessible to YA fantasy fans, particularly of fractured fairy tale cliches.  And for a *very* different take on a similar theme, try Diana Wynne Jones's Hexwood.<br />Ailanna	2003-03-31
US	52717582	R3I8WXVP1FPLIY	0743424123	194080725	The Troll King	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Enjoyable light fantasy fare for the 9-12 age group	In a time of great need, a hero will rise above his humble origins to lead his people out of oppression...<br />Well, in this case, the hero's name is Rollo, and he's a troll. And if you think the plot sounds familiar, it is. However, it's not a bad reincarnation of this sort of story, particularly if something like a mix between Star Wars and Redwall (with trolls and ogres instead of mice and moles) appeals to you.<br />Actually, what I was most reminded of while reading The Troll King were those old adventure/fantasy computer games-- colorful, entertaining, quick paced, and even sort of inclusive of those inventories in which every item becomes necessary at some point in the game. And also, like those games, rather shallow. Characters are part of the problem. Rollo is young, strong, handsome (for a troll, anyway), clever, and also honest and firmly on the side of Good. For exactly those reasons, I never found him to be an interestingly three dimensional character. And likewise with the other characters, though the evil people aren't as badly stereotyped and flat as they could have been. <br />There are also instances in which the author makes it painfully clear to what age group he is writing, with really unnecessary inclusions such as: \\"Her gutteral voice sang a sweet lullaby about picking leeches off her thigh to make a pie.\\" Eeeeew! There are also the ghouls, magically animated corpses, who are described in some detail. And yet, exactly the things I might have gotten a kick out of when I was nine. And though there are a few amusing sides about trolls coming 'out from under the bridge,' The Troll King isn't really suitable for an adult audience, as are really good children's and YA books.<br />Nonetheless, there are much worse ways to spend an hour, and I think that it's very well suited to its target audience-- the younger Harry Potter fans. It has some basic lessons about loyalty and prejudice without ever getting annoyingly preachy, and is very readable. Theend leaves the door wide open for a sequel, and as it promises to deal with the Bonny Woods, by far the most interesting and least explored area of Vornholt's fantasy world, I just might read it.<br />Ailanna	2002-09-16
US	52717582	R2TSK3VHYWD51L	044100900X	301706376	Jenna Starborn	Books	2	19	22	N	N	It's all been done before...and done better the first time	I couldn't finish this book.<br />I skimmed the first two thirds of it, and then skipped to the last fifteen pages. And yet I have an extremely good idea of what happened in the interim: that is, nothing significantly different from the plot of Jane Eyre.  Yawn.<br />When I first heard that Sharon Shinn was writing a retelling of Jane Eyre in a sort of space opera setting, I was quite enthused, being a fan of Sharon Shinn, Jane Eyre (moderately, anyway), and space opera. In previous books, Shinn has managed to make even things I usually avoid in books, i.e. religion and romance-oriented plots, appealing. Unfortunately, Jenna Starborn isn't so much a retelling of Jane Eyre as it is a translation of it into a futuristic setting. Some passages between Roch--Ravenbeck and Jenna, are lifted virtually verbatim from Charlotte Bronte's gothic romance. Apart from the SF setting, and a few of Jenna's biographical details, nothing much is different. (Well, there *is* that awkward insertion of a sort of feminist Transcendentalist religion.) And some of the similarities, such as the use of the phrase, \\"Dear Reeder,\\" come across as grossly self indulgent and not at all clever or witty. <br />Following Jane Eyre's plot too closely does absolutely terrible things to characterization. Essentially, Jenna is an incredibly bland futuristic Jane Eyre, with more interesting origins and a brilliance at science. Her story isn't particularly interesting or remotely suspenseful because every detail is already known to someone who has read Jane Eyre. But-- even worse-- she's not half as convincing a character as Jane Eyre.  Jenna's not dislikable, but she's *boring.* Sharon Shinn is usually excellent at characterization, but confined by the motivations and actions of Bronte's characters, she fails to create any three dimensional characters of her own.  No one escapes being a pale and unsatisfactory imitation of one of Bronte's characters.  <br />The setting, too, compared to that of her previous books, is rather underdeveloped. It's the usual generic space opera setting, with some indication of space travel and improved medical technology and an unfamiliar religious order. Each of these has been explored better in other Shinn books; here, they all get shoved into the background of the plot and the plights of the characters, which would be all right except that those aspects are singularly uncompelling.  <br />I was initially puzzled why the lack of original plot and therefore suspense bothered me so much; fairy tale retellings, after all, make up one of my favorite subgenres, and no one can deny that those are derivative. But I suspect that it's because good fairy tale retellings expand, explore, and add subtlety and meaning; Jenna Starborn does nothing for Jane Eyre. Even my favorite scene in Jane Eyre-- that of the fortuneteller-- in Jenna Starborn becomes quite forgettable. Everything that I found overly melodramatic and sappy in Jane Eyre is even more cringeworthy in Jenna Starborn. The original's faults are exaggerated, its virtues diminished.<br />The one thing that did genuinely amuse me was the inclusion of a character named Janet Ayerson (the name!), who is the tutor to Ravenbeck's young ward. Janet embarks upon a course that will be instantly familiar to any Pride and Prejudice fan, given the deliberate similarity of certain passages. In such a derivative Jane Eyre retelling, the inclusion of this allusion was pleasantly surprising.  If the entire book had been full of sly literary references from a variety of sources, I would have enjoyed it a good deal more.<br />Released about the same time, Jasper Fforde's The Eyre Affair is a much, much more rewarding novel that also deals with Jane Eyre (and pet dodos, Martin Chuzzlewit, Henry James, and the Shakespeare authorship question). Jenna Starborn should be read only by those patient enough to sit through-- yes, a Jane Eyre clone with spaceships-- or those who haven't read Jane Eyre at all. I hope Sharon Shinn will return to more original subject matter; I don't think I could read it if she chose to 'retell' Pride and Prejudice similarly!	2002-07-28
US	52717582	R3TU5FDO8Y2W4B	0064408086	124620826	Ascension (Water Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Uneven, but quite readable	The cover art is gorgeous.  Well, it is.  The most ecstatic of my praise for Ascension undoubtedly goes to the cover, although it doesn't quite match Kara Dalkey's description of Nia.  The book itself is a fairly decent read, but at the risk of being facetious, about half a star of my rating goes to the designer and illustrator of the covers for the trilogy.<br />I imagine that it is exceedingly difficult to write a book about a culture completely submerged in water, and Kara Dalkey clearly puts some thought into the creation of this society, with attention to details in the type of houses, foods, materials, social classes, and schools.  I particularly liked the pun inherent in the academy, where pupils swim after the instructor in a group, rather like a school of fish.  Dalkey goes to considerable lengths to invent life in Atlantis, and many of the elements, such as the Farworlders and their Avatars, are intriguing and pleasingly exotic.  <br />But for all that, it's still hard to, er, completely submerge oneself in Nia's watery realm.  For one thing, I have never managed to hold coherent conversations underwater; even a single word usually comes out hopelessly garbled.  There is no evidence that they speak any differently than humans-- if giggles result in a stream of bubbles, surely speech does too?  But what is more jarring to any feeling of complete integration in Nia's world is not the occasional inconsistency, but the feeling that it is a carefully fabricated, intricately thought out work of imagination, a sensation that the best works of imagination never convey.  I was never fully convinced in the existence of Kara Dalkey's Atlantis as I was in, say, Lloyd Alexander's Prydain or Paula Volsky's Vonahr.  Often the abundance of detailed descriptions do not provide a sense of realism and smooth integration into Nia's world so much as make the book seem like a stilted tour guide to Atlantis, complete with information on local delicacies, transportation, entertainment, and customs.  From a book written from Nia's perspective, even with the third person narration, there are too many explanations that a native of Atlantis such as Nia probably wouldn't even think twice about.  Occasionally, such as in the school scene, things become even more bogged down with awkward, bulky history lessons about Atlantis.  <br />What really saves Ascension is Nia herself.  Unlike the other rather flat and/or undeveloped characters in the book, the villains in particular, she is completely believable, realistic, and likable despite-- or because of-- her flaws.  Nia's emotions as the startling events in Atlantis occur are realistic without being overdone or sickeningly melodramatic; for a character who isn't even human, she's a much more convincing teenager than many other fictional, human, teenagers. <br />Ascension isn't really a complete tale of itself, unfortunately, and while it doesn't end on an outright cliffhanger, having the rest of the trilogy on hand would probably be a good idea.  Despite the Water trilogy's flaws, I do think that it is a series worth reading, particularly when in later books more mythology become entertwined in surprising ways.  Readers who liked Ascension might also enjoy Diana Wynne Jones's The Power of Three, which deals partially with mermaids (of a sort, anyway)...	2002-07-10
US	52717582	R1SNKUBAM1M95D	0807560707	948983153	Once upon a Test: Three Light Tales of Love	Books	3	8	8	N	N	A slender collection of short stories	Vivian Vande Velde's short stories are often quite good, and the three in Once Upon a Test are no exception.  The only problem is that there are only three of them, and all of them are short-- totaling about thirty pages and requiring no more than fifteen minutes to read.  They're all bound up in what looks like a hardback picturebook with mediocre black and white full panel drawings by Diane Dawson Hearn.<br />The three short stories, \\"For Love of Sunny,\\" \\"Not for Love nor Money,\\" and \\"Love is Blind\\" are written in a style that may be familiar to anyone who has read Vande Velde's other short stories, as seen in Curses, Inc., Tales From the Brothers Grimm and Sisters Weird, and most particularly, The Rumpelstiltskin Problem.  The stories all feature the popular fairy tale theme of accomplishing seemingly impossible tasks in order to win the princess-- or the prince, in the case of the first story, which is a fun twist on the genders traditionally assigned to rescuer and rescued.  The second story proposes the question of whether the hardships imposed by these tasks are even worth the rewards, and the third is a sweeter, less cynical story in which kindness and honesty, not bravado, win the day.<br />These stories are clever, amusing, and exactly as they are described-- light tales of love-- but they are not as singularly brilliant as some of Vivian Vande Velde's other short stories are, like \\"Lost Soul\\" and \\"Straw Into Gold.\\"  A good book to check out from the library (and especially recommended to fans of Gail Carson Levine's Princess Tales series), but Vivian Vande Velde's novels and longer short story collections are better examples of her witty prose and unique characterizations.	2002-05-07
US	52717582	R3FOQX1VM5QD0Z	0618033777	857055178	Goose Chase	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Light, clever, and an enormous amount of fun	Patrice Kindl's Goose Chase is not a fairy retold, nor even two, or three...I tried counting the number of fairy tales incorporated or alluded to and came up with over ten. They're all mixed in so seamlessly and cleverly as to create a new fairy tale, familiar and original all at once. I did feel that there were a few loose ends at the conclusion, but it doesn't detract from the overall enjoyable reading experience.<br />The fairy tale allusions that would by themselves make a good story are greatly augmented by the narrative voice of the protagonist, Alexandria Aurora Fortunato, which is witty, sensible, frank, and compelling in its freshness. Her judgment isn't always as sound as she thinks it is, but she always has the sense to admit her errors and laugh at herself. She tells her tale in what at first appears to be typically fairy tale-ish language, but what could be somewhat overwrought is becomes amusing, as it is gently mocked througout. Fairy tale sentimentality meets reality with humorously absurd results. Alexandria, immediately before hitting the ground after a long fall, cries, \\"O woe! O! O! OW!\\"<br />Although not well indicated by its cover-- which, incidentally, is of ducks, not geese, Goose Chase IS a fantasy novel, and will probably appeal to those who liked the tone of Gail Carson Levine's Ella Enchanted and maybe Tanith Lee's Wolf Tower and Vivian Vande Velde's The Rumpelstiltskin Problem. Recommended to everyone who enjoys reading young adult fantasy, updated fairy tales, or just books with strong female protagonists.<br />Ailanna	2002-01-29
US	52717582	R1OS1Z0GEUS7VB	0060281294	843222148	The Rose and The Beast: Fairy Tales Retold	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Surreal and poetic	The Rose and the Beast is a generally remarkable collection of updated fairy tales that, while sometimes sharply urban, maintain a dreamy, distant, fairy tale feel.  It's almost magical realism:  magic seems possible in this alternate, nearly familiar, perilous world.  Beasts in castles still exist, with no explanation or apology to the rational world; so do people the size of thumbs.  And zebras and boots thrown in with the traditional glass slippers and roses.  Francesca Lia Block manages to keep these disparate elements from clashing too badly.<br />And yet, the strongest stories are the ones that don't have literal magic play a major role.  The integration of actual beasts and tiny people seems just a tad ludicrous; a more metaphorical reading of the original stories might have been more effective, especially in the case of &quot;Tiny.&quot;  The abusive boyfriend and child molester in &quot;Wolf&quot; is much more menacing than an actual wolf would have been *because* he exists in our world, and not merely between the pages of a fairy tale, to be banished with the closing of the book.  <br />My favorites in the collection tend to be those that expand upon the original fairy tales, using them only as framework within which to explore underlying emotions and different readings.  &quot;Glass&quot; is an especially good example.  The actual plot is skimped over-- the vast majority of readers are already familiar with Cinderella-- but its reflections on why Cinderella never ran away from her drudgery are the real point of the story.  And it has the most evocative, brilliant imagery in the book. <br />The collection can be somewhat uneven, but most of the stories are worth reading for the atmospheric prose, which is lyrical and yet concise, vividly descriptive, and very unique.  The lack of quotation marks throughout creates a curiously surreal and hushed sensation.  While I personally favor Vivian Vande Velde's wickedly funny and inventive retellings of &quot;Rumpelstiltskin,&quot; and Robin McKinley and Patricia A. McKillip's versions of &quot;The Twelve Dancing Princesses,&quot; The Rose and the Beast is a worthy book, especially for the older teens and adults who never tired of fairy tales.<br />Ailanna	2002-01-10
US	52717582	RMZBLRF2RO23T	0844661872	887909683	Merlin's Mistake	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Light, anachronistic fun	Having gotten over my King Arthur mania a few years ago, after reading so many Arthurian fantasies that I swore I wouldn't touch another one, I was a little hesitant about buying a book called Merlin's Mistake.  I didn't have any very high expectations, but it turned out that I really liked it.<br />It's not really an Arthurian tale at all, and though Merlin does play a role in the premise, he's hardly the center focus of the book.  Anyway, the enchanter accidentally gives Tertius not all magical knowledge, but all future knowledge.  Merlin then disappears with Nimue.  Knowledge about nuclear reactors isn't particularly useful in the medieval ages...although chemistry does come in handy later on.  Tertius joins forces with Brian, a young, idealistic squire, and they go off on adventures-- Tertius continues his quest to find someone to teach him magic, Brian acquires the mission of rescuing a kingdom from the menace of an invincible and mysterious Black Knight.  <br />This has all been done before, of course, but Robert Newman somehow makes it fresh and enjoyable all over again.  They encounter everything from outlaws (sensible enough to steal from everyone and keep their loot and yet not without honor) to a giant (who would rather not be disturbed, thank you very much), a very unstereotypical dragon, an anachronistic goddess, and the usual knights and princesses.  But are even they exactly what they seem?<br />By turn serious and humorous, Merlin's Mistake reminds me just a bit of Lloyd Alexander, Patricia C. Wrede and T. H. White.  Its messages about mercy and good judgment are never overstated and never get in the way of a good tale.  I read it shortly after seeing &quot;A Knight's Tale,&quot; and they are a little similar-- but in Merlin's Mistake, there's a likable female protagonist!  There's a sequel, The Testing of Tertius, but it's out of print and I haven't read it. <br />Ailanna	2001-11-13
US	52717582	RPJ9T88I28UHP	0060293152	374371506	The Two Princesses of Bamarre	Books	3	55	74	N	N	Entertaining, but somewhat lacking	Although characterized by the same lively prose that made Ella Enchanted such a delight, Gail Carson Levine's newest, The Two Princesses of Bamarre is unfortunately seriously flawed.  It remains a quick, readable fantasy, but often fails to hold up under scrutiny. <br /> The basic premise of the book is a flip flop of the traditional heroine found in fantasy novels-- you know, the one who is invariably impetuous, brave, handy with a sword, and ready to cut down any monsters that stand in her path.  Addie is altogether different (she's even good at embroidery), but although it is nice to have a less courageous heroine, she never comes alive for me as a real person.  Her sister Meryl, who does fit the stereotypical heroine, is even less convincing.  Quite honestly, my favorite character in the novel is the dragon, who with her moral ambiguity-- first roasting her prisoners out of boredom and then regretting their deaths and remembering them fondly forever afterwards-- is actually the most realistic and well-rounded character. <br /> The characters, however, are not the major problem.  The most severe failing of The Two Princesses of Bamarre, particularly as it is written as an epic high fantasy with dragons and fairies and sorcerers, is its continual failure to ask *why* things are the way they are.  Why do specters persist in misleading humans?  Haven't they got anything better to do?  Why do they have to prophesy when commanded?  Why did the fairies stop interacting with humans, particularly given their need in the plague?  Why does the Gray Death choose the victims it does?  Does it consciously choose?  How is it spread?  Why is the king such a coward?  (He is characterized throughout only by his cowardliness, which misses a great opportunity for an interesting three dimensional character.)  Little questions that I didn't think about until I finished the book and realized that nothing is explained; everything just *is.*  Patricia C. Wrede uses many of the same steretypical elements in her Enchanted Forest Chronicles (dragons, princesses, sorcerers) more successfully because of her ironic tone: she mocks fantasy conventions where Levine tries to follow them without really expanding or explaining very much.  A pity, since she did such a good job in lending plausibility to the story of Cinderella.<br /> The Two Princesses of Bamarre also suffers from a sudden and rather incongruous ending, two seriously unconvincing romances, and some fairly unsubtle messages about the various forms of heroism.  However, to make up somewhat for its shortcomings, the plot moves quickly, and the lore about the sorcerers is particularly creative.  There's also a bit of humor as Addie contemplates the difficulties that might be had in attempting to extract an invisible splinter obtained from an invisible table and the dangers of traveling with seven league boots (dangerous road blocks, for one).  But it all still remains a little shallow, a little generic. <br /><br />Probably a good coming-of-age choice for younger fantasy readers who may not be bothered by the lack of plausibility, but better choices for those who like their high fantasy well doused with wit include Lloyd Alexander's Chronicles of Prydain, Vivian Vande Velde's A Hidden Magic, and Patricia Wrede's Enchanted Forest Chronicles.<br />Ailanna	2001-05-17
US	52717582	RGJFK7YZ4QYM8	0525171800	405311114	The Opal-Eyed Fan	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Just plain fun	The Opal-Eyed Fan is one of my favorite Norton books, though it isn't overly endowed with substance, or is even really fantasy.  It's romantic suspense, tinged with a bit of the supernatural.  And while it might not be particularly intellectually stimulating, it serves a very necessary function as brain candy.<br /> It's set in the Florida Keys, quite awhile back when wreckers-- and pirates-- still roamed the waters.  Persis Rooke, accompanying her uncle on a mysterious quest involving an old family scandal and a forgotten will, is shipwrecked on Lost Lady Key.  Lost Lady Key is the home of her rescuer, the wrecker Crewe Leverett, his sister Lydia, the remnants of an ancient island race, and (as implied in its name) a ghost.  Persis is increasingly drawn into the intrigues of the island's inhabitants.  What are Lydia and her handsome beau, pirate Ralph Grillon, planning?  What does Ralph Grillon want from Persis?  And what is the significance of the strange false fan that keeps turning up in Persis' possession?<br /> Perhaps a little conventional, but still great fun.  It has its high points; the take on wreckers, who are often represented unfavorably, is particularly interesting.  Recommended for all who like swashbuckling, pirates, adventure, and a nice dash of romance.  If this heady mixture sounds appealing, it's worth the effort to find a copy (although it will be necessary to ignore the dreadfully dated cover). For another great swashbuckler, also try Andre Norton and Rosemary Edghill's recent The Shadow of Albion.<br /> Ailanna	2001-04-20
US	52717582	R1UK5MJQIOE6E3	0141306386	86353200	In a Dark Wood	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Possibly the best Robin Hood expansion out there	This is not your typical Robin Hood tale.  There are no merry, carefree outlaws, triumphantly fooling a remarkably stupid and greedy Sheriff of Nottingham; nor is there a clear division between good and evil. <br /><br />No.  What In a Dark Wood has are subtleties, textures, shades.  It explores in depth the characters of the traditional legend, reducing both hero and villain from their overblown stereotypes to what they would have been:  men.  Through an untraditional perspective on the tale-- Geoffrey's, the Sheriff of Nottingham-- Cadnum makes real a story that has often seemed bombastic and hopelessly romanticized. <br /><br />In a Dark Wood is chiefly an exploration of the Sheriff's relationships with those around him:  his unloving wife, his impudent fool, his squire, the woods around him, the highwayman Robin Hood, and most importantly, himself.  These are crafted with great care and delicacy, and though some of the traditional adventures of the myth are present, they are not there for heroism, but rather as a means of slowly improving the Sheriff's understanding and tolerance.  Robin Hood appears infrequently, but his importance in changing the Sheriff is shown throughout the novel.  He is mostly important in relation to the Sheriff, rather than as an archer or a noble thief.  This is truly Geoffrey's story. <br /> The language is marvelous.  The metaphors and similes are done so well that they allow the reader to visualize every vibrant image, and yet are never superfluous or flowery.  While Cadnum does not skirt around the brutality of medieval life, the complete picture he creates of it gives it an undeniable vitality and resonance, which has its own peculiar type of beauty.  The details of daily life in a medieval society are plentiful, but manage to fully recreate its conditions without weighing down the book in unnecessary and awkward historical insertions. <br /> In a Dark Wood is similar to other novels in some ways-- in its sympathetic treatment ofa traditional villain, it is a little like Donna Jo Napoli's fairy tale retellings; in its well-crafted medieval setting, a little like John Morressy's The Juggler; in its willingness to look at both beauty and ugliness in a world, a little like Cynthia Voigt's Kingdom series.  Though those who liked these books will probably also enjoy In a Dark Wood, it remains unique altogether, both as a Robin Hood retelling and as a novel.  It is unforgettable, and I only regret that it is so little known.	2001-04-03
US	52717582	RH781KXA5088L	0385327501	324695223	The Hidden Arrow of Maether	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Moderately entertaining	Aiden Beaverson's The Hidden Arrow of Maether is a temporarily amusing YA fantasy, targeted toward the pre-teen/early teen crowd.  Unfortunately, it holds only minimal interest for the older and more jaded fantasy reader. <br /> For example, there's the plot.  A young, rebellious, Talented, Follower of the Light/Truth and General Good Guy (girl) leaves a restrictive and oppressive environment to join other Followers of the Light/Truth in their secret hideout hidden from the eyes of powerful, tyrannical, evil forces.  The young protagonist follows a laid out destiny and ends up saving all the Followers of the Light/Truth by dint of special powers, youth and faith. <br /> Sound familiar?  No, it's not Star Wars.  Not that this sort of plot isn't capable of greatness-- after all, look at Star Wars.  But Arrow doesn't manage to pull it off, and remains a mildly generic, mildly enjoyable fantasy.  There is nothing particularly notable about it.  In fact, it's all rather shallow.  The conflict between good (the Truens, followers of the true religion, obviously)-- and evil (the Ranites), is drawn in overly simplistic terms without ever exploring shades of gray-- a possible one being that no religion is ever totally without corruption and another that *nothing* is ever all good or bad.  But there aren't any shades of uncertainty here; the reader knows immediately who's on which side and every character and struggle is obviously good vs. evil.  I, for one, hate being expected to believe that something, particularly a religion, is good just because the author says so.  Linn's not a particularly unique heroine, either; most of what she accomplishes is done either through inexplicable acts of destiny/God and even so after quite a bit of whining on her part.  And there are occasionally gaps in the world building-- how can anything be 'heavenly' when Christianity doesn't exist in that world?<br /> Beyond that, there's nothing seriously the matter with Arrow, and at the same time,nothing to make it stand out from dozens of similar fantasies.  If you don't mind spending an hour on a predictable but certainly readable fantasy, by all means, read it.  For something really outstanding, though, Robin McKinley, Garth Nix and Lloyd Alexander are much better choices.	2001-01-28
US	52717582	R2IOQMDO3ITBLK	0060931418	624509678	Their Eyes Were Watching God	Books	1	34	73	N	N	Of little literary merit	It's a pity that Their Eyes Were Watching God isn't a few hundred pages longer; it would make a most excellent doorstop and perform far more capably in that position than it ever has as a work of literature.  Even at its thankfully brief length, it is preferable as a mediocre doorstop to an intolerably pointless novel. <br /><br />Despite a modicum of skill at depicting life in small towns, Nora Zeale Hurston is ultimately unsuccessful in her attempt to write an enjoyable book.  There are characters, though not likable ones; a romance, though highly unconvincing; a plot-- sort of; social commentary, though heavy handed and unsubtle.  In short, Eyes has the elements of a novel that could and has worked with better writing (see A Room With a View).  Unfortunate, then, that no such prowess is displayed. <br /> Perhaps the most flawed aspect of Eyes is that it is not written in English.  I refuse to concede that the overdone vernacular dialogue contained within is English, particularly as it is fraught with inconsistencies:  &quot;lak&quot; and &quot;like&quot; are used interchangeably, as are &quot;yo'&quot; and &quot;you&quot; and &quot;mouth&quot; and &quot;mouf,&quot; adding to the confusion of any reader unfortunate enough to be slogging through the conversations.  Nor is the prose any better (though it CAN be positively identified as English); it waxes melodramatic and insipid.  &quot;A sobbing sigh burst out of Janie&quot;?! Dear me. The story-within-a-story format doesn't work either, particularly when dialogues Janie has no way of knowing and previous conversations with the friend to whom she is narrating her life story show up.  Surely both Pheoby and Jane can still remember what they said to each other without Janie's having to repeat the entire conversation?  The logic escapes me.<br /> Regrettably, the characters are equally baffling.  Janie alternates between being incredibly rash (in my opinion, anyone marrying someone of about a fortnight's acquaintancedeserves what she gets) and projecting a paragon of wise, black womanliness.  This perfect specimen retains faith and optimism through the harshest trials to such a degree that it's nauseating.  And did I mention that the magnanimous and courageous Janie is also a beautiful woman, excellent cook, and fast learner?  Tea Cake is less perfect, though he does still repeatedly reassure Janie of her beauty and worth and even helps her cook dinner without being prompted.  (This is realistic fiction, not fantasy, right?) Subsequently, their 'romance' is as flat as the characters themselves and inspires no interest. <br /> Barring characters and writing, Eyes still has a chance for redemption through masterful social commentary...which it does not possess.  True, there IS social commentary.  Every now and then, there is a brief but transparent rant on the lack of power of black women, or white injustice to blacks or the black inferiority complex.  After awhile, these lose their power to amuse with their unsubtlety and become merely tiresome.  They are too obvious to have much impact. <br /> Dreadful as the language may be, it at least provides the perfect word to describe the entire book:  monstropolous.  (My inability to find it in a dictionary strengthens my suspicions that Eyes is written in a language loosely based on, but inferior in structure and consistency to, English.)  I conclude unable to justify its status as a classic whatsoever and highly recommend that future readers, unless masochists or insomniacs, avoid Their Eyes Were Watching God with utmost care.  <br /> Ailanna	2000-12-29
US	52717582	R3L0HJL1XJ35F6	0553210246	573665066	The Mayor of Casterbridge (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Surprisingly likable	Having thoroughly detested Tess of the d'Urbervilles for its overload of melodrama and odious characters, I was hesitant to  It often seems that to be considered a classic, a work must be both lengthy and tragic.  Mayor is indeed a tragedy, but unlike start on another novel by Hardy.  It was then a happy surprise to find that The Mayor of Casterbridge, though less famous than Tess, is an infinitely more enjoyable work.<br /> Tess, it succeeds in drawing sympathy from the reader.  Thomas Hardy's irony is also much in evidence, and he comes across as quite witty.  The result is a concise and interesting mixture of humor and tragedy in which characters are reasonably likable.  Henchard is impetuous and comes to his end almost entirely through his own actions, but his actions are always motivated by realistic emotions and there is nothing overblown or melodramatic about his downfall.  Because he is so human and flawed, it is far easier to feel sorry for him than it was for Tess, Hardy's embodiment of the perfect woman.<br /> There are, of course, elements in Hardy's style that do not change from novel to novel.  His writing remains very Victorian and therefore rather ornate and longwinded.  Nor is the melodrama absent from Mayor-- events often take on such an absurd turn that the reader is left momentarily with the impression of a soap opera.  The plot relies heavily on coincidences, reminiscent somewhat of Dickens, and things work out so neatly and implausibly that incredulity must be firmly restrained.<br /> It is worth it, though.  Beneath the superficial plot lie careful writing and hidden parallels.  The elaborate Biblical Saul and David parallel with Henchard and Farfrae throughout emphasizes the unchangeability of human nature (the love/hate relationship between Henchard and Farfrae) and the cyclical rise and fall from power.  Hardy also uses limited third person narration that allows the reader to know the characters and events only through their actions and conversations, further evidence of a meticulously constructed novel.  In a refreshing change, Mayor moves along quickly with virtually no extraneous events.<br /> The Mayor of Casterbridge is an unusual book, and one that can be understood on multiple levels.  On one, it is the simple story of the fall of a proud man; on another, it is a retold Biblical story, updated but not deprived of its original power.  And though I never thought to say this about Hardy's novels, The Mayor of Casterbridge also does pretty well as entertainment...<br /><br />Ailannaconversations, further evidence of a meticulously constructed novel.  In a refreshing change, Mayor moves along quickly with virtually no extraneous events. <br /> The Mayor of Casterbridge is an unusual book, and one that can be understood on multiple levels.  On one, it is the simple story of the fall of a proud man; on another, it is a retold Biblical story, updated but not deprived of its original power.  And though I never thought to say this about Hardy's novels, The Mayor of Casterbridge also does pretty well as entertainment... <br /><br />Ailanna	2000-11-15
US	52717582	R2HNNTEF5J26TW	0064471748	831177797	The Juggler	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Thoroughly researched Medieval fantasy	From the compelling first chapter in which a capricious king orders a juggler's hand cut off, to the last, quietly triumphant page, The Juggler  is a dark, meticulously detailed, compulsively readable Medieval fantasy.  <br /> The strongest portion of the book is undoubtedly the first chapter,  which has a tone strongly reminiscent of that of Poe's quirky, macabre  short stories-- &quot;Hopfrog&quot; in particular comes to mind.  This is  not to say that the rest of The Juggler isn't excellent-- because it is.   The protagonist, a commoner named Beran, has sold his soul to the Devil (as  literal and real a figure in the story as he was in the Medieval mentality)  to become the greatest juggler in the world.  Beran's journeys as a master  juggler in the Middle Ages, narrated in almost a picaresque style, are  carefully painted and convincing.  Additionally, the author's note on the  historical accuracy of his novel is both interesting and informative.<br />  The Juggler isn't a perfect book; the romance is a little unconvincing, and  the ending is somewhat anti-climactical.  However, its surprising  originality (considering it has two very overused fantasy elements-- a  Medieval setting and evil incarnate) more than make up for its  shortcomings.  After all, how many Medieval books can boast of having a  juggler as a main character?  The Juggler is not a book for younger teens,  but the older teen with any interest in dark fantasy or Medieval England  will find it to be an engrossing read.	2000-09-09
US	52717582	R1MK0RPFD5NJJ5	0440407737	366425094	Wren to the Rescue	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Fast-paced and deft	Sherwood Smith must be one of the best-- and least appreciated-- YA  fantasy writers out there.  Wren to the Rescue is the first and most  light-hearted of the Wren trilogy (followed by Wren's Quest and Wren's  War).  It introduces the usual cast-- an orphan, a princess, a prince, and  a magician.  However, the characters are all fleshed out unusually well.   Wren is one of the most spirited and loyal characters I've ever read;  Teressa has been in hiding for all of her life, pretending to be an orphan,  and is only beginning to take up her duties as a princess; Connor is the  youngest prince of a long line-- landless and a failure at magic; Tyron is  a chief worrier, talented young magician and heir to the most powerful  magician in the kingdom.  When Teressa is kidnapped by the suave King  Andreus of the neighboring country Senna Lirwan, her best friend Wren knows  she has to do something.  Accompanied by Tyron, risking his position as  heir, and Connor (who accidentally turned one of the masters into a turtle  in the middle of a magic test), any number of wild adventures find them.   There are the 'baddiepeepers,' or Wren's word for Andreus' spies, the  chraucans-- huge, antisocial birds, and warrie beasts-- a human-eating  creature, bandits, powerful magicians who may or may not be on their side,  and dozens of magical traps. Including one that turns Wren into a dog, and  if not removed soon, will make her one permanently.<br /> Hurtling along at  breakneck speed, Wren to the Rescue is a thoroughly enjoyable adventure  quest fantasy.  The characters are likable, though Wren can occasionally be  a bit too relentlessly upbeat and Teressa is a little bland.  Sherwood  Smith is adept at recreating the dialogue of real children, and the  dialogue is consistently good.  The world-building is equally consistent.   There's nothing objectionable, and fantasy readers of all ages will be  delighted with Wren's adventures. Though the trilogy isn't as polished as  Sherwood Smith's Crown and Court Duet, it should be very enjoyable for  anyone who likes Tamora Pierce, Patricia Wrede, and Lloyd Alexander.  A  nice series to contrast the Wren trilogy to is Tamora Pierce's The Magic  Circle Quartet, which also deals with a foursome of younger protagonists.	2000-08-07
US	52717582	RTJZPB2NYLBCN	0590395882	787807638	Magic Steps (The Circle Opens, Book 1)	Books	4	30	32	N	N	Quite entertaining	As someone who is generally not a big fan of Tamora Pierce's work, I was pleasantly surprised by Magic Steps, the first in a promising new quartet.  It's a very diverting action-fantasy with plenty of-- well, everything.   There's some particularly creative magic going on:  Sandry continues to  work with and explore her special type of thread magic, Pasco (her new and  somewhat unwilling student) begins to learn control over his unusual  dancing Talent, and a new and very dangerous type of magic is discovered.   Unmagic, as they call it, permits several murderers to go undiscovered as  they exact revenge upon the prominent Rokat family in a truly grisly  manner.  And only Sandry and Pasco, two young and inexperienced mages, have  the combined unique talents to deal with the menace... <br /> The shift of  this quartet is definitely off the original four characters; Tris, Briar  and Daja are mentioned only in passing.  However, Sandry's character is  further developed as she becomes more independent, and she gains a  surprising amount of depth and maturity by the end of the book.  Pasco is  also an engaging creation, and Pierce's vivid description of his first  dance lesson (and his ensuing sore muscles) will provoke a good deal of  compassion from anyone who has ever taken serious dance lessons.    Additionally, the villains, though a little underdeveloped, are not the  standard implausibly evil Bad Guys.  <br /> Really, the only thing that  detracted from my pleasure in reading Magic Steps was the occasional  intrusion of terms from this world.  Tamora Pierce did, for the most part,  a good job of creating slang and customs for her world.  Even the names of  the weekdays are altered.  However, they still inexplicably measure height  in feet and inches, and some of the foreign customs mentioned are very  Asian and Middle-Eastern in feel.  Not a major fault, though, and there are  plenty of good points that more than make up for that.  A warning to those  with weakerstomachs-- there is quite a lot more gore and death in Magic  Steps than in The Magic Circle quartet.  It's hardly excessive, though, and  shouldn't be too bothersome. <br /> Naturally, it's a good idea to read The  Magic Circle quartet (Sandry's Book, Tris' Book, Daja's Book, Briar's Book)  before reading the first entry in The Circle Opens series.  I'll be looking  forward to following entries as the remaining three characters mature and  become teachers in their own rights.  But if you like Tamora Pierce, you  really must try Sherwood Smith's Crown and Court Duet...<br />Ailanna	2000-07-11
US	52717582	R2JXAZPMLNK5VI	0525463941	910013474	1: WOLF TOWER, Claidi Journals, Book I	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Fresh, atypical fantasy	Tanith Lee writes marvelous YA fantasies-- witty, imaginative, vibrant, and thoroughly entertaining.  Wolf Tower is an excellent example of her many talents, including the rare ability to write in the perspective of a  teenager-- and make it sound completely genuine and convincing.  There's a  marvelous sense of immediacy throughout the novel as it is told in the form  of a journal by sixteen year old Claidi, by turns sharp, naive, and  sarcastic. <br /> Most readers (particularly teenage girls) will be able to  easily identify with Claidissa Star, even though they haven't been virtual  slaves in a tightly ordered and hierarchical House.  Despite continuous  harsh treatment, Claidi retains much of her rebellious nature.  When the  handsome stranger Nemian comes to the House, she is given the opportunity  to journey with him to dangerous and bizarre lands beyond the House's  confines where she has her own destiny to fulfill.  But it's not a destiny  Claidi particularly wants...<br /> Peopled with lively characters from a mix  of highly original cultures, Wolf Tower is an unusually creative and  unpredictable YA fantasy that neatly avoids many fantasy cliches and tells  a thought-provoking story at the same time.  If you like Wolf Tower, your  best bet is probably either waiting for sequels, or reading Tanith Lee's  Unicorn trilogy (Black Unicorn, Gold Unicorn, Red Unicorn) which contains  the same level of originality and intelligence.  By the way, Wolf Tower is  one of those books that gets better with multiple readings-- I liked it  much more after rereading it.<br />Ailanna	2000-06-23
US	52717582	RHBH3N70G7HY2	0688155464	400028682	Charmed Life	Books	5	37	42	N	N	Perfectly charming	In my opinion, Diana Wynne Jones is simply one of the best YA fantasy writers out there.  She ranks right up there with Lloyd Alexander and Philip Pullman.  The intelligence and creativity of her work is  consistently remarkable, and Charmed Life is a wonderful example of the  scope of her imagination and plots. <br /> Charmed Life, an entry in the  Chrestomanci series (which can be read in any order without any knowledge  of the others--others include Witch Week, The Lives of Christopher Chant,  The Magicians of Caprona), is a charming British YA fantasy that far  predates the Harry Potter mania.  Fans of Harry Potter might like this; it  has a similar enough plot--young orphaned boy with awful relatives is taken  to a place where his talents can begin to expand.  Young Eric, familiarly  known as Cat, even slides around on magic mirrors (as opposed to magic  broomsticks).  However, Charmed Life is in every way superior to the Harry  Potter books.  For instance, the world's concept is much more profound and  interesting.  The world Cat inhabits is one in which magic abounds and  technology is a bit backward-- not this world as we have known it at any  point in time.  Rather, it's a version of our world had key events been  changed.  (For example, a possible alternate world would be if Napoleon had  succeeded in his campaigns.  We would probably live in a world with a  primary language of French.)  Secondly, again unlike the HP books, there  are no completely evil characters.  Diana Wynne Jones has a talent for  creating idiosyncratic, realistic people, and even those who are...less  than wonderful, have their moments of niceness.  And even the 'nice' people  have their faults.  Good doesn't always automatically win, and Cat is  hardly a faultless protagonist.<br /> Diana Wynne Jones takes common themes  and imbues them with so much life and color and humor that the result--  Charmed Life (among many others) is compulsively likable.  Who else could  successfully mixenchanters, shrieking furniture, violin-turned-cats,  maid-turned-frogs, silverware, family mysteries, alternate worlds,  adventure and wit save a master magician such as Diana Wynne Jones?  If you  haven't read anything by her but like your fantasies good and British with  dizzyingly intricate plots, do try her work.  I particularly recommend  Howl's Moving Castle, Hexwood, and, of course, Charmed Life.  These are  books that deserve to be read...and reread...and reread...<br /> Ailanna	2000-06-18
US	52717582	R3QQC36UJK6JRJ	0441007333	947376342	The Tower at Stony Wood	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Bewitching, enchanting, intoxicating...	I have nothing but praise for all of Patricia A. McKillip's recent novels, and her latest only strengthens my conviction that she is one of the finest fantasy writers out there.  I would go so far as to say that she has the  most lyrical prose of anyone in the genre. <br /> The Tower at Stony Wood is a  typically enthralling offering, loosely based on Tennyson's poem, &quot;The  Lady of Shallot.&quot;  McKillip never retells, however; she expands, using  the lady with her mirror in a tower motif as the bare framework for her  story.  In Tower, there is more than one tower to be surmounted, more than  one maiden to be rescued, more than one quest to finish.  The mundane and  overdone-- knights on quests, evil queens, dragons, and bards are all given  new life and shown at different angles.  Rarest of all, there are no evil  or malevolent characters.  As bewildered protagonist Cyan Dag discovers,  not all is as it seems.  In fact, very little is as it initially  appears.<br /><br />Each apparently disparate thread is successfully woven into  the whole, creating a surreal, beautiful novel of the sort only Patricia  McKillip could create.  If you have never read anything by McKillip, but  appreciate gorgeous writing and intricate plots, do yourself a favor and  read this one.  And after you've finished, go on and read Song for the  Basilisk, Winter Rose, The Book of Atrix Wolfe...<br />Ailanna	2000-06-04
US	52717582	R1ZDMOQ11ZAC0L	0141306408	548144015	The Sacrifice	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Vivid and compelling	Diane Matcheck has written an extraordinary first novel in The Sacrifice.  It successfully combines elements of adventure, culture, and romance with vibrant and living settings and a fabulous main character.   Weak-one-who-does-not-last is not an instantly likable character,  particularly since in the beginning she is 'bad in the heart' and vengeful  and angry towards her tribe, the Crow Indians.  However, she undergoes a  remarkable transformation from spiteful, inconsiderate child, obsessed with  becoming the Great One at any cost.  Weak-one's metamorphosis into a  mature, admirable woman, although occasionally a little hurried, is  exceptionally well done and the main focus of The Sacrifice throughout her  journeys.<br />The ending, as suits this novel, is triumphant, if not  castle-on-silver-clouds happy.  It actually has more impact this way.  By  the way, the title, The Sacrifice, is very appropriate in many ways  throughout the book, and it is through hers and others' sacrifices that  Weak-one becomes who she does.<br />The Sacrifice is definitely recommended  for everyone who enjoys survival-in-the-wilderness stories, Indian stories,  or teenagers looking for a coming of age novel that says a lot about  destiny and direction.  Unsurprisingly, I can't think of another book  similar enough to it to recommend.  I guess I'll just have to impatiently  wait until Diane Matcheck writes another novel.<br />Ailanna	2000-05-30
US	52717582	R3UT6RMX23SINL	0152000933	216456818	Oddly Enough	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Disappointing	Bruce Coville has written a collection of wholesome short stories extolling the virtues of faith, patience, reconciliation, peace, remembrance, inner beauty and forgiveness.  Incidentally, none of the tales  really appeal to me, since I don't tend to like stories with Wholesome  Messages.  Most of them come across as a little bland and predictable, and  I particularly didn't like the message about faith in &quot;The Box.&quot;   I love stories that have a surprising or chilling twist at the end--  exemplified in Patricia C. Wrede's &quot;Cruel Sisters&quot; and Vivian  Vande Velde's &quot;Straw into Gold&quot; and &quot;Lost Soul&quot; and  &quot;The Lottery&quot; by Shirley Jackson.  The stories found in Oddly  Enough are neither inspiring nor inspired, and I would tend to agree with  Coville when he said he never thought of himself as a short story writer.   However, I can see how these stories might appeal to younger fantasy  readers, and parents should certainly approve of them.  The cover art is  also gorgeous; it is only unfortunate the stories did not turn out to be as  spontaneous and surreal.  If you like your stories with a bit  more...attitude, I would suggest Wrede's excellent anthology, The Book of  Enchantments, Vivian Vande Velde's Curses, Inc., or A Wizard's Dozen, which  is a good collection of YA fantasy stories by different authors.<br />Ailanna	2000-05-15
US	52717582	R1VJ0V58N0698J	0802782590	156519811	Windleaf	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A rather slight but charming fairy tale	Windleaf is a pleasant enough fairy tale.  Its plot strongly resembles Lord Dunsany's The King of Elfland's Daughter, but the writing is much more accessible for younger fantasy readers.  Although the writing seems occasionally a little contrived and the whole novel is not very  thought-provoking, it does have likable characters, a quickly moving plot  and plenty of magic.  It is a bit on the generic and shallow side, though,  and older readers might just as well pass over this one for Neil Gaiman's  much more inventive Stardust or Dunsany's beautiful The King of Elfland's  Daughter.  Another good bet is Elizabeth Marie Pope's The Perilous Gard,  which is set in 16th century England and deals with fairies; it's quite a  bit deeper than Windleaf and feels much more realistic.  <br />Ailanna	2000-04-29
US	52717582	R1220E3EYHW063	0679891285	918024342	The Raven Queen (Voyage of the Basset #2)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An enjoyable mix of fairy lore	The Raven Queen is actually not so much a sequel to Tanith Lee's Islands in the Sky as a completely different story with only the Basset, a magical ship that sails in the seas of imagination, connecting the two.  (The third one, Sherwood Smith's Journey to Otherwhere, is being published in the  summer).<br /> Windling and Steiber mix a large number of themes I like--  European fairy myths, the Pre-Raphaelite movement (my favorite but  oh-so-obscure art movement), and the integration of some of my favorite  ballads (&quot;The Twa Sisters,&quot; &quot;Thomas the Rhymer&quot;).  The  plot, though simplistic, is enjoyable and creatively embellished.  However,  a few loose ends are left dangling at the end, and the language could  definitely be improved.  A few very modern phrases jump out every once in  awhile; it just doesn't feel very 19th century-ish.  The Raven Queen also  doesn't have as much of the gentle humor and good-hearted tweaking of myths  as Islands in the Sky. That said, though, it was an enjoyable,  light-hearted children's fantasy full of fairy lore and likable characters.   Recommended for those in a mood for something lighter and less complex  than Narnia.  <br />Ailanna	2000-04-23
US	52717582	RO2NXB3XC3DF2	1568656890	530017939	Spellbound	Books	5	22	22	N	N	An omnibus of The Changeling Prince &amp; The Conjurer Princess	Spellbound is the omnibus edition offered by the Science Fiction Book Club containing two books:  The Changeling Prince and The Conjurer Princess.  I found both to be quirky, imaginative fantasy, though darker and for an older audience than VVV's other books. <br /> The Changeling Prince is the  story of Weiland, who is only human when the sorceress Daria chooses to  change him from his natural wolf shape.  At sixteen, he has already learned  to survive at all costs against Daria's cruel whims and his brutal  companions.  Life in Daria's hall with her other creatures (bears, birds,  mice all turned into humans) is harsh, but it takes a drastic turn for the  worst when Daria decides to take her changelings to town with her.  While  masquerading as one of the bodyguards, Weiland discovers Daria's insidious  plans and true identity.  He also learns the value of human companionship  and kindness.  Weiland finds he must make a decision:  keep quiet and watch  Daria destroy an innocent family, or tell his new friends about Daria and  risk her punishment.  Or worse, at her death, be transformed back into a  wolf for the rest of his life... <br /> The Conjurer Princess takes place some  ten years after the events of The Changeling Prince.  At her sister Beryl's  wedding, Lylene watches in horror as an invading lord kills Beryl's husband  and kidnaps Beryl.  After half a year, when no one seems to be taking  action against this crime, she decides to go by herself and rescue Beryl.   She first goes to the wizard Harkta to learn magic from her, but the magic  has unexpected side effects...  However, armed with her newly acquired  powers of conjuring a temporary fetch of anything, Lylene is ready to take  on the world.  On the road, accompanied by two mercenaries named Weiland  and Shile, she must separate friend from foe and find the truths in a world  where nothing is as it seems.  <br />Of the two, I liked The Conjurer Princess  better; it's an often bittersweet, painfully realistic fairy tale.  Lylene  is not your typical sweet and beautiful princess, though she is basically  honorable and consistently tries to do the right thing.  The Changeling  Prince is also excellent in a darker way, with fully developed, atypical  characters and a quickly moving plot.  This anthology also includes a short  story called &quot;Just Another Dragon-Slaying&quot; which tells a bit  about What Happened After; it falls in chronological order after The  Conjurer Princess. Anyway, YA fantasy fans looking for something a little  more reality-driven should try this duet.  It's entirely unlike any other  I've read.<br />Ailanna	2000-04-20
US	52717582	R31DA50IEDM6OJ	0441775330	885610016	The Sorcerer's Lady	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Disappointing after Illusion	Expecting something with the richness of Illusion, I was decidedly disappointed when I finished The Sorcerer's Lady.  The setting was intriguing, but somewhat sketchy.  I didn't like any of the characters--  Verran, the protagonist, alternated between making very obviously bad  choices, acting impetuously, or wheedling to her husband that she could be  trusted and could stay with him.  She demonstrated neither resourcefulness  nor individuality, and in comparison to Illusion's Eliste, showed woefully  little character growth.  Nor was her husband much better-- little more  than a stone statue who never seemed really human.  Consequently, their  romance was pitifully thin and unexciting.  <br /> On the other hand, there  was a good deal of suspense and court intrigue which was enough to give me  a reason to finish the book.  Unless you're a die-hard Volsky fan, I  wouldn't recommend this.  Read Illusion or The Gates of Twilight before  this one.<br />Ailanna	2000-04-17
US	52717582	R3Q4BF127FG76X	0152007377	596781413	His Majesty's Elephant	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Entertaining fantasy	Judith Tarr has written an exotic and unusual fantasy in His Majesty's Elephant.  The plot centers around one of Charlemagne's daughters, Rowan, the new elephant Abul Abbas given to Charlemagne, the elephant's caretaker  Kerrec, and a talisman supposedly containing a splinter of wood from  Christ's crucifix.  When the talisman falls into the wrong hands,  Charlemagne and his empire are threatened.  A reluctant Rowan must  recognize the magical powers given to her from her witch mother and combine  them with Kerrec and Abul Abbas' to save the kingdom from destruction.   <br />Quite an entertaining little fantasy with an intriguing backdrop and  engaging characters.  The interaction between Rowan and Kerrec is  particularly amusing.  However, it is on the slight side; one wishes Judith  Tarr had put a bit more detail into the setting and clarified the climactic  magical battle.  Nevertheless, a definite contrast to the all too common  generic sword-and-sorcery tale pervading the shelves; recommended for fans  of YA fantasy, history, or elephants.<br />Ailanna	2000-04-17
US	52717582	R2SAOBDQ3CJE1T	015201201X	571962935	A Dark Horn Blowing	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Rather disappointing	A Dark Horn Blowing has several factors in its favor:  its publication in the generally decent Magic Carpet series (including better entries such as The Forgotten Beasts of Eld by Patricia McKillip), a very appealing cover, and an intriguing mix of old ballads and poems.  They are, unfortunately,  insufficient to cover its faults.  The prose tends to be overwritten, only  very occasionally possessing the beauty it intends.  (For lyrical fantasy,  I strongly recommend anything by Patricia McKillip and Robin McKinley.)   The story line is also detracted from by the constant change of first  person narrators.  While it can be interesting to see what other characters  are thinking, it causes the story to become rather choppy.  It is annoying  and unrealistic how the five year old prince, Eelie, speaks, thinks and  acts like an adult.  As to the use of old ballads, they often seem awkward  and disjointed, and are inserted sporadically.  Things that are never in  the least hinted at just suddenly happen (particularly the magic, which is  very superficially explained), and the plot sprawls out in several  directions, with only the sketchiest of character motives.  The characters  never seem real or elicit compassion from the reader. <br /> With all that  said, it must be fair to concede that A Dark Horn Blowing did create a  decently surreal and enigmatic atmosphere.  A decent attempt to combine  ballads, but a far better one is The Perilous Gard by Elizabeth Marie Pope,  which is a retelling of &quot;Tam Lin&quot; with some of &quot;The Twa  Sisters&quot; mixed in.<br />Ailanna	2000-04-09
US	52717582	R3N7SJY5DYAZ6T	0689824726	215132105	Elske	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Beautiful and memorable	Elske is a book of unusually clear insight and resonant truth; Voigt never lapses into cliches to avoid ugly situations that many other authors would.  Set in the same world as earlier Kingdom books (Jackaroo, On Fortune's  Wheel, The Wings of a Falcon), Elske has very rich and believable settings  that are always gritty and realistic.  No pink sugar-spun clouds here.   Voigt is ruthless in presenting some of the ugliness in life, but she  emphasizes truth and honor and love in life in spite of betrayals and  falsehoods.  Characterization is also some of the best I've read for  awhile, and Elske's in particular develops realistically and well.  My only  criticism is the pacing, as I felt more time ought to have been spent on  Beriel's reclaiming of the Kingdom and on Elske's romance.  <br /> All in all,  a most excellent and heartfelt novel for the mature teen.  The funny thing  is that I don't know that I would have cared to see the truths it shows two  years ago, so I'd recommend waiting to read it at the ripe old age of  fifteen or sixteen.  Also, for those who like the rich setting-- not quite  fantasy, not quite history, try The Raging Quiet, by Sherryl  Jordan.<br />Ailanna	2000-03-26
US	52717582	R2193ST8B438ZA	0689819471	471250392	A Meeting of Minds	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Back, and more paradoxical than ever...	Lenora and Coren strike again in the latest entry of the Minds series by Carol Matas and Perry Nodelman.  The protagonists of Of Two Minds, More Minds, and Out of Their Minds find themselves in a new predicament when they are inexplicably transported to modern day Winnipeg.  Only, it's not  quite Winnipeg as we know it.  There's a huge convention going on, with  everyone insisting to be Lenora and Coren, characters from their favorite  series.  Lenora and Coren find that the authors of this fabulously popular  series (Matas and Nodelman must be the first to write themselves as  fictional characters in their own novel) think them to be only a figment of  their imagination!  Things get increasingly confusing, with multiple  impersonations of both Lenora and Coren refusing to believe that they're  the real thing.  And just why is everyone worshipping the deity Sayley?   Why can no one in Winnipeg remember their past?  Why has Leni suddenly  decided to impersonate Lenora back home?  The book raises (and assuages)  these questions, as well as provides a satisfying conclusion to Hevak,  Leni, Cori, and the rest of the crew. <br /> Why only four stars?  Well, the  authors' self-lauding attitude (&quot;our books are fantastic and popular,  and everyone loves them&quot;) implied in the convention got slightly  irritating.  And there's not really much in the way of character  development.  The whole idea of the world, and Lenora and Coren  inconveniently losing their powers to create a plot is getting a bit old.   However, A Meeting of Minds is a very quick, entertaining, and certainly  creative read.  I was particularly amused by how the authors stated their  opinions of the cover of Of Two Minds through Lenora and Coren... Not a  great place to pick up the series, but surely satisfying for those who have  been following it all along.	2000-03-20
US	52717582	R2JAPQ68K2IX9W	0380976021	840153434	Wind in the Stone	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Not terribly impressive	Wind in the Stone is a fairly typical high fantasy with Norton's usual strengths and weaknesses.  It pales beside her earlier and much more distinguished Scent of Magic. <br />  As far as strengths go, Wind in the  Stone has an unusual premise; however, the enigmatic Wind and Sasqua could  have used a bit more explanation.  It also had an interesting contrast  between the two settings-- the wild forest and a farming village.  And  lastly, it has a gorgeous Kinuko Craft cover. <br /> On the down side, the  characters (which are never Norton's strong point) are extremely sketchy  and are only given the briefest of motives.  The reader never really  connects with any of them, and most of them are present for only about half  of an already short book.  The story started out reminding me a little of  Patricia A. McKillip's The Book of Atrix Wolfe, but went downhill quickly.   It's unpleasantly and unnecessarily dark, and altogether not very fun to  read.  <br /> The cover's not quite the best thing about it, but it comes  close.  Read Scent of Magic, The Shadow of Albion, or The Book of Atrix  Wolfe before this one.	2000-03-13
US	52717582	R1EFKY71OXPG84	0679891277	179030679	Islands in the Sky (Voyage of the Basset, No. 1)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	&quot;By believing, one sees...&quot;	This is the central theme of Islands in the Sky; appropriately fantastical and thought-provoking.  I'm quite fond of Tanith Lee's children's books, so despite misgivings about Islands in the Sky (I have not read the original Basset book), I decided to get it.  <br /> Islands in the Sky is a very  entertaining, whimsical, and often wryly witty fantasy.  Tanith Lee is  never less than competent, and she delivers an exciting twist of the old  'snatched from the mundane world to a fantasy land' theme.  For one, Tanith  Lee manages to neatly skew many familiar Greek myths.  She incorporates the  events of the original Basset book without interrupting the flow of the  story, creates lively, likable protagonists, and in general, does a  fantastic job.  <br /> Islands in the Sky is recommended to all those who like  fantasies from Norton Juster's The Phantom Tollbooth, to Lloyd Alexander's  The Arkadians.  I'm really looking forward to reading the next ones in the  series (The Raven Queen by Terry Windling, and Journey to Otherwhere by  Sherwood Smith).	2000-02-26
US	52717582	R1KQE2L1LY6CCF	0886778336	638542947	The Black Swan (The Elemental Masters Fairy Tales)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Somewhat uneven	The Black Swan is an enjoyable retelling of the original ballet.  The story, from Odile's perspective, loses some of its original extremities, though little is done to make Von Rothbart a sympathetic villain.  Lackey  is adept at ornamentation, and there is quite a lot here-- fabulous  dresses, balls, etc.  Unfortunately, the characters were very unevenly  fleshed out.  Lackey chose to focus on Odile and Siegfried almost  exclusively, and characters like Odette and Benno really needed more  individuality.  Odile was the only character that seemed complete.   Siegfried wasn't terribly likable, and his reform seemed rather  implausible.  As usual in Lackey's work, there were a few gaps of logic  here and there-- not too egregious, but noticeable.  The Black Swan seemed  altogether lighter weight than previous retellings such as The Fire Rose  and The Firebird, both of which I recommend above this one.	2000-02-23
US	52717582	R25ALETW6DADMF	0380758156	990199707	Horse of Flame	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Another Russian-based fairy tale	The Horse of Flame is actually a sequel to The Shining Falcon, though it stands up pretty well on its own.  Based heavily on Russian folk-lore and mythology, it contains plenty of magical trials, court intrigue, and (as  always) True Love.  It seemed slightly less fresh than The Shining Falcon,  though, and I did not find the protagonists, Princess Marya and her consort  Emelian, to be nearly as delightful as Finist and Maria.  The title also  seemed inappropriate, as the horse in question was not a terribly major  character.  <br /> Despite its few faults, The Horse of Flame is a very fun  fantasy adventure book and a decent sequel to The Shining Falcon.  Those  who liked the first will probably want to read it (though Finist and Maria  are given less attention), and it is also recommended to fans of Lackey's  The Firebird.	2000-02-13
US	52717582	R2OEQ509MQ99F3	0451457595	636012456	The River's Gift	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Misty Lite	The River's Gift is a rather predictable short fairy tale (Mistified, of course).  The characters all seemed exceptionally two-dimensioned, and Ariella was particularly annoying.  She just HAD to be smart, brave,  altruistic, Talented, lucky and beautiful.  A little original character is  surely not too much to ask?  If possible, the men were developed even  worse, and Merod, while interesting, needed much more exposure.  The plot  was also predictable, though charming in a slight sort of way.  Fluffy,  even by Lackey standards.  Oh well.  If you can stave off the cynicism and  are in a mood for unrealistic fairy tales, you might try this one.   However, I much preferred her longer retellings, such as The Fire Rose and  The Firebird.	2000-02-13
US	52717582	R18TV1VZBQFKIA	0671698850	97170449	Knight of Ghosts & Shadows (Bedlam's Bard, Bk. 1)	Books	2	9	26	N	N	Insubstantial and unappealing	Merdeces Lackey's work is often fun to read, despite the general lack of logic and realism apparent throughout.  However, I found A Knight of Ghosts and Shadows to be irritatingly implausible beyond the norm.  Urban fantasy  is not my favorite genre, but I've seen it done much better. <br /> To start  off with, it seemed to me like the plot with the elves in California was  extremely perfunctory and unlikely, even within the realms of fantasy.   We've heard it all before...the dying elves forced to rely on one human for  salvation.  The elves were so incredibly stereotypical--gorgeous, slender,  cat-eyed, etc.  A personality would be nice.  All the city dwellers,  according to this book, lead dissipated lives.  The main character Eric,  for whom we were supposed to feel compassion, was an apathetic wretch who  preferred to solve his problems by drinking and drugs and still managed by  his Extraordinary Powers to Save Everyone with a minimal effort.  While the  effort to make the villainess likable was apparent, it noticeably failed.   On top of that, all the characters were just oozing with gooey emotions.   The system of magic used was intriguing-- combining magic and music-- but  was never developed at all.  <br /> On the other hand, it was readable and  went by fairly quickly.  If you need to feed an urban fantasy fix, this  might do it.  I would, however, recommend the much more intelligent Son of  Darkness by Josepha Sherman, or The Sword of Maiden's Tears by Rosemary  Edghill.  Both were immeasurably more enjoyable.	2000-02-05
US	52717582	RTB3OW2C3ZUVD	0441004326	776626933	Archangel (Samaria, Book 1)	Books	5	78	82	N	N	Ineffably good	I typically stay away from science fiction, avoid books centered around romance, and scoff at the idea of angels and other religious matters.  I picked this up only because I had liked Shinn's The Shape-Changer's Wife  and was badly in need of something to read.  Needless to say, no one was  more astonished than I was to find that I loved Archangel.  It definitely  ranks among my favorite five books. <br /> Part of Archangel's appeal for me  is inexplicable, but some can be attributed to the incredibly rich and  intriguingly different world building (complete with legends, religion and  economy) that never feels pointlessly detailed.  Another factor was that  Rachel is the one character in all my reading with whom I have best  identified.  I was surprised to find that I enjoyed the romance very much;  it is done with extreme skill, which is a major change from multitudinous,  anonymous bodice-rippers.  For whatever reason, Archangel deeply affected  me, and I am still thrilled every time I read it.  Now all I want is to  hear Rachel and Gabriel's duet...<br /> The latter two books (Jovah's Angel,  The Alleluia Files) do not match the brilliance Archangel achieves, but  they are still well worth reading.	2000-01-21
US	52717582	R21LNURSIMUDVT	0805043896	596806827	The Golden Band of Eddris	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Fairly average juvenile fantasy	The Golden Band of Eddris is by no means a book without merit; it simply fails to stand out from the hundreds of other mediocre books written in the genre.  I find that these books have several common faults, not the least  of which is that they take themselves far too seriously.  The plot in GBoE  is unmemorable-- two young children on a quest with many cliches (see Diana  Wynne Jones' Tough Guide to Fantasyland, especially sections on Rings, Maps  and Mysterious Benefactors), and Keld and Elylden join the numerous other  undistinguishable characters of mediocre fantasies.  On the up side, there  is some very potentially interesting background, particularly concerning  Anna, the settings are well done, and the plot moves along.  The climax,  however, is too ambiguous to have as much impact as it really needs. <br /> If  you enjoy this type of YA quest-type fantasy, you might give this one a  try.  As opposed to the implication of the cover art, the Sword Swinging  Hero is not one of the cliches contained herein.  For more in a similar  vein, you might try Edith Pattou's Hero's Song.  Personally, I'm going to  go back to Lloyd Alexander's Chronicles of Prydain.	2000-01-21
US	52717582	R1ZPUAH2NZZQH0	0440228158	656106154	Ever After: A Cinderella Story (Laurel-Leaf Books)	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Hmm...	As a novelization of the movie, Ever After was moderately successful.  Though it took very few risks in any further development of any sort and kept the same dialogue throughout, fans of the movie will no doubt enjoy  seeing the slightly altered screenplay. My objections remained the same for  both-- lack of a convincing and well-researched historical setting (this is  so NOT a historical romance), and a general shortage of logic and attention  to detail in the proceedings.<br /> As a retelling of Cinderella, it was  noticeably less successful.  Wendy Loggia is clearly not an overly creative  or skilled author, and the prose was laughable at times.  The characters of  Danielle and Henry cried out for proper development-- treatment they never  received.  Ever After had the potential of being a good retelling on its  own merits, but the poor writing detracted greatly from an entertaining  story.  The only witty dialogue was directly derived from the screenplay.   My opinion was possibly lowered by the fact that I have read quite a few  Cinderella retellings much better than this one; give Ella Enchanted, Just  Ella, or Silver Woven in my Hair a try.	2000-01-16
US	52717582	R2V004NU7JK120	0689819463	216752647	Out Of Their Minds	Books	4	8	9	N	N	More brain candy	Third in the Minds series (Of Two Minds, More Minds), Out of Their Minds continues the psychic adventures of Princess Lenora of Gepeth, who possesses the ability to make whatever she imagines come true, and Prince  Coren of Andilla, who can read minds.  About to be married in Andilla,  where reality plays second fiddle to imagination, Coren and Lenora discover  that all is not well.  First Lenora starts having nightmares about her old  nemesis Hevak.  Then it is discovered that all the Andillians have lost  their mental powers and are now forced to live in a crumbling and  long-neglected reality.  And then there are the Skwoes, the people with  absolutely no imagination... <br /> Out of Their Minds is a fun new  installment in the series, but the plot is noticeably more derivative.   Fewer new and intriguing ideas are brought up; the series appears to be  running a little low on fuel.  Hopefully the newest one, A Meeting of  Minds, will be fresher.  In the meantime, enjoy this one for what it's  worth.	2000-01-16
US	52717582	R2MF6W77GQLLXV	0590187198	298361890	The Firework-Maker's Daughter	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Another delightful tale from Philip Pullman	Philip Pullman never ceases to amaze me with his versatility-- from the complex His Dark Materials series, to his gothic (and surprisingly funny) Count Karlestein, to the creepy Clockwork... The Firework-Maker's Daughter  is different from anything I've read by Pullman before, and yet it  possesses his trademark wit.  Short and aimed at a younger audience, The  Firework-Maker's Daughter is nonetheless a lot of fun for even older  readers.  Lila and her various friends and types of fireworks are  absolutely charming.  While Pullman's tone is decidedly more satirical than  Lloyd Alexander's, if you liked either Alexander's quest-type books or  Philip Pullman's other works, you'll enjoy this one.	2000-01-16
US	52717582	R374B3VX9AKIG8	0553012665	894115662	Little, Big	Books	2	15	25	N	N	Not my glass slipper	It seems that with Little, Big, one either loves the story (the majority) or is bored to tears by it.  I confess I was of the latter class.  Little, Big dragged so much in spots with its apparent aimlessness that I found  myself thinking that I preferred even Dickens' writing.  This rather  massive novel is fairly episodic, centering on certain memories of the  eccentric people, or their stories; I found the lack of a central theme  until the end very irritating.  Yes, lovely allusions and interesting  eccentric characters and house, but-- surely a stronger central plot isn't  too much to ask?  What I thought would be a whimsical and delightful  fantasy turned out to just be monotonous.  I think I'll go back to reading  Stardust or The Princess Bride, thanks.	2000-01-16
US	52717582	R3W4MJNQEWY6HL	0689821867	738359886	Just Ella	Books	4	58	65	N	N	An entertaining retelling of Cinderella	More adult and reality-driven than Ella Enchanted, Just Ella is an interesting look at the &quot;happily-ever-after&quot; ending of the original fairy tale.  Ella Brown in this story is fleshed out to become a  realistic heroine forced to fit into the fragile and uncomfortable glass  slippers of a princess.  She shows herself to be resourceful and clever;  however, for some reason, I never liked her as much as Ella of Frell from  Ella Enchanted.  Haddix, while very cleverly explaining the matters of the  glass slippers and dress (think Ever After for the dress), never develops  the characters enough to make them anything more than sketches of potential  never fully realized.  And I agree with a previous reviewer that the  romance seemed a little predictable. (One of two eligible male characters  in the book, the other of which is the insipid prince.) An interesting  undercurrent in Just Ella was the true meaning of True Love, often  mentioned so flippantly in fairy tales.<br /> Just Ella didn't quite satisfy  me-- it was neither as charming as Ella Enchanted, nor as psychologically  intense as Donna Jo Napoli's retellings.  What it did provide was an often  ironic, imaginative and creatively rewritten Cinderella that was a definite  departure from the usual fairy tale.  For another Cinderella retelling, I  highly recommend Silver Woven in my Hair, in which magic is inherent,  though not implicitly stated.  If you liked the court setting, The Crown  and Court Duet by Sherwood Smith provides a more realistic (and less  mocking) description of court life.	2000-01-15
US	52717582	R2B3K9XKSA5M1C	0440413001	389059260	Tales from the Brothers Grimm and the Sisters Weird	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Fun fractured fairy tales	Vivian Vande Velde neatly skewers some traditional fairy tales in this collection of stories; most are moderately good-- entertaining, but not terribly deep.  This anthology would have joined the ranks of the mediocre if not for one absolutely clever and wonderful retelling of Rumpelstiltskin  called &quot;Straw into Gold.&quot;  This one story makes the whole book  worth getting.  The others are good, but &quot;Straw into Gold&quot;  outshines them by far. <br /> There are many fairy tale retellings; those of  Robin McKinley (Beauty, Rose Daughter), Donna Jo Napoli (Spinners, Zel, The  Magic Circle) Mercedes Lackey (The Fire Rose, The Firebird) and Patricia  Wrede (Snow White and Rose Red) are particularly worth checking out.	2000-01-12
US	52717582	R2D63DVTJOLSXS	0385326270	114577846	Crazy Jack	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Simple, yet sublime	On the surface, Crazy Jack is just a retelling of Jack and the Beanstalk, with some of the extremities of the story smoothed out and a pleasant rural English atmosphere. <br /> However, the subtleties of this story are  incredible-- from the disturbing portrayal of Jack's loving parents as the  giant and his mistress in the distorted reality of their house in the  clouds, to the myriad delicate touches that truly flesh out the tale.   Napoli is excellent at creating a realistic rural environment-- it adeptly  avoids being stiffly historical and instead is vibrantly alive.  Equally  masterful is the theme of the three things necessary to be happy-- food on  the table, a roof over their heads, and the most important one, forgotten  by Jack's father-- each other.  The gifts stolen from the giant each time  fulfill each in order.  Though the hen no longer lays golden eggs, Jack  discovers the value of real ones; though the basket is no longer of gold,  Jack recognizes the value of stones, and though the harp no longer sings on  its own, Jack finds he can learn to play it and win the third part of  happiness. The beanstalk becomes a symbol of Jack's grief and guilt towards  his father's death, and in the end, Jack must destroy it himself. <br /> Crazy  Jack is superficially a children's book, with its small number of pages,  but it is the incredibly subtle adult themes running through it that make  it a profound and beautiful tale.  Napoli's other retellings-- The Magic  Circle, Zel, Spinners and Sirena are also recommended.	2000-01-09
US	52717582	R20JCQ9HDG2OWV	0812550749	166725821	Firebird (The Elemental Masters Fairy Tales)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A light and wonderful retelling	The Firebird was my first book by Mercedes Lackey and it was a wonderful introduction to her unique attention to detail and readability.  The original fairy tale was full of cliches-- the beautiful but bland princess,  the heroic young prince, talking animals and unlikely happenings.  Lackey  transforms these into a full-bodied and enchanting (though not very  realistic) fairy tale set in a Russia filled with perilous magical beasts  and sorcerers.  One of Lackey's greatest talents is embellishing, and the  many descriptions in The Firebird add to the charm and semi-believable  fairy tale background.  I loved the twist of the ending-- a just-right  departure from the Grimm version. <br /> If you like the Russian mythology and  ambiance in The Firebird, Josepha Sherman's The Shining Falcon is  definitely worth the find to read.	2000-01-09
US	52717582	R1L8DO7HRHAS1I	0395900123	533127862	A Coming Evil	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Exciting, but faulty	Vivian Vande Velde turned away from her usual fantasy to produce a sort of ghost story set in WW2.  A Coming Evil, while a very readable book, had a number of plot flaws that prevented it from being an excellent one. <br /> The  plotting around Gerard is especially weak.  His unexpected return to life  with the appearance of Lisette was given no logical reason and his  'archaic' speech seemed particularly inaccurate.  While reading the book,  it was almost as though Vivian Vande Velde was just making illogical things  happen to service the plot.  Apart from the lack of reasonable grounding,  the ending (while certainly suspenseful) seemed rushed and abruptly cut  off.  <br /> On the other hand, VVV is excellent at creating the right  atmosphere, and the WW2 setting works unexpectedly well with the contrast  to Gerard's life.  Not bad, but on the whole, if you like historical ghost  stories, you're much better off trying Elizabeth Marie Pope's The Sherwood  Ring.	2000-01-01
US	52717582	R1RHCZPG0UYIUE	0380715643	353922741	The Adventures of King Midas (Avon Camelot Books)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A clever and fun retelling of a Greek myth	Lynne Reid Banks shows herself to be a completely versatile and always diverting story teller-- from The Indian in the Cupboard to The Farthest-Away Mountain to The Adventures of King Midas.<br /> In this work,  the old Greek myth is dusted off, given a thorough polishing and made into  a lively and entertaining children's story.  While Banks takes extreme  liberties with the myth, the result is something so fresh and fun it  doesn't matter.  King Midas is transformed from a greedy miser to someone  who simply has an obsession with gold (among other things, like growing  roses).  His quest to save his daughter, whom he turned into gold quite by  accident, becomes an exciting adventure in which Midas is tested and  changed.  Along the way, he meets a mumbo (think baby dragon), defeats an  evil witch, clears the throat of Old Gollop, saves a magician and learns  the importance of a flandy-bake.<br /> A very fun, fleshed out fairy tale  filled with Banks' usual wit.  If you like this one, also try her other  fantasies.	2000-01-01
US	52717582	R2VF1YAYMABEEN	0525460659	540825738	Spinners	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Somewhat disappointing	After having been completely impressed with Donna Jo Napoli's earlier efforts in retelling fairy tales (Zel, The Magic Circle) I was prepared to be thoroughly mesmerized by Spinners. <br /> At first, I thought I would be.   The beginning and middle are marvelous, full of Napoli's gorgeous, direct,  present-tense prose.  Saskia is an engaging heroine and the detailed  descriptions of the beautiful threads she spins are surprisingly  interesting.  Her crippled father is also a moderately sympathetic  character, and their disparate lives provide a nice contrast. <br /> I loved  Spinners until the last quarter or so of the book; the characters Napoli  had developed suddenly start acting completely irrationally in order to  follow the traditional story of Rumpelstiltskin.  Where Napoli made the  endings of Zel and The Magic Circle poignant by taking a compassionate view  of the traditional villains, Rumpelstiltskin is not as sympathetic as he  needs to be in order to make the ending work.  Keeping the end so close to  the traditional story in which he is so angered he stamps his leg through  the floor just lacks the subtlety of which Napoli is capable.  <br /> Spinners  is a novel saved from mediocrity by perhaps one conversation between the  king and Saskia.  Saskia asks the king if he's ever seen gold before, to  which he replies that he has.  She then asks if he's ever seen yarns like  the ones she spins, to which he answers that he has not.  Saskia concludes,  &quot;Then why should I spin straw into gold when I can create beauty of a  kind no one's seen before?&quot;  Too bad the king is never fleshed out  enough into a sympathetic person and remains a greedy and dislikable  character.  It seemed very out of character for Saskia to marry him. <br />  Spinners is not by any means a bad book and succeeds as an interesting  retelling, but it fails to be a moving and poignant piece.  I would  recommend reading Zel and The Magic Circle over Spinners.  For another  interesting twist on the Rumpelstiltskin story, try Vivian Vande Velde's  short story, &quot;Straw into Gold&quot; found in Tales from the Brothers  Grimm and Sisters Weird.	1999-12-30
US	52717582	R2HCT5SR7YUVSS	0064404900	817611840	A Brush With Magic	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A fun retelling of a Chinese myth	A Brush With Magic is an amusing but rather slight expansion on a Chinese myth.  Liang, the protagonist, is found as a child on the river with a brush as his only possession.  However, this is no ordinary brush-- whatever Liang paints with the brush comes to life. <br /> During his  childhood, he meets a court artist who has a picture of two girls, one  brushing the other's hair.  Thinking the one with the kind face is the  princess, Liang is seized with a desire to go to court and wed the  princess. <br /> In the interim, he meets a runaway girl called Lotus who is  escaping her impending marriage (as the 100th wife) with the emperor who is  naturally greedy and fat and cruel.  Liang finds that, to his shock, the  princess is beautiful, but cruel as well. <br /> In his attempt to rescue  Lotus from the emperor's evil clutches, Liang is forced to realize that the  brush does not contain the magic-- the magic comes from himself. <br /> A  Brush with Magic certainly has its moments, and has any number of  imaginative touches (such as Monk-Li, one of his creations with the face of  a man, the body of a monkey and an unsatiable appetite for bananas), the  characters were undeveloped and the whole story somewhat predictable.   Enjoyable as a quick yarn, but move on to Lloyd Alexander's The Remarkable  Journey of Prince Jen for a more satisfying Chinese mythology-based story.	1999-12-21
US	52717582	R1CS5LM2XAOHWG	0525461213	795354596	Gypsy Rizka	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Another gem from the prolific Lloyd Alexander	Gypsy Rizka, the latest in a long line of wonderful books from the fantastic Lloyd Alexander, fully lives up to the whimsical quality and surprisingly moral value of its predecessors.  <br /> A deviation from  Alexander's usual quest type fantasy (The Arkadians, The Chronicles of  Prydain, The Iron Ring, etc.), Gypsy Rizka is not based on any sort of  mythology and stays within one small and rather idiosyncratic town.   Alexander's standard cast is also refreshingly changed; Rizka is certainly  no Eilonwy, though she bears a little resemblance to Vesper in her quick  wittedness and propensity for managing the business of others.  Rizka is  almost a sort of Robin Hood; helping the good and teaching the corrupt a  lesson.  There is no magic in Gypsy Rizka, save that of Rizka's  extraordinary cleverness and the chapters are loosely connected and  episodic with Rizka's extremely amusing antics as the uniting theme. <br /> If  I had one complaint about this excellent book (complete with several  diverting allusions to Romeo and Juliet) it would be that it is somewhat  difficult to keep the multitudinous townsmen straight.  Most remain  caricatures throughout the book.  However, it is an easily forgiven flaw in  such a fun story.  Those who enjoyed Alexander's unique style in Gypsy  Rizka may want to continue on with his Vesper Holly adventures and then  move to his quest-type novels.	1999-12-19
US	52717582	R13P7A588M2HZO	0679890998	69529728	Robin's Country	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A pleasant enough Robin Hood retelling	Robin's Country is the latest retelling of the ever-popular Robin Hood  myth, and not one of the more successful.  This rather slight forage into  folklore never strayed far from the traditional legend and there were very  few instances of the unusual creativity present in Monica Furlong's  superior Juniper and Wise Child.  While all the traditional people were  present, almost all of them were given very little character.  Even Robin  and Marian were mere caricatures, given just enough information to give  them personality beyond legends. <br /> To balance these flaws, Robin's  Country contains plenty of action and is never dull.  Dummy is a likeable  enough protagonist, and his archery lessons, struggles to speak, and  relationships with the other characters are fairly interesting. <br /> Not  bad, on the whole; Robin's Country could lead the reader to Robin  McKinley's realistic and complex Outlaws of Sherwood and perhaps even  Jennifer Roberson's richly detailed Lady of the Forest.	1999-11-25
US	52717582	RGT49C3H7MCF6	0886771137	369690282	Dark Castle, White Horse	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Tanith Lee...what can I say?	Dark Castle, White Horse is actually an omnibus edition of two unrelated YA fantasies by the versatile Tanith Lee.<br />Castle of Dark is a rather dark fantasy dealing with the mysterious curse of Lilune, a girl who has had practically no experience of the outside world due to her confinement by  two hags and her strange inability to stand sunlight.  When she escapes  with the aid of the harper Lir, all sorts of strange incidents happen in  her wake.  Overall, quite enjoyable, though I would have liked a bit more  sympathetic heroine. <br /> Prince on a White Horse is an almost frivolously  light fantasy offering from Lee that reminded me quite strongly at bits of  The Phantom Tollbooth.  There's an odd cast of idiosyncratic characters  including three types of vicious animals (Buzzles, Beezles and Bezzles), a  prince who can't remember his name or purpose, three moons (none of which  are round) and a wise talking white horse that continuously insists that  horses don't talk.  It's a quest type adventure to rid the world of the  menace Nulgrave, of whom everyone is afraid though they don't know why.  I  liked this better than Castle of Dark; it was just more fun to read.  <br /><br />All in all, quite a worthy 2-in-1 book.  If you can find it and like  Tanith Lee's YA fantasy, Dark Castle, White Horse should be thoroughly  enjoyable.	1999-11-16
US	52717582	R1FCJ5MCWC6V7I	0441574467	654209623	The Nightingale	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A charming retelling	The Nightingale is an entry in the Fairy Tale series including such notables as Briar Rose (Jane Yolen) and Snow White and Rose Red (Patricia C. Wrede).  Dalkey retells the familiar story of the nightingale-- in a  setting of feudal Japan rather than the original China.  <br /> Dalkey is  clearly fond of Japanese culture, and her knowledge of the many different  aspects of its religions is impressive.  She builds an evocative Japanese  background and fills it with new interpretations of an old fairy tale.  The  nightingale is no longer a bird, but a very human woman whose flute is a  tool through which dead ancestors seek vengeance on the emperor. <br /> Quite  enjoyable; rather like her newer novels Little Sister and The Heavenward  Path for an older audience.	1999-11-09
US	52717582	RW7Q3E391UK92	0345393457	895124110	True Knight	Books	5	0	1	N	N	An excellent entry in the Warhorse of Esdragon series	While not quite as enjoyable as The Prince of Ill-Luck, The True Knight is a noticeable improvement over the previous installment in the series, The Wind-Witch.  <br /> The True Knight possesses Dexter's usual sly humor and  strong sense of characterization; Wren and Titch are well developed  characters who remain themselves throughout the entire book-- no sudden and  implausible character changes here!  Dexter's strong point is questing  adventures, and The True Knight is a fine example of what the standard in  fantasy ought to be.  Unstereotypical and fresh, The True Knight is a  must-read (after The Prince of Ill-Luck) for a fantasy lover.	1999-11-09
US	52717582	R179J7G0GJRVYC	0670583995	297420620	The Queen of Spells	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Fairly mediocre	The Queen of Spells is an undistinguished one of the many retellings of the ballad Tam Lin.  Ipcar isn't particularly clever about adding new interpretations and I remained indifferent to the characters throughout.  I  agree with the previous reviewer-- the ending was quite confusing. On the  upside, it did move along at a nice clip and managed to keep me reading; I  liked it much better than Pamela Dean's dreadful Tam Lin (an exploration of  life at a literary college masquerading pretentiously to be a retelling of  the ballad).  However, for better done retellings, try The Perilous Gard by  Elizabeth Marie Pope (which contains fabulous characters and dialogue),  Winter Rose by Patricia A. McKillip (the prose is simply gorgeous) or Fire  and Hemlock by Diana Wynne Jones (vintage Jones; innovative and often  humorous).	1999-11-08
US	52717582	R174JO9I6PNQGO	0152338071	601758879	Hero's Song: The First Song of Eirren	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Pretty generic YA fantasy quest	This latest uninspired quest-type fantasy effort in the YA market is practically indistinguishable from others of its type.  Pattou's predictable writing lacks the insight and liveliness of Lloyd Alexander, the depth and creativity of C.S. Lewis, the humor and zaniness of Patricia  C. Wrede, the thorough world-building of Garth Nix and Philip Pullman and  the beautiful prose of Robin McKinley.  There are plenty of much better YA  fantasy authors out there-- leave this one on the shelf unless you haven't  read a lot of fantasy or have a thing for generic fantasy-quest types.	1999-11-08
US	52717582	R16ZU3KU5ZQ97Z	0812549333	576398746	Wind from a Foreign Sky (The Tielmaran Chronicles, Book 1)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Epic fantasy well-done	Katya Reimann's debut novel is surprising in its thorough world-building and exciting (and even) pace.  The well developed religion and geography are fascinatingly different; equally interesting is the system of magic  used consistently throughout.  <br /> Aside from an excellent background,  there's also a fast-paced plot with plenty of suspense and surprises and  some truly likeable characters.  Gaultry's relationship with the male  protagonist is one of the more intriguing I've run across-- NOT your usual  sappy and predictable romance. And unlike most epic fantasies, Wind has a  satisfactory conclusion, though a few strands are left dangling.<br /> What  else is there to say?  If you like fantasy, try it!  While I found the  sequel to be a disappointment, Wind from a Foreign Sky is an excellent  fantasy.	1999-11-08
US	52717582	R2YQWBS3RVIBR2	0440227283	707707821	Truly Grim Tales (Laurel-Leaf Books)	Books	2	5	6	N	N	No thanks	I read this anthology in hopes of discovering new depths and interpretations of familiar fairy tales.  Dark interpretations are usually quite insightful and I thought that this would be an entire collection of chilling and clever retellings.  <br /> Nope.<br /> Truly Grim Tales are simply  not a lot of fun to read, though (or perhaps because) they certainly live  up to the title.  The emphasis seems to be purely on making the tales grim,  rather than adding new perspectives.  I found the resulting stories to be  leaden and often revolting, rather than fascinating.  Unless you enjoy  grimness for the sake of grimness, I would advise skipping these tales in  favor of Patricia C. Wrede's remarkably clever and creepy retelling of an  old ballad, &quot;Cruel Sisters&quot; (in The Book of Enchantments) or  Vivian Vande Velde's equally clever Rapunzel retelling, &quot;Straw into  Gold&quot; (in Tales from the Brothers Grimm and Sisters Weird).  For dark  novel length retellings, Donna Jo Napoli's Zel (Rapunzel) and The Magic  Circle (Hansel and Gretel) are a must.	1999-11-07
US	52717582	R1UBHBRREBNC3P	0451456890	614878310	The Witches of Eileanan	Books	3	16	27	N	N	Pretty standard stuff	I, for one, personally cannot see the fuss about this book.  It seemed to me to be an average fantasy with nothing really new to recommend itself.  All the generic elements of a traditional epic fantasy were present without  much alteration(see Diana Wynne Jones' Tough Guide to Fantasyland to learn  just how derivative this book is).  Furthermore, I didn't feel there was  enough of a plot resolution at the end; the torture scenes weren't much  fun, and the characters weren't particularly appealing.  I preferred Wind  from a Foreign Sky by Katya Reimann, as it had better characters and  world-building.	1999-11-07
US	52717582	RQ1L08GSXLLPF	0525461647	866508991	Which Witch?	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Delightful!	I was happy to find this wonderfully witty book back in print after having been nearly lost in obscurity.  Having read Which Witch before J.K.  Rowling's Harry Potter books, I found the latter to be quite derivative in  style and tone.  Which Witch has very likeable, idiosyncratic characters  and a quickly moving story line.  If you found the Harry Potter books to be  enjoyable, you'll probably like this one, too.	1999-11-07
US	52717582	R21FQ23I55JBJ	0689318146	294007553	Gold Unicorn (Dragonflight)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Quite enjoyable	Tanith Lee displays her usual inventiveness in Gold Unicorn; the result is a very satisfactory sequel to Black Unicorn.  <br /> While not, in my mind, quite as enjoyable as the first one, Gold Unicorn nonetheless remains a  well-crafted fantasy in a creative and unusual world.  Darker than its  predecessor, Gold Unicorn explores Tanaquil's struggles between loyalty to  her half-sister Lizra, now the dreaded conquerer, and her own belief that  the ideal world her sister strives for cannot be achieved by war.  Added  are several complications-- a massive mechanical gold unicorn Lizra has  ordered Tanaquil to fix for her war campaign, the mischievous peeve,  stinging mousps (a magician's creation formed of mice and wasps), Honj, the  enigmatic consort of Lizra...and a hell world to parallel the perfect world  Tanaquil saw in the last book. <br /> Obviously some people won't appreciate  this book, but to those who enjoy Tanith Lee's particular style, Gold  Unicorn is the perfect way to spend an afternoon.	1999-11-05
US	52717582	R1MH077FQWWN3M	0590259482	881266661	The Rose: A Novel Based on Beauty and the Beast (Once upon a Dream)	Books	1	2	2	N	N	What a disappointment and waste of time!	As a fan of any sort of fairy tale, I was unpleasantly surprised by this novel.  The story stuck to the original plot, while adding very few creative touches or embellishments.  The characters were very stereotypical and any attempt at realistic characterization seems to have failed.  I found this story to be shallow and would recommend that fans of Beauty and the Beast retellings read Robin McKinley's &quot;Beauty&quot; or &quot;Rose Daughter.&quot;  Both were far superior.  Unless the reader is an avid fan of cheap young adult romances, I would strongly discourage reading this book.	1998-06-23
