US	52717712	R2V816ME9W1Y5T	0743435761	851894334	Advance and Retreat	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great Writer but merely a Very  Good Book	This is the sequel to Marching Through Peachtree and it is a serviceable addition to Harry Turtledoves repertoire of alternate history or thinly veiled historical fantasy novels. <br />This book and its predecessor are very good in the sense that any of Harry's full-length novels are a love it or hate it relationship. Either you love a historical perspective with a high degree of descriptive writing or you hate it. This being said I think this particular series of Mr. Turtledoves is turning out to be my least favorite of his many ongoing series. Maybe it is because it is a basic retelling of the American Civil War through the eyes of its Generals and in a few cases common soldiers. The Civil War has been rehashed perhaps more then any other time in alternative fiction and this time since Harry did not change the order of events there was little to surprise us. A little magic was thrown in and generals had last names like Heated Ham and other silly names. A good book but one without any true innovation. The South was the North in the book and the North the South. The swarthy invaders play the part of Caucasians in our world and &quot;blonds&quot; reprise the role of African slaves in our world. <br />An interesting book but one that does not quite measure up to his other works. What this book lacked is what Harry does so well. That is to take a chain of historical events and twist them and show us the outcome. This is more like reading a retired generals memoirs in our world and changing the names. I bought it and don't regret it and would gladly pay hardcover prices again but I look forward to his other works more.	2004-01-02
US	52717712	R2S4208E95BWIU	0812554256	278447446	The Crystal Empire	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Worthy	L. Neil Smith is most noted for his libertarian works.  This novel is a bit different.  It may be a study or lesson in libertarianism but if so I missed the lesson.  That is not to say the novel is boring or not worth the read.  Far from it.  This is an alternate history novel and one done very well.  <br />In L. Neil Smiths future the Europeans and Christians or gone due to a plague which was far more demonstrous then the one encountered in our timeline.  This is a very similar premise to what Kim Stanley Robinson used 15 years later in his \\"Years of Rice and Salt\\".  Smith does it better.  In this novel the event change had a clear plot purpose where as in Robinson's novel I never quite got the point.<br />A densely written novel which requires careful reading and can not be skimmed through.  If you give the novel the effort is deserving of you will enjoy the encounter.  A worthy novel which should come back into print.	2003-12-27
US	52717712	R1FJ6SYKPUZQ2X	0553580078	119744907	The Years of Rice and Salt	Books	3	1	3	N	Y	I am not sure	It was interesting; it was thought provoking and innovative.  For all this something was missing.  The concept of reincarnation is not new and the concept of alternate history is also not new.  What is new is a combining the two in an analysis of human progress.  I picked up this book both based on the buzz surrounding it and the concept of a world bereft of Europeans due to a far more serious plague.<br />It was the plague aspect that caught my attention and I was interested in the authors take on how the world would have developed without European influences.  These are dealt with to some extent although in a very narrow way.  The novel is a compilation of stories of the events encountered by a few reincarnated souls.  Once again I don't want to be any more specific so as not to ruin the novel.<br />It was an interesting novel but I kept waiting for something to happen.  Nothing Earth shattering ever happened.  It was interesting but not a great in my humble opinion.  The novel seemed to end with a whimper rather then a bang.  Adequete but nothing I plan on re-reading.	2003-12-23
US	52717712	R10NIHVIMTCR5Z	038082020X	600696241	Dread Empire's Fall : The Praxis	Books	4	24	25	N	Y	Very Good	The remarkable thing about Dread Empires Fall is that very little actually happens.  There is action and there is intrigue but it is rather understated.  This is understandable as this is obviously a first novel in a proposed series.  Even without the action I found myself interested and engaged.  I found myself caring about the characters and the Empire as a whole.  The author even managed to instill in me a sort of Xenophobic Human pride.  I found myself being offended that Earth was a backwater planet and humanity nothing more then one more cog in the giant Empire of Species that is the Praxis.  <br />As usual I do not wish to give too much of the plot away so the review lacks some specifics but trust me when I say this is a novel well worth reading and an author well worth watching.  The only reason this is four stars versus five is that I don't believe it transcends the level of very good to great.  This may change as we see the novel fit into the matrix of the series as it is written.	2003-12-23
US	52717712	R20ZOIIGSZZT5	0743435761	851894334	Advance and Retreat	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Great Author but merely a Very Good Book	This is the sequel to Marching Through Peachtree and it is a serviceable addition to Harry Turtledoves repertoire of alternate history or thinly veiled historical fantasy novels. <br />This book and its predecessor are very good in the sense that any of Harry's full-length novels are a love it or hate it relationship. Either you love a historical perspective with a high degree of descriptive writing or you hate it. This being said I think this particular series of Mr. Turtledoves is turning out to be my least favorite of his many ongoing series. Maybe it is because it is a basic retelling of the American Civil War through the eyes of its Generals and in a few cases common soldiers. The Civil War has been rehashed perhaps more then any other time in alternative fiction and this time since Harry did not change the order of events there was little to surprise us. A little magic was thrown in and generals had last names like Heated Ham and other silly names. A good book but one without any true innovation. The South was the North in the book and the North the South. The swarthy invaders play the part of Caucasians in our world and \\"blonds\\" reprise the role of African slaves in our world. <br />An interesting book but one that does not quite measure up to his other works. What this book lacked is what Harry does so well. That is to take a chain of historical events and twist them and show us the outcome. This is more like reading a retired generals memoirs in our world and changing the names. I bought it and don't regret it and would gladly pay hardcover prices again but I look forward to his other works more.	2002-11-26
US	52717712	R1O7U1JFJSZNZR	0671318411	492552666	A Hymn Before Battle (Posleen War Series #1)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Great Freshman Effort	A Hymn Before Battle is a very good novel even if one fails to take into consideration that this is the authors Freshman outing.  The plot is not terribly unique and the characters are for the most part familiar but I say this not as a failure but an observation.  I think that it is far more important to pace the story and make the characters believable then to come up with any mind shattering new concepts.  Novelties are good for a few pages but rarely for an entire book and never, in my opinion, for an entire series.  <br />All this being said the book is solid, witty and rarely suffers from the \\"over the top\\" syndrome that seems to plague so many Science Fiction novels of today.  This is again even more remarkable considering this is Mr. Ringos first novel. <br />As far as negatives go there were a few I want to mention but they are minor and did not distract a great deal from the story.  First, There were far too many scenes were the dandruff was described falling from the various characters heads.  There are many minor details I care about in a book but dandruff is generally not one of the points I look for in a good yarn.  Second, I found the author tried to be too specific in his description of various technologies.  I am not talking bout the combat or munitions items.  These are out of my realm of experience.  I am talking about the computer related terms bandied about for no apparent reason but to show off the author's techno skill.  The problem with doing this is unless this is what you do for a living you are probably going to get it wrong and it will bug someone who does do it for a living....i.e. ME.  Why say the data was stored on the BIOS FLASH Disk when you can just say the data was stored in the suits memory banks or drive or some other generic usage.  Far less distracting in my humble opinion.  No a big deal but something to take note of.  To be fair it is noteworthy to note both of these traits are greatly reduced in the second novel, Gust Front.<br />A very good novel that begins a somewhat open ended series of alien invasion of Earth with pacifist aliens in our corner against other big baddy aliens.  Pretty good read by a very promising new talent.	2002-03-27
US	52717712	R3282PKQYCI6LG	0316289124	254335526	Mr. Midshipman Hornblower (Hornblower Saga (Paperback))	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Stands the Test of Time	Mr. Midshipman Hornblower is without a doubt one of the best novels I have ever read regardless of genre.  My exposure to C.S. Forester's classic works was a little unorthodox.  Unorthodox that unlike most books I have read I saw a cinematic adaptation before reading the novel rather then the other way around.  The A&amp;E presentation was very good and entertaining and I new that these were books that I had to read and so I did.<br />The book is stupendous.  As another reviewer has stated the readability is very good.  The book does not have the depth of Melville but is definitely not juvenile its prose or topics.  The book introduces us to one Horatio Hornblower who spends the majority of the novel as a Midshipman aboard His Majesty's Frigate the Indefatigable.  We follow Horatio for a few years in his journey from a novice with no confidence in himself and no experience as a leader and watch his maturation into a very resourceful and charismatic leader.  Along the way we are treated to adventures all across the English Channel, Northern France, Eastern Atlantic and the Mediterranean.  <br />The novels were written the mid 20th century and take place shortly after the French revolution.  The novels are action packed and the prose, although dated, is to the point with few wasted words or tales.  Much happens to young Horatio in this one novel.  I heartily recommend this book to anyone.	2001-07-23
US	52717712	R2BBGEE540N7IZ	0425062775	846233672	The High Crusade	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Light and Fun	What if a band of space faring aliens landed in medieval Europe and were overrun as they debarked from there ship by the local baron and his merry band of knights and serfs.  What if these same medieval simpletons were then to take this ship to the nearest colony world of this alien power, guided by a captive alien.  Imagine the fun and utter destruction that would ensue.  <br />This is a light and fun novel that explores completely ludicrous what ifs but is enjoyable nonetheless.   The book is not written in a joking manner but the humor shines through as we see what farcical destruction a band of barbarians can wreck on a truly advanced race.  A good quick read that should be read as the light fare that it is.	2001-07-23
US	52717712	R121VVLBVZ7Z16	0345323440	202451186	Footfall	Books	5	77	83	N	Y	Worthy of the title Classic!	This is a stupendous novel.  I decided to read this novel after finishing \\"A Mote in Gods Eye\\".  Mote was my first experience reading Niven and Pournelle as a team and I was suitably impressed.  This book was even better in my most humble opinion.<br />Footfall tells the tale of an alien incursion to Earth in a manner which Hollywood and most authors today never could.  There is no pretense, no presuppositions of actions and conduct.  The aliens are alien and not just funny almost humans as so often happens in Science Fiction today.  The motivations for the aliens are superbly drawn yet completely foreign.  The society is bizarre but believable.  Wonderful indeed.<br />The invasion is not a rehash of the same tired story told in Independence Day and many other such tales.  Why should aliens come to this planet with the same motivations we would approach other planets?  Why should aliens be interested in our culture and society in the same way in which we would be interested in theirs?  Niven and Pournelle do an excellent job in portraying a realistic scenario that is spellbinding in its breadth and stupendous in its readability.  <br />I can't tell more without giving away too much of the tale but rest assured this is a novel worthy of the title classic.  Excellent and worth every one of its five stars.	2001-07-23
US	52717712	R1FUM70040LXTL	0671741926	818442828	The Mote in God's Eye	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wonderful!	There is little question after reading The Mote In God's Eye why it is considered a Science Fiction classic.  This is a book written in a fashion that you rarely see today.  The characters are developed and believable, the aliens are truly alien but believable and the science has held up very well considering the time when this book was written.<br />The book takes place in a time long after Man has spread across the stars.  Humans have not had an easy go of it and have had Galaxy wide governments rise and fall in the past.  Earth has been nearly destroyed by the wars of the past.  Entire planets have been wiped out in civil war.  At the time of the telling the universe recovering from the last great collapse and has recovered most of there previous technology but not all.  Rebellions persist but are beginning to be brought under control.  Oddly enough in all the thousands of years no intelligent aliens have ever been encountered until now.<br />The book takes a group of people involved in a recently subdued rebellion, both villain and hero, and thrusts them into the forefront of first contact with Aliens.  The action is rapid and the plot not predictable.  What seems evil is often good, what seems good is often evil and much is somewhere in that gray in between area.<br />The vast majority of the book deals with the main human characters encounters with the aliens and their attempt at understanding them and there struggle on how to deal with them.  I don't want to say much more as anything else would ruin some rather clever plot twists.  A thinking mans Science Fiction novel that is a true delight to read.	2001-07-06
US	52717712	R3SMJG6JND2SW	0671319914	540145839	Melchior's Fire	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Very Good Read	Jack Chalker is not one of the authors who I usually follow and read.  I read Melchior's Fire before I realized that it was a sequel to Balshazzar's Serpent.  This is probably a good thing, as I never finished Bashazzar's Serpent.  I thought it was a bit dry.  All this being said, Melchiors Fire is a good read.<br />The story very much seems like two stories tied together by common characters.  The first half of the book deals with the first human contact with an intelligent alien species.  This seems a significant event and rightly so.  It soon becomes apparent that this first story is included merely to set the tone and events necessary to tell the second story.  In the second half the surviving members of the first story are financed by a wealthy businessman to find the mystical Space System of the Three Kings.  <br />I don't want to give away too much of the plot but it is enough to say that their adventures are both amazing and exotic.  The story was well written and engaging.  I would have to agree with at least one of the previous reviewers that the characters are not incredibly developed but then again that is not the strength of this tale.  A very action oriented yarn with some original ideas thrown into the mix.  <br />I found two things in the way the story was written that were weaknesses in my opinion.  The first issue was the fact that two distinct tales were combined into one.  This was only negative in the sense that both stories seemed under developed.  Not horribly so but noticeably so.  The second negative was the ending.  I know this is a preference issue but I thought the ending was unsatisfactory, at least compared to the rest of the tale.<br />Overall a very good read with very minor flaws.	2001-07-04
US	52717712	R1RUK4EZRJZE5W	0671319965	166728121	The Tide of Victory (Belisarius)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Great Series But...............	This is an incredible series but it is also one whose time has come to end.  This book leaves little doubt to the final outcome at the end of the novel and has very few suprises outside the death of two main characters.  The book is well written but seems to almost have fallen into a pattern.  The dialogue is starting to seem repetitious and the characters are almost beginning to act a little over the top.  Quite a bit more occurs in this novel then in the previous installment in the series which is gratifying.  Don't get me wrong, this is still an enjoyable book in a great series.  The time has come for the series to end.  I still recommend this as a buy and it is still one of my favorite series but it is beginning to seem a little stretched.	2001-07-04
US	52717712	R2L8W03557EIAN	0671319876	942932102	Soldiers	Books	3	18	19	N	N	A Mixed Bag	This is a story of an alien invasion of humanity.  The invasion takes place in the third millennium and humanity has colonized a large portion of known space.  One thousand years of peace and political correctness has led to a demilitarized and pacifist leaning government which is hardly in any shape to deal with its first alien contact much less invasion.  The book covers the beginning of the conflict to its conclusion so those of you who may delay buying this novel out of fear that it doesn't finish the story it starts need not fear.  This novel and story are complete and total.<br />I definitely thought that this particular novel by John Dalmas was pretty typical of his writing style.  The premise of the story was very entertaining.  The action was non-stop and the science interesting if not believable.  On the other hand I think it suffers from one of its advertised strengths.  The book is lauded as a book for gamers.  The problem with this approach is that the plot becomes a little forced, the characters overly predictable and the ending rushed and lacking in any anticipation and surprise.<br />The book was enjoyable but it was evident what was to happen to all the characters and the story from the second chapter.  A worthwhile read but not one I would read again.	2001-05-18
US	52717712	R99HAOKY15I2T	0671319612	370547305	Against The Odds (Serrano Legacy)	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Adequate but not Stellar	This is another one of those books, which I expected to enjoy far more then I did.  I am probably one of the few people reviewing this book who thought that Change of Command was a superior novel to this one.  I did enjoy the novel but had several issues with it.<br />My first major issue was probably the time lapse since Change of Command.  One of the problems with reading a series as it is written is that you have lag time that fogs your memory of the detail of the previous novels.  The only way to avoid this issue is to either reread the previous book(s) whenever a new one comes out or to wait to read the series until it is finished.   I am pretty sure that I would have enjoyed this book more is I had read it one week after reading Change of Command rather then 3 months later.  Elizabeth Moon weaves a universe that if nothing else is complex.<br />The other major issue I had was with character believability.  I had a hard time understanding or believing the motivations for the actions of many of the characters, especially secondary characters.  These character issues led to problems I had with the plot.  When the characters no longer behave in a believable manner then the plot ceases to make sense.  Many of the actions seemed so pat and trite.  I know the closing bar scene was supposed to be stirring but I found nothing short of silly.<br />Overall I was not completely satisfied with the novel and can't say that I am sad to see this series come to an apparent end.  An adequate novel I do not regret reading but I am sure I will not read again.	2001-01-15
US	52717712	R13JVHBGGAZFXV	0312863551	562507215	The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Daring!	Every once in a while you read a novel that is remarkable.  A novel can be remarkable in two ways.  One way is personal acclaim and another is public acclaim.  &quot;The Moon is a Harsh Mistress&quot; is remarkable in both accounts.  Widely acknowledged as a marquee novel of its genre the novel made a very personal affect on me as well.<br />This was one of  my favorite novels of late.  The real pleasure of reading a novel of an accomplished story teller, as Heinlein without a doubt was, is that you don't have the distractions that poor writing add to an otherwise enjoyable novel.  The novel is primarily written, as has been noted by others, in the pidgin dialect of the residents of the moon in the future Heinlein envisions.  At first this awkward dialect seems an inconvenience but rapidly the reader sees it as the asset that it is.  The dialect adds to the tale and helps to set mood and distinguish whom the statements are for.<br />The novel is one of revolution and in some ways is a blueprint of how to revolt created from a patchwork of historical models.  As if this isn't a big enough subject to tackle the novel also addresses the concept of artificial intelligence, mortality, polygamy, religion and a host of other subjects.  The novel is written in a way that really ties the reader to the characters and creates an emotional bond.<br />Heinlein very much succeeded in this novel.  There really is very little to complain about the book.  The only reason I can see for rating this novel negative in any way would be due to being offended by the tale or content therein, not the storytelling itself.  This is a very good novel.  I don't know if I necessarily rate it as my favorite Heinlein novel but it is without a doubt his most daring.	2001-01-06
US	52717712	RCDBQK64Q22TB	0451458060	152947981	Down to the Sea (Lost Regiment, Book 9)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Great Revival of a great Series!	What a really nice surprise.  I picked this book out of habit.  Often once I get hooked on a series I continue to buy the novels produced in the series regardless of the quality.  This was the case in the Regiment series. The series before this novel had been showing the strain of 7 novels set in the same world with the same characters.  The plot was repeating and the characters were losing their luster.<br />This book is a breath of fresh air.  Set twenty years after the events in the last Regiment novel &quot;Down to Sea&quot; casts the children of the heroes of the previous books into the lead rolls.  This is a ploy that often backfires in series extensions but it works very well this time around.<br />The new enemy in the Kazan are related to the hordes of the past but are far more advanced then the horde of the past.  In this conflict the horde will have the technological advantage, not the humans.  The son of a traitor is the hero or zero of this war.  <br />Quite a good book, which is the promising beginning to a new series, set in the same world as the Regiment novels.	2001-01-02
US	52717712	R23MMCYJJYUX5M	0812520637	820281728	Triumph	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Tightly written and easy to read	A very nicely written novel.  Triumph, by Ben Bova, does not attempt to paint detailed character maps or development.  What the book does is take characters we are already familiar with, i.e. Stalin, Roosevelt, etc, or those that we can immediately relate to and use them to tell a tightly scripted tale.<br />This is not a traditional fiction novel or even a traditional alternate history tale.  This book covers a very few days, about one month, and explores how events in April 1945 would have changed if Franklin Roosevelt had not died in mid April but Stalin had.  The book is not as concerned with story telling as plausibility.<br />Triumph is a relatively short, tightly written book that I recommend with no reservations.	2000-12-28
US	52717712	R3L12VL3PRR3QH	0671578316	660158051	The Forlorn	Books	3	18	26	N	N	Readable but flawed.	I wanted to like this book.  I wanted to REALLY like this book.  The plot was right the premise was grand and even the characters seemed interesting.  What really annoyed me about this book was the fact that they included a plot mechanism that I don't feel was necessary and to me was very distracting from the story.<br />Basically this is a lost colony story.  It appears humanity lost or was losing some sort of interstellar conflict and fled to the stars.  The world we see through the eyes of the primary character is the fruit of one these colony ships.  Whether this is the only colony or one of many we really are never told.  The colonist are several generations into life on the planet and live at a low-tech level without any real recollection of what their heritage is.  <br />Somehow it appears members of the original enemy are on the planet making mischief but are limited in some way.  The heroes and villains all have some sort of sexual theme around them.  This is the plot device I am talking about that I don't think was necessary and I don't think it worked.  Somehow every major event in the book is precipitated or concluded with either sexual fantasy or sexual frustration.  I understand the author used this device as the underpinning plot agitator but I do believe the story would have been told better using some other device.<br />On the flip side the author does an excellent job of making us wonder whom the real good guys and bad guys are.  I enjoy these kind of plot twists.  The changes were welcome but the characters themselves often seemed to change direction without motivation or justification.<br />Overall and adequate novel that was enjoyable once but will probably not rate a second reading.  I would recommend this as a quick read if nothing else is around but would suggest that younger readers be kept away.	2000-12-26
US	52717712	R2FD662VFGHEZJ	0671578847	897697249	Realtime Interrupt	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Hogan pulls it through again	This is another one of those novels that make me wish that Amazon used a slightly more flexible rating system.  To me a three star rating means that the book is either free of significant faults but fails to excel or excels in some way but contains significant faults.  On the other hand I believe a rating of four stars indicates that the book is both free of significant faults AND excels in some way.  This novel transcends this rating scale and does not fit.  I do think that this book contains significant faults, which I will explore further, but I also believe it excels in certain areas far higher then any average book does.  For this reason I rate the book four stars.<br />Realtime Interrupt by James Patrick Hogan is an exploratory novel.  What I mean by exploratory is that the novel explores human reaction to stress events that don't exist today.  The topic of exploration in this novel is virtual reality and to a limited extent artificial intelligence.  I know what some of you may be thinking.  Virtual Reality exists today.  Well, virtual reality most certainly does not exist in the way in which it is shown in this tale.  The story follows one persons story in several stages of the virtual reality experience, creation, testing and moral questioning.  There are several other well-defined characters included but they are in the story in as much as they impact or are impacted by the primary character.  I really can't go too much further into the story without ruining some rather clever plot twists.<br />The novel excels in its painting of the primary characters personal growth.  The book also does an excellent job of painting a realistic picture of the science involved.  This is always a strong aspect of Hogan stories.<br />The weakest part of the book, in my opinion, is the ancillary stories that surround the primary character and his tale.  The book seemed at times bogged down by detail, which was necessary but perhaps served up a tad awkwardly.  <br />All faultsaside this book was a great read.  This is one of those novels, which you read and you keep reading even if it meanders a bit on the way because you absolutely must read the conclusion.  In many way it reminds me of Lost Boys by Orson Scott Card in that respect.  <br />A great read and a book I can recommend to virtually anyone.	2000-12-26
US	52717712	RFRNKOUTJNZ3O	0440224675	313045692	Hannibal	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Erratically brilliant	I have to say that this novel definitely made in an impact on me.  I am  not generally a reader of horror or the macabre but I made an exception in  this case because of the tie in with Silence of the Lambs.  Because of my  lack of experience in this particular genre I am a little leery of making a  judgement but I have decided to do so in order to give a certain  perspective to this work.<br />Hannibal is without a doubt one of the most  troubling pieces of fiction I have read in the last few years.  The actions  are bizarre and shocking throughout the novel.  This is not a complaint.   These are the types of things I would expect in a book of this type.  My  problem was not with the shock value and or the gore but rather with the  character and plot development.<br />I thought that the pacing of the book was  suspect.  There is no doubt that Mr. Harris has a wonderful gift of  describing with an understated manner the most shocking of events.   Unfortunately, it sometimes seemed as if events were manufactured in this  novel for not other purpose than to showcase this verbosity.<br />The  characters did not seem to follow along patterns that would be consistent  with their development but rather with the predetermined events Mr. Harris  had devised for them.  A classic example would be the ending in its  entirety.  Although shocking and in some ways satisfying I found the ending  to be disappointing because it did not fit together with the other 90  percent of the book.<br />I enjoyed reading this novel but could not help but  feel a strong editor's hand would have aided it mightily.	2000-08-30
US	52717712	R3KOMR1ZTUAH7A	0671577204	594656926	Alien Voices: Lost World	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The good and the bad	This review is in reference to the \\"Alien Voices\\" CD audio presentation of  the \\"Lost World\\" by Sir Athur Conan Doyle.  The adaptation by Alien voices  was excellent.  The voices of Star Treks' John de Lancie and Leonard Nimoy  were remarkable.  These two readers along with a powerful orchestra  accompaniment provide a thrilling and engaging rendition of this classic.   Very satisfying indeed.  <br />The only qualm I have is the reworking of the  plot and characters.  I think that the plot reworking made the story easier  to tell but not to listen.  There were many events that would not have made  sense to me unless I had previously read the work.<br />Over all a decent  script of a superb classic with a wonderfully choreographed production.	2000-08-30
US	52717712	R1ZS34I1RAU8N0	0671578456	518391540	The Apocalypse Troll	Books	3	10	16	N	N	A promising start to an even more promising career	I am not sure I am correct in this but I have read that this was actually David Webers' first novel even though it was published after he became a  best selling author with Baen for his Dahk and Harrington novels.  I do not  know if this tale has any truth to it or not but it would explain a great  deal to me.    This novel is based on a very exciting premise.  The premise  being that a desperate alien race, bent on the destruction of humanity,  attempts to travel back in time in order to kill humanity before it reaches  a technological level to resist.  The humans of that future time fight this  horde and the only survivors are one human and one alien who reach a time  not too distant from our own.   Obviously there is more to it than that but  that is the gist of it.  The idea is really interesting and some of the  plot mechanisms are delightful as well.  I particularly enjoyed a several  page debate on the plausabilities of the Copenhagen and Multi-world theories  of time travel.    If there was a problem with this book was not the conceptit was the  execution.  I felt that this book showed promise but that the author was not sure of how to tell the story he wanted to tell.  The characters were  not very developed and the motivations were clear but rather one  dimensional in nature.    As I said above, this book feels like an author's  first work.  This book shows the promise of Weber's future Honor Harrington novels if not the realization of that promise.  A good book but not an excellent one.	2000-08-30
US	52717712	R3UXJF9SIO6TNX	0441007325	204063184	King Kelson's Bride: A Novel of the Deryni	Books	3	9	11	N	Y	Disappointing and Adequate at Best	I don't read nearly as much Fantasy as I used to.  At one time I would  read anything that purported to be high fantasy of any type.  Those days  are done.  Now I have to force myself to pick a fantasy novel even if it is  one that I am sure I will love.  This was the case with \\"King Kelson's  Bride\\".  I pre-ordered the novel as soon as I saw it coming out because of  my past love for the Deryni novels.  After the book arrived in the mail I  set it on the shelf for three months until I gathered the gumption to read  it.<br />I was mildly disappointed in this addition to the tales of King  Kelson.  The story was adequately told but not in the same powerful way  that I became accustomed to in the other Deryni novels by Katherine Kurtz.   The book really felt like two stories that each would have been better told  in a novel of there own.  The quest to get Liam installed on the throne and  the accompanying climax seemed rushed and blasé.  The second story of  Kelson's marriage and the surrounding chaos seemed especially poorly  written.  The characters were in this book in name but not in action.   Morgan did not act like Morgan.  Duncan was a stick figure and Derry, who  was a central figure in the last half, was cast with a cursory literary  brush.  Very disappointing.<br />I found myself not caring what happened in  these books and that never, ever happened to me in one of Katherine Kurtz'  Deryni novels before.  If this is what ten years wait brings us I don't  think I will wait another ten.  I would hope that Kurtz leaves well enough  alone if she can't add further to the series or is she doesn't have the  heart to spend the type of time on these books that they need.  Read this  one if you must but don't use it as an introduction to the Deryni universe.	2000-08-25
US	52717712	R1FDUEOUN3HQKM	0345336968	158715079	A World Out of Time	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	A story that takes 3 million years and 246 pages to tell	This is an excellent novel.  It does everything you would expect of a  novel.  It entertains; it surprises and motivates thought.  This book  covers 3 million years of time through the viewpoint of one personality.  I  say personality rather then person, as it is not necessarily the same thing  for the purposes of this novel.  The author does an excellent job of not  getting bogged down in the vast areas of change that happen in 3 million  years and only shows us things that are relevant and aid the telling of the  story rather then bog it down.<br />Basically, the story is that of humanity  and its cycles of evolution.  All of this is told through one mans  viewpoint and gives us a 1970's perspective on the rest of future humanity.   A very well told story that is told succinctly and with the correct level  of pithiness.  A definite recommendation on my part.  The only reason that  I give this book four stars instead of five is because although it has aged  well over 25 years I do not believe the story survives completely  independent of the science in this case and that has aged less well.  A  very entertaining read.	2000-08-18
US	52717712	RWOBNHRAVIPPV	0671653628	627258204	Twilight Kingdoms	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Exciting Military Fantasy	This is the second of three military fantasies set in a series by Nancy Asire. This is a straight military fantasy. Lots of swords, lots of magic  and lots of medieval stereotypes. The evils are absolute and the good is  also absolute. No change there in any of the rest of the books, the second,  Tears of Time and the third To Fall Like Stars.<br />There are two races, one  evil and one good. The evil race wins all the battles and drives the forces  of good relentlessly backwards. The forces of good are the twin of the  forces of evil except for the capacity of evil. It is the ability of the  forces of evil to use magic without care for consequence that allows evil  to always win and good to be unable to combat the evil effectively. In  this, the first book, things are beginning to go poorly for the forces of  good. After years of stalemate the forces of evil are pressing forward  again and nothing looks to be able to stop them.  This novel covers the  growth and adventures of the princes of the forces of good, as they are the  hope for the kingdom.<br />This book, as all the rest, has a wide-open  cliffhanger at the end. This was incredibly annoying since there were six  years between the first book and the second book and another three from  that to the third, this one. The third novel is still a cliffhanger, so if  you are a fan of clean endings do not read this book. It has been 4 years  as of this review since the third book was written. <br />A strong storyteller  who is not as strong of an author. Very entertaining.	2000-08-04
US	52717712	R1CM92CG1LI3T2	0671877275	66788845	To Fall Like Stars	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Finish the series please	This is the third of three military fantasies set in a series by Nancy Asire.  This is a straight military fantasy.  Lots of swords, lots of magic and lots of medieval stereotypes.  The evils are absolute and the good is  also absolute. No change there from the first book, Twilight Kingdoms and  the second, Tears of Time.<br />There are two races, one evil and one good.   The evil race wins all the battles and drives the forces of good  relentlessly backwards.  The forces of good are the twin of the forces of  evil except for the capacity of evil.  It is the ability of the forces of  evil to use magic without care for consequence that allows evil to always  win and good to be unable to combat the evil effectively.  In this, the  third book, things are getting very desperate for the forces of good.  All  of the territory is under the control of evil and the end for the forces of  good looks to be very near.  A slender ray of hope seems to be available  for the forces of good.  This book turns into a guerilla warfare novel  rather then grand armies marching.<br />This book, as all the rest, has a  wide-open cliffhanger at the end.  This was incredibly annoying since there  were six years between the first book and the second book and another three  from that to the third, this one.  The third novel is still a cliffhanger,  so if you are a fan of clean endings do not read this book.  It has been 4  years as of this review since the third book was written.<br />A strong  storyteller who is not as strong of an author.  Very entertaining.	2000-07-27
US	52717712	R3GKKAIPTHFFTD	0671653628	627258204	Twilight Kingdoms	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fun Military Fantasy	This book was a lot of fun to read.  This is a straight military fantasy.  Lots of swords, lots of magic and lots of medieval stereotypes.  The evils  are absolute and the good is also absolute. <br />There are two races, one  evil and one good.  The evil race wins all the battles and drives the  forces of good relentlessly backwards.  The forces of good are the twin of  the forces of evil except for the capacity of evil.  It is the ability of  the forces of evil to use magic without care for consequence that allows  evil to always win and good to be unable to combat the evil effectively.   <br />This book has a wide-open cliffhanger at the end.  This was incredibly  annoying since there were six years between this and the second novel and  another three from that to the third.  The third novel is still a  cliffhanger, so if you are a fan of clean endings do not read this book.   It has been 4 years as of this review since the third book was written.<br />A  strong storyteller who is not as strong of an author.  Very entertaining.	2000-07-27
US	52717712	RTRL93DI9V6KJ	0671721917	493755144	Tears Of Time	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Very good Military Fantasy	This is the second of three military fantasies set in a series by Nancy Asire.  This is a straight military fantasy.  Lots of swords, lots of magic and lots of medieval stereotypes.  The evils are absolute and the good is  also absolute. No change there from the first book, Twilight  Kingdoms.<br />There are two races, one evil and one good.  The evil race wins  all the battles and drives the forces of good relentlessly backwards.  The  forces of good are the twin of the forces of evil except for the capacity  of evil.  It is the ability of the forces of evil to use magic without care  for consequence that allows evil to always win and good to be unable to  combat the evil effectively.  In this, the second book, things are getting  very desperate for the forces of good.  Almost all of the territory is  under the control of evil and the end for the forces of good looks to be  very near.<br />This book has a wide-open cliffhanger at the end.  This was  incredibly annoying since there were six years between the first book and  this novel and another three from that to the third, To Fall Like Stars.   The third novel is still a cliffhanger, so if you are a fan of clean  endings do not read this book.  It has been 4 years as of this review since  the third book was written.<br />A strong storyteller who is not as strong of  an author.  Very entertaining.	2000-07-27
US	52717712	R33V5LIT2UP7HQ	0812511654	603493395	Empire Builders	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Excellant Novel	This is really a unique novel. I don't recall reading anything by Ben Bova before this book. After reading this novel I decided that Mr. Bova wrote a good novel and I bought several more of his titles to see if he is  consistent. Well, that is not the point of this review. This is a review of  `Empire Builders' not Ben Bova.<br />What a really good novel this was. The  protagonist Dan Randolf is a wonderful creation on Bova's part, as a  previous reviewer noted. I don't know how much of the science involved in  the book is realistic but it was written in such a way that I found it  believable. The motives of the key players were logical and the plot made  sense. What more can you ask for.<br />Amazon did an adequate job of giving  the plot overview so I won't waste your time here with the same. I will  only add that this novel succeeds in nearly every particular. As you are  reading the novel you are constantly confronted with actions and reactions  that are surprising to you, as the reader, but seem like the only logical  event after reading them. A definite recommend on my part.	2000-07-20
US	52717712	R2BN99R1ECVO15	0345332822	421493950	The Ayes of Texas	Books	1	6	24	N	N	The worst novel I have reviewed thus far!	I am sorry but this book was awful.  This is the second book I have read by Daniel da Cruz.  The first book, Texas on the Rocks, was much the same.<br />This book takes place in a world, which followed a slightly  different turn of political fortune then ours.  In this world the Soviet  Union has gained the upper hand in the international game of cat and mouse  that the US and the USSR have played for decades.  <br />The hero a good ol'  boy turned entrepreneur named Gwilliam Forte, is written in the most  stereotypical fashion possible.  Forte is always right, more brilliant then  anyone else in the book, charismatic, a lady killer and anything else you  can imagine this side of eternity.  Of course everyone and everything  involving Texas is superior to everything else.  Reading this novel you  would think that Texas could conquer the world by sheer intelligence  alone.<br />In the book Forte has to figure out a way to thwart the docking of  the Russian navy in one of its \\"monitoring visits\\".  I don't want to give  the plot away but the situation is resolved with totally invented science  and the assistance of an old World War II battleship.<br />This is really a  rotten book.  There are a number of serious flaws in the book that would  have made the book unpleasant by themselves but combined they make the book  unbearable.<br />If you like cliché with absolutely no relation to reality  then read this book.  If you like character development, plausible plot  lines and realistic science then avoid this novel at all costs.	2000-07-19
US	52717712	R3N12UTP8MPNK4	0345316592	412797042	Texas On the Rocks	Books	1	4	20	N	N	Abysmal	This book was hideous.  The only book that I have reviewed on Amazon that I hold in as great disdain is the \\"Ayes of Texas\\" also by Daniel da Cruz.  As is true with the other novel this book is so full of clichés,  stereotypes and impossible science to make even a callous reader become  nauseas.<br />Basically Texas is an independent country and must fight those  evil Russians who control the rest of the world for all practical purposes.   Come stage center Ripley Forte, billionaire, playboy extraordinaire.  What  a cad.  This book is terrible.  Please, Please save your money.	2000-07-19
US	52717712	R1C7QEPQCTSXDT	0451450345	66974096	Chicago Red	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Adequate Post-Apocalyptic Thriller	This is another in a long series of Post-Apocalyptic novels that I have read over the past several years.  This is not among the best of this genre but it is definitely not among the worst either.  <br />First published in  1990 by ROC the story is told in the not so distant future.  A king rules  what is left of America.  Edward III is the pompous sack of compost that  rules what is left of North America.  The disaster of our times has left  much the land flooded and the landscape greatly changed.<br />As is true in  many of these books the Post-Apocalyptic society is riddled with  pseudo-religious organizations.  In most ways this is a standard adventure  novel in the vein of \\"A Canticle for Leibowitz\\", although not as well  executed.<br />Rebecca Meluch has done an admirable job with this book and  hopefully she will continue to improve.  She has written at least two other  novels as of this date, Sovereign and Jerusalem Fire, which I have not  read.	2000-07-18
US	52717712	R16O0NDDL4JQTD	0671698516	879887792	The Lizard War	Books	4	15	17	N	Y	Good book that is incorrectly marketed by publisher	I really don't think that the description given to us by Amazon or those given by a few other reviewers is an honest representation of this novel.  After reading the descriptions of this book I perceived it to be kind of a  post apocalyptic thriller with humanity struggling mightily, in the form of  a few hardy souls, against the evil lizard like aliens.  Sounds like an  interesting concept but it is not really the book you would read if you  purchased \\"The Lizard War\\".<br />This book could more accurately be described  as a quest novel.  What I mean by this is that the main purpose of the  story is for a few brave souls to get to a certain destination and perform  a mysterious task.  The purpose of the task is never made clear to the  participants, as is common in quest stories. <br />I did not get the  impression that the lizards ruled all of the Earth or even most of it.  My  impression was that they dominated a small portion of North America and  terrorized a greater portion.  From the story it seems that the  technological backsliding humanity has experienced is of there own doing  and not that of the lizard like aliens.  <br />It is my impression that this  story could easily have been told in a fantasy setting and probably would  have come of as a better novel.  The lizard alien aspects just didn't seem  necessary to the way the plot was contrived.<br />This was a good book if read  without any preconceptions.  I think the cover art and descriptions do the  reader harm in his or her enjoyment of the book.  I do recommend this novel  but suggest you not expect what it appears to be.	2000-07-16
US	52717712	R1N2BL8MKI0I44	068900852X	594704214	The Tripods Boxed Set of 4: When the Tripods Came/ the White Mountains/ the City of Gold and Lead/ the Pool of Fire	Books	5	44	47	N	N	Greatest Juvenile Science Fiction novels I ever read	I do not think there are three juvenile novels that I enjoy nearly as much as these three.  The White Mountains, The City of Gold and Lead and The Pool of Fire are absolutely perfect examples of Juvenile fiction.  The  books teach moral lessons as well as tell a rip roaring good  tale.<br /><br />Without giving to much plot away this tale is covers a not too  distant future when Aliens who roam the Earth in giant Tripods rule the  land.  Every person who reaches puberty is capped and their mind is  controlled or at least molded by the Tripods.<br /><br />These three books follow  a group of runaways and rebels who have never been capped and who  desperately want to free Earth and its inhabitants.  This band of rebels  must find a way to defeat the Aliens without knowing who they are, what  there weaknesses are or any worthwhile knowledge.  On top of this the  `rebels' have to defeat these space age aliens with technology at roughly  19th century levels.<br /><br />These books are even more remarkable as they were  written in the late 60's.  I first read these books as a cartoon serial in  `Boys Life' in the early 80's.  I enjoyed the tale back then and still  enjoy the stories now.  I highly recommend all these books for kids and or  there parents.  Read and enjoy.=	2000-07-09
US	52717712	R14EGXPM72OKCB	0345324366	972041663	The Complete Guide to Middle-Earth: From the Hobbit to the Silmarillion	Books	5	126	130	N	N	In my book this is 10 stars!	I can't say enough good about this book.  As a companion resource to the  any of Tolkien's novels based in mythical Middle Earth this is the perfect  companion.  This isn't a series of essays and it doesn't try to explain the  twists of plot in all of Tolkien's books.  What this book does is give  complete, sourced and easy to find definitions for nearly ALL of the terms,  places and people in Middle Earth.<br />Ever wonder what the difference  between the Maiar and the Istari?  Want to know a brief history of Morgoth,  the original poison in Middle Earth?  This is the book for you.  I had to  work VERY hard to find any obscure term not included in this book.  Not  only is this book complete but it is cross-referenced and multiple terms  are listed.  For instance both Melkor and Morgoth are listed separately so  you will find him regardless of which name you look him up under.<br />What  a wonderful piece of work.  This book has furthered my reading enjoyment of  the Lord of the Rings and opened the Silmarillion to me in a entirely new  light.  A definite A+ recommendation.	2000-07-08
US	52717712	R1AYD6XXU7PWFR	0786002891	695540330	Out Of The Ashes	Books	4	4	7	N	N	A good action thriller	This is really a rather good example of the genre.  This is a post apocalyptic thriller were the bad guys take over after the collapse of civilization and the good guys, led by Ben Raines, are always outnumbered  but rarely outfought.<br />The story is not rushed and Mr. Johnstone takes his  time telling the tale the way he feels it should be told.  I found the  pacing and narration to be thoroughly enjoyable.  The politics of the main  character, Ben Raines, feature prominently in the book.  The politic  theories held by Ben are rather interesting.  Ben appears to be a kind of  Social Conservative.  In Ben's world if you killed your neighbor then that  night your other neighbors would probably judge you and kill you.  If you  raped your neighbor's daughter your neighbor would have the right to take  you out in back of the barn and beat you within in inch of your life.   Every person would not only be allowed firearms but be expected to be  trained in them and serve in the army.  Men and women are treated equally  in politics, familial structure and the military.  On the other hand,  capitalism is allowed but controlled as to make sure that money continues  to flow through the system and wealth hoarding is discouraged.<br />I really  enjoyed this book.  There are 25 other books in the series, thus far.  The  other books are also pretty good but after 26 books the plot is starting to  get a tad repetitive.  They are still good but it is very hard to maintain  tension and suspense along with originality for that long.<br />A good book.   Read it not only for the action and battles but also for the interesting  social, political commentary.	2000-07-07
US	52717712	R1IYCIGVE8SXAD	0684838230	23151868	Aristotle for Everybody: Difficult Thought Made Easy	Books	5	66	68	N	N	Philosophy made fun for anyone who wants to enjoy it!	This is an absolutely great book.  This is the type of book that justifies all of the fluff in the publishing world.  This book is written in a way that anyone can not only understand but also enjoy.<br />This book is 190  pages (Bantam 1978).  There are no dull chapters or useless ramblings.  All  of the chapters and portions build upon each other and grant a continuing  greater understanding of Aristotle and philosophy as a whole.<br />The book  can be read in its entirety, as I have done many times, or in pieces and  morsels, as I have also done many times for papers and brainstorming.<br />A  very worthwhile read and definite necessity for any balanced library.	2000-07-07
US	52717712	RII1U379CVXXK	006105111X	895888953	The Alien Years	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Daring Science Fiction Novel	I must be a little different then most of the rest of the reviewers in that I really liked this book.  Granted, the novel is a little dry in the sense that the action is rather light.  This is a very dialogue driven  novel.  I really love dialogue driven novels especially when it is handled  with such expertise as by Mr. Silverberg.<br />The Aliens are almost always  stage left.  The main characters come and go.  The story is painted on a  tapestry stretching several generations.  In my opinion sometimes the  tension of inaction expressed in prose by a talented author is far more  exciting then endless battle sequences.  The book also has a very shocking  ending, which I really enjoyed.<br />A great and daring book.	2000-07-07
US	52717712	R1UZ8P1R8MGKWL	0345274563	99331345	Her Majesty's Wizard (A Wizard in Rhyme)	Books	5	12	16	N	N	One of the Best Fantasy books I have ever read!	I do not read nearly as much Fantasy as I used too.  There was, however, a time, which Fantasy was the only genre, I had any desire to partake in.  Enter \\"Her Majesty's Wizard\\" by Christopher Stasheff.<br />This novel is a  perfect mix of Fantasy, Humor and Morality all spoon-fed to us with the  masterful prose of Stasheff.  First published in 1986 this novel was  released by DelRey when they were at the top of their game.  Time was in  the mid 1980's to early 1990's if the cover had the DelRey imprint on it I  would buy it.  This is a great example of the strong staff of editors they  had in this era.   <br />\\"Her Majesty's Wizard\\" is an example of what I like  to call Reality based Fantasy.  What I mean by this is that one of the  primary characters, usually the hero, starts out in our reality and is  transported into another reality which is different in many ways usually  involving magic of some sort.  This is the case in \\"HMW\\".  <br />I hate giving  away too much of the plot of a book in a review.  This tendency drives me  crazy when others tell me the beginning, middle and end of books so please  forgive me as I only give a gist of events.  The hero, Mathew Mantrell, is  transported to a realm where his penchant for archaic writings and rhymes  gives him magical powers.  Matt's challenges are many fold.  The challenges  include whether or not to believe in what is happening.  Secondly, whether  or not to defend good, side with evil or sit on the sidelines.  Thirdly,  whether or not to accept universality God and what that means to Matt's  existence and many more challenges.  All of this sounds pretty heavy but it  really isn't.  One of the great aspects of this book is how light is really  is in some ways.  The novel does not take itself to seriously and it makes  for wonderful experience.<br />Christopher Stasheff followed this book up with  a torrent of novels that take place in this same universe as Matt.  All of  the novels are good but this is the best ofthem and, in my humble opinion,  it is Mr. Stasheff's best novel period.  Read and enjoy.	2000-07-03
US	52717712	R31NYI5ALEGYHV	067157826X	946394457	Sixth Column	Books	5	68	74	N	N	Novel of Freedom lost and Gained by Heinlein	Maybe I am a simpleton or view things far differently then the other reviewers do but I loved this book.  I do not feel that the rather straightforward and unencumbered nature of the storytelling distracted from  the tale being told.  Just the opposite.  This book inspired me and  invigorated me with a sense personal freedom that I am sure was part of Mr.  Heinlein's intent.<br />I do not agree that the Asian references were racist.   These references were merely plot mechanisms and devices.  Readers should  remember that Heinlein was a product of the World War II generation and his  life was greatly shaped by the events surrounding that war and they are  reflected in many of his works.<br />A great novel with shades of  Libertarianism shining through.  A definite recommend on my part.	2000-07-03
US	52717712	R3TFVYATRMUUWI	1857231627	583645237	Spellsinger (Spellsinger, #1)	Books	4	24	27	N	N	Funny and full of Adventure	I have to disagree with a previous reviewer in one regard.  I do think that the animals in the book are cute and funny.  Granted, the animals act in realistic, sometimes noble, but more often crass ways.  Part of the fun  in this book is the sheer absurdness of the animals and the world at all.   <br />I think you have to treat the book slightly humorously.  I think humor  was a great par of Mr. Foster's intent.  The original cover has a  bespectacled turtle on a boat with two humans and an otter.  The turtle has  drawers in his shell which open.  I laughed quite hard the first time I  looked at the cover.  The hero gets to the fantasy world after smoking  marijuana.  The hero wins his battles and creates magic by playing and  singing rock and roll.....BADLY.<br />A very fun book but also treat it as fun  and not high fantasy.	2000-07-03
US	52717712	R347Z4FIEP8UB8	0877956871	981329299	Cold Sea Rising	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Typical of its time	Cold Sea Rising is a typical Espionage/Adventure book of the mid 80's.  The Soviets are out to conquer the world but first they must take out the United States.  The United States of course does everything in its power to  make itself the perfect unaware and vulnerable target.  The only hope is a  couple of heroes behind the scenes in both the US and Russia who are trying  to stop the plot.<br />The backdrop to the story is an environmental  catastrophe that heats up the Antarctic shelf allowing an absolutely  enormous sheet of ice to float into the open seas.  The Russians want to  use the ice sheet as a device to conquer the US.  I can't tell you more  with out giving away the plot completely.  <br />A pretty decent yarn.  I  found myself not liking the characters much but enjoying the story over  all.  I am not a scientist so I do not know what the plausibility of the  environmental catastrophe is but it didn't sound all that believable.  I  was able to suspend my disbelief and enjoy the novel for what it was.  A  good, once read book for a lazy summer afternoon.  Borrow it from a friend  or library and enjoy.	2000-07-03
US	52717712	R59JYF7J72Q5O	0345318226	262452652	The Misenchanted Sword (Legend of Ethshar, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Light fantasy of surprising quality	This is not a fantasy in the traditional sense.  If you are looking for Tolkien or some other form of High Fantasy then you are looking at the wrong book.  On the other hand, this book is an excellent example how light  fantasy can still be a very enjoyable read.<br />This books traces the life of  Valder, a scout in the army of the Gods who are an in Eons old war with the  Northerners supported by the Demons.  Through a series of ironic twists  Valder becomes the proud owner of a magic sword that gives him near  immortality and invulnerability.  There are some problems of course, a mad  wizard, an aging process which continues long after death should have came  and outliving ones descendants.<br />This is a fun, humorous and well-written  book.  This novel is frequently out of print but it is in my opinion well  worth the search to find it.	2000-06-30
US	52717712	ROXR2ZFJ24BQW	0345326164	914533777	With A Single Spell	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Fun Read	This is another great book in the Ethshar series of books by Lawrence Watt-Evans.  This book takes place many years after the events in the \\"The Misenchanted Sword\\".  Tobas is a failure.  Tobas' Wizard teacher died after  only teaching him a few nearly useless spells.  This hardly seems to do  Tobas any good and he quickly sinks into hunger and poverty and that is  when the fun really begins.<br />This book is as funny as the \\"The  Misenchanted Sword\\" but becomes a fantasy/romance.  A funny and fun read  with an imperfect hero.  Good read.	2000-06-30
US	52717712	R3CDUESA4EYYWB	0812500865	224165151	The Folk of the Fringe	Books	3	6	9	N	Y	Good but not Great	Folks of the Fringe is more quilt then a solid story.  The book encompasses several generations of people, Mormons for the most part, in their post-apocalyptic struggles.<br />This is not one of my favorite Card  novels, which is somewhat suprising.  I love short stories and I love  post-apocalyptic thrillers.  You would think that I would greatly enjoy  Folk of the Fringe.  I enjoyed the book, don't get me wrong, I just did not  enjoy it nearly as much as I should have.  I found the characters  interesting but not fully developed and the movement of time too rapid to  really get to know the situation or characters enough to become attached  and truly care.<br />Overall a good book.  I would recommend reading this book  but I am not sure about purchasing it.  This book is out of print quite  frequently and is probably not worth the money or effort to pay big bucks  to get but might be worth while to buy as a used book store for a buck or  two.<br />A decent Card book but not near his best.	2000-06-29
US	52717712	R2HPPYSPGZKBQ5	0380014300	248658617	Nine Princes In Amber	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Original and Witty.  A true Fantasy Classic.	Nine Princes of Amber is the opening book in a sweeping 10-book saga by Roger Zelazny.  Zelazny, (1937-1995), weaves an absolutely brilliant tale in the first person of one Corwin.  The reader is as blind to the how and  why of the story as Corwin is.  <br />Corwin begins the book knowing virtually  nothing about himself.  He does not know his name, his age, his history,  his home, nothing.  We are taken along a wild journey were we find out who  Corwin is and the very important role that he and his family play in all  the worlds that exist.  <br />Without giving too much away it is fair to say  that this is a fantasy novel.  It is also fair to say that these books have  relatively intense cliffhanger endings.  I would strongly suggest getting  all ten books to read before starting the first novel.  This is difficult  since they periodically go out of print.  At the present time the best bet  to get all 10 books in print is the omnibus edition available here at  Amazon as of June 2000.  The title is as follows: \\"The Great Book of Amber  : The Complete Amber Chronicles, 1-10  by Roger Zelazny \\"<br />Good luck and  enjoy this masterpiece.	2000-06-25
US	52717712	R2ENNBZZNTGH52	9994040987	349204650	The Guns of Avalon	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Worthy continuation of a classic fantasy series	Guns of Avalon is a truly worthy sequel to the Nine Princes of Amber.  What makes this book so fun is Zelazny tells his tale in a completely different tenor and tone then the first book.  In the first book we had no  idea what was going on.  We were as lost as the main character is through  out the book.  In this novel the main Character, Corwin, is more aware of  events and so we are allowed, as the reader, to be more aware of events.   <br />I think it is a remarkable coincidence that I had just picked up \\"The  Fabric of Reality\\" by David Deutsch just prior to reading this novel and it  is remarkable how well Deutshe's theory of Multiverses fits into the Amber  Chronicles.  Don't get me wrong.  I am not one of those people who wish to  make their favorite fantasy into reality, but thinking scientifically while  reading a classic fantasy yarn was very enjoyable.<br />A worthy sequel to  Nine Princes of Amber.  This, and most of Zelazny's novels, are usually out  of print.  It would be worthwhile to attempt to get a copy of this book  either through Amazon's out print book search or your local used books  store.  Good luck.	2000-06-25
US	52717712	R3LDNT99413EME	0020425759	738484051	When the Tripods Came	Books	4	22	22	N	Y	Well written book for Kids or Adults	This is really a great book.  This being said I am not sure that I would have enjoyed this novel quite as much as if I had not read the Tripod trilogy first.  For those of you who are not aware, the Tripod trilogy is  series of books that take place in the somewhat distant future of the  events that take place in this novel. <br />This novel covers the arrival of  the aliens (Tripods) onto Earth and their rapid conquest of Earth by means  of an ingenious method of mind control.  A terrifying novel even if it is  written for a juvenile audience.<br />The real point to this book is not so  much to tell an independent story but to give us a prequel history to the  events in the Tripod Trilogy.  As a prequel this book is very good.  This  book is not nearly as action packed or triumphant as the Tripod series but  as a companion it is great.  I recommend reading after the Tripod series.	2000-06-20
US	52717712	R2XVSJ1E96IPAZ	0345362462	105312528	Grumbles From The Grave	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Grand Masters wife gives us a depressing book	Grumbles from the Grave saddened me.  Part of the sadness I am sure arose from the fact that I only became of fan of Mr. Heinlein's after he was dead and gone.  It wasn't anger our dismay at his political views.  If anything  I am in modest agreement with a great number of them.  My sadness stemmed  more from the tone and tenor of the volume.<br />As most of you are aware the  book is series of letters to and from Mr. Heinlein and John Campbell Jr.  and his agent.  (There are a few other people but so small a number they  hardly bear mentioning.)  Mr. Heinlein's wife of forty years collected and  edited the letters into this volume that Mr. Heinlein wanted to finish  before his death in 1988.  I don't understand Virginias, Mr. Heinlein's  wife, choice in the letters.  She seemed to choose the letters that showed  and made more obvious the petty side of Robert Anson Heinlein.  It was  disturbing to me.  Disturbing, not because I thought Mr. Heinlein perfect,  but because of the depressing tone and quantity of the letters included.    <br />I can't help but compare this book with another similar work completed  after the author's demise.  The other book I refer to is Yours Isaac  Asimov.  In the Asimov book the format is the same.  A compilation of  letters gathered and categorized posthumously in a book format.  Isaac's  brother Stanley did the editing in this case.  What a difference.  The  Asimov book was filled with a mans writings and his politics, which I  totally disagreed with.  The book was a masterful work full of the letters  reflecting the optimism Asimov had even if I disagree with just about every  aspect of his core beliefs.  Heinlein is different.  I agree with nearly  everything he did but find this book cheapening and sad and I wonder why  Virginia would put it together and publish it as such. <br />All in all I was  glad to know more about Mr. Heinlein but sad at what it was I was told.	2000-06-14
US	52717712	R1ZBBFI5TUL7CB	0671877070	580847189	Heirs of Empire (Dahak)	Books	4	33	33	N	N	Satisfying (tentative) ending to a great trilogy of books.	The two Dahak books that preceded this novel were very good works of fiction and this title is no exception.  The first book was Mutineers' Moon; the second book was The Armageddon Inheritance.  Heirs of Empire is  the third book so far in this series.<br />This book takes place ten years  after the events that conclude The Armageddon Inheritance.  The Achuutani  have been repulsed and a small portion of them even become allies of sorts.   Humanity is now residing on two worlds, Earth and the old Imperial capitol  planet.  Colin and his Empress wife have two children who are teenagers  just approaching adulthood.  <br />Everyone thought that after the defeat of  Anu and his mutineers that humanity would rally around the new Emperor,  Colin, and build a brighter future and prepare for the final conflict with  the Achuutani.  If anything the trouble is worse then before.  The threat  this time is not as strong or as brazen but it is unknown.  A threat  unknown is deadly indeed.  I really can't say a whole lot more with out  giving too much of the plot away.  I will say that the story is split and  written from two points of view.  One story relates events on Earth and the  Imperial Capitol.  The second story line follows Colins' children and their  friends.  The children are probably a bigger part of this book then Colin  and the traditional cast of characters.<br />A good book.  Of the three books  in this series thus far this was my least favorite.  I am firmly convinced,  after reading a great deal of Mr. Webers' work, that David Weber writes  best when he is tight and careful with his word count.  I think the longer  books of his are a little sloppy.  Don't misunderstand me.  I am a big fan  and love this book and only find fault with it when I compare it the first  two books of this series.  A worthy continuation to the saga.	2000-06-14
US	52717712	R2SDWCWQ5YMOII	0385476248	917546882	Yours, Isaac Asimov: A Life in Letters	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A Window into the mind of Asimov	This was a wonderful book.  I have read this compilation three times now and I enjoy it more each time I am lost in it.  What a wonderful glimpse into one of the Great Grand Masters of Science Fiction.  Isaac's brother  Stanley finished compiling and editing the letters to and from Isaac, which  make up this book, shortly before his own death in 1995.  Stanley Asimov  was a Vice President at Newsday before his retirement in I believe 1992 and  you can sure tell the way his professionalism comes through.  Stanley had  done his brother proud and given the rest of us true treasure.<br />I loved  and still love Isaac's science fiction work and some of his non-fiction  work.  Reading this book I came to the realization that I abhorred the good  Doctors political views.  You know what.  It doesn't matter.  I like Asimov  more after reading this book then before.  Asimov's candor, honesty and  optimism surpass ideology.  <br />This is a very similar book to Grumbles from  the Grave by Heinlein.  The Heinlein book was a failure for reasons  outlined in a review at Amazon about the book by me.  The Asimov book is  great.  The letters are categorized by type rather then year making it easy  to read and follow.  The commentary is light so as not to be distracting  but very helpful and insightful when it was put there.<br />Thank you Stanley  for a great piece of editing work.	2000-06-14
US	52717712	R1SLIUQMCCD1FT	055356997X	158444901	I, Asimov: A Memoir	Books	5	12	13	N	N	What an author, what a life!	What a touching book.  This is a complex and multi-layered book.  This seems only appropriate, as Isaac Asimov was a very complex and multi-layered person.  This book is pure Asimov.  The bulk of the book is  written in 1988 to 1990 when Isaac was just entering the last bout with  illness in his incredibly prolific career.  This is a book written by Isaac  and about Isaac.  Humility was never a trait Isaac felt had much  usefulness.  Isaac was a great Author and an incredibly prolific one.   Isaac was a very smart individual and an honest one.  This all being said  and true why be falsely modest.  Isaac certainly didn't see any reason to  be.  The reader can hardly hold any of this against Asimov as it makes the  book that much more enjoyable even when confronted with Isaac's rather  radical political views.<br />This book is valuable not only in understanding  Isaac but other authors and players in the industry.  The book gives  insight into Lester Del Rey, Frederik Pohl and many other luminaries of  days gone bye.   <br />Isaac made no apologies in this book for the things he  believed in and even saw fit to lecture us for a chapter or two on the  virtues of liberalism.  This is ok.  I despise most of the tenants of  liberalism but this does not affect my respect and affection for Asimov.   Isaac truly believed what he said and was consistent and made no apologies  for it.  I would far rather count as a friend someone who truly disagrees  with me then one who agrees but changes his tune constantly.  You get the  impression from this book that Isaac was a greatly honest man and one who  counted loyalty as a valuable thing.<br />The book is long but not boring.   The photos in the middle are delightful but to few.  The entire book is  written by Isaac with the exception of the last chapter which Janet Asimov  penned and it gives us a tear jerking story of Isaac's last few months.  There is also included an in-depth biography of Isaac's books as an  appendix.  A veryworth while book.	2000-06-14
US	52717712	R1ZBRR9YPJUS9X	0671720856	477147021	Mutineer's Moon (Dahak Series)	Books	4	67	78	N	Y	Solid Sci-fi by a rapidly rising talent in the genre	Mutineers' Moon was my first exposure to David Weber. Oh sure, I had half a dozen Honor Harrington novels on my shelf along with one of his collaborations with Steve White. But these novels sat unread. They didn't feel right. The novels sounded good but I couldn't get past the covers. I know it sounds silly but the book covers always looked very cheesy to me. Just a personal taste issue you understand.<br />Anyway back to the point, the book. The book begins with a mutiny and ends fifty one thousand years later. Not a complete enough summary for you? Well maybe this will help more. The backdrop of the story is nothing less then the Galaxy in its entirety. Mankind, and many other species, have been chased and exterminated by a ruthless race called Achuultani. Now, the Achuultani do not play an active part in this book but they do provide the motive for many of the actions and reactions played out in the book. This is only logical as any race, which nearly exterminates your race several times, is bound to have an impact. <br />The story we are told in 315 pages (Baen paperback edition) takes place on Earth in the near future. (About thirty years best as I can tell.) Two factions of long-lived humans fight a clandestine war to determine the future of Earth. All the action takes place unknown to the great majority of humanity. Two characters prove to be the main characters throughout this novel and the next two books so far. These two characters are Colin MacIntyre, Lt. Commander US and an ancient spaceship named Dahak. <br />If you have read the book you will realize that I have left a great deal out and if you haven't read the book I am sorry. If I were to tell too much more I would ruin much of the fun from reading this book. <br />In closing, I enjoyed this book a great deal. The writing was good and the plot moved along at a consistent and clean clip. The characters were believable if a bit predictable. I enjoyed Mr. Weber's writing enough that I purchased and readeverything of his that I could find and feel confident in saying that this is a rather good representation of his Science Fiction writing thus far. (He has also written at least two Fantasy novels.) <br />One final note. I do recommend this book with little to no reservation but new readers of David Weber should be aware of something. Mr. Weber is very good at attempting to explain the technical aspects of the toys he writes into his story. Many readers enjoy this; I could care less most of the time. The explanations are consistent but lengthy. If this type of thing annoys you please just ignore it and skim through it. Ignoring the tech spiel won't ruin the story, at least I don't think so, and it would be a shame to cast aside this yarn over such a minor qualm. I hope this helps. Happy reading.	2000-06-07
US	52717712	R8YV54LO3TVZG	0671721976	722463062	The Armageddon Inheritance	Books	5	54	54	N	N	A good series and a great book	The Armageddon Inheritance is the second book in a series that so far stretches three books.  The series begins with Mutineers' Moon and concludes, so far, with Heirs of Empire.  Often middle books are just a  bridge from a great beginning to a great ending.  Not so with Armageddon  Inheritance.  This is, in my opinion, the best of the three books in this  series.  This is also a relatively short novel, a mere 344 pages (Baen  paperback edition).  I don't think that this is an accident.  David Weber  is a fun author who has a great deal of talent.   I do believe, however,  that his best books are his shortest ones.  This is true with his Honor  Harrington series as well.  Strip the fat away and there is only a lean  mean story left.<br />This book takes place after the suppression of the fifty  one thousand year old mutiny by Anu, see Mutineers' Moon.  Humanity, with  the great Spaceship Dahak captained by Colin MacIntyre in the lead, must  prepare for the imminent invasion of the Achuultani.  The Achuultani are to  humanity what locus are to corn.  Get enough of them together and Humans  and everything they rely upon to exist ceases to exist.  The Achuultani's  only purpose seems to be to sweep the Galaxy in cycles stretching millennia  and exterminating all life.  I can't tell you why, but you can find out in  the book.  <br />The book is handled as a split novel.  Half of the book  covers Colin and crew aboard Dahak searching for aid from a possibly  extinct Imperium and Horus staying on earth preparing for the imminent  invasion.  <br />The novel is non-stop and very exciting.  The book has two  climatic points that would have served as a books climax by themselves.  I  can't really tell you what happened after all but I can tell you that  enough of humanity survives to provide a third book in the series.  I can  also strongly recommend this book.  It would be helpful to read the first  book before attempting to enjoy this one but I do not think it is  necessary.  Have fun!	2000-06-07
US	52717712	R3UCBZVLZSINTG	0345335635	818953706	Pebble in the Sky (Empire)	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Early Asimov still beats par	It is really an enormous tragedy that so many of Isaac Asimov's greatest Science Fiction works remain out of print.  The three `Empire' novels by Asimov are a great example.  All three books are wonderfully written and  fill the gap between The Robot novels and the Foundation series  beautifully.  These novels are also a glimpse at the state of science in  the fifties.  If you are an Asimov fan and see any of the Empire novels  available for loan or purchase please do so.  You will not be sorry.  To  clear up some confusion on the part of some, the reason these novels are  called `Empire' novels is because they take place just before the Empire  began, during its infancy and at its peak.  Very much fun indeed.	2000-05-31
US	52717712	RFD2V5HMJPUXL	0345352467	336579528	Centaur Aisle (Xanth)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Good Adult Fantasy	I agree with most of the comments of the previous reviewers.  This is a really good book, as are most of Anthony's Xanth novels.  This is a book that can be read easily by younger people as well as adults.  However, this  is not a Harry Potter look alike.  This book may be written so that it can  be read by eleven or twelve year olds but it should not necessarily be read  by them.  This book has some light sexual encounters that may be unsuitable  for younger readers.  This does not ruin the novel but does change the  target audience somewhat.  A good book, if not the best of the Xanth  series.	2000-05-31
US	52717712	R2ZL5OCHCYDWL2	0345349369	621694833	Dragon on a Pedestal (Xanth)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Fanciful and Fun	This was the first Xanth novel I ever read and it has remained my favorite all these years.  I have purchased and read several other Xanth novels and none of the others seem to quite measure up to this fine piece of work.   This book, as other reviewers have noted, is about a lost princess who  finds herself befriended by a very unusual creature.  More then this, the  book is a nearly perfect blend of humor, adventure and compassion.  A truly  wonderful read.	2000-05-31
US	52717712	R1HHZ80NU3FQ04	0553293435	813706617	The Stars, Like Dust (The Empire Novels)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	The least of the Empire novels	It is really an enormous tragedy that so many of Isaac Asimov's greatest Science Fiction works remain out of print.  The three `Empire' novels by Asimov are a great example.  All three books are wonderfully written and  fill the gap between The Robot novels and the Foundation series  beautifully.  These novels are also a glimpse at the state of science in  the fifties.  If you are an Asimov fan and see any of the Empire novels  available for loan or purchase please do so.  You will not be sorry.  To  clear up some confusion on the part of another reviewer the reason these  novels are called `Empire' novels is because they take place just before  the Empire began, during its infancy and at its peak.  Very much fun  indeed.	2000-05-31
US	52717712	R3V8VIVOCNZDTL	0449238296	32880242	Currents of Space	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Space Opera at its best	It is really an enormous tragedy that so many of Isaac Asimov's greatest Science Fiction works remain out of print.  The three `Empire' novels by Asimov are a great example.  All three books are wonderfully written and  fill the gap between The Robot novels and the Foundation series  beautifully.  These novels are also a glimpse at the state of science in  the fifties.  If you are an Asimov fan and see any of the Empire novels  available for loan or purchase please do so.  You will not be sorry.  To  clear up some confusion on the part of some, the reason these novels are  called `Empire' novels is because they take place just before the Empire  began, during its infancy and at its peak.  Very much fun indeed.	2000-05-31
US	52717712	R2ZFERD8NPDAA7	0061056480	411840348	The Time Ships	Books	4	19	24	N	N	Well worth the time to read	H.G. Wells told his original time travel tale in just over a hundred pages.  Baxter took nearly 600 pages to spin his sequel.  This is the only complaint I have for Time Ships.  The story is believable.  The characters  were believable, meaning they seemed the same as the first tale by Wells.   A very good book but also very disturbing.  I don't mean disturbing in a  bad way as far as the book is concerned.  It is one of those books that  makes you consider your own mortality and insignificance.  A truly  worthwhile book.	2000-05-31
US	52717712	RCSBUA15DOT0M	0451457366	887615419	The Engines of Dawn	Books	5	5	9	N	Y	Great Plot and Great SciFi	This is really an excellent novel.  I had never read anything by this author, little wonder since I find nothing else by him in the catalog.  The writing is clean and the plot moves well.  I thought the book was fair in  the first few chapters.  After further reading I thought the book was  pretty good.  By the time I got to the last few chapters I was tense and  anxious to see the conclusion in a way that I have not been in quite a  while.  I am eagerly looking forward to more works by this very talented  author.	2000-05-31
US	52717712	R1PJG944MFNPH	0345329260	408762239	The Long Tomorrow	Books	4	14	19	N	N	Some books should never go out of print!	This is simply amazing.  If you are like me and enjoy well-written post-apocalyptic yarns then this is going to be quick favorite.  There has been a backlash and the United States has turned its back to technology and  all of its citizens live a rural Amish type lifestyle.  Or have they?   Solid writing and great concept.  To bad this winner is out of print.	2000-05-31
US	52717712	R2CAUMY7XEAMLO	0613064143	436002728	Letters to Jenny	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Refreshing	I do not believe that Piers Anthony was being exploitive in his publication of Letters To Jenny as one previous reviewer thought.  This is a non-fiction work as all prospective purchasers should be aware of.  This  is a series of letters Mr. Anthony wrote to a very sick young fan over a  span of several years.  The letters are touching and entertaining and make  for an easy read.  I for one enjoy knowing a bit about the person who wrote  the book I am reading so I am glad to have this opportunity.  If the  author's true motive was money I doubt this would ever have been published.   Non-fiction works by fiction authors rarely sells as well as fiction.	2000-05-30
US	52717712	RDIBH2DZP3EEZ	0671578731	863186956	My Brother's Keeper	Books	3	5	19	N	N	Twisted Twins - Or the case of the Unfortunate Organ Swap	This book was better then I had thought it would be.  I didn't initially search out this book rather I picked it up because nothing else was available.  I have to admit initially I did not hold out much hope on this novel as it was much different then the type I usually enjoy.    Despite my initial trepidation I did enjoy the novel.  It was a fast and good read that satisfies much as a sandwich satisfies hunger.  It was not a steak but it was fine.    Even though I liked the book I did find the premise as a bit of a stretch and the writing is sometimes confusing.  Even with all these faults I found the  book a good read and I have no regrets spending a few hours with it.      The plot is interesting and perhaps the best feature of the book.  With the merging of body parts between twins to save one from awful injuries to both we see behavioral and mental changes in the surviving twin.  The fun is following these changes while the rest of the plot unfolds.  As strange as it sounds the somewhat out there plot was not an issue.  If there was an issue it was the plot execution.    A good read that deserves 3 stars but I really can't give it 4 stars which I reserve for novels I intend to read again perhaps.  A good but not great novel.	2000-05-30
US	52717712	RAKI8J4F051JG	0671721135	733518408	Through The Ice	Books	3	3	9	N	N	Easy and Enjoyable	I want to be careful about what I say in this review.  I am not sure whether I enjoyed this book or not.  I have read the novel three times in order to attempt a better understanding of my feelings for this novel.  The  one thing that is blatantly clear in this book is that two people write it.   Because of this the plot seems forced and definitely shows a chaotic rhythm.  I know this formula can work but in this case it just did not seem real effective.    The story itself is enjoyable and entertaining for the most part.  The part of the book I found most engrossing was the 15 to 20 page long prologue in the  beginning of the book given by Piers Anthony detailing the reason for the book and why it was the way it was.  After reading the other reviews of  this book it could be that I am missing something or that I am being too critical.  Even so, I recommend this book with reservations.  By reservations I don't mean that it isn't enjoyable or interesting but rather then it leaves one somewhat unsatisfied.  At least that was my experience.	2000-05-30
US	52717712	R130OZQBLG6J0T	0671578715	187364733	Fortune's Stroke (Belisarius)	Books	4	3	9	N	N	Excellent addition to series	I have been reading this novel digitally which was a new experience for me.  I am happy to report that this book is just as good on an LCD screen as it is on dead tree reams.      We again get a chance to follow Belisarius across the continents.  The action and plot are really coming to a head.  Flint and Drake are showing an increasing willingness to turn our assumptions on their head.  That is good.      The writing is just as tight and clean as the first few books and the history is consistent.  The only negative I would  have to say is that although the book is exciting, entertaining and well written it does not move the plot nearly as much as I had hoped it would.  Let's hope this series stays a high quality example of the genre moving forward.  I recommend with the caveat that this is not the right place to start the series.  Go to the beginning with An Oblique Approach for a more enjoyable experience.	2000-05-12
