US	52722632	R2MWR9WBYEHJRN	0824516133	708072058	Turning Point: The Inside Story of the Papal Birth Control Commission and How Humanae Vitae Changed the Life of Patty Crowley and the Future of the Church	Books	5	24	30	N	N	What If?	A fascinating study, written in an easy to follow and understand journalistic study, of the little know Papal Commission on Birth Control which in 1966 recommended to Paul VI by a lopsided majority that the Church reform its position banning all forms of artificial birth control. Not only did the Commission make this recommendation by it was endorsed by a solid majority of a special committee composed of bishops and cardinals selected by the Pope to review the Commission's recommendation. McClory than explains why and how this recommendation was subverted by a the minority holdouts resulting in the \\"reconversion\\" of Paul VI, who initially was favorably disposed to a change, and the issuance of Paul's encyclical which banned birth control, but which failed to stifle dissent or be honored by the faithful. <br /> <br />McClory's book, however, is more than a history of the Commission and the politics which subverted its recommendations. It is an equally clear explanation of the arguments on both sides of the debate, as well as how and why so many members (clergy and laity) of the Commission who started out with the assumption that Church's historic position could not be altered, changed their minds during the course of the examination.	2004-09-12
US	52722632	R1SHAW8UZZVAXN	0446530298	840184254	Behind Closed Doors (Sloan, Susan R.)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Another Winner	Another Winner <br /> <br />The problem with Susan Sloan is that too much time lapses between novels and that they can be read too swiftly. Sloan generally does not write page turners,  but her characters continue to grow as the pages turn. <br /> <br />Each of Sloan's novels takes as her subject a real circumstances which has appeared on the front pages and explores it in the context of the broad issues it raises for society. Her characters are three dimensional and reflective of people her readers know and can identify with, even if they don't always know what goes on behind their neighbor's  closed doors or in the recess of their minds.  I would not rate \\"Behind Closed Doors\\" as powerful as her first novel, \\"Guilt By Association,\\" but than I do not know of any novel which is as powerful or as good as  \\"Guilt.\\"   But with the exception of \\"Guilt by Association,\\" it is as good as any novel I've read.  <br /> <br />	2004-08-21
US	52722632	R2PT0XI0G8L533	0060937580	589371972	The Truth of Catholicism: Inside the Essential Teachings and Controversies of the Church Today	Books	2	4	41	N	N	Truth if You Already Believe	Weigel's book is a good introductory book to Catholicism, its assumptions, beliefs and theology. On the other hand, it assumes the answers and then creates a structure and rationalization to support those answers, which in my view sums up both the major strength and weakness of religious thought. By adopting this technique religion lets men and woman step outside of themselves and judge themselves and the world more objectively. Let me suggest an analogy  A friend  has a personal crises which is eating him up. You give him or her advice which you know is good advice and she knows is good advice. Indeed if the circumstances were reversed, he'd give you the same advice. The problem is that knowing the facts objectively and knowing how one should react objectively doesn't make it happen. The most difficult thing for a person to do is to step outside his or her own skin and then take action as if they were someone else. It is too hard to separate emotions and objectivity. What religion does is help someone  to do just this, to look into a mirror and see ourselves as we would see another person facing the same questions and crises.	2004-08-21
US	52722632	RU21Z1CDZF5UQ	1588341275	556655285	Sarge: The Life and Times of Sargent Shriver	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The Overlooked Superstar	Sargent Shriver may have first entered public eye as the brother-in-law of John F. Kennedy and he may and leave it as father-in-law of Arnold Schwarzenegger. But in reality Shriver, in is own right,  is an overlooked superstar.  He embodies the energy and vision of the New Frontier and the Great Society and his legacies are the most successful programs of each: Peace Corps, Head Start, Legal Services and, while not a government program, the Special Olympics.  <br /> <br />Scott Stossel's rich biography deserves five stars on two accounts. It is an accurate,  compelling story of a great man and humanitarian. In addition it is remarkably well written and cohesive book. As I read it, I kept thinking this is Pulitzer Prize quality writing	2004-07-23
US	52722632	R388AJ2KC64SWB	0743203941	950793123	1912: Wilson, Roosevelt, Taft and Debs -The Election that Changed the Country	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The Rebirth of Presidential Power	While the focus of Chace's book is the pivotal election of 1912, the book is much more than that: it is a first rate premier on the political currents and the men that dominated the first two decades of the 20th Century, which not coincidently, also is the period during which the modern Presidency was born.  The book contains short, but meaningful biographies of both the principal characters (Roosevelt, Taft, Wilson and Debts)m\, but also of a number of supporting players (Bryan, Brandies, Root, Wild Bill Haywood, Archie Butt, Col. House, among others), all woven seamlessly into the text. It also places the election of 1912 in the context of TR's progressive reform and discuss the consequences to American policy resulting from the voters' decision. The book is not a in depth examination of the  Progressive Era, but it is as excellent introduction.	2004-06-18
US	52722632	R1564EVCUJGMSI	0399137483	99228498	The Way I See It: An Autobiography	Books	4	38	43	N	N	Celebrity and Despair	Patti Davis' autobiography may have been written out of misguided anger, \\"to get even\\", as part of her own therapeutical search for herself, or because she thought the \\"truth\\" as she saw it was important to tell. But the questions for the reader and the historian are  a) is it an accurate and truthful portrait of her relationships with her parents, Nancy and Ronald Reagan, and b) what does it tell us about her father's presidency. As to the first question, there appears to be little doubt that it is essentially accurate, since her account has been collaborated by others and her parents have not denied its essentials.<br />The second question, its value to history, is more subjective and harder to judge. My own view is that it is a significant contribution, and not just to the history of her father's presidency. One of the big debates about Bill Clinton's presidency was whether his moral failings reflected on his public leadership, with his defenders saying no and his critics yes. Davis' story is evidence that there is indeed a discontent between a politicians's private relations with his family and his public leadership. Her story also sheds light on the Teflon nature of Reagan's personality - how he could be so mellow and fatherly on the outside and so distant from the real problems facing the  country;  how for example he could complain about budget deficits  or promise a safety net for the downtrodden while adopting policies which resulted in astronomical budget defects and the disintegration of the safety net. <br />\\"The Way I see It,\\" while reasonably well written,  is not a classic autobiography or the story of a person who has made a contribution to society. But nonetheless, it sheds light on the Reagan personality and his presidential style. It deserves to be seriously dealt with  by future historians, and not simply passed off as a \\"get even book\\" by an estranged daughter.<br />Patti Davis apparently made peace with her parents just before her father descended into the ravages pf Alzheimer's. This must have taken a lot of courage and intrinsic love on both sides and she and her parents, especially her mother, are to commended for doing so in light of all the baggage they each carried. This reconciliation does not change either her story or the  significance of her book, but it would interesting (and helpful to other dysfunctional families) if she wrote a sequel focusing on the reconciliation,	2004-06-17
US	52722632	RT1G1NGC3CCSH	0758203934	121784787	From Rage To Reason: My Life in Two Americas	Books	5	9	12	N	N	A Dream Fulfilled	Janet Langhart Cohen?s story is the story of one woman's successful struggle to overcome the racial divide that has separated America into two nations. She was born at the \\"right time\\" and came of age as the Civil Rights Movement was beginning to make its demands and have its voices heard.  She was not handed success on a silver platter. Her rage, albeit tempered by age, experience and success, is never far from her heart or mind, nor should it be.    Yet Mrs Cohen?s story is much more than the fulfillment of one person?s dream ? it represents a significant step in fulfilling  Dr. King?s dream for all Americans which he articulated from the steps of the Lincoln Memorial in August 1963. We have a long way to go, but Janet Cohen?s story, and the fact it was achieved ? and is being lived -- largely under the radar screen, itself sends a message of hope and encouragement that we are making progress in achieving the Constitution?s mission of forming \\"a more perfect union.?	2004-05-29
US	52722632	RWG98V072FSHU	031600023X	827119224	Worse Than Watergate: The Secret Presidency of George W. Bush	Books	4	73	88	N	N	On the road to impeachment?	John Dean is hardly an untainted observer. Still if one believes in redemption, there is reason to believe that Dean learned from the mistakes he made as a young attorney in the Nixon White House and from the price he paid for those mistakes.<br />Dean's book reads as a long op-ed piece with footnotes. His basic thesis the abuses of Bush-Cheney are threat to our system of government that on several levels these abuses are \\"worse than Watergate\\" is sound and supported by the facts. Still I think his conclusion that the long term affect of the Bush-Cheney regime with be to take the \\"air out of our democracy,\\" is overblown and that we are strong enough society that eventually we will survive even eight years of this Administration's abuses and righten our ship of state. I am not optimistic, however, that we will do so by November 2004.	2004-04-03
US	52722632	R9OWPQTK6NJ8A	0743260244	924900643	Against All Enemies: Inside America's War on Terror	Books	5	38	42	N	N	Fair and balanced	Having read Clarke's book, I am convinced it is  \\"fair and balanced.\\"  The book contains no shocking new facts or revelations. I'm not even sure if there are any significant new details. Just about everything he says has  been said before - the difference is it that this time the criticism is coming from some who was in position to know, that it is not antidotal, unnamed source leaks, or speculative connecting of dots. One can argue that people this close to the action should not write this kind of book so soon after resignation, but unlike others  (e.g .George Stephanopoulos) Clarke was a bureaucrat, a high ranking civil servant, serving at the pleasure of the President, but he did not owe his job to the President.<br />I confess I never heard of Richard Clarke before last week, and I am taken back by his role during the last 10-15 years. For example he represented the White House on the round Cheney (as Secretary of Defense) made to secure basis in connection with the first Gulf War. He was also the one who chaired (at Condi Rice's request) the immediate response to 9/11 and takes the \\"credit/blame\\" for \\"instructing\\" Air Force One not to immediately return to Washington but instead to fly to secure military bases.  \\"Out of the loop?\\" as Cheney claims?  <br />Moreover,  Clarke is not alone: See Paul O'Neill, Joe Wilson, Richard Foester and John DiIulio to name the first dour who come to mind. Even John Lehman, a partisan from way back, began his attack on Clarke during his 9/11 questioning by noting that Lehman had known Clarke for a long time and respected him and his integrity, but \\"now he had a credibility problem.\\" Who has the credibility problem? <br />Clarke's key criticisms that the Administration misstated the basis for attacking Iraq (its ties to al-Qaeda for example) and that the cost of that unnecessary war has sapped funds and resources needed for the War on Terrorism. These charges have been have been made before (see e.g Paul O'Neill) and, I believe,supported by ample corroborative evidence. Whether that's a basis for concluding that the Bush Administration is, in John Dean's words, \\"Worse than Watergate,\\" - or a basis for new leadership - are conclusions not facts. Read the book and make up your own mind, but don't rely on White House press briefings or partisan speeches on the floors of Congress<br />What I think is unfair are the personal attacks on Clarke's motives. There is no basis outside White House spin for suggesting that Clarke is wrong on the facts. The White House and its allies have spent all their time attacking Clarke personally, very little time on questioning his conclusions and even less on his facts. The sound bites on TV have highlighted the White House attacks,  although the  print reports, which contain much more detail, present a more balanced picture.  Still, the White House's  primary complaint seems to be he was too loyal a staff member while employed and too disloyal after he resigned.	2004-03-28
US	52722632	R3XQ9SJZ3YZRB	0671027387	315416156	Deception Point	Books	2	3	8	N	N	Good beginning, then downhill	An interesting, well developed, fast paced plot which unfortunately is undercut by predicable and uninteresting characters. But the real problem with this thriller is that the escapades of its characters are simply not real	2003-11-20
US	52722632	R5HTDQO5LEVUK	0345450175	290245844	Balance Of Power	Books	5	29	42	N	N	Masterful Example of an Advocacy Novel	Richard North Patterson is known as powerful, literate author of suspense novels which explore social, political and legal issues. Although Patterson's bias almost always shines through, he makes a valiant and usually credible attempt to explore both sides and let each proponent in his novel make the best case for their position. \\"Balance of Power\\" is neither a suspenseful novel, nor  a balanced view on the issue at the core of the book, gun control and American politics. Nonetheless, the novel is a masterful, well written, page tuner. It is also an advocacy brief in novel form.<br />If Patterson's goal in writing is to affect the public debate, he is unlikely to succeed despite the muckraking quality to the book. When Upton Sinclair and other muckrakers wrote their advocacy novels in the early twentieth century, their works were serialized in the only mass media of the day: newspapers and popular magazines. Today the mass media has already been so saturated on this issue that Patterson's work brings nothing new to the public debate.<br />\\"Strict constructionalits\\" who believe that when the Founding Fathers made reference to a \\"well organized militia\\" they meant individual citizens or believe that the right to bear arms trumps the right to \\"life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness\\" will dismiss \\"Balance of Power\\" as  the work of \\"Nazi jackboot\\" who wants to take away a hunter's right to own a hunting gun. For those who believe in responsible gun control, the book is sermon directed at the choir. I cannot predict how those in the middle will react, but I suspect anybody who reads \\"Balance of Power\\" with an open mind is more likely to join the choir than the NRA.	2003-10-24
US	52722632	R2GD57ZQ77QVBS	1400046610	957571830	Slander: Liberal Lies About the American Right	Books	1	0	4	N	N	PT Barum would be proud	I've wanted to read Ms. Coulter's book for sometime because I could not believe its as bad, nutty and vicious as Ms. Coulter and some commentators would have you believe. But I didn't want her to receive a royalty for my doing so. Thus, when I saw it on a table at the public library I checked it out. This is one case where the advance publicity is accurate.    Having now read the book, the big mystery is whether Ms. Coulter is such a fanatic that she will use the Big Lie technique to persuade her audience or whether she is simply a clever huckster laughing all the way to the bank. In other words is she more Herman Goering or PT Barnum? Based upon her resume and the few snippets of her I have caught on her talk show circuits, I have concluded she is too intelligent to believe her own rantings and instead has decided to make a living selling her snake oil to the suckers. She is in short more Barnum than Goering Unfortunately, she has fooled enough of the people enough of the time that she should not be ignored.	2003-09-16
US	52722632	R3U1TBK9FY1ANP	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Thank you Fox! Thank you Bill O'Reilly	Had Fox and Bill O'Reilly not sued Al Franken, I am almost certain I would not have purchased his book. I would have missed an enjoyable reading experience, but Franken did not tell me anything I did not already know. He did however add to my knowledge in an entertaining way and provides a  useful resource for future reference.<br />Probably most people who read Franken's book are already uneasy with the Bush Administration's policy.  But because of Fox and O?Reilly, there will be a large number of \\"undecideds\\" who will also read the book who would never have done so without their boast. For them, Franken's examination of the the right wing media may make a difference. Most regular viewers of Fox and O?Reilly will not be moved, but even among these readers, there may be a surprise or two or more. <br />Franken reflects an admittedly liberal, anti-Bush bias. But he is seldom over the top and few chapters (specifically. the one on Chickenhawks) I found to lack humor and even boring. Others, like the Chapter on Bob Jones, reflect his own excesses, something that Franken admits he is occasionally guilty of. Franken does a good job with his sources and notes by providing support for his comments without overwhelming the reader. All the quotes and sources I've checked have proven accurate. On the whole Franken's book is what it purports to be, a  satirical examination of the Bush administration and its media support team. Whether is it a also fair and balanced depends upon your social philosophy and political point of view.	2003-09-06
US	52722632	RVS2JR9I0RBDH	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	1	2	6	N	N	Coulter on Coulter	All your need to know about Ann Coulter and her latest book,  \\"Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism\\" is succinctly summarized at the beginning of Chapter 7 of her book, \\"Slander: Liberal Lies About the American Right\\":     \\"If liberals were prevented from ever again calling Republicans dumb, they would be robbed of half their arguments . . . . This is how six-year-olds argue: They call everything 'stupid.' The left?s primary argument is the angry reaction of a helpless child deprived of the ability to amount logical counterarguments.\\"    Now leaving aside the question of whether it is better (or even more civil) to call a class, or an individual, stupid instead of a traitor, it does not strike me as especially bright to turn your argument on yourself as Ms. Coulter has done ? in the titles of her two most recent books no less	2003-09-06
US	52722632	R3TNYAL71EGPB6	0374125023	937296219	The Clinton Wars	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Both the means and ends were wrong.	I am biased in that I believe Bill Clinton was a superior president.  But I am also angry at him for his reckless disregard of his personal obligations and responsibilities which resulted not only in giving his enemies the sword to slay him, but also to undercut his policy, program and visions, which ultimately led to the restoration of a right wing agenda and administration. Sidney Blumenthal's book has reenforced both conclusions, and in doing so has made a convincing argument that the sins of Clinton's enemies (including Ken Starr and his staff) were far greater that Clinton's own sins. Blumenthal does not purport to be an objective historian or observer, but has marshaled together, in a long but very readable book, a advocate's  brief on behalf of the Clinton Administration and Bill Clinton's leadership.  <br />Blumenthal has actually woven two books into one. The first is an insider's view of the second term. The second is essentially a legal brief on behalf of the Clintons and a defense of the allegations leveled against Blumenthal himself.  Although Blumenthal is a journalist not a lawyer, the legal brief is far more powerful and interesting than the journalist account. <br />I would have preferred that Blumenthal had documented every source in his footnotes, but he is after all a journalist not an historian. Still he gives enough sources, including an on the record interview with Sam Dash, to support his argument that the concerted effort to undermine Clinton  by whatever means available was done to justify the hypothesis that Clinton was an illegitimate president. The irony is that those who question the legitimacy of President Bush's selection, do not question the legitimacy of his administration, while those who attacked (and still attack) the legitimacy of the Clinton Administration never questioned the legitimacy of Clinton's election. <br />Blumenthal's book can - and has been - easily dismissed by Clinton opponents as being the ranting of a member ofthe \\"not so vast left wing conspiracy.\\" I would like to read the retort of a critic who credits Blumenthal with a serious defense of the Clinton Administration and the shallowness of the scandals which consumed it and than contradicts Blumenthal's thesis with references to his chronology and arguments rather harangues about the messenger.	2003-07-10
US	52722632	R10R78CXPEJGZ2	0609610945	318601204	Nothing Sacred: The Truth About Judaism	Books	5	16	27	N	N	Religion for the 21st Century or Blowing into the Wind?	After the first couple of chapters, I kept thinking Rushkoff was trying to place a square peg into a round whole, and wasn't sure I would complete the book. I'm glad I did. It is a challenging book, easy to read and contains fresh ideas and a fresh examination of the evolution of Jewish theology..  <br /> Rushkoff hopes to reach the unaffiliated Jewish community  which is Internet savvy.  After reading Rushkoff's book, I cannot say I feel closer to God, but I do have a deeper respect for Judaism's  responses to man's predicament of being a finite being in an infinite universe. Rushkoff's explanation, for example, of the story of Abraham and Isaac is more historically logical than the traditional explanation and enhances rather than detracts from its religious significance.<BR> <BR> This is a potentially important book, which at time reminds me of Luther's attack on Rome. In practice, however, I suspect that the book will have no significant impact because of the reactions of mainstream Judaism:  the establishment (including most rabbis) will ignore the book or dismiss it; most members of established congregations will find it irrelevant, since they already have made their peace with organized Judaism; and for the most part those  who are disaffected with organized Judaism, but who are intrigued by Rushkoff's reexamination and call for a new Renaissance have neither the interest or energy to do anything about it.<br /> Rushkoff's  theological defense of Judaism is as good as I've seen from a non-theologian. Rushkoff's  sections on Maimonides and Spinoza were superb brief descriptions of their writings and importance in the evolution of Jewish thought. I have always considered the Golden Rules of Hillel and Jesus as identical twins. Rushkoff  distinguishes them. I personally think Rushkoff's distinction is too legalistic,  but it makes sense in the context of his discussion ofMaimonides negative theology. The biggest hurdle for any religion is the answer to the question of how a just God can permit so much injustice.  Rushkoff does not provide a new answer, indeed his explanation is one theodicy's classic explanations, but his brief discussion of the problem of evil toward the end of the book is more satisfying than any I've read because it fits into a coherent theology. <br /> I share Rushkoff's  views on the current state of politics in Israel, but I think he understates the importance of Israel to 21st century Judaism. Some may  conclude that he is indifferent to Israel's survival, but I think that would be unfair and reflect more of attempt to create a negative spin on his book than a carefully reading. Like Rushkoff, I consider Judaism a success no matter what its future in America and I have never been able to wring my hands over the issues of assimilation and intermarriage.	2003-06-18
US	52722632	R2NC4GRLR0SUMX	0743244370	847495790	I Am the Central Park Jogger: A Story of Hope and Possibility	Books	4	9	14	N	N	Recovery or not: still every family�s worst nightmare	A very simple, yet profound, first person story of recovery, a recovery in which Ms. Meili's healing was, in her words, \\"as much a function of the heart as it is of medicine.\\" Ms. Meili is an extraordinary woman who deserves all the acclamation she has received for her courage, her fortitude and her recovery, both physically and psychologically. But the brutal rape to which Ms. Meili was subjected is not the central focus of her book. Indeed except for her fame which will help sell the book, this same book could have been written if Ms. Meili had sustained her injuries in a car crash. This point is underscored by the deft manner in which Ms. Meili handles the fact that the convictions of teens who \\"confessed\\" to the attack were vacated because it appears the confessions were made-up and they were actually innocent. Their guilt or innocence is no more central to Ms. Meili's book and her recovery than the nature of the attack. <br />This is also a patriotic book, in which all of the best and most idealistic characteristics of the American spirit come to the forefront. Doctors and nurses who care and provide the best medicine available. Business colleagues and social friends who give their time and love. A family who provides its love, support and confidence in their daughter's ability, needs and independence. A high powered corporation which sheds its \\"business first attitude\\" and does everything economically and humanly possible to ease the pain of her family and provide her with a bridge to recovery, and not just because it will help its public image. <br /> At the same time, just bubbling below the surface of Ms. Meili's story, is a classic parable of the relevance of class, wealth and race in America. By race I do not mean the fact that Ms. Meili is white and her attacker or attackers black. Rather one needs to ask whether there would have been the same outpouring of love, empathy, support and staying power to her story if Ms. Meili had been a young, female blackinvestment banker at Solomon (assuming there were or are any). Would the media and Solomon's top tier executives have responded the same way if the Central Park Jogger had been a secretary rather than a young women who was of the same age and social class as their daughter? Could Ms. Meili herself have made the recovery she did if she had not, during the first 27 years of her life, been blessed with a significant head start on the road to success: an affluent middle class, intact loving family; strong friendships; the best education the United States had to offer, at which she excelled, topped off by foreign internships, a positive outlook and social and financial success and security?<br />Whether or not Ms. Meili's central thesis about healing is correct is immaterial as is the extent to which she was helped by the hand dealt her during what she calls her \\"first life.\\" One wants to think there is merit in her philosophy, but in any event Ms. Meili's struggles should be an inspiration to anyone who has been brought down by a random act of violence, illness or accident and is determined to crawl their way back.	2003-05-01
US	52722632	R2794URD8K5UHU	0393311406	498011150	Death and Dignity: Making Choices and Taking Charge	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Distinguishing  the Trees from the Forest	Assisted physician suicide is a good example of a forest vs. trees debate. Those who focus on the broad religious and societal interests in preserving life at all costs tend to conclude that the forest (society) is more important than individual patients (the trees), while those who support patient choice at the end of life tend to focus upon the trees. Timothy Quill is a forest ranger who is focused  on the trees. <br />Quill's book is almost totally devoid of the philosophical arguments which permutate the end of life debate. Instead his book is a pragmatic discussion of real cases, real people and real solutions. His sympathies are with the patient who is dying, not the physician who views death as a defeat to be delayed, at any cost, for as long as technology will permit. Quill is less interested in the patient's soul and much more interested in the patient's dignity.  Fighting for life at any cost is an acceptable alternative, so long as it too is the result of an informed decision making process in which the patient is not only involved but is the ultimate decision maker. <br />Quill's goal is to change the rules but so far he has been unsuccessful.  What Quill demonstrates \\"between the lines\\" of his book, however, is that if a patient knows the rules, is willing to bend the rules, and chooses  sympatric caregivers who play by the patient's rules, the patient can exercise great control over his or her end of life choices. Bending the rules may not work all the time, but knowing the rules substantially changes the odds in the patient's favor. Even Quill, however, makes a distinction between a competent, terminally ill patient who retains enough strength to be the final actor and one who is too ill to sct alone.   The former, in Quill's view, is entitled to the physician's assistance; the latter is not. One unintended consequence of this distinction is that it may force some people to resort to a premature unassisted suicide rather than take the risk of slippinginto the later category. On the other hand, the patient who waits too long to learn the rules will often find that he or she has lost control to doctors whose interest is more in medical technology than the emotional and psychological well being of their patient. <br />In the final analysis, the debate over end of life choices is less a debate over philosophy and religion than it is over process. The gulf between those who fear allowing people to choose death is a slippery slope and those who believe the wishes of the patient are paramount often disappears when presented with the facts of a particular case. The big distinction is often whether assistance should be given openly or covertly. Even those who believe that governmental neutrality on physician assisted suicide is the first step toward a de-humanization of society will have to deal with their own death and that of their love ones. They too may benefit from Quill's pragmatic approach and want to adopt, in their own case, some of his suggestions, even if they are afraid to permit \\"everyman\\" to do the same.	2003-04-29
US	52722632	R3M4OHXP7458W6	080704718X	431292333	Wealth and Our Commonwealth: Why America Should Tax Accumulated Fortunes	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Must Reading for Every Member of Congress	Most controversial issues have two sides. The authors of this book present the arguments in favor of abolishing the estate tax in \\"the best light\\" by quoting at length and in context the abolition proponents' rationale. They then destroy these arguments by showing how and why they are based on false and often misleading \\"facts.\\"  They also make the case as to why an estate tax on those few accumulated fortunes which are, even under the pre-2001 law, subject to the tax is an important foundation stone of the American Experiment. I am not naive enough to believe that those who have made a career of opposing the estate tax will be swayed by the authors' book, but anyone with an open mind should be.	2003-04-06
US	52722632	R33UJB6TM9YDH4	0743204735	660154931	Bush at War	Books	3	4	4	N	N	An Ode to Bush	A very favorable, indeed almost fawning, portrait of Bush and his war cabinet. Bush comes across as strong post 9/11 leader with the right instincts and a good crises management style.  This despite the fact,  as Woodward's final chapters, if read carefully make clear, that the ultimate success of the Afghanistan war at the end of 2001  was a complete and  unexpected, although welcome, surprise to the Administration rather than the natural result of a well thought out and well executed strategy.  This does raise a number of concerns about whether Bush will be as lucky in Iraq.  Still, even with the recognition  that Woodward's portrayal reflects the Bush Administration's spin rather than an objective appraisal, the book is well worth reading especially by those who still consider Bush an illegitimate president	2003-03-03
US	52722632	R277R1A85HUNTT	0465001769	492085239	What Liberal Media?: The Truth About Bias and the News	Books	5	35	52	N	Y	The Emperor Has No Clothes	At last, someone has shown, and documented, that the so-called liberal media bias is really part of a right wing conspiracy.  Altermans book is the perfect antidote to Bernard Goldbergs anecdotal book on his life at CBS. But Goldbergs book compares to Altermans in the same way   a high school essay on How I spent my summer vacation is comparable to a Ph.D. thesis.  Because of its scholarly style, Altermans book is not an easy read, but it is well worth the effort. While Alterman has his own biases, prejudices and conflicts, he articulates them (or so it appears) so readers can make a judgment of where they should apply grains of salt. His work should put to rest the claim that American journalism is influenced by a liberal bias. But, alas, it  will not because those bent on perpetuating this myth are not interested in the facts.	2003-03-02
US	52722632	RXYBBGV3WIUUT	0684810271	634463914	The Conquerors: Roosevelt, Truman and the Destruction of Hitler's Germany, 1941-1945	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Right Approach: Luck or Design?	An unusually well researched and documented history. The author makes the case that the US decisions on the reconstruction of postwar Germany were exactly right, but leaves unanswered the intriguing question as to how much of this was the result of luck and how much the result of design. He also makes a strong case that policy makers should always be prepared to reconsider their predetermined plans and assumptions and adjust them as the actual facts warrant.  <br />As others have noted the title is  misleading because it is really an account of the failed Morgenthau Plan to turn postwar Germany into an agrarian state. The book itself is also at odds with the author's concluding chapter. For example, the hero on the book is neither Roosevelt nor Truman, but rather Roosevelt's Secretary of Treasury, Henry Morgenthau, Jr. Beschloss is sympathetic to Morgenthau and the rationale behind his plan, but ultimately concludes that the Morgenthau Plan, if implemented, would have been disastrous for Germany and the West. In other words, even though Morgenthau's adversaries, principally Stimson and McCoy, underestimated the depth of Nazi evil, they turned out to be correct about the need to  reconstruct Germany as an industrial state in order to offset Soviet plans of aggrandizement. <br />In his concluding chapter, while acknowledging that Roosevelt's leadership on reconstructing postwar Germany was \\"scarcely impeccable,\\" Beschloss nonetheless concludes this flaw is \\"overshadowed by the greatness in Roosevelt's leadership\\" in the years leading up to the US entry into World War II.  But Beschloss' portrait of the FDR who presided in the White House during  the period covered by the book (principally the last 18 months of his life), is one a sick, old man, unable to concentrate of matters of state, who had no business completing his third term, let alone running for a fourth. It is not at all clear from Beschloss account whether in fact Roosevelt would have adopted the policies ultimately implemented by Truman when he gave his full support to the Marshall Plan.  And Harry Truman, whose instincts on the postwar world, Beschloss agrees were sound, is described as one whose \\"private, petty anti-Semitic comments did not abate for even a moment.\\" Yet such is the power of Beschloss's work and sourcing, that I found it difficult to quarrel with either his analysis of the events covered by his book or his somewhat contradictory conclusions.<br />Most historians agree that Roosevelt's selection of Truman as vice-president in 1944 was unpredictable and that Truman was one of the least qualified people ever to assume the presidency. Did the US and the world luck out or did FDR know something about Truman's character that escaped other contemporary observers?	2003-02-19
US	52722632	R245RSL8WC9XFA	0060185147	737127896	Courting Trouble	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Different, but still very good	There is not a great deal of suspense in this novel, even though it has a mildly surprising ending. Actually it has two endings. The penultimate chapter containing the second, surprise ending, almost seems to have been added by the author in order to create a twist. The book, however, is an enjoyable read whose focus is on bonding among high powered female lawyers. The interplay between the characters is sharp and witty. While a female lawyer is always at the center of Ms. Scottoline's novels, each has their own distinctive personality. She has an ability to put into the minds of her principal character thoughts, which if the character does not really have, she should have.	2002-05-26
US	52722632	RS92F2J8V6R16	0300092520	313128839	Starr: A Reassessment	Books	4	12	14	N	Y	Useful and Illuminating	\\"Starr: A Reassessment&quot; is an extraordinary illumination of a complex personality.  Wittes' thesis that Starr saw his investigation as a \\"truth commission\\" rather than as pursuit of prosecutorial justice paints a portrait of the man which is far more consistent with his pre-appointment reputation than the caricatures, both pro and con, which emerged during the course of his investigation. While Wittes' account may redeem Starr, the person, Wittes leaves little doubt that Starr was \\"simply the wrong man for the job\\" and that his management of the Independent Counsel's office was deficient and detrimental to the country.    <br />Despite the superb analysis and sourcing, however, Wittes' conclusions ultimately rest on his judgement of Starr's credibility during his extensive interviews with Starr. As much as I respect, and would like to accept, Wittes' judgment, I have trouble doing so for many of the same reasons I had trouble accepting Clinton's original denials. They are logical on the surface and you want to believe them, but they do not seem plausible. Starr's rationale, like Clinton's, suggests either fabrication, extreme spinning or incompetence. <br />The key to Wittes' thesis is in the first chapter where he analyzes the Independent Counsel statue and Starr's interpretation of it. Wittes convincingly demonstrates that the statute on its face, even without reference to the legislative history, does not support Starr's interpretation.  The legislative history strips any  and all doubt. Finally, no other independent prosecutor or student of the act shared anything close to Starr's interpretation. Starr may be an intellect  who is certain of his views, even if no one else shares them,  but I do not believe he is so stubborn or dense as to have honestly and intellectually concluded that - and then acted upon - his construction of the Act was correct, and everybody else's wrong.<br />After reading Wittes' book, I conclude that Starr knew exactly what he was doing. He despised the Clintons and he despised the Independent Counsel Statute. He was in the unique position to destroy both and he set about to do so with considerable success.	2002-05-24
US	52722632	RPU7UIELX7YR3	0061031429	384682637	The Vendetta Defense	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Back on Track	The last of Lisa Scottoline's novels which I read, &quot;Rough Justice&quot;, was a big disappointment because its plot and her characters' actions defied the laws of nature and common sense. In &quot;The Vendetta Defense&quot; Ms. Scottoline, has taken full advantage of her literary license to develop an intriguing plot, with interesting, three dimensional characters, without resorting to the tactics which marred &quot;Rough Justice&quot;. As an added bonus, the novel raises thought provoking questions about the meaning of justice and revenge. As usual the novel is a page turner and reflects Ms. Scottoline's gifts as a storyteller and her witticism. Without question, the best of her novels I have read so far.	2002-05-19
US	52722632	RWX8IKE2PO12V	0061096105	226825332	Rough Justice (Rosato & Associates Series)	Books	1	10	11	N	N	Grade B Movie Quality	Lisa Scottoline is a gifted and witty storyteller. Rough Justice is the sixth book of hers that I have read and the other five range from almost good to very good. Two of her best characters, Mary DiNunzio, a loveable individual, but insecure lawyer, and Bennie Rosato, a very secure hard-nosed and competent lawyer, play major supporting roles in this novel. Despite fast paced action, the book is, especially when measured against the standards of her other work, just awful. If I had read this book before any of her other novels, I would never have started any of the others.<br />As a writer of fiction, Scottoline is entitled to almost unlimited imagination and unexpected twists and turns. But in Rough Justice she exceeds even her broad poetic license. Not a single chapter is credible or plausible and this would be true even if the plot occurred during the spring, summer or fall. Instead all the action takes place during a 100 year blizzard in Philadelphia and although on the pages of the book, the characters struggle with the inclement weather, they still manage to get from place to place with relative ease. Every decision her characters make during course of this novel is not only inane, but each decision also lacks common sense and is usually so clearly unethical and stupid that they would shock a high school student. One might forgive Ms. Scottline if she was writing science fiction, or had set out to write the equivalent of a Grade B movie, but she maintains that her experience as a lawyer and judicial clerk are reflected in her writings and in her acknowledgment she gives credit to other professionals who helped her.<br />None of Ms. Scootline books are what I would call a masterpiece, but they are good summer or evening reading. They too take full advantage of Ms. Scottline's imagination and writing skill; they do not pretend to address the real world or require the reader to consider any social or contemporary problems. Unlike Rough Justice, however, they alsodo not require the reader to suspend the laws of nature or common sense.	2002-05-13
US	52722632	R12JGF2M12FI0S	0446606456	764304761	An Isolated Incident	Books	5	2	2	N	N	First Rate	A first rate novel. The book shares many similarities with the author's first book (Guilt by Association): great literary style, a good, fast paced story, meticulous examination of a contemporary issue, three dimensional characters. Indeed, the book's major fault is that it does not quite live up to the standard set in \\"Guilt by Association,\\" but than no other book that I've read does so either.	2002-05-10
US	52722632	RSLJU5TZ1CCLV	0446524514	331965423	Act of God	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Three for three	Act of God is the author's third novel and like the previous two is a five star read. Once again, Ms. Sloan has produced a fast paced novel about a contemporary social problem which attracts the reader's attention and requires the reader to examine preconceived assumptions. While the plot concerns the bombing of a medical clinic, which performs abortions as part of its services, and while the book scrupulously examines both sides of the abortion debate, the book is not about abortion. Instead it is an examination of the consequences when both sides loss all sense of civility and proportion and resort to extra-legal measures and extreme rhetoric. My only criticism is that Ms. Sloan is so successful in creating her characters, in describing the ripple effects of the act of terror which is at the core of the novel and in recreating the trial the that I was let down by the ending.	2002-05-10
US	52722632	RLT4BG6FVHH4E	0446603066	613487132	Guilt by Association	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Outstanding: As Good as a Novel Gets	A stunning first novel. After finishing this book my biggest surprise (besides the ending itself) is why this book and its author are not better known. The book is, at its core, a legal thriller, but it is far more than that - it is a first rate literary novel. It surpasses anything that John Grisham, Scott Turow or Richard North Patterson have written. The characters are three dimensional and the story itself, especially the reaction of the authorities and Karen Kern's family to her rape, are all too accurate. So too is the consequence of the rape on Karen herself. The book would make an excellent text for a course in contemporary society on any college campus.<br />...	2002-05-10
US	52722632	R2YSSRM6M24XP9	0767908481	223666842	The No Spin Zone: Confrontations with the Powerful and Famous in America	Books	1	10	22	N	N	Ode to the Vast Right Wing Consirpacy	This book should be titled \\"Spinning for Right Wing Conservatives.\\" O'Reilly's preaching to the choir and the only people who are likely to be impressed are those already convinced, those who come from the same environment and background or believe that if everyone thought like him, the world would be perfect for them.<br />While O'Reilly claims the book is as a dialogue with his critics,... he has (instead) taken those snippets from his interviews which are most supportive of the point he wants to make. He then introduces those snippets with his own spin and concludes each chapter with more of his spin, all designed to prove his point and undercut his opponents position.<br />His best interview was with Hllary Clinton. She gave him the answers he deserved. let the spinners grind themselves into the ground, and people like you, me and the rest of the honest Americans travel on solid ground into the future!	2002-05-08
US	52722632	R3W42E36FLVMKE	0060508094	846988628	Into the Mirror: The Life of Master Spy Robert P. Hanssen	Books	1	22	27	N	N	A Big Disappointment	Based on Schiller's works on the Simpson and Jon Benet Ramsey cases, I had expected a well researched analysis of the Hanssen case and some insight into his character. Instead, the book is a fictionalized retelling of the story already better explored in David Vise's book (The Bureau and the Mole)  and Elaine Shannon and Ann Blackman's book (The Spy Next Door).  These latter two books compliment one another rather than rehash the now known facts. With the exception of a few pages devoted to Schiller's recounting of Hanssen's wife and eldest daughter's reactions to his arrest, there is nothing new in this book and, without reference to the earlier works, you have no idea what is fact and what is fiction. An interesting side question is what is behind the Schiller/Mailer collaboration. Although the book jacket describes the book as being an based on an investigation by Mailer and Schiller,  the title page and book back gives only Schiller credit for authorship. The \\"Author's Note\\" reads like it was negotiated between Schiller's and Mailer's lawyers.	2002-05-03
US	52722632	R29L4HPRMYAV6C	0060675365	693359168	Why Christianity Must Change or Die: A Bishop Speaks to Believers In Exile	Books	4	29	36	N	Y	Christian existentialism at its best.	John Shelby Spong is an original thinker, a profound theologian and philosopher. His work is a brilliant defense of the value of a God and Christian mythology for the modern soul. Spong articulates a rationale for religion and why a belief in God has been so important historically and psychologically. His death of theism theology reflects the culmination of Christian existentialism advanced by his teacher and mentor Paul Tillich. Unlike Tillich, whose primary audience was his fellow theologians, Spong audience is his congregants and those he calls \\"believers in exile.\\"  While Spong proclaims the death of theism, he also proclaims that God is alive and well in the postmodern world.     My problem with Spong's theology, a criticism he acknowledges is valid, but with which he disagrees, is that the religion he has described is not Christianity. Spong has written a Gospel for Unitarianism or for Christian Humanists, but he has not described Christianity. Spong makes a valiant effort to demonstrate in this book, and apparently to an even fuller extent in his earlier writings, that his anti-theism theology is consistent with the earliest Christian witnesses and writings, but his attempt to exorcize the last 1900 years of Christian writings and dogma is simply not credible.     I've always believed that the Jesus of the Gospels bears little resemblance to the historic Jesus, in much the same way that the George Washington taught in elementary schools is not the same as the historical George Washington or that the Martin Luther King, Jr. we honor is an idealization of the actual man. I am prepared to say that a person may describe themselves as a Christian if they believe that the goodness and god-like example of Jesus represents the divine spirt of God, but I don't see how one can be an Episcopalian or a Catholic or a Baptist or a Methodist or a member of any other traditional Christian sect, without believing in the divine (although not necessarily virgin) birth of Jesus,his bodily resurrection, and the existence of an afterlife.     Consider the analogous situation of a Jew who believes in the Torah and takes pride in Jewish history, culture and religion, but does not keep the dietary laws or works on the Sabbath. Certainly this person is a Jew by any acceptable definition. But a synagogue may not describe itself as an Orthodox Jewish synagogue, nor may a Rabbi describe himself as an Orthodox Jew, unless it requires its congregants to obey the dietary laws and refrain from working on the Sabbath, or in the case of the Rabbi, he obeys these laws. So I am at a loss to understand how Bishop Spong can remain a ecclesiastic leader in the Episcopal Church or how he can preside at baptisms, funerals, lead worshipers in prayers from the book of Common Prayer, or administer Communion.     I also cannot join Spong in his leap of faith. A lot of what he says bridges a gap between modern knowledge and man's psychological needs. It explains why religion and a belief in God is important and it also explains why some of us who can?t get there feel a void. But for me the bottom line has not changed: The only rational alternative to theism is atheism or, at best, agnosticism. Both of which, I might add, appear to be more consistent with Spong's theology than the theology of the Church he serves. Nonetheless, both these alternatives and Christianity (as well as most other western and eastern religions) can and frequently do share the same conclusions as to what is morally right and wrong and what constitutes good and evil.	2001-11-07
US	52722632	R3Q4R4DQUXPEZD	0226294072	592710218	The Votes That Counted: How the Court Decided the 2000 Presidential Election	Books	5	21	26	N	N	Judging the judges	A definitive, even handed analysis of the judges and the court decisions arising out of the Florida disputed election. While Gillman devotes specific chapters to each of the two Florida Supreme Court and U.S. Supreme Court decisions, he does not ignore the lower court decisions in these case or the litigation on other challenges to the election outcome.  Gillman is ultimately critical of the US Supreme Court decision, but he provides equal time to the Court's defenders and his criticism is both scholarly and dispassionate. Unlike other critics of the Court, including this reviewer, who think the Court did irreparable damage to itself and its reputations, Gillman concludes, and provides evidence to support his conclusion,  that the decision has not and will not undercut the public's reverence for the Court's as the Nation's most trusted and respected institution.	2001-10-26
US	52722632	R3OZ2YNSM2805J	0691090734	335319321	Breaking the Deadlock: The 2000 Election, the Constitution, and the Courts	Books	3	21	64	N	N	Interesting Thesis; Wrong Conclusion	Good Thesis; Wrong Conclusion<BR> The Attack of September 11 legitimized the Bush presidency in a way that the Supreme Court's opinion did not. Nothing, however, even the brilliant mind of Richard Posner, can legitimize the Supreme Court's selection of George W. Bush as the Nation's 43rd president.<br /> Posner's book provides the best justification so far advanced for the Supreme Court's intervention. The problem is his conclusion. Accepting Posner's premises, and the undisputed fact that nationwide Gore won a majority of the popular vote, his thesis would better support a Supreme Court opinion which gave the Court's imprimatur to the Florida Supreme Court being the final arbitrator of Florida election law and permitted the vote recount ordered by the Florida Court to proceed to its conclusion. <br /> Posner acknowledges that a significant majority of Floridians who cast their vote on election day &quot;ntended&quot; to vote for Gore and had these votes not been spoiled, for whatever reason, Gore would have won the election. He does not find this conclusion significant, and argues that no one can be sure who actually won Florida, or even who in a near perfect election would have carried Florida. Under our constitutional system who won the popular vote is not controlling. However, in the unique circumstances of Election 2000 Gore's nationwide popular vote victory is both relevant and crucial. If the Supreme Court had been inclined to follow democratic principals rather than its own political preferences, this should have been relevant under Posner's theory of legal pragmatism. This is especially so because no matter how many times one recounts the vote in Florida, the result will be as Posner demonstrates &quot;a statistical tie,&quot; beyond the capacity of any person or institution to determine whom in fact was entitled to Florida's electoral votes. <br />  Posner justifies the Supreme Court decision as classic example of &quot;legal pragmatism.&quot; But this isa justification for the Court's intervention, not a justification for its result. If the Court needed to act to prevent the parade of horribles he cites, than the result was secondary to the intervention. Had the Court issued a different definitive opinion, it too would have broken the deadlock with the same pragmatic result of resolving the election or providing a road map to resolving the election, <br /> Posner argues that the Florida Supreme Court's interpretation of its own election code was so unreasonable that the Supreme Court had to step in and correct it. But this argument is no more, and no less, than a brief in support of the position argued by Bush in the Florida Supreme Court. Posner may have the &quot;better argument,&quot; although I personally found the Florida opinions more persuasive than he does. The Florida opinions were certainly far more persuasive than the Supreme Court opinions. <BR> <BR> Posner also maintains that by intervening, the Court saved the Bush Administration from laboring under the cloud of a &quot;Corrupt Bargain,&quot; a charge which proved to be an albatross of other presidents who lost the popular vote. But at least half the population already believes that Bush's election was the result of a &quot;Corrupt Bargain,&quot; in this case the personal agendas of the majority justices.<br />  As for the &quot;Manner Directed&quot; clause, Posner acknowledges that a decision based upon the &quot;Manner Directed&quot; clause of Article II, the rationale of Chief Justice Rehnquist's concurring opinion, is &quot;not compelled by case law, legislative history or constitutional language,&quot; but argues that it is a plausible one, more plausible than the per curiam's equal protection argument. Perhaps, but this conclusion is a much greater stretch than the interpretation of Florida election law reflected in the Florida Supreme Court opinions. Even Chief Justice Rehnquist acknowledged that the provisions of Florida's Election Code &quot;may well admit of more than one interpretation.&quot;<br /> Much of Posner's plausibility argument seems to precede from the &quot;original meaning&quot; of the Manner Directed clause. The problem is that, as Posner makes perfectly clear in his book, the original meaning and purpose of the Electoral College has been eviscerated by history and the evolution of universal suffrage in the two centuries since the Constitution was adopted. Whatever merit there may be in retaining the Electoral College, it does not serve the purpose for which it was created.<br /> Posner's reliance on the Manner Directed Clause is grounded in his fear of the consequences if a recount produced a Gore lead and the legislature nonetheless appointed a Bush slate of electors. But this concern would have been minimized, and perhaps eliminated, if the Court's first opinion made clear that the Florida Supreme Court was the final arbitrator of Florida's election law. Moreover, change the facts slightly. Assume, as was the case until recently, that the Florida legislature was dominated by the Democrats and assume further that the Bush lead in popular vote, while slim, was enough that the Democrats conceded that a recount would not change the result. However, the Democratic controlled legislature concluded that Gore was denied an overwhelming popular vote victory because of the butterfly ballot and the problems in minority voting districts. Relying upon the Manner Directed clause, the legislature then passed a law appointing a slate of electors pledged to Gore.<br /> Posner anticipates this question by acknowledging that if the &quot;Florida Supreme Court did not change the rules in violation of Article II, the appointment of a slate of electors by the state legislature might be unlawful.&quot; However, as Justice Ginsberg noted on her dissent, &quot;disagreement with the Florida court?s interpretation of its own State's law does not warrant the conclusion that the justices of that court have legislated. There is no cause here to believe that the members of Florida's high court have done less than &quot;their mortal best to discharge their oath of office.&quot;  <br /> This analysis assumes that (1) the reasoning of the Court?s per curiam opinion and the Renhquist concurrence is not compelled by precedent and (2) that the precedent supporting a contrary result is at least as strong as the precedents the Court relied upon. Posner's book validates these assumptions.	2001-10-25
