US	52722755	R1QG7KUV6FSNIG	0894863940	715172744	Touchstones: A Book Of Daily Meditations For Men	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	A gift for oneself and others	My husband has used this book for about ten years and has found it tremendously helpful.  It lives next to his chair in the den, and he spends about 30 minutes with it in the morning while I'm still asleep.  He reads the daily entry and meditates on the suggestions and affirmations on each page.  He's commented that it provides comfort without being sugary, and he values the thoughtfulness of each entry, the low-key approach, and the wide range of sources quoted.  I've browsed in and believe that it would be helpful to anyone, regardless of one's spiritual orientation... or lack of same.   <br /> <br />He recently bought a new copy to send to a friend who is having  serious problems in his life, and we hope that its calm wisdom  will help him as well.	2005-08-15
US	52722755	RJ1W2O1VK9S8O	1568651155	449809862	The Wind in the Willows	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	The BEST of many versions of this children's classic	I was introduced to the denizens of the river when I was very small, about three or four. My edition was illustrated by Arthur Rackham, still the best and most definitive version to this day, IMHO (much as I love Ernest Shepherd's work, but I identify him with Pooh...)  Arthur Rackham's illustrations are wonderfully detailed but not at all cute, which is the bane of most children's books. <br /> <br />I still remember being entranced by the juxtaposition of lyrical descriptions and occasionally wild and crazy action, especially when Mr. Toad was involved - perfect balance for a child, and a terrific introduction to the wonders of the language in the hands of a true master. And one phrase - \\"Be my eyes, Ratty!\\" - has stayed with me ever since. The idea of wild, self-centered Rat stopping in his tracks to be eyes for his friend Mole - that was when I really GOT the idea of helping and selflessness. <br /> <br />Lest you think that this one is for the kids only, I assure you that, like most classics of any genre, you will enjoy rereading it throughout your life.  I browse mine every five years or so and love it today as I did (too many) years ago. <br /> <br />I still have my beat-up old book and make sure that all the children of my acquaintance have a good hardback Rackham copy.  YOu may have to do some sleuthing to fine one, but they are available and well worth the effort.  I recommend them hands down over all other versions with other illustrators. This classic - forget Disney - is right up there with the original Poohs, and I'm sure it will remain a favorite for generations to come.  <br /> <br />Do yourself and the children in your life a favor: buy it (preferably hardcover - this is one you'll want to keep around for years); read it, preferably out loud; and prepare to laugh, smile, shed a tear, and never forget.	2005-04-20
US	52722755	R304XHREWHCYD7	0393324141	1686231	The Sisters: The Saga of the Mitford Family	Books	4	66	74	N	Y	And you think YOUR siblings are a problem!	The Mitford clan was the epitome of old English gentry and minor aristocracy. The father of the sisters who are the subject of this book, DAVID MITFORD, 2nd Baron Redesdale, was related to Winston Churchill. Their mother, SYDNEY BOWLES MITFORD, came from a distinguished family.  <br /> <br />NANCY (1904-1973) was the oldest and became a hugely successful writer of satirical fiction that poked savage fun at her own family and class.  <br /> <br />PAMELA (1907-1994) was the most \\"normal\\" of the lot. She married and divorced a scientist, and was content to live quietly in the country.  <br /> <br />DIANA (1910-2003) was one of the two most controversial sisters. Beautiful and charming, she was the muse of several artists in her teens, and married the heir to the Guinness brewing fortune when she was 18. She left him four years and two babies later and ran off with Sir Oswald Mosley, founder of the British Union of Fascists and the most hated man in England. They remained devoted to each other for the rest of their lives, which made her the most hated woman in England. They were imprisoned for more than three years during the war but never wavered in their commitment to both fascism and each other.  <br /> <br />UNITY VALKYRIE (1914-1948), known as \\"Boud\\" or \\"Bobo\\" to her sisters, was by far the most controversial sister. A striking Valkyrie-esque beauty, Unity, who was conceived during her parents' sojourn in the unfortunately-named town of Swastika, Canada, lived up to her karma by becoming obsessed with Nazism while in her teens. She managed to meet Hitler and become obsessed with her new friend and proudly wore her Hitler-signed swastika badge everywhere. When England and Germany declared war, she tried to commit suicide, but botched the job, shooting herself in the head but not killing herself. Incontinent and childlike, she lived in the care of her mother for another ten years.  <br /> <br />JESSICA (1917-1996) \\"Decca\\" was probably the best-known of the sisters toAmerican audiences. At the age of 18, already a committed Communist, she ran off with her black-sheep cousin Esmond Romilly, a nephew of Churchill's, to fight in the Spanish Civil War. After the British sent a battleship to fetch her home, the young Romillys went to the US where they tried to make a living as writers and bar-tenders before Esmond enlisted in the Canadian army. He was killed on a mission over the North Sea. Decca found a job with the American Communist party, moved to Oakland, remarried, had another child, and wrote several muck-raking books, of which \\"The American Way of Death\\" is the best known. The success of her books enabled her to leave her job with the Party, with which she had become disenchanted as the stories of Stalin's wretched excesses spread, but she remained a radical until she died.  <br /> <br />DEBORAH (1920 -2004) Raised alone by her eccentric parents after her sibs had left the home, \\"Debo\\" was the mediator between her warring family, in which some one was always on \\"non-speakers\\" with someone else. Debo married Andrew Cavendish, second son of the Duke of Devonshire, whose older son and heir to the title, Billy, had married JFK's sister Kathleen. Billy died in the war a few months later and as soon as it was established that Kathleen wasn't pregnant, the title passed to Andrew, making Debo the Duchess. They inherited Cavendish, a huge estate, along with other properties, and she lived quietly there until her death, turning the estate into one of the major tourist attractions in England.  <br /> <br />OK, that's the cast. There was also a son, but he gets short shrift, compared to his amazing sisters. <br /> <br />The book itself:   The 22 chapters, ranging from 1894 to 2000, trace, in somewhat diminishing degrees of detail, the lives of this eccentric gang. The footnotes alone run to 46 pages. Lovell had free access to family papers and letters.  There is also a 4-page bibliography and a 26-page index. There are also three sections of photographs.  <br /> <br />The only complaint I have is that there is no real explanation of the forces that drove three of the sisters to commit their lives, in the face of overwhelming opposition and adversity, to the three most oppressive, repressive, and totalitarian forms of dictatorship known. We get a hint about Decca, who seems to have reacted in a knee-jerk way to Diana's involvement with Mosley and his Fascism and, at the behest of Esmond Romilly, comes to see her family as not only the symbol of all that is evil in the world, but also as the literal, actual cause of it. But Decca's eye-opening occurred before she met him, and that's the puzzle. And what drove Unity to immerse herself in Nazism? We never learn. Diana's commitment to Fascism is a little easier to understand. As the deb and then bride of the year, she lived an incredibly wealthy, social, and shallow life, and it wasn't until she met the dashing Mosley that she ever gave a thought to politics. So for her to follow the man she loved into the belly of a hated belief system isn't too surprising. She may have initially embraced fascism for the sake of Mosley and their relationship - understandable, if regrettable - but her steadfast commitment to it, which lasted until her death in 2003, is harder to comprehend.  <br /> <br />Whether or not you agree with the beliefs they held, this was a fascinating group of people and the author does an excellent job of bringing them to believable life.	2005-01-12
US	52722755	RJEDZ1GSQ9W87	0679428518	972855207	National Audubon Society Field Guide to North American Birds, Western Region	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Midway between the birding dilletantes and obsessives	The National Audubon Society has long been respected as, among other things, the publisher of a series of top-notch field guides to the natural world in North America. Their volumes include birds, trees, butterflies, insects and spiders, wildflowers, mammals, rocks and minerals, mushrooms, fish... you name it. Several of the books are specific to geographic regions. This review is of the National Audubon Society FIELD GUIDE TO BIRDS - WESTERN EDITION.<br /><br />This book is compact; it measures 4\\" x 7-1/2\\" x 1-1/2\\" thick, just the right size to fit into your pocket or day-pack if you're inclined to take it on a walk.<br />It's very thoughtfully and logically organized with four major sections, as follows:<br /><br />INTRODUCTION<br />This includes a discussion of both the art and science of birding and the organization of the book. It includes a highly detailed rendering of a \\"typical\\" bird with all the anatomical points used in the book identified by their common names.<br /><br />ORGANIZATION<br />The avian kingdom is broken down into categories (long-legged waders, gull-like birds, owls, pigeon-like birds, hawks, tree-clinging birds, hummingbirds, perching birds, and so on.) Each category is assigned a silhouette. The categories are further broken down into families. So, in the category of hawks, we have ospreys, caracaras, vultures, hawks, falcons, harriers, kites, and eagles. Each family has its own silhouette symbol.<br /><br />COLOR KEY<br />Each color plate page has a thumb index with the silhouetted symbol for the birds on that page. The birds are arranged within their families by their predominant color, and the silhouettes are colored accordingly, to make it even easier to find your bird.<br /><br />COLOR PLATES<br />This is a series of color photographs of 676 birds. The photographs are organized by the categories mentioned above. Most of the color plates show adult males, but some distinctive females and juveniles are also shown, along with seasonal changes in plumage. Each photograph identifies the bird by its common name, gives its overall length, and cites the page on which you can find more complete details about it.<br /><br />SPECIES ACCOUNTS<br />These are the write-ups cited in the color plates. Each citation gives the pages on which photographs may be found, the common and Latin names for the bird, and brief descriptions of the birds physical appearance. It also includes information on its voice, habitat, nesting habits and eggs, and range. There's even a tiny map of North America with its range shaded in gray.<br /><br />At the end of this section is information about bird-watching, conservation, a glossary of terms used in the Guide, photographers' credits, and an index in both English and Latin.<br /><br />What makes this Guide so easy to use is the way the color plates are organized, Without knowing anything at all about birds, I was able to identify a brightly colored bird that was hopping around my garden one day, and it took me less than one minute to do so. All I had to do is flip through the color plates, using the silhouettes, until I found the one of the right shape and color. My bird was on the second page of that section.<br /><br />I also love the compact size and sturdy leatherette binding. This book will fit easily into a pack or pocket, and will stand up to damp weather.<br /><br />But the best thing about it is that I can identify my bird without having to know anything at all about it; all I need to do is flip through the shape and color thumb index.  No other guide has this feature, and while some of them, specifically Sibley and Smithsonian, have a lot more information about the birds, you need to know what you're looking for before you can find it in their guides.  That's not the case here.<br /><br />If you're a life-list birding obsessive, this book might not be enough for you because it doesn't picture every color variation of every bird in every species and family. For that, youprobably need Sibley. But for people like me, who enjoy backyard birding and want to know what we're looking at, it can't be beat.probably need Sibley. But for people like me, who enjoy backyard birding and want to know what we're looking at, it can't be beat.	2003-05-21
US	52722755	R27ZYTQP5JR77C	0193532271	462245910	100 Carols for Choirs (. . . for Choirs Collections)	Books	5	23	23	N	Y	The masters do it again!	I had the pleasure of participating in a workshop with David Willcocks, and received this book as part of it.  It was first published in 1987, but Sir David had some amusing anecdotes to share about how he and John Rutter, another name to reckon with in choral music circles, put it together.<br />This is what I like about it:<br />*  These gentlemen are giants in the English choral music scene, and personify the English choral tradition in everything they do.  So it's a pleasure to find that they have included many carols from other countries, as well as the English ones.  It's very hard to find non-English-language carols, so this is a nice little collection.<br />*  Their 4-part arrangements are imaginative but easy enough to sight-sing.  <br />*  It also includes a listing of church festivals other than Christmas, with the names and page numbers of carols that would be appropriate for each.  <br />*  For ease of navigation as you're singing, the verses are in Roman type while the refrains are in italics.  <br />*  For reasons that are not clear, they have chosen to include the text in the original language in some cases, but not all.  The foreign language texts are immediately under the English translations, so you can sing in either language.  <br />*  At the very end of the book is the order of service for the traditional Festival of Nine Lessons and Carols, with instructions on the appropriate rank of each person to read, from chorister to bishop.<br />If you are only going to buy one carol book, this and the Oxford Book of Carols are the best ones to consider.  The Oxford has more in it, and is hugely more expensive, so I recommend this one!  it'll take you several Christmasses to sing your way through it.	2002-12-17
US	52722755	RSDR738QGDD1P	067091021X	43461769	Year of Wonders: A Novel of the Plague	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	A lot more than I ever wanted to know about the Plague!	I heard an interview with Geraldine Brooks, the author of the book, in which she discussed her motivations and perspectives in writing this book.  It sounded interesting, so...<br />Actually, it's fascinating and very well written.  It's told from the perspective of Anna Frith, a young servant to the town minister and his wife, who, as we learn in the first chapter, is a recent widow who has also lost her children.  The book is written &quot;in media res,&quot; (remember your 11th grade English?) in that it begins in early 1666, in the full grip of the Great Plague, and then goes back to the early part of 1665 and begins at the beginning.<br />Briefly, and not to give too much away, it is about a small village in the lead-mining district of England that is exposed to the Plague by means of a flea-infested bolt of cloth that is brought into the village by a tailor who boards with the narrator, Anna. He is the first to die, followed fairly swiftly by about half the population of the village in one year.  The village minister suggests that the village quarantine itself, so as to protect its neighbors from the Plague, and the villagers agree.  <br />Thus begins a year of horrors... and wonders.  The Plague leaps quixotically from house to house, picking off some residents and sparing others, with no apparent rhyme or reason.  Led by the minister and his wife. the village tries to unearth God's will and purpose in besetting them with this affliction, but nothing they come up with seems to work, and the body count keeps climbing.  The Plague finally looses its grip after a year and some very unexpected revelations.<br />The book is very well written.  You can clearly hear the voice of the young narrator, a 20-year-old widow who has lost everything but her common sense.  As she moves from crisis to crisis, you watch her grow from a fairly 2-dimensional character to a fully realized one, until she takes her destiny into her own hands in an action that would be unusual today, let alone 350 years ago.  <br />The book uses the vocabulary of the time, which includes many words that are no longer in our vocabulary, and are therefore unknown to us.  The book offers no glossary, so you are on your own to figure out their meaning.  This has a 2-fold effect:  on the one hand, it slows down the reading somewhat, and makes for a certain degree of frustration because you don't really know what these terms mean.  On the other, it certainly lends authenticity to the narration, and if you stop and think about it, you can probably figure it out.  (The most exciting aspect of the book is that, after many, many years of crossword-puzzling that called for &quot;adit&quot; as the obsolete term for a mine entrance, this is the FIRST time I've ever actually seen the word used - puzzlers rejoice!)<br />Partly because of the use of contemporaneous vocabulary, you get a real sense of what it must have been like to live in a small, poor village in the mid-17th century.  Life was difficult at best, and this book brings that every-day-ness to life better than any other I can think of.  It exposes the daily life of common people, under extreme duress, certainly, but still quite authentically.  <br />What makes it really interesting is that while presented as fiction, the book is based on fact; the village of Eyem quarantined itself, at the suggestion of its minister, during the Great Plague of 1666.  The character of the minister in this book, Mr. Mompellion, is based on the real minister.<br />I recommend this book.  It's a fairly fast read and will leave you thinking about it at the end.  I went back and reread some passages several times, just to make sure I had understood them properly - if you read the book, you will too, and will know which passages I'm referring to.  Enjoy!	2001-10-05
US	52722755	R204ABO6H9GQUX	0714838489	176798990	Century	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Wonderful gift - to yourself!	I found this book at a museum shop when I was looking for something for my mother, who was born at the beginning of the century.  It seemed like the perfect gift, paralleling her life.<br />I expected to see some of the classic photographs that we know so well - Hitler dancing at the news that Paris was burning, the Spanish Civil War soldier at the moment of death, Dorothea Lange's classic of the Dust Bowl mother...  To my great surprise, not one of those was included in the book.  I was a little disappointed at first, but then realized that because all the pictures are unfamiliar, and in some cases, depict events we may not have considered newsworthy, this book forces you to turn each page.  You can't skip over the images because each one carries information, either in the picture or in the description, that may be new.  This is NOT a collection of &quot;the best of LIFE,&quot; and, as much as I loved that magazine in its heyday, I'm glad. <br />The book is organized in what some may consider a quirky way, with wildly divergent images juxtaposed.  But there's method in this madness, and as you page through it, you start to see the theme emerge.<br />The pictures are on blank pages, with no writing at all.  The explanations are grouped separately for each section.  At first I was frustrated at having to page back and forth between the image and the description, but I quickly came to appreciate the visual impact of a picture - nothing else - on an otherwise blank page.<br />This is a powerful book, in the images that were included, in the information they convey, and in the care and thoughtfulness that it demands from the &quot;reader.&quot;<br />I strongly recommend this book as a serious gift to someone you care about - or yourself.  (Mom, by the way, loved it, but complained that it took up all her spare time for weeks, as she paged through it and studied each image carefully.  When she died, I reclaimed it from her house and find myself doing the same thing.)	2001-05-22
US	52722755	R34RZXGRL534L1	1890310034	995845270	Polar Dance: Born of the North Wind	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The best book of the best nature photographer	I discovered the work of Thomas Mangelson about ten years ago in Jackson, Wyoming, when I stumbled across a gallery devoted to his work.  The most famous image there, the one of two grown polar bears &quot;dancing,&quot; is on the cover of this book.<br />The book encapsulates all the artistry of this outstanding photographer.  As difficult as it is to capture wildlife images, it's doubly so when you are photographing white animals against snow!  Mangelson spends some four months a year in the Arctic, enlarging his huge repertoire of images.  I can't begin to imagine the patience and meticulous attention to detail that is required to gather these pictures, but I'm glad Mangelson can!<br />I love the fact that this book shows the chronological sequence in the life of a bear family, and also that it doesn't have captions on each page.  That allows you to follow the sequence of images undisturbed by human intrusion - you become a part of the life cycle, so to speak.  Mangelson's work enables the viewer to see the bears as a complex family unit in addition to their usual  portrayal as hardy predators.  It cannot fail to move the viewer; this is a book to savor again and again.<br />I'm a huge fan of just about every image this photographer has ever published, and this book is, to me, the culmination of his work.  I recommend it to everyone, bear fan or not!	2001-02-14
US	52722755	R21BWJG333ZMN	069620410X	279112048	Better Homes and Gardens Pressure Cooker Cookbook	Books	3	33	46	N	N	Basic and not very imaginative - and has at least one error	My mom had a pressure cooker when I was growing up in the '50s, and because she worked and had to get dinner on the table pretty fast, a large percentage of our meals were prepared in the pressure cooker.  I particularly remember goulash and stews.  And  Mom's warnings about using it correctly so it wouldn't explode.<br />I got one many years ago, but was always intimidated by it so rarely used it as anything other than a cooking pot.  Recently, though, I decided to start experimenting. I'd bought this recipe book - how can you go wrong with BH&amp;G? - so I hauled it out and waded in.<br />The recipes are pretty basic - stews, pot roasts, variations on the chicken theme, some soups, and so on.  I was looking for a pot roast, so I selected that recipe as my first.  And immediately discovered a MAJOR goof in the recipe:  It tells you to brown the meat in oil and then remove it before adding the vegetables and seasonings.  Then it tells you to put the top back on and cook it under pressure for eight minutes.  But it never tells you when to put the meat back into the pot!  If I hadn't studied it carefully before I began cooking, I would have cooked the veggies without the meat and the meat would never have cooked.  So I improvised and put the meat back in on top of the veggies before securing the lid.<br />I'm an experienced cook, and I know that it's always a good idea to read a recipe through first.  For newcomers, though, a mistake like this could spoil the experience for them.  Pressure cooking is supposed to be an fast and easy way to prepare nutritious meals, and it is, IF the recipe is correct!<br />So while I don't condemn the entire cookbook, I do suggest that you be sure to read the recipe through carefully first, and make sure it makes sense BEFORE you start cooking!	2000-10-04
US	52722755	RWPXOIA1J67B2	0810112434	232828724	The Life and Extraordinary Adventures of Private Ivan Chonkin (European Classics)	Books	4	11	16	N	Y	A satire worthy of Master Twain himself!	This was the selection of my book club.  I was a little leery, because unless it's EXTREMELY well done, satire doesn't work for me - it's an all-or-nothing proposition.  Anything less than Mark-Twain-level and I  can't be bothered.<br />Well, &quot;Private Chonkin&quot; was a pleasant  surprise.  I had the feeling that the writer and/or translator had a lot of  fun with this one - I kept hearing a giggle off the page as I read.  As is  always the case with satire, it helps to be somewhat familiar with the  reality that's being skewed, but in this case, it's not a requirement for  enjoying the book.<br />The premise is pretty good, and ripe for satire -  hapless nudnik of a soldier is assigned to guard a downed plane in a remote  village in the Soviet Union just before the beginning of WW II.  His  superiors forget about him as he settles into the life of the village, and  when they finally remember him, all hell breaks loose as he proves to be a  lot smarter than any of them.  The author skewers everyone and everything,  but none as savagely as the Party and the Army.  <br />The depictions of life  in remote areas can be hair-raising; the villages, the people, and their  lives are pretty primitive.  I had the sense that this part of the world  hadn't changed in centuries.  And I also had the feeling that these were  accurate descriptions, rooted in some pretty harsh realities.  The only  parts that I felt bordered on tedium were the lengthy descriptions of  Private Chonkin's dreams; they played a role in the overall satire but  otherwise didn't move the story forward.<br />With translations, it's hard to  tell what you're really appreciating:  the art of the writer or that of the  translator.  Obviously, the translator has to have something to work with,  but the nuances could be credited to either.  That said, I found this book  well-written and highly amusing, and I recommend it to anyone who  appreciates this kind of writing.	2000-07-13
US	52722755	RHHAHEJDSEICU	031220356X	722143511	A Quiet American: The Secret War of Varian Fry	Books	5	24	24	N	Y	Astounding tale of an unknown chapter in Holocaust history	Sometime, not-so-admirable people do incredibly admirable things, and find in themselves qualities that no one, themselves included, knew were there.  Such was the case of Varian Fry.<br />In August 1940, Varian Fry boarded a  plane in New York and flew to Spain, and from there to Marseilles, on a  mission that would resonate far beyond his imagination.<br />Fry was an  historian, involved with &quot;radical&quot; politics:  the Spanish Civil  War, the looming Holocaust.  He went from observing and writing about the  coming crises to actively participating in a way that no one who knew him,  or even he himself, would have anticipated.  Far from being identified as a  humanitarian, he was, in fact, an intellectual snob, a classicist by  training.<br />But he put his life on the line in an effort to save the  leading cultural, intellectual, and artistic lights of Europe.  Truth to  tell, he had no idea what he was getting himself, or his New York sponsors,  into, so the evolution of this rather untouchable, remote aesthete into a  mover and shaker who consorted with the Marseilles underworld (and enjoyed  it!) and worked outside the law is fascinating to observe.<br />Varian Fry was  personally responsible for saving the lives of, among others, Marc Chagall,  Lion Feuchtwanger, Victor Serge, Heinrich Mann, Andr&eacute; Gide, Franz Werfel,  Andre Breton, Max Ernst, Hannah Arendt...  He also saved about 1500 other  lesser known people.  Altogether, in the year he spent in France before  being arrested and kicked out by the Vichy puppets of the Gestapo, he  turned himself inside out, discovering in himself a depth of caring and  feeling that neither he, nor most of the people who knew him, would have  suspected was present.<br />The story itself is so riveting that the book  would have to be illiterate not to be absorbing.  I found it well-written,  with fascinating studies of the characters who worked with, and against  Fry.  It sort of fades out at the end, but then again, so did Fry, after  his return to New York.  He died in 1967, unrecognized for his work until  the year before his death.  In 1996, Israel further declared him  &quot;Righteous Among the Nations,&quot; the only American so honored.so did Fry, after  his return to New York.  He died in 1967, unrecognized for his work until  the year before his death.  In 1996, Israel further declared him  &quot;Righteous Among the Nations,&quot; the only American so honored.	2000-05-13
US	52722755	R1UDMF97GC9GMN	014025448X	813188609	At Home in Mitford	Books	2	10	17	N	N	What am I missing?	I've been plugging away at this book for two months, and I'm not done yet.  I'm all for &quot;life in a small town&quot; narratives; small towns can provide the fodder for quirky and interesting plots and characterizations.   Unfortunately that is not the case here.<br />My first, and continuing,  impression of the characters is that they are all stereotyped caricatures.   Everyone talks and behaves exactly as I expect them to after the first  page.  The charmingly quirky people are unfailingly charmingly quirky.  The  sweet and caring are unfailingly sweet and caring.  The wry and amusing are  unfailingly wry and amusing.  Even the dog is always lovably funny.  No one  ever seems to step out of their predefined character, even by a toe.  So  they are all predictable.<br />I find the writing style intrusive.  I kept  getting the sense that the author was TELLING rather than SHOWING.  The  language is often stilted and mannered, and she manages to make sure we  never forget that she's telling the story; she isn't invisible, one of the  hallmarks of great writing.  I had a mental image of her pausing over her  keyboard and trying to come up with the next sentence that would reassure  us that she's still there.  Even her wit seems stilted and  self-conscious.<br />I have no problem with books that are essentially  plotless, as long as there is character develoment or movement of some  kind.  In this book, not only does nothing much happen, but no one grows or  changes.  There is no crescendo-decrescendo; the line is straight and  unwavering, page after page.  So except for some mildly amusing situations,  there's no particular reason to read it.  You don't learn anything, there  are no thought-provoking ideas, you don't come away changed in any way.   Except a little older.<br />So if you have high blood pressure or are a Type A  personality or decorate your house in &quot;country&quot; style with  gingham kitchen witches, this is a good book for you.  Otherwise, unless  you have a high boredom threshold, why bother?	2000-05-10
US	52722755	R1CCS5W6U05PWL	031764159X	855645559	The Stones of Florence	Books	5	108	112	N	N	History, art, literature all rolled into one	I have the large hard-cover version of this book with absolutely wonderful black and white photographs.  They are what originally drew me to it - I had read &quot;The Group&quot; in college but wasn't a big fan of Mary  McCarthy.  Well, that changed fast!<br />In Florence, more than in any other  city I know of, history and art are entwined in such a way that you can't  talk about one without talking about the other.  In this book, Ms. McCarthy  conveys this duality better than I have ever seen done before.  Her style  is quite literary, in a dreamy way, so it reads smoothly and flows  logically.  You learn a lot without realizing it.  The photographs are  somewhat old-fashioned; sharp-focus B&amp;W, many of minute details.  The  text and the pictures complement each other beautifully - her style is such  that even without the pictures, you can see what she's talking about in  your imagination - the very best kind of writing.<br />Ms. McCarthy also wrote  &quot;Venice Observed,&quot; a similar kind of book.  Both are out of  print, but are not too hard to find in used book stores, where I found the  Venice book.  I highly recommend them to anyone with an interest in  Florence, art, the Renaissance, history...	2000-05-08
US	52722755	R3HZ79MZ6UWQR4	0553379534	72807956	Women's Bodies, Women's Wisdom: Creating Physical and Emotional Health and Healing	Books	3	177	225	N	N	In defense of victimhood...	I straddle the fence between faith in allopathic (Western) medicine and a more wholistic approach.  So I bought this book eagerly.  I have been both intrigued and disappointed.<br />I appreciate the hard scientific information:   how our bodies work, how various procedures and substances affect them,  the latest developments in health care.  I also appreciated reading that  things that I have long considered normal, like pregnancy, are indeed  natural processes and not diseases or disabilities.  But I didn't  appreciate hearing that most medical problems are rooted in dysfunctional  emotional states.  While I think that there are some conditions that are  amenable to a psychotherapeutic approach, I KNOW that the hideous cramps I  suffered all through my young girlhood, from age 11 to about 27, were a lot  more than merely a function of my ambivalence toward my burgeoning  womanhood.  And while this isn't my problem, the idea that an enlightened  female doctor would tell an infertile woman that her infertility is caused  by her own psychological state vis a vis parenthood is absolutely  horrifying.  As is the idea that grapefruit-sized ovarian cysts can be  reduced by changing the way we regard ourselves in a patriarchal society.   And the idea that most of our plumbing problems are rooted in our  victimhood reverses all the gains in strength and self-confidence we've  made in the past 30 years.  And the less said about her friend the  &quot;medical intuitive,&quot; the better!<br />I recommend this book only to  women who are grounded, strong in their sense of self as non-victims, and  well-versed enough in medical knowledge to winnow through the junk and  glean the good medical information.  For the rest, I think it could be  quite damaging.	2000-05-07
US	52722755	R3829R1YY7RJOL	0449003825	577839497	Overcoming Overeating	Books	4	44	47	N	Y	I believe!  I believe!  - I think...	The main theses of this book are that diets don't work for the long term, and that if we could return to nurturing self-feeding on demand, the way we ate as babies, we would eventually stabilize our intake and consequently  our weight.<br />Our obsession with diet has gotten us nowhere except  crabby, frustrated, and hungry.  We obsess about counting calories, points,  fat grams, whatever.  We no longer enjoy the pleasures of a leisurely meal  because we're so busy computing and worrying about excess.  If we'd allow  ourselves to eat at will, whatever and whenever we want, the fear of hunger  would go away and we would allow ourselves to feed naturally, which means  in balance and healthfully.  We wouldn't match the unfortunate current  trend toward anorexic-looking bodies, but we would be healthy and  well-nourished.  And our obsessions and compulsions with food would  disappear - if you know you can have a cookie whenever you want one, you  probably won't devour a full bag of Oreos at one sitting and then deny  yourself for the rest of the year.  If you know that nothing will leave the  planet, you can afford to enjoy it in moderation.<br />This book was an  eye-opener for me.  Everything the authors say makes sense.  And yet, I  just can't bring myself to let go of my own little rituals and launch  myself into the universe of safe, natural eating habits.  So I keep it  handy and browse through it a lot - reinforcement, maybe, until the day  comes that I can.  Until then, I recommend it for people who want a new  perspective on their eating habits, and some provocative new ideas to  ponder.	2000-05-02
US	52722755	R1LN1O4KY5YQRT	0440217806	947820725	Secret Ceremonies	Books	2	29	55	N	Y	Stop whining!	I read this book in one sitting, which tells you something about how thought-provoking it is.  I found the information about the rituals of the church both fascinating and distasteful - I have no argument with people  questioning or leaving their faith, but to reveal secrets which one knows  are held sacred, simply for the sake of sensation, smacks of self-serving  meanness.  She could have accomplished the same end by discussing her  disagreements with the theology, without exposing the secrets.<br />I also  found her extended wallows in self-pity to be quite tiresome.  I know it  can be hard to leave the faith you were raised in, but once she realized  that she was in an untennable position with regard to the teachings of the  church, she could have made her break a lot sooner.  By not doing so, she  appeared to blame everyone but herself for her problems.<br />I hoped for an  intelligent discussion of the theology of the church and her problems with  it.  What I got was a mean-spirited whine on paper.  I rank this book on  the same level as the tabloids I glance at in the checkout line -  fascinating but somewhat repellant.	2000-04-26
US	52722755	R3VDN065SX5RAK	1557043140	157670957	Loving Hands: The Traditional Art of Baby Massage	Books	5	36	38	N	Y	A loving treat for both baby and parent	Frederick LeBoyer is the French obstetrician who pioneered the &quot;gentle birth&quot; process with his first book, &quot;Birth Without Violence.&quot;  Having succeeded in getting babies born gently, into a  dim, quiet, warm environment, he has now taken the logical next step with  this book.<br />Baby massage is a practice begun in India, and simply stated,  involves sitting with the baby on your lap and massaging &quot;it&quot;  gently with oil. There is very little text in this book - it's mostly  photographs, of a beautiful young Indian mother, sitting on the ground with  her baby on her         outstretched legs. The photographs are sequential  and show the various moves - gently tugging at          opposite arms and  legs, rubbing circular motions on the torso, massaging tiny hands and feet,  and so on.<br />The baby is clearly blissed out in the pictures, as yours will  be, too if you try this! And the very act of spending that kind of time in  close communion with your baby will elevate your soul as well as the  baby's.<br />I recommend this book to all new parents and give it as a  &quot;Welcome to the world&quot; gift when their babies are born.	2000-04-04
US	52722755	R17GD6B0WKSF58	0849959047	679328895	Guess How Much I Love You	Books	5	22	25	N	Y	Love unlimited - a powerful message for children	I was browsing through the children's department of my favorite local bookstore, looking for a gift, when this title caught my eye. I settled down on the floor for a read, and fell in love.<br />Big Nutbrown Hare is  getting ready to put Little Nutbrown Hare to sleep for the night, when  Little challenges him to guess how much he loves him. Little stretches his  arms wide and says, &quot;This much!&quot; Big stretches his arms even  wider and returns the love. Little keeps finding bigger and bigger ways to  express his love for Big, and each time, Big outdoes him by virtue of his  greater size. Finally, Little has to stop and ponder, and then triumphantly  claims that his love for Big goes &quot;all the way to the moon.&quot;  That's a lot, Big concedes, and satisfied, Little settles down to sleep -  and misses Big's whisper that he loves him &quot;to the moon and  back.&quot;<br />For children anxious about being loved, I can't think of a  better story to illustrate how limitless their parents' love really is. No  matter how much you love me, Big is saying, I love you that much and more.  A comforting message, and one that Little can sleep on.<br />One of the things  that makes this book unusual is that both hares are male.  There is no lack  of books about the love of mothers for their children, but Daddy-love is  harder to find.  I love the message here.<br />The pen and watercolor  illustrations are wonderful. The animals are perfectly drawn - not cutesy,  not cartoony, they are big rangy hares, with remarkably expressive faces.  No cute little fluffola bunnies here...<br />I recommend this book as a  valuable addition to your children's library.	2000-03-03
US	52722755	R2FG4CZ09SCTLI	0312244150	306188446	The Pianist: The Extraordinary True Story of One Man's Survival in Warsaw	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Wrenching personal account of incredible happenings	As a child of Survivors, I've had my fill of Holocaust tales, but this was the choice of my book club, so I reluctantly picked it up.  And was immediately drawn into it. <br />The author tells a story that is so full of  what we, from our comfortable distance, would term impossibilities that I  found myself becoming numb to the next horror.  It's hard for us to imagine  events like this - I've often tried to imagine what it would be like, what  I would do, if my government turned on me with such murderous intent, and  find that I have no frame of reference through which to process that idea.   Yet millions of people found themselves in that situation, in which the  unthinkable became commonplace.  And they dealt with it, as best they  could, until they died, some sooner, some later, but all with the knowledge  that they had done the best they could in a world turned upside down, for  which nothing in human experience could have prepared them.<br />Szpilman  tells his story in what appears to be an entirely objective, emotionless  way, except for occasional flashes of fury or biting wit.  This is an  account of What Happened, not how he felt about it.  That makes for strange  reading; What Happened was so extraordinary that it's hard to imagine that  he could just write it all down without more emotion.  But he wrote this  book for his own purposes, rather than publication, right after the events  described herein occured, and continued to live in Warsaw and continue his  work, so I assume that it was written for cathartic effect - to let the  paper be his memory so he could get on with living.  <br />Toward the end, as  he writes of his succession of hiding places and deepening hunger, I found  myself rushing to get through it - I was done with burned out buildings and  scavenging for oatmeal and fly-studded water - I wanted to know how he  survived.  The account of his meeting the SS officer who saved him was  entirely unexpected and helped put the rest of the story into sharper  focus.  In a way, it personalized the entire story - it ceased to be yet  another too-familiar account of extreme privation and became one of  personal redemption.  And it made his assertion that he was the last person  left alive in Warsaw when the Germans retreated more believable.  <br />There  are a lot of Holocaust survival stories out there, and they are all  harrowing.  This one is equally so, and made the more so by the objective  way in which it is told - the horror is simply stated, and the  interpretation of it is left to the reader - and our own imaginations are  much more powerful than other peoples' statements.<br />This is a book that  will stay with you for a long. time.	2000-02-14
US	52722755	R3KDSGLO8C3FB2	0826411029	582859233	Return from Exile: One Woman's Journey Back to Judaism	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Not what I'd hoped for...	I read this book right after finishing Tirzah Firestone's &quot;With Roots in Heaven,&quot; her account of her search for spiritual meaning.  I thought this would be a similar kind of narrative.  It's not, and it  suffers by comparison.<br />Ms. Orsborn was raised in the synagogue but  evidently turned from it because she wasn't getting the spiritual  nourishment she needed, and because we unfortunately tend to devalue that  which is a part of our early upbringing.  She has made a career of  producing and lecturing on pop-psychology books, largely rooted in Eastern  spiritual and philosophical traditions.<br />She enrolled in Vanderbilit Univ.  Divinity School for reasons that are still unclear to me, other than  propinquity.  If I were searching for spiritual fulfilment, the last place  I would go is a large institutional theology school.  Especially a  Christian one.  Especially if I were seeking my way back to Judaism.  But  there's the rub - at one point, she says that her reason for being there is  to get a Jewish perspective to add to her arsenal so she can include it in  her future books.  So how serious was she about finding her Jewish roots,  anyway?<br />Acknowledging that the other students depicted are composites,  none of them aroused much interest for me.  Willow the spiritual junkie  bopped from religion to religion, seemingly based on the sermon of the day.   Sammy was pretty repellant.  Jered (? - can't remember his name -  already...) made a miraculous one-day turnaround from anti-Semite to  touchy-feely leader of the tolerance movement in his church.  And Carol  herself seemed to have a chip on her shoulder the size of a Buick.  <br />Her  theological explanations were interesting, but I kept looking for the  epiphany that would turn her back to her own tradition, and it never came.   Mostly what I saw was her waffling over whether or not to join a fairly  standard Reform temple.  Her descriptions of the community she left behind  in San Franciscosounded very much like a Jewish Renewal group, but there  was no mention of any attempt to find - or start - a similar group in  Nashville.  She claimed to want and need the singing and dancing and  emotional content of the Renewal tradition, as elucidated by Reb Zalman  Schacter-Shalomi, so her eventual participation in the fairly standard  Reform temple came across as an accommodation, a second-best choice.  <br />I  didn't get any sense at all of a seeking or return to any spiritual element  of Judaism for her.  I didn't see any growth or deepened understanding of  her tradition - she appeared to be the same person at the end of the book  that she had been in the beginning.<br />What I did see was a quick-and-dirty  book, cranked out to join the others on her shelf in the self-help  supermarket.  <br />Compare her story with Tirzah Firestone's and you'll see  why I was so disappointed.	2000-02-02
US	52722755	R3AFF8LL5E4J6I	0684800713	781452863	The Sun Also Rises	Books	3	9	11	N	Y	A good book about awful people	This was the most recent selection of my book club.  I don't think I had read it before.<br />It's a hard read.  Nothing much happens, and the characters, except for Robert Cohn, are so repellant that it's hard to care  about them.  If you don't care about characters, you don't care what  happens to them.  The only character with any dimension is Robert Cohn, the  idealistic outsider trying to get into the crowd and rebuffed at every  turn.<br />Hemingway's famous short choppy adjective-free style doesn't work  well on dialogue because that's not how most people talk, so it's rather  stilted, which contributes to the sense that you don't really know what the  characters are about.<br />However, in his defense, I must say that his  narrative descriptions are superb.  One would think that descriptions  require adjectives, and here he does use them sparingly.  So his style  works beautifully as he describes the bus trip into Spain, the wonderful  fishing expedition, and the bullfights.  It's in those passages that the  characters involved in them come to life - they are interested in something  outside themselves, something other than when they can have their next  drink, and it humanizes them.  They aren't quite so one-dimensional in  those passages.<br />I know this was Hemingway's first big success, and  probably gave an accurate portrayal of the ex-pat life of that time, but if  this were all I knew of him, I would not be tempted to read others of his  works.  Fortunately, I have done so and enjoyed them much more.	2000-01-10
US	52722755	R3PNV6SXPK1SGD	0521559677	227682660	The Cambridge Encyclopedia of Language	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Ooooops!	I blew it...  I don't know how my earlier review of this book wound up with only two stars - I intended to give it FIVE stars, as I hope will be obvious to anyone who reads the review - mea culpa!	2000-01-09
US	52722755	R39HU10YROIAV6	0521596556	227682660	The Cambridge Encyclopedia of the English Language	Books	5	45	49	N	N	Everything you need to know, in one place!	This is essentially a &quot;twofer&quot; review - everything I say about this book also applies to Crystal's &quot;Cambridge Encyclopedia of Language.&quot;<br />I fell in love with language long ago, so pounced on this  book when it first appeared on my horizon several years ago. Since then, I  have learned to keep it close by - it migrates from the coffee table to my  night table to the bathroom to the breakfast table - I need it handy. I  refer to it constantly, and often find myself opening it at random and  immediately being hooked by whatever subject comes up. <br />It's a tremendous  compendium of easily accessible information on all aspects of the English  language, and there are nuggets of value throughout. It is well-written in  a lively, non-pedantic style, and has plenty of illustrations to reinforce  understanding and make it more interesting. It's appropriate for most ages  except very young children, and is a terrific way to introduce anyone to  the wonders and mysteries of our language.<br />The same remarks hold true for  Crystal's &quot;Cambridge Encyclopedia of Language.&quot; That work is  presented in the same way, but with much a broader scope - it covers all  aspects of human language.  I like to browse in it and then get greater  detail from the English Language book - they work very well together.  <br />I'm in awe of Crystal's ability to present such huge subjects so  coherently and in such a comprehensive and fascinating way. <br />I strongly  recommend both books, for you or for anyone you care about.	2000-01-05
US	52722755	R1B9QGTIXQ6GNM	0521559677	430252949	The Cambridge Encyclopedia of Language	Books	2	8	20	N	N	Better than a warm bath for a linguaphile!	This is a &quot;twofer&quot; review - everything I say about this book also applies to Crystal's &quot;Encyclopedia of the English Language.&quot;<br />I fell in love with language long ago, so pounced on this  book when it first appeared on my horizon several years ago.  Since then, I  have learned to keep it close by - it migrates from the coffee table to my  night table to the bathroom to the breakfast table - I need it handy.  I  refer to it constantly, and often find myself opening it at random and  immediately being hooked by whatever subject comes up.  <br />It's a  tremendous compendium of easily accessible information on all aspects of  language, and there are nuggets of value throughout.  It is well-written in  a lively, non-pedantic style, and has plenty of illustrations to reinforce  understanding and make it more interesting.  It's appropriate for most ages  except very young children, and is a terrific way to introduce anyone to  the wonders and mysteries of human language.<br />The same remarks hold true  for Crystal's &quot;Encyclopedia of the English Language.&quot;  That work  is presented in the same way, but with much greater detail on our own  language.  I use it almost as much as the general language volume.<br />I'm in  awe of Crystal's ability to present such huge subjects so coherently and in  such a comprehensive and fascinating way.  <br />I strongly recommend both  books, for you or for anyone you care about.	2000-01-05
US	52722755	RV365NXSYAOSE	0525943692	885570903	With Roots in Heaven: One Woman's Passionate Journey into the Heart of Her Faith	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Familiar and foreign, all at once	I was born into a family of Holocaust survivors who had the &quot;misfortune&quot; (their perspective) to be born Jews at a time (pre-WW I) and place (Austro-Hungarian Empire) when anti-Semitism was  official policy.  They regarded Jewishness as a handicap - not to be denied  but certainly not to be practiced or celebrated.  My parents were raised as  &quot;Christmas-Tree Jews&quot; (&quot;It's for the maid, of course&quot;)  and raised us the same way.  I didn't set foot into a synagogue until I was  well into my 40s.  <br />After an intense relationship foundered on the rocks  of religious differences, I decided to explore this religion that was  getting me into trouble without any knowledge or effort on my part.   (Coincidentally, my older sister embarked on the same search at about the  same time, and independently of one another, we have wound up in the same  place.)  While my spiritual needs are nowhere near as intense as Rabbi  Firestone's, and it never occurred to me to seriously explore other faiths,  our individual searches led us both to the Jewish Renewal movement.<br />I  approached this book expecting to read of a journey similar to mine, and  was quite surprised to see how radically different it was!  We both began  with Judaism and wound up back there, but her search took her to places far  beyond anything I ever seriously considered for myself.  I was surprised to  read of her search through the entire supermarket of New Age belief  systems, and gratified to see how open she was to the influences of other  faiths.  I believe that there is something of value in every religion, and  have tried to find a way to synthesize a practice that incorporates it all  - hence the attractiveness of the Renewal movement, which I believe does so  better than any other form of religious practice.  And it's especially  gratifying to know that this intelligent seeker came home again and found  her place within Judaism.  I hope our paths cross some day.<br />I found the  book fascinating reading - she is articulate, insightful, and honest.  That  said, I must also say that I do not share her adherence to Jungian  precepts, and found those passages slow going.  But here again, she  demonstrates her ability to assimilate what she needs and incorporate it  into a system that works for her within the greater context of Judaism.   That's nothing but good, and I am encouraged that she - and maybe also I -  will continue to seek and find and create a belief system that meets her  needs within the flexible framework of Jewish practice.  I recommend this  book to anyone with an interest in the general subject of spiritual  searching.	2000-01-03
US	52722755	R2RAO22H8WE3RV	0821226282	669856871	The Invisible Universe	Books	5	24	25	N	Y	Its size does justice to the its subject	I gave my husband a telescope for his birthday last summer, and have since become an astronomy widow - better than being a football widow!  I wanted to give him a Christmas gift of something spectacular that wasn't  technological, since I know nothing about it, and saw a review of this  book.  So I took a chance and bought it.  What a success!  <br />The book is  cumbersome because of its size, but the upside of that is that it forces  you to sit down at a table and really LOOK at it - this is not a browsing  book.  Each image is more spectacular than the previous, and the  photographs are so beautifully done, so artistic, that they look almost  painterly.  The realization that this stuff actually exists, is really out  there, in all this color and glory, is tremendously exciting.  A  &quot;normal&quot;-sized book could never do the photographs justice - this  book had to be this size.  The Horsehead Nebula is so other-worldly, so  amazing, that words fail me and only photos like these can describe  it.<br />This book, more than any other I've seen, transports me off the  planet and makes me realize how unimaginably vast the universe really is -  and fills me with awe that we silly humans with our puny little machines  can actually see this much!<br />I recommend this book without reservation to  anyone with an interest in astronomy, art, photography...  I sure am glad I  gave it to US!	2000-01-03
US	52722755	R1BP0U7ZEWO75O	0553213105	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Written with a pen dipped in vinegar	My mother used to read me a chapter a night of this book when I was about eight.  I didn't get it.  For reasons lost in the mists of history, I  picked it up on my own in my 20s and found, to my delight, that I couldn't  put it down.  Since then, I have bought, read, and reread everything Austen  ever wrote, and was a member of the Jane Austen Club back in the early  '80s, loooong before she became so fashionable.<br />What I've learned from my  frequent readings of her works is that each time I read them, I get a  little more than I did the last time.  Her language appears convoluted to  us, yes, partly because she wrote with the voice of her time and partly  because we are probably like, you know, as inarticulate a people as ever  lived.  So do we denigrate Shakespeare or Chaucer for their voices?<br />The  themes of Austen's works are all similar - they all relate to the  difficulties of women finding their own places in a rigidly structured  society in which women were defined strictly by the men in their lives.  In  fact, when I visited her burial place in Winchester Cathedral, I was  surprised to find a 6-foot marble slab fully engraved with a lengthy  narrative about her, until I realized that there was NOT ONE WORD about her  writing - she was described and defined strictly in relation to her father  and family.  So she definitely knew whereof she spoke; in her time, there  was no life for a women outside of marriage, and the frantic attempts of  parents - and the girls themselves - to marry off their daughters, which  appears funny to us in our more enlightened age, is actually painful and  somewhat pathetic.  (Almost as pathetic as the efforts of many women today  to find their own rich, indulgent Mr. Darcys... especially in light of  their many other options.)<br />One of the characteristics of Austen's writing  that I find most interesting is that while she writes in great detail of  the lives of her characters and their immediate surroundings, there isnot  one word about the greater world.  I doubt that the word &quot;London&quot;  appears in any of them except briefly in &quot;Sense and Sensibility&quot;;  they all take place in small villages somewhere in the middle or south of  England, and rarely wander further than the distance of a post-lunch walk.  The novels were written at the end of the Napoleonic era and the beginning  of the Industrial Revolution, so there was plenty of upheaval, social and  otherwise, occuring all over England and the Continent, but nary a whisper  of it ever rears its ugly head in her works.  She holds her magnifying  glass very close to her own garden gate; her perspective is entirely  microcosmic without being claustrophobic - that's part of her genius.  She  can turn over a rock and document the frantic scurrying underneath it in  its own terms, drawing no inferences from the activity under the rest of  the tree.  Good?  Bad?  I don't know, and I think it doesn't matter - but  there is probably not a better, more detailed, or more honest picture of  time and place in all of English literature.<br />I am torn between being glad  that students are exposed to literature, and sorry that the teaching of it  is so pedantic that all the humor and magic of great books is  buried.  I  only hope, for those who were force-fed on Austen and others of her ilk,  that they will pick up these works on their own later in life and derive  from them the pleasure that is there for the asking.  Meanwhile, I strongly  recommend periodic infusions of all of Austen's works, of which I believe  &quot;Pride and Prejudice&quot; is the most accessible.	1999-12-23
US	52722755	RENEYJQFY1GCT	0385028962	843779381	The Story of the Trapp Family Singers	Books	4	215	236	N	N	5 stars for storytelling, 3 for probity, average 4!	My mother ran the gift shop at the Trapp Family summer camps in Stowe in the late '40s, and I spent my summers with her when I was three and four, the youngest child there.  Agatha, the oldest daughter, appointed herself  as my caretaker during those two summers, and I have many clear and  wonderful memories of those times - Cor Unum, their home which later became  the original Lodge, just completed; singing and dancing all day and  evening, indoors and out; hiking Pico Peak singing; the family with their  dirndls and braided crowns; and always, the figure of Maria, the Baroness,  looming over all, larger than life, laughing and singing and leading the  fun. <br />That said, this book was one of my earliest attempts to read a  &quot;big people's&quot; book.  I loved it - still do! - and the way it  captured the characters of the people I knew.  But I also recall my mother  telling me that while the Baroness was a wonderful raconteur, her book,  like all memoirs, was somewhat skewed and biased.  She was not the holy  innocent who had no idea that the Captain was in love with her and who  meekly married him only because it was the will of God.  She was an  immensely strong-willed woman who knew exactly what was going on and also  knew that she was entirely ill-suited to contemplative convent life.  Which  isn't to say that her account is untrue; light that passes through a prism  is still light, although bent, and her account, while similarly bent, is  still fundamentally true.  There is some truth in all she says, but some of  the details have been fluffed up a bit.  <br />The family probably wouldn't  have survived without her strength, will, and humor, and there is no doubt  of her religiousity - she turned to charismatic Catholicism in her later  years and was speaking in tongues.  As is the case with all strong people,  some people, including some in her family, had difficulties with her.  And  of course, the play and film bear very little resemblance to reality- the  very fact that the family names weren't flossy enough for Hollywood tells  you that the producers felt a need to tart up the story.  <br />But I've  always loved this book, and will continue to recommend it - forget the  movie!	1999-12-22
US	52722755	R3K2VDHF7YV69D	0140258795	803603230	Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time	Books	3	27	29	N	Y	Interesting, but could have been fascinating	I've never spent much time wondering about measurement of distance or the development of timepieces, but I am interested in learning new things in almost any subject.  So when I saw this book, my interest was piqued.  <br />I  looked forward to a fascinating story of the solution to the puzzle of  longitude.  Although that information was provided, I was somewhat  disappointed.<br />The stories of the problems caused by lack of ability to  locate outselves on the ocean were fascinating, in a terrible way - people  who ventured onto the seas were almost surely doomed, unless they found  land by a lucky fluke.  But the story of the development of the solution to  that problem was told in such a dry way that I felt little of the same  excitement.  I wanted to know more of why Harrison's opponents felt as  strongly as they did, and why he didn't pursue the reward that was so  clearly his.  The cover blurb  indicated that this would be the story not  only of the development but also of the competition, in human terms, but  that wasn't the case.  <br />I learned a lot, but missed the excitement of  learning.  And I definitely feel that the book suffers mightily by lack of  any illustrations at all.  For technoboobs like me, with no knowledge of  How Things Work And Why, illustrations, diagrams, photos, are essential to  understanding.  I understand that later editions of this book include  illustrations - I read it in 1996.  Perhaps the author has also seen fit to  include more information about the human side of the project.  Either way,  though, the subject is interesting, so I can recommend it for that.	1999-12-22
US	52722755	R2OKGJE0AFNJYT	0380722178	372607266	Nobody Nowhere: the Extraordinary Autobiography of an Autistic	Books	3	10	16	N	N	Fascinating and frustrating	I read this book with no baggage - I don't know much about autism and don't know autictic people.  I was simply interested in hearing about the disorder from the inside, so to speak.<br />I found her writing compelling.   Her use of language is extraordinary - she seems to be bright and aware.   And the narrative of her hideous home life as a child - and into her adult  years as well - is the stuff of real tragedy.<br />But I was frustrated  because I wanted to know WHY she did what she did, and I didn't feel that  the book answered those questions.  What drew her into her obsessive  relationships, and why did she allow herself to drift into those  manipulative and destructive sexual relationships?  Lack of self-esteem  doesn't tell the entire story - I wanted to know what was going through her  mind when she allowed herself to be subjected again and again to  pick-your-adjective abuse.  There was a certain repetitiveness to her  narrative, but it added heat, not light.  Hence three stars.<br />In spite of  that, I recommend this book to anyone with any interest at all in autism -  Ms. Williams' willingness to expose the intimate details of her life inside  her head is admirable and fascinating.	1999-12-21
US	52722755	R3IVU1L5TN8IOW	1877988235	222048490	Don't Go to the Cosmetics Counter Without Me: An Eye-Opening Guide to Brand-Name Cosmetics (DON'T GO TO THE COSMETIC COUNTER WITHOUT ME)	Books	4	10	14	N	Y	A helpful guide, with qualifications	Ladies, ladies, ladies!  Such excietment over something so relatively insignificant!<br />I have read all of Paula's books, and am delighted that there is someone out there who is obviously knowledgeable about the  cosmetics industry and interested in cutting through the hype.  While I  don't agree with all she says, I use the book as a reference.  <br />In  defense of the book, and to respond to some of the comments and provide  balance (no, I don't work for her or have anything to do with the cosmteics  industry...):   <br />She clearly states that she obtains ingredient lists  from the manufacturers.  Since she has educated herself in cosmetic  chemistry, she can tell what will irritate or clog pores from these lists  without having to try everything herself.  Chemicals are chemicals, no  matter which manufacturer uses them or what they say about them.<br />Also,  I'm not sure why people complain about her hyping her own line - I have  read the latest edition of the book cover to cover, and found mention of it  on FIVE of the approximately 380 pages - hardly an egregious amount of  self-promotion!  Additionally, I have used her skin-care line for about two  years and am very satisfied with it; it's fragrance-free, gentle and  non-drying, and very reasonably priced.  I don't use everything, but the  products I do use I like a lot.<br />As I understand it, the smiley faces are  for the harmfulness of the product, or the degree to which it does what it  says it will do, not her personal opinion or how well she likes it.  They  are pretty objective; that's why she can say a lipstick is greasy but still  give it a smiley - maybe some people like greasy lipsticks.  As long as the  greasiness isn't harmful, it gets a smiley.<br />All the salespeople who  complained about her negative reviews of the products they sell say that  she isn't objective.  Are they?  Who is more biased than a salesperson  whose income depends on convincing you of the hype?<br />I agree that shetends to be very conservative in her opinions on make-up, but you are free  to ignore them.  She includes reviews of products and colors she doesn't  like, so you can use them or not.  I value the book for it's information on  ingredients, not her opinions on how I should paint my face.  <br />Lack of  timeliness is a problem in any printed book - new products appear and  disappear daily, so obviously no book can be completely current.  But is  that a reason to discount the entire book?  There's a lot of information in  it that is still current a year after publication, and her newsletters  provide updates.  <br />I have a friend who sells BeautiControl, so I read the  entire review - it seemed to me that she actually LIKED the line, with some  reservations.  So why are all the BC folks up in arms?  <br />There are good  products and useless products in every line - this book is a tool to help  sift through them and figure out which is which.  And the lists of best  products in the back is invaluable.<br />So even if you don't agree with  everything she says, there is a lot of good information in the book, not  just on the products but also on basic skin care and new developments in  research and industry.  This book has something for everyone.	1999-12-21
US	52722755	RRYKKAIHJ3C7I	0684874350	698161422	Angela's Ashes (The Frank McCourt Memoirs)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A wonderful, terrible book	I loved this book.  McCourt's use of the language is tremendously evocative - you can actually hear the voices speaking as you read.  His story-telling is superb - he is able to simultaneously tell a hideous story  and roll you on the floor laughing - with tears in your eyes.  I thought  the passage about his first communion was one of the funniest things I've  read in years - in the context of a certifiably hideous childhood.  <br />I  have no illusions that the people and events depicted here are in any way  representative of the Irish Catholic population in general - this is a  memoir, a very personal story, and never claims to be anything other than  that.  It's probably dressed up a bit - I never entirely trust a  &quot;memoir&quot; with direct quotes of lengthy conversations, especially  when the protagonist is too young to really remember verbatim statements.   But even tarted up, it's a great tale - makes you glad to be a German  Jew!<br />I recommend this book to anyone with an appreciation of fine writing  and a keen ear for the nuances and music of language.	1999-12-16
US	52722755	R14GJRWIYRA5Q0	0684825554	509674696	How Green Was My Valley	Books	4	26	34	N	N	A personal favorite for 40+ years	I first read this book in High School.  I loved it, but wasn't always sure what was going on - why would Huw be bed-bound for two years just because he fell into a stream?  But the lyricism of the language captivated me;  Llewellyn writes the way the Welsh people I've encountered actually speak -  he does a better job of capturing the voice of a language than any other  writer I know.  <br />I have two problems with this book.  First, I find the  characters somewhat flat - they are all so perfect, and play their roles so  well, that they are somewhat predictable.  If they were negative, you would  call them caricatures.  But I'm sure there are people who are that  genuinely GOOD, if perhaps occasionally more interesting and human.  And I  always enjoy &quot;sweep of history&quot; books that trace a family or  people through time.    My other problem, which is related to the first, is  that time doesn't seem to have affected the characters in this book - they  are essentially the same at the end as they were at the beginning - they  seem quite unaffected by the events that occur in their lives.  So the  characterizations could have been more realistic without losing  &quot;gravitas.&quot;<br />Having said that, I rank this among my favorite  books - I recently reread it, after many years, and while I still don't  know why Huw was bed-bound, it's still a terrific book and my ears still  ring with the language!	1999-12-14
US	52722755	RPR19ZQB3MKWG	1573240397	668497824	Uppity Women of Medieval Times	Books	3	32	39	N	N	Frustrating for what it could have been	This is essentially the same review that I wrote for the same author's &quot;Uppity Women of Ancient Times.&quot;  Unfortunately, the same comments apply to both...<br />I received this book and its companion on  Ancient women as gifts. One lives in the bathroom (unfortunately, the most  appropriate place for it...) and one by my bed. I am deeply interested in  history and was looking forward to learning about an often-overlooked  segment of the population - the women, famous and not, who directly or  indirectly influenced and contributed in large and small ways to their  times. <br />It's clear that Ms. Leon has done a lot of research, but her  writing style is terribly irritating and ultimately gets in the way of the  material. She could have written it in an informal conversational style  that would have served the same purpose, that of making the material  accessible and interesting, but she chose instead to use a dated,  &quot;cool&quot;  Daddy-O style that just doesn't suit the material or ring  true to her voice. Hip jargon is cool only briefly, and people who try to  be funny usually aren't; why did she find it necessary or appropriate to  trash her research and insult the intelligence of her readers with her  silliness? I appreciate her obviously extensive research (but not the fact  that she neglected to include a bibliography, for those of us with more  than a passing interest in the subject of womens' history) and the fact  that she included ordinary women as well as movers and shakers, because we  really know very little about women in history, but then she undermined her  own efforts with her ridiculous writing style. That's why I rate the book a  3 instead of 5 - the content is worth a 5 but it's hard to take seriously a  work that its own author obviously didn't.	1999-12-09
US	52722755	R1AXBL2V3JRPL1	0397004001	507637067	Story of Language	Books	4	28	28	N	N	A good introduction to the wonders of language	Long ago, I learned that language is the second most complex thing humans learn (the first is time, because it's purely abstract.)  That piqued my curiosity about it - how the first languages developed; why they are  simultaneously so different and so similar; the ways in which history and  language are intertwined; the development of the minutiae of grammar; how  we learn language, syntax, vocabulary, and writing; the differing ways  cultures have dealt with their specific linguistic needs, and why...  I  wanted it all.<br />This book answered some of my questions in a way that I, a  non-linguist, could understand.  I had tried to do a little reading on my  own, but quickly got bogged down in Chomsky and the other eminences grise  of the field - I wasn't prepared for doctoral dissertations, and that's  pretty much all that was available.  Pei's book was the first one I found  that brought this stuff down to the layperson's level.  Simplistic?  Sure,  but easily understandable.  I understand that Pei's academic reputation has  suffered because of his attempts to reach the great linguistically unwashed  masses, but I appreciate him for setting me off on a journey that continues  to this day.  For me, there is no more fascinating subject; without  language, nothing is possible.  We take our ability to express ourselves  very much for granted, and never stop to think about what a colossal task  we accomplished when we learned a language - this book ought to be the  canon of the self-esteem movement!  <br />I know it is out of print, but I was  fortunate to find a hardback copy in a used book store.  I hope you do, too  - and that it lights your fascination with language as it did mine.	1999-12-06
US	52722755	R2LW6O37D92BDP	0316058424	111842402	Mr. Popper's Penguins	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	I should have such problems!	This was one of my first books - my mother read it to me when I was about four, and I immediately got hooked on penguins for life (check out my nickname...)  I now have several hundred (none alive, unfortunately) in my house, and it all started with Mr. Popper.  I recall being as amused by his  haplessness as I was by the plot itself, but I also enjoyed his gentleness  and willingness to let absurd things happen in his life.  He personified  &quot;go with the floe&quot; (pun intended) and I wished I could have lived  in his house.<br />This book has it all - plot, character, wit - and I've made  sure that all the children - of all ages - of my aquaintance have a copy.   Yours should too!	1999-12-03
US	52722755	R2ES3AX06UDVZ3	0877791457	639303970	The Best of An Almanac of Words at Play	Books	5	24	25	N	N	A compilation of the wordmaster's masterpiece!	I have collected each of Espy's books as they have appeared; they occupy center place on my shelves of language books.  The original &quot;Almanac&quot; and &quot;Another Almanac&quot; blew me away when they  came out about 20+ years ago.  I tried so hard to limit myself to one page  a day so they would each last a year - they are almanacs, after all - but  failed miserably - I remember sitting in bed with the flu and reading  through both books in three days, giggling and chortling and slack-jawed  with amazement the whole time.  <br />Willard Espy is a true master -  creative, erudite, knowledgeable, and howlingly funny.  His  Higgledy-Piddledy about Dorothy Thompson is burned into my brain for good.   His ability to make the language dance is unequaled by any other writer I  have read.  Safire, Lederer, and Newman are articulate, yes, but not half  as goofily inventive or funny, and they take themselves very much more  seriously than Espy does, which is not at all.  This man disproves the  adage that no one is great all the time - he is.  <br />Having said all that,  I must confess that I haven't seen this Compilation - my comments are based  on the absolute conviction that any compilation of brilliant material must,  of necessity, be equally brilliant.  I have spent the past 20 years lending  out my copies of the two originals from which this volume is drawn,  listening to people giggle over the cubicle walls, and plotting diabolical  conseqences when they weren't returned.  They are both ragged and bulging  with yellow stickies - my own quick-reference system - so I can easily find  and re-delight in my favorites when I need an Espyfix.  <br />The man is gone  from our midst now, so there will be no more crazy pleasure from him, and  his original books are long out of print.  So buy this one, I say, and  prepare to laugh and be awed all at once by this explosion of sheer  linquistic  virtuosity.	1999-11-30
US	52722755	RO44LI3OBZW03	0345350499	627223385	The Mists of Avalon	Books	4	5	13	N	N	A terrific tale, but history?  No way!	I stumbled across the book the day after I returned from a trip to England that included, coincidentally, a stop in Glastonbury and a hike up the Tor.  I gobbled the book, going back in my imagination to the lovely countryside  where I had just been.  <br />This is a ripping story, well-told, with an  intriguing premise and strong characters.  I loved it as fiction, because  that's exactly what it is.  I don't believe that the author ever intended  it to be more than that - a good read.  Certainly there is no evidence that  it was ever intended to be historical - starting from the first page, it  follows the usual Arthurian device of placing him at Tintagel, although he  was a 6th century king and Tintagel dates from the 12th century!  And it's  hard to take seriously as history any book that directly quotes characters  who have been dead for 1500 years, and includes magic as a commonplace  occurance...<br />All it is, is a clever retelling of the Arthurian legend  from the perspective of one of the women.  As such, it's good.<br />But great  literature it's not.  And history it is also not, at all.  So read it and  enjoy it and don't take it seriously.  &quot;The best book I've ever  read&quot;?  No way, unless your reading to date has been confined to Dick  and Jane readers!	1999-11-30
US	52722755	R1TZP2RESK887X	0679418024	712926184	The Wind in the Willows (Everyman's Library Children's Classics Series)	Books	5	91	94	N	N	Another classic for all ages	I was introduced to the denizens of the river when I was very small - maybe age three or four.  My edition was illustrated by Arthur Rackham, still the best version to this day, IMO (much as I love Ernest Shepherd's work...)<br />I still remember being entranced by the juxtaposition of lyrical  descriptions and occasionally wild and crazy action, expecially when Mr.  Toad was involved - prefect balance for a child, and a terrific  introduction to the wonders of the language in the hands of a true master.   And one phrase - &quot;Be my eyes, Ratty!&quot; - has stayed with me ever  since - that was when I really GOT the idea of helping and   selflessness.<br />I still have my beat-up old book and make sure that all the  children of my acquaintance have a good hardback Rackham copy.  This  classic - forget Disney - is right up there with the original Poohs, and  I'm sure it will remain a favorite for generations to come.  Do yourself  and the children in your life a favor and read it - preferably out loud -  and prepare to laugh, smile, shed a tear, and never forget.	1999-11-30
US	52722755	RNX6JV380LBH	0671602705	106819664	How to Run a Traditional Jewish Household	Books	5	48	48	N	N	Fascinating even for non-observant people	I was raised in a completely non-observant household; we were &quot;Christmas Tree&quot; Jews.  I never set foot inside a synagogue until my late 40s.  I stumbled onto this book at the beginning of my search for  information and my place in the greater Jewish community, and found it  fascinating.  <br />I have no intention of becoming Orthodox, and have found  my own home in the Jewish Renewal movement, but turn to this book often for  information.  I especially appreciated the explanations of some of the  rituals and traditions that don't &quot;make sense&quot;  and was touched  my the author's frank acknowledgement of her struggles and disagreements  with some aspects of her practice - and her commitment to the preservation  of those same traditions.  In fact, I have come to believe that the  greatest value of this book is just that - she clearly struggles with some  aspects of her faith but is absolutely commited to its complete  preservation - she doesn't pick and choose at the cafeteria of observance.   Here is commitment writ large! <br />I didn't agree with everything she said -  her statement that the women at the beach in the modest swimsuits are  probably observant Jews struck me as a tad smug, since most faiths value  modesty and the orthodox of all religions practice it.  But overall, I  found the book invaluable as I began my process of sorting out the holidays  and practices.  The practice I have found for myself is much more personal  and spiritually oriented, I believe, but it's important, and valuable, to  know about the roots of that practice.  <br />So I recommend this book - I  even gave a copy to my mother for Christmas!	1999-11-09
US	52722755	R1J9YHM7KLSN2X	1573240109	213882244	Uppity Women of Ancient Times	Books	3	28	33	N	N	A very frustrating book	I received this book and its companion on Medieval women as gifts.  One lives in the bathroom and one by my bed.  I am deeply interested in history and was looking forward to learning about an often-overlooked segment of  the population - the women, famous and not, who influenced and contributed  in large and small ways to their times.  <br />It's clear that Ms. Leon has  done a lot of research, but her writing style is terribly irritating and  ultimately gets in the way of the material.  She could have written it in  an informal conversational style that would have served the same purpose,  that of making the material accessible and interesting, but she chose  instead to use a dated, &quot;cool&quot; Daddy-O style that just doesn't  suit the material or ring true to her voice.  Hip jargon is cool only  briefly, and people who try to be funny usually aren't; why did she find it  necessary or appropriate to trash her research and insult the intelligence  of her readers with her silliness?  I appreciate her obviously extensive  research and the fact that she included ordinary women as well as movers  and shakers, because we really know very little about women in history, but  then she undermined her own efforts with her ridiculous writing style.   That's why I rate the book at 3 instead of 5 - the content is worth a 5 but  it's hard to take seriously a work that its own author obviously didn't.	1999-11-04
US	52722755	R2JAXL4FDSOK59	0525457232	836472932	The Complete Tales of Winnie-The-Pooh	Books	5	87	98	N	N	My very most favorite book, since I was three!	My mother introduced me to Edward Bear, Pooh and Co., shortly after a friend gave me a stuffed Pooh, complete with peach-fuzz pelt, little red sweater, and muffler, when I was three.  Within weeks, I had memorized most  of the poems in the two collateral books (&quot;Now We Are Six,&quot;  &quot;When We Were Very Young&quot;) and all of the Hums... &quot;The more  it rains, Tiddly-Pom...&quot;  Our family alarm soon became &quot;Tut!   Tut!  It looks like rain!&quot; And our birthday wishes became &quot;Hipy  Papy Bth....&quot; and remain so to this day.  <br />My stuffed Pooh went  everywhere with me, including college and Florida for Spring Break, and to  this day, more than 50 years later, resides - what's left of him - in my  dresser drawer.  I can still recite many of the poems and hums by heart,  and my standard baby shower gift, a hardcover library of the children's  classics, always includes all four volumes.  <br />I can't think of a better,  gentler, more fun way to introduce children to the wonders of the  imagination, reading, verse, wit, language... you name it.  I still have my  original four hardcover books and haul them out every so often for a  refresher.  <br />These books have stood the test of time for all ages of  readers, in spite of Disney's disgraceful attempt to co-opt and cutesify  them - truly the definition of classic.  Indulge yourself and the children  in your life - you won't regret it.	1999-10-18
US	52722755	R3DG8NLD005Z41	0670865842	937889896	Recipes 1-2-3: Fabulous Food Using Only Three Ingredients	Books	4	42	42	N	N	Creative, imaginative recipes	I have tried many of the recipes in this book, and while they are not all unqualfied successes, enough of them are that I number this among my most useful recipe books.  Ms. Gold and I share a basic sensibility about  simplicity and flavors - simple, robust, up-front.  I find that the add-ons  make a big difference, and of course, I tend to tweak recipes anyway - the  Baked Olives (in red wine and olive oil) are great as given, but with the  addition of some garlic or rosemary, it's terrific.  The deep-fried cheese  was a disaster -  I got a huge mess in the pan, with the coating stuck to  the bottom and the runny cheese all over everything - ugh.  The pasta with  broccoli sauce is pretty bland - next time I'll massage it with some lemon  juice or pepper flakes or something.  But other recipes are great, and  provide quick and easy starting points for me.  I definitely recommend the  book, and have given it to a couple of non-cooks, who really liked it.	1999-01-14
US	52722755	R6YA8XZID53PF	0394743199	224919600	Gods, Graves & Scholars: The Story of Archaeology	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Fascinating account of  discoveries of the ancients	I first stumbled across this book in my parents' bookcase in the '50s.  Now I'm in MY 50s and I still remember the thrill I felt reading about  Schliemann's discovery of Troy, the translation of the Rosetta Stone...<br />This book presents fascinating information in an interesting, but never  sensationalized, way that grabbed this pre-teen and hasn't let go yet.  I  reread it every few years and always find new goodies.  And because of it,  a trip to Troy has been on my dream list for the past 35 years.  Someday I  will see what I've been reading about so avidly all these years...  Homer  came alive for me in high school because of what I had learned from  Ceram.<br />I strongly recommend this book to anyone with any interest at all  in the ancient world - you'll be hooked, even as I was!	1998-09-06
US	52722755	R23548BA5V5XQX	0452269628	562254908	Fresh 15-minute Meals (Plume)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Delivers what it promises, and more	I stumbled onto this little recipe book many years ago and it has become  one of my very favorites.  The recipes are simple, with just a handful of  common ingredients that you probably have in your kitchen, but the results  are unusual and very tasty.  Best of all , it's &quot;real&quot;  food - no  artificial or packaged or processed or short-cut ingredients or anything  that you won't find around the perimeter of your market or at the local  farmers' market.  The suggestions for &quot;go-with&quot; dishes are  helpful.  I found the introductions to each recipe to be a tad precious,  but they don't detract from the recipes.  If I could find it in print, I  would buy a handful as gifts.	1998-08-31
US	52722755	RR5TWFM9GD0QC	067976397X	659658614	Corelli's Mandolin: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	A cross between dreamy memory and the brutal realities of wa	No point adding to the chorus. I enjoyed it thoroughly - read it for my  book club - loved &quot;La Scala&quot; and was overwhelmed by Bernier's  facility with language - but had a really hard time getting into it and  figuring out who was who and why I should care, and felt that the character  of Mandras was quite ill-drawn.  He disappears for most of the book, and we  don't get to observe his metamorphosis from charming fisherman to brutal  guerilla - he leaves as one and shows up 250 pages later as the other, with  not much in between.  But overall, I enjoyed it a lot and have recommended  it to others.<br />Also - those Brits who mentioned the new ending published  in the TIMES (of London?) - how about telling us how we can get hold of a  copy on the other side of the pond?	1998-08-23
US	52722755	RR9NK632PETK9	0387949313	622435777	Fantasia Mathematica	Books	4	13	15	N	Y	Fascinating and amusing collection of math-themed stories	I was a mere child when this book originally came out, and have worn out my first copy - delighted to see it back in print.  Contrary to your write-up, I, a certified math-phobic, actually learned a fair amount of &quot;math stuff&quot; from it.  Some of the stories are poignant, some are wildly funny, some are terrific satires, some are quite predictive of the future, and all but one are very worth reading.  (That one, the first in my old copy, has so much critical information in Italian, with no translation, that it was a waste of time to read it.)  I intend to reread my old friend, and pass it around to like-minded new ones.	1998-07-28
