US	52722159	R3JIX4FRV84GNB	1594200041	518829493	The Coming of the Third Reich	Books	4	14	22	N	N	Right Turn Proves Dead Wrong for Germany and the World.	This lengthy book explores in a steady and detailed narrative the conditions in Germany that led to the Nazi takeover in 1933.<br />Although others have pointed out the \\"why write this?\\" aspect of this book, I think, as a historian, Richard Evans does a good job conveying a lot of information in an effective manner with, I think, an emphasis on letting readers today understand how a culture as advanced, wealthy, and powerful as pre-Nazi Germany could allow fear to drive people into the arms of fascism and toward cultural implosion.<br />The first in a planned trilogy of books, I think Evans dispels many of the myths about the Nazis that get trotted out by people eager to obscure the truth about fascism -- for example that the Nazis were Socialist (they weren't); or that the majority of Germans voted for them (they didn't).<br />The endless hatred and violence of the Nazis, coupled with their dynamism as a right-wing protest movement fairly flies off the page, and Evans takes pains to chart out how the various elements in German society led to the rise of Nazism, and how by the time people realized their peril, it was too late. The astounding 7.5 months in 1933 are laid out in considerable detail, showing how quickly the Nazis took absolute control of German society, meeting almost no resistance from the groups who should have fought the Nazis tooth and nail.<br />Evans includes repeated electoral results shown on maps throughout the book showing the shaky (and by no means certain) strides the Nazis took toward power, and a few photographs that communicate the evil of the fascist ideology.<br />What is most haunting to the contemporary reader is whether the historical lessons of Nazism's war on civilization were, in fact, learned, and what an individual would do, faced with such an evil. What's more, Evans questions whether a democratic society can effectively fight fascism in its midst without destroying the values of democracy itself.	2004-05-18
US	52722159	R2T4RMRZKINX97	0316063797	614752116	Our Band Could Be Your Life: Scenes from the American Indie Underground, 1981-1991	Books	4	82	90	N	N	Everybody's Punk	I like this book a great deal; Azerrad writes well, for the most part, and neatly (perhaps too neatly) encapsulates some of the most important bands of the last 20 years, from Black Flag to (*gak*) Beat Happening. The book is loaded with interesting tidbits, stories, vignettes, and so forth. There are some great lines throughout, and it seems nearly every chapter has somebody offended by Public Image Ltd., in one way or another, which'll probably have John Lydon coughing up his tea and biscuits if he bothers to read it.<br />I am unsure whether Azerrad's doing indie rock revisionism in this work, however. The stories fall within the same narrative confines -- quirky, disenfranchised would-be rockers XYZ run into each other in an amusing fashion; decide to form a band; against all odds, they produce considerable sonic (and, of course, punk rock) excellence until they either implode or join a major label. They all seem to follow this basic arc, which seems a trifle tidy to me.<br />I came in on the earlier, punkier side of things (Black Flag, the Minutemen, Mission of Burma, Minor Threat), and I feel like Azerrad is weaving a tapestry linking those important bands to grunge and &quot;alternative,&quot; creating a seamless web of musical innovation and negation culminating in Cobain's primal sonic scream. Not like the later bands aren't important, of course, but I think they were very different from each other, while Azerrad tries to paint them all with the same punk rock paintbrush -- it comes out more in the later chapters, where his comments are the equivalent of &quot;how punk rock is THAT?&quot; or &quot;You can't get much more punk rock than that.&quot; Sure you can, Michael.<br />That seems an important thing for folks to do these days; punk retains credibility, beauty, purity, and power, all these years later, so scenesters seek to identify with it, rather than come up with a new idea. Maybe there are no new ideas, anymore: clean guitars vs. fuzzy guitars; loud vs. quiet; fast vs. slow; long songs vs. short songs, etc. Whatever the case, everybody seems either punk or hip-hop nowadays. That said, I like how Azerrad dealt with each band, gave them their own chapter, although I think some deserved longer chapters than others, in my opinion. And the lack of a follow-up section in each chapter, sort of a &quot;where are they now&quot; seems lacking to me.<br />If you haven't heard (or heard of) the bands he's referring to, then please go out and start listening to them!!! You'll never be the same, and it'll certainly help you appreciate what he's talking about more, and give you an inkling of how great these bands were. The omission of the Bad Brains is truly surprising to me.<br />All in all, this book is worth your time.vs. quiet; fast vs. slow; long songs vs. short songs, etc. Whatever the case, everybody seems either punk or hip-hop nowadays. That said, I like how Azerrad dealt with each band, gave them their own chapter, although I think some deserved longer chapters than others, in my opinion. And the lack of a follow-up section in each chapter, sort of a &quot;where are they now&quot; seems lacking to me.<br />If you haven't heard (or heard of) the bands he's referring to, then please go out and start listening to them!!! You'll never be the same, and it'll certainly help you appreciate what he's talking about more, and give you an inkling of how great these bands were. The omission of the Bad Brains is truly surprising to me.<br />All in all, this book is worth your time.	2001-09-05
US	52722159	RF4BAGRXDV3HL	1859847560	485714475	Private Warriors	Books	4	11	12	N	N	War, Incorporated	Ken Silverstein's \\"Private Warriors\\" is an excellent resource -- I wish we had more journalists like him, willing to delve deep into a story and present just the facts, and leave it to the reader to connect the dots. Silverstein doesn't preach: he just offers an incredible amount of information -- all but the most diehard reactionary will find it persuasive.<br />He names names, and provides an exhaustive account of the ongoing American policy of permanent military mobilization, which was conveniently masked during the Cold War but which continues to grow after the death of Soviet Communism.<br />The book is broken into six chapters, each exploring a different avenue of the war industry -- from ... arms dealers to private mercenary companies, to the cynical use of military consultants to evade public accountability and oversight and, of course, Star Wars (these days referred to as the Ballistic Missile Defense).<br />What I was struck with on reading this book is how cynical and amoral the participants are -- they may be flag-waving Americans, but the brotherhood of warmongers really transcends nationality, which is probably a sign of the changing times. It's frightening and infuriating when you see the level of  corruption at work, here, and the incredible success achieved by these individuals, and the degree of networking they engage in to ensure that American policy remains firmly locked on a wartime footing.<br />The only drawbacks I saw in this book was there was so much information presented, it was a little hard to keep track of all of the players -- I would have liked to see some graphs or lists to illustrate some of the points Silverstein enumerated. Also, I thought there ought to be a concluding chapter to the book, to sort of wrap everything up.<br />Get this book if you want to get a sense of why the \\"peace dividend\\" was a short-lived concept (I recall it being talked about for about two weeks, after the collapse of the USSR); I recommend it as a gift for anybody who wants a sense of what's wrong in American policy, and also for anybody too enamored of the status quo.r anybody who wants a sense of what's wrong in American policy, and also for anybody too enamored of the status quo.	2001-06-14
US	52722159	RZ3TZE0JK8AYU	039332169X	997615053	The Twilight of American Culture	Books	3	15	18	N	N	Cloistered Commentary	Berman's book starts out strong, documenting the many-layered ills of postmodern American society. He stacks up the statistics of a nation run amok, effectively running on fumes, culturally. This is where he's most effective; I'd say the first 1/3 of the book is devoted to this, and it works.<br />However, his core thesis: that to avert another Dark Age, concerned, cultured elitists (&quot;secular/spiritual monastics&quot;) need to wean themselves from the nether-culture of &quot;McWorld&quot; and work to safeguard the best of Enlightenment/Western ideals, manifested through art, science, and literature -- isn't particularly new or shocking. Science fiction writers have been onto this idea for decades (&quot;Foundation,&quot; anyone?)<br />That's what I think is the fundamental flaw with this book; he doesn't seem to carry his thesis to its logical conclusion, but sort of backs away from it -- he sounds an alarmist note and ends up with a wistful, hopeful, middle-class vision for the future.<br />Another problem is he invokes the notion of these latter-day monastics throughout the book, and when he finally talks about them, he seems a little lost -- offering a few examples of people who have successfully worked to bring culture to their corners of the world -- but not really articulating what these folks would truly do or be like. By their nature, such people are really invisible, not celebrities -- so how can he write about them?<br />I think part of that comes from the clear middle-class background Berman brings to this work. He's writing as a person of relative privilege, offering this vision to people who are like him.<br />He throws out a lot of names and references to thinkers, social critics, writers, movies, and so forth that he sees as valuable. I think that's useful for people who would otherwise be unaware of them (although I have read the folks he speaks of, and I don't see why readers wouldn't simply go directly to those sources [Noam Chomsky, Jacques Ellul, Adbusters, Tom Frank, David Barsamian, E.O. Wilson, etc.] instead of sticking with Berman to his sunny conclusion).<br />The book is easy to read, and has interesting information (particularly the first half of the book) but I felt he lost his thread by the end, and am unsure why this happened. It gets repetitive in some places, as he restates his case exhaustively. I feel like the book should have gone through a few more drafts to tighten up his thesis and deliver the knockout blow he's clearly looking for.<br />I found myself wondering what audience he was trying to reach with this, since true monastics in the style he speaks of would *already* be doing what he speaks about, and not looking for it in a book.<br />Also, I found typos and grammatical errors in the book -- a common sign of the times, but when you're going on about how illiterate everybody else is, you shouldn't say things like &quot;...is not necessarily at odds with that the of German Idealists.&quot; (pg. 18)Ellul, Adbusters, Tom Frank, David Barsamian, E.O. Wilson, etc.] instead of sticking with Berman to his sunny conclusion). <br />The book is easy to read, and has interesting information (particularly the first half of the book) but I felt he lost his thread by the end, and am unsure why this happened. It gets repetitive in some places, as he restates his case exhaustively. I feel like the book should have gone through a few more drafts to tighten up his thesis and deliver the knockout blow he's clearly looking for.<br />I found myself wondering what audience he was trying to reach with this, since true monastics in the style he speaks of would *already* be doing what he speaks about, and not looking for it in a book.<br />Also, I found typos and grammatical errors in the book -- a common sign of the times, but when you're going on about how illiterate everybody else is, you shouldn't say things like &quot;...is not necessarily at odds with that the of German Idealists.&quot; (pg. 18)	2001-05-30
US	52722159	R3T0VCN06KGADD	0896081494	785708033	Friendly Fascism: The New Face of Power in America	Books	5	129	132	N	N	Get this book while you can	I ran across this book when I was 17; it spooked me then. I decided to pick it up again and see how far we've come, and I am amazed at how on the mark Bertram Gross was in his analysis of elite control of America.<br />These days, even reading a book like this likely gets you branded a &quot;conspiracy theorist&quot; but Gross points out several times he's not referring to conspiracies -- the Big Government/Big Business combine that is the fueling engine of fascism is alive and well. Indeed, stronger than ever in this country.<br />This book is a deep, frightening account of elite power structures in America. Friendly fascism is fascism with a friendly face -- not so much jackboots, mass rallies, and so forth that comprise the popular stereotype of fascism, but rather an insidious, public-relations savvy manipulation of power for profit.<br />What impresses me most is how thorough and cogent Gross's analysis is, and I am sad more people haven't read this book. While it came out in 1980, anybody who is politically aware today will see that, rather than being dated, Gross was definitely ahead of his time in his thinking. This is a big book (@400 pages), and densely packed with information, but it is definitely worth your time.	2001-02-07
US	52722159	R27RS5HH02TH0M	0393040984	513752605	It Didn't Happen Here: Why Socialism Failed in the United States	Books	3	16	24	N	N	Left Behind	This book thoroughly (and in some cases, repetitively) analyzes why the authors think socialism failed in the US, or what they consider socialism to be, which isn't manifestly apparent. In a country where, politically, anything presumptively bad is typically labeled &quot;socialism,&quot; I think that omission on their part is important.<br />Other things I didn't like was the endless cycle of socialism gaining favor, and then ultimately losing it, as they analyzed it from chapter to chapter. Since they explored it along various thematic lines, this makes sense, but it sort of tires you out as a reader, watching socialism die a thousand deaths by the end of the book. I also didn't like the ending of the book, which merely offered a conclusion to the last chapter, rather than an overarching conclusion or retrospective. The last chapter seemed to try for that, but I think it ultimately failed, in that respect. I would have liked something more definitive and global, instead of simply restating the points brought up so many times earlier.<br />Still, this is an interesting book, which, along with Richard Hofstadter's &quot;Anti-Intellectualism in America&quot;, Howard Zinn's &quot;A People's History of the United States,&quot; and Jacques Ellul's &quot;Propaganda&quot; can offer an American reader a sense of the American political landscape that won't be covered by the punditocracy. There are very good sections in this book, and useful insights, but I felt that the whole didn't exceed the sum of the parts. I would have liked to see more in-depth exploration of the &quot;sewer socialism&quot; of Milwaukee, which only got brief references, although I suppose it would exceed the thesis of the book.<br />One undercurrent I think that might be of use to leftist radicals today is the repeated (if indirect) assertion by the writers that Americans are more suited to anarchism than to old-school, Old Left Socialism, given the rejection of statism and centralization that is strongly evidenced in American political thought. This only gets alluded to in a roundabout fashion, but it's there for the alert reader. I think, ultimately, that socialism does exist (and strongly) in the US, but only in very select areas -- like the military, for example, which is a huge socialist institution (budget: $330 billion+) and in the universal health care given to members of Congress and the federal judiciary at taxpayer expense.<br />This isn't the kind of book somebody simply picks up out of the blue; you have to be fairly motivated to figure out why socialism failed in the US to read this, but if you are so motivated, it reads pretty well, overall. Tables are peppered throughout, with some interesting details.ngly evidenced in American political thought. This only gets alluded to in a roundabout fashion, but it's there for the alert reader. I think, ultimately, that socialism does exist (and strongly) in the US, but only in very select areas -- like the military, for example, which is a huge socialist institution (budget: $330 billion+) and in the universal health care given to members of Congress and the federal judiciary at taxpayer expense.<br />This isn't the kind of book somebody simply picks up out of the blue; you have to be fairly motivated to figure out why socialism failed in the US to read this, but if you are so motivated, it reads pretty well, overall. Tables are peppered throughout, with some interesting details.	2001-02-05
US	52722159	R1B0YH93RA37RP	0394703170	962910322	Anti-Intellectualism in American Life	Books	4	79	87	N	N	Thought-provoking	Hofstadter's book seems even more vital today than it was when it first came out, back in 1964. As the title suggests, he explores the anti-intellectual roots of American society, particularly along three lines: the rise of evangelical, fundamentalist religion (emphasizing intensity of faith versus book larnin'); the growth of business (corporate) culture in America (with its emphasis on &quot;practicality&quot; and &quot;pragmatism&quot;); and the egalitarian impulses of what Americans consider democracy.<br />This book is incredibly detailed and thorough, with ample footnotes throughout. When people use the term &quot;exhaustive&quot; to describe a work, it comes to mind with this one. I found sections of it to be fascinating and informative, and other parts less so.<br />What this book seems to lack is really a sense of what to do about it; in his exploration of the anti-intellectual culture of America, he sort of paints himself into a corner -- especially when he notes that intellectuals themselves have come to incorporate themselves with mainstream society and few assume the gadfly social critic role they historically occupied.<br />I think American readers today can read this and realize: a) this problem has been with America a long time; b) it seems to be getting worse; Europeans can read it and get a sense of what makes Americans tick.	2001-01-25
US	52722159	R2Q9VUWGXRF8ZR	1585670499	52093416	The Corruption of American Politics: What Went Wrong and Why	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Mainstream Malaise	Overall, I like Drew's book, but you have to take it for what it is. She is a mainstream Beltway journalist, so her notions of &quot;reform&quot; are, frankly, lacking -- too little, too late. The problems of the American government run far deeper than Drew and others like her can probably comprehend. If you believe McCain-Feingold campaign finance reform will reform campaign finance, then prepare to be awed by this book; if you don't, then you won't.<br />That said, Drew does a fantastic job portraying the culture of cash and corruption in the government, particularly Congress. Her writing is clear, entertaining, and informative. What's more, what she portrays is all the more alarming because of her mainstream background. Reading this book, it doesn't take much imagination to realize that things are truly running amok in Washington, to an extent most Americans cannot dream of.<br />So, read this book to get a vivid sense of what is going wrong, but not as a guidebook for how to bring democracy back to America.	2001-01-24
US	52722159	RSC4LW34YZKYE	0802135323	178206905	High Lonesome	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Read and learn	This is a collection of short stories by one of the best writers in America today, which is why I'm amazed nobody seems to know about him. He's either a well-kept secret, or is perhaps symptomatic of the incestuous  nature of the publishing world. I just can't figure why he's not  better-known than he is, because he's so good.<br />Regardless, learn from  this man if you desire to write decent stuff. I go through his books with a  highlighter, marking good lines, of which there are plenty. Here's one from  &quot;Get Some Young&quot;:<br />&quot;Walthall bought an ancient Jaguar sedan  for nothing, and when it ran, smelling like Britain on the skids or the  glove of a soiled duke...&quot;<br />Like all good southern writers, Hannah  uncovers the contradictions and depravities of the South with beautiful  language. The previously-mentioned story is full of odd characters, while  &quot;A Creature in the Bay of St. Louis&quot; is a laid-back story of  youthful misadventure; &quot;Carriba&quot; is a bizarre tale of disgrace  and redemption (?) with some great language; &quot;Snerd and Niggero&quot;  deals with adultery, southern-style, and so on. Twisted southern living  portrayed with magical prose.<br />Hannah is a joy to read (although not an  easy read at times), and his works sparkle with lyrical gems that shine for  you even if you don't know a bijou from a beignet.	2000-05-18
US	52722159	R27NS7QN6U90J2	0816632421	393532964	Conspiracy Theories: Secrecy and Power in American Culture	Books	4	36	38	N	N	The truth is out there...	I recall a quote from Robert Anton Wilson who said, &quot;Anyone in the United States who isn't paranoid must be crazy.&quot; I always thought that was an amusing quote, and it should've shown up in this book, probably!  Fenster explores the prevalence of conspiracy theory in American culture in  this very academic book. While his writing style is good, I warn you that  this book seems aimed at academics, and not your garden-variety conspiracy  buffs.<br />He begins with exploring Richard Hofstadter's work on the paranoid  style of American politics, and leaps into studying the militia movement,  later focusing on JFK, the X-Files, and other forms of &quot;conspiracy as  entertainment&quot; and also examines millennial Christian groups and  apocalyptic predictions, etc. Fenster is rigorous in his exploration of  conspiracy theories-as he explains in the beginning, he is not detailing  the theories so much as examining what they represent, both culturally and  individually. In this, he does an excellent job, particularly regarding the  militias.<br />He seeks to get past the old notion of conspiracy theory as  pathology to seeing it as a legitimate, if extreme and disempowering  expression of popular dissatisfaction with the status quo. This is an  important observation: that conspiracy theory, by embracing the idea of  all-powerful individual villainy (a secret group behind it all), instead of  structural problems (capitalism, American democracy) people can actually  affect and change, conspiracy theory saps the strength from people by  making them paranoid bystanders to their own lives. But he's clear to point  out how the structure of the American political system creates this line of  thought, albeit unintentionally-the majority of Americans are marginalized  in this society. The tonic for this would seem to be action, rather than  taking refuge in conspiracy theory.<br />Overall, this book is worth your  time, but don't read it as a titillating account of conspiracies or you  will be disappointed. If you're curious about what makes these things tick,  then this book is for you.iracies or you  will be disappointed. If you're curious about what makes these things tick,  then this book is for you.	2000-05-18
US	52722159	R1IP9O9FW0BOJJ	031211883X	468895793	Rotten: No Irish, No Blacks, No Dogs	Books	4	62	65	N	N	Rotten, indeed	At long last, John Lydon (aka, Johnny Rotten) has opened up, nearly twenty years later. The Sex Pistols remain one of my favorite bands, and Johnny Rotten one of the more interesting media figures in the pop culture, so I  devoured this book. It combines first-person accounts of all sorts of punk  notables and wannabes, and the observations of Lydon himself, co-written by  Keith and Kent Zimmerman. I'll admit a bias up front - so much of the  history of punk has been obfuscated, I value anything that comes along. I  was eight at the time the Sex Pistols did their thing, and I remember being  scared when I heard the names &quot;Johnny Rotten&quot; and &quot;Sid  Vicious&quot; - I didn't know who they were, but they seemed scary names  (and remember, this was before MTV), and the radios weren't playing them -  they were phantoms and boogeymen, and all the adults seemed scared of them.  I remember when I was a teenager, finally buying their album, and thinking,  &quot;What's the big deal? This music rocks!&quot;<br />I'm glad to see some  light shed on this period by one of the people at the center of the media  storm. Lydon fills the book with tart observations - he retains his spite  and anger and seems as volatile as ever. At the same time, I feel like he's  pulling one over on the rest of us. Some of his recollections seem  contradictory - perhaps very real to him, but everybody knows that one's  perception of things changes over time. There's a subjective quality to  this account that makes me long for corroboration. Some of the first-person  commentary does back up Rotten's assertions, but I get the feeling there's  impression management occurring (check out Goffman's &quot;Impression  Management&quot; and you'll know what I'm talking about). Sort of  retroactive damage control on Lydon's part.<br />My only complaints about the  book are minor - I wanted more pictures, and I'd hoped for more commentary.  I was really wondering what he was thinking in some of those shots, and the  cryptic comments make them all the more enigmatic. Again, probably the way  he likes it. My other gripe is the book seems to raise more questions than  it answers - I wanted more!<br />The fact that he went to bat in court for  the band (which is detailed at the end of the book), and didn't cut Jones  and Cook out of it, even when they repeatedly sided with McClaren, is a  character-revealing moment. They'd consistently shafted him, and Rotten  could have easily blown them off and pursued the case for his exclusive  benefit. But he kept them in, eventually winning them over once they  realized where their interest was. Contrasted with McClaren's machinations,  this righteous persistence on Rotten's part is inspiring. On page 283, he  says:<br />&quot;'Nice' is the worst insult you could ever pay anybody. It  means you are utterly without threat, without values. Nice is a cup of  tea.&quot;<br />That's part of what I love about John Rotten - he's a nutcase,  wit, cynic, revolutionary, and clown, and you're never sure whom you're  dealing with; he's a chimera, and he's certainly not &quot;nice&quot;. All  you can be certain of is that he's laughing at all of us. In this age of  immaculately-packaged music superstars, Rotten's aura remains refreshing  and subversive - downright threatening. It is simply hard to safety pin him  down, and I think that's the way he likes it.e shots, and the  cryptic comments make them all the more enigmatic. Again, probably the way  he likes it. My other gripe is the book seems to raise more questions than  it answers - I wanted more! <br />The fact that he went to bat in court for  the band (which is detailed at the end of the book), and didn't cut Jones  and Cook out of it, even when they repeatedly sided with McClaren, is a  character-revealing moment. They'd consistently shafted him, and Rotten  could have easily blown them off and pursued the case for his exclusive  benefit. But he kept them in, eventually winning them over once they  realized where their interest was. Contrasted with McClaren's machinations,  this righteous persistence on Rotten's part is inspiring. On page 283, he  says:<br />&quot;'Nice' is the worst insult you could ever pay anybody. It  means you are utterly without threat, without values. Nice is a cup of  tea.&quot;<br />That's part of what I love about John Rotten - he's a nutcase,  wit, cynic, revolutionary, and clown, and you're never sure whom you're  dealing with; he's a chimera, and he's certainly not &quot;nice&quot;. All  you can be certain of is that he's laughing at all of us. In this age of  immaculately-packaged music superstars, Rotten's aura remains refreshing  and subversive - downright threatening. It is simply hard to safety pin him  down, and I think that's the way he likes it.	2000-05-04
US	52722159	R2H5RQSBNHNJRE	0811825558	979162178	The Worst-Case Scenario Survival Handbook	Books	3	42	48	N	N	Enjoyable	This is a fun book; the kind of thing you'd want to get your dad for Father's Day. It'll get you thinking like James Bond or an action hero in no time, which is fun, but don't necessarily view this book as gospel. They  don't call it &quot;worst-case scenario&quot; for nothing! The book is  small, like a field manual, and can easily fit in a backpack or jacket  pocket, as intended. Once you get past the disclaimer at the beginning  (amusing in itself), the book is broken up into five sections:  breaking/entering and escaping; how to fight (and fight off, whether  alligators, killer bees, bulls, bears, swordsmen, etc.); jumping/evading;  emergency surgery; and survival troubleshooting.<br />The book breaks the  various topics down into simple, straightforward how-to's, sometimes  accompanied with helpful (?) graphics. Experts were apparently consulted on  these various topics, but you have to wonder when these would come up, or  perhaps hope they never come up at all!<br />Some of my favorites are  &quot;How to jump from a building into a dumpster&quot;, &quot;How to  survive if your parachute fails to open&quot; and &quot;How to deliver a  baby in a taxicab&quot;. This book is certainly amusing. I hope sequels to  it come out, exploring ever-worse scenarios. I doubt if it'd be much use in  a real crisis, because this kind of stuff has to be practiced, and, barring  full-time employment in Gatorland, when are you going to have the  opportunity to wrestle free of an alligator - when would you want  to?<br />Regardless, it's a fun book. Your dad or grandfather will certainly  get a kick out of it. I don't mean to seem sexist with that recommendation,  but this is such a guy's book. How many women really worry about how to  leap from a moving motorcycle to a moving car?	2000-05-04
US	52722159	RWS9EHKP3JDF	0375502319	539408457	Biohazard: The Chilling True Story of the Largest Covert Biological Weapons Program in the World--Told from Inside by the Man Who Ran It	Books	4	11	14	N	N	The Banality of Evil	The Hippocratic Oath at root is: &quot;Above all, do no harm&quot;. Would that Alibek, a doctor himself, would have heeded that simple credo. This book deals with the very scary world of biological warfare, one of the two  so-called &quot;poor man's nukes&quot; (along with chemical weapons). I  remember the early modern images of biowarfare in the 70s, with soldiers  wearing gas masks and protective suits, looking like invading aliens.<br />Of  course, the basics of biological warfare have been around for a long  time-the Mongols hurling plague-laden corpses over besieged city's walls,  for example. At any rate, what makes biowarfare so frightening is that with  today's superior technology and industrial methods, biowarfare becomes not  an exception, but an actual business. Similarly, production on such a scale  leads to inevitable bioweapons accidents, which Alibek ably documents. One  of the most horrifying accounts is that of a Soviet scientist who gets  infected by one of their superbugs, and then clinically documents the  progression of his illness for as long as he can before he inevitably  succumbs to a horrible, lingering death. This is the stuff of nightmares -  the next time somebody sneezes near you in public, you'll shudder.<br />Alibek  was a high-up in the former Soviet Union's bioweapons program, and from his  position, he reveals much of the USSR's bioweapons program in methodical  and chilling detail as only an insider can. This book makes Richard  Preston's &quot;Hot Zone&quot; seem like a folk dance, mostly because this  is intentional, whereas superbugs like Ebola are simply freaks of nature.  The book gives interesting glimpses of the Soviet Union in its dying days,  of a bureaucracy run by Party officials who are like feudal barons - if  ever there was a doubt that the USSR wasn't actually communist (anymore  than the US is actually democratic), this book should reveal it. The  paranoid secrecy and unaccountable authority of the Party bureaucrats can  only seem like d&eacute;j&agrave; vu to American readers, in our own national security  state.<br />Biotechnology is the shotgun marriage of science and business-and  biowarfare is the monstrous offspring of biotechnology itself. Alibek  elaborates on efforts to gene-engineer hybrid viruses combining aspects of  smallpox, plague, and/or ebola. A Frankenstein's monster if ever there was  one.<br />The US claims to have not engaged in bioweapons research since 1969  (via a treaty banning it)-but given that the US is currently violating a  1967 accord against the weaponization of space, and that the former USSR  moved forward with bioweapons in the wake of that 1969 treaty, I can't  believe that our government isn't doing this kind of research, too, if only  in that twisted logic of mutually-assured destruction that characterized  the Cold War. To my mind, the Cold War continues - talk of the Peace  Dividend lasted about two weeks, before bogeymen like narcoterrorists and  Islamic fundamentalists were conjured up to justify the huge American  military economy.<br />In fact, that's the scariest thing of all - Alibek  speaks of his regretful involvement in bioweapons research, turning his  medical degree on its head and using it create lethal organisms. Yet he  defects to the USA after the collapse of the Soviet Union, and puts his  considerable knowledge to work for bioweapons research yet again.  Admittedly, he says he's working to come up with countermeasures against  biowarfare, while at the same time noting that there are scientists in  Russia who will most likely turn mercenary and develop similar programs in  other countries. Is a defense possible? I doubt it. Its seems that if  bioweapons get used on a large scale (and it doesn't take much - that's  what is so scary) - humanity will pay a dear price.<br />My feeling with  Alibek is he's a mix of Adolf Eichmann and Robert Oppenheimer. That may  seem unfair, but the idea of the banality of modern evil comesreadily to  mind - he's not a scheming madman; rather, he's a doctor and former  Communist Party bureaucrat, faithfully doing his job - just following  orders, focusing narrowly on the task at hand, and not really thinking much  about the larger consequences of his research. It is revealing to me that  he sticks with the program in the USSR until it becomes inconvenient for  him, whereupon he switches sides and continues to ply his talents, this  time for different masters. I think he feels guilty for his past work, but  I can't help but think that he hasn't learned his lesson.<br />The Cold War  was used as a justification of an ongoing militarization of both the US and  the USSR, each the mirror image of the other, and each using the other as a  pretext for domestic social control. The USSR is gone, but the programs  remain in place, and American policy itself is largely unchanged. Americans  should read this book, if merely to get a sense that the only answer to  biowarfare is seeking alternatives to war itself -- check out &quot;The  Conquest of War&quot; by Harry B. Hollins, Averill L. Powers, and Mark  Sommer is a good place to start. It seems the sanest response, rather than  fighting fire with fire - because with bioweapons, everybody loses.<br />This  book is worth your time, if only as a glimpse into a nightmare world not of  science run amok, but science deliberately prostituted and perverted to  suit the interests of nationalism, statecraft, and business, producing  horrid offspring whose only purpose is to harm and hurt.mind - he's not a scheming madman; rather, he's a doctor and former  Communist Party bureaucrat, faithfully doing his job - just following  orders, focusing narrowly on the task at hand, and not really thinking much  about the larger consequences of his research. It is revealing to me that  he sticks with the program in the USSR until it becomes inconvenient for  him, whereupon he switches sides and continues to ply his talents, this  time for different masters. I think he feels guilty for his past work, but  I can't help but think that he hasn't learned his lesson.<br />The Cold War  was used as a justification of an ongoing militarization of both the US and  the USSR, each the mirror image of the other, and each using the other as a  pretext for domestic social control. The USSR is gone, but the programs  remain in place, and American policy itself is largely unchanged. Americans  should read this book, if merely to get a sense that the only answer to  biowarfare is seeking alternatives to war itself -- check out &quot;The  Conquest of War&quot; by Harry B. Hollins, Averill L. Powers, and Mark  Sommer is a good place to start. It seems the sanest response, rather than  fighting fire with fire - because with bioweapons, everybody loses. <br />This  book is worth your time, if only as a glimpse into a nightmare world not of  science run amok, but science deliberately prostituted and perverted to  suit the interests of nationalism, statecraft, and business, producing  horrid offspring whose only purpose is to harm and hurt.	2000-04-21
US	52722159	R2BZY6HOMTTS7Y	0813307872	985619020	The Conquest Of War: Alternative Strategies For Global Security (Southern Literary Studies (Paperback))	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Find this book	Remember the Peace Dividend? Where did it go? If I could trace one book that radicalized me, it was this one. It was on the reading list for a course I took in college called &quot;Alternatives to War&quot; (right  after the Persian Gulf War, of all things). I took the class because it was  something I'd never thought of - alternatives to war? War seemed  inevitable, like the tides.<br />But this book contains some of the most  interesting and overlooked ideas you'll find. It radicalized me because the  ideas made so much sense and flew in the face of everything I'd been taught  while growing up. They weren't pie-in-the-sky, but actually practical. It  got me thinking that if alternatives could be found for something as  seemingly overwhelming as warfare, then alternatives could be found for  anything.<br />I'm sad to see this book out of print, but am not really  surprised. Works like this clash with conventional wisdom. Leaders don't  want citizens thinking about ideas like this. If you stumble across this  book, grab it quickly, because you'll find things that you simply don't see  anywhere else - lost to the dustbin of history. Things like the Clark-Sohn  Plan, minimum deterrence, qualitative disarmament, nonprovocative defense,  civilian-based defense, and so forth. I personally found qualitative  disarmament among the most intriguing ideas, devised by Basil Liddell Hart,  the British military strategist - probably the most influential military  thinker of the 20th century (he invented the concept of the Blitzkrieg -  too bad that the Germans were the only ones reading his works prior to  World War II!)<br />The book is divided into three parts: Part One explores  the United Nations and the above-mentioned alternatives to war; Part Two  covers issues that apply to all of the above-things like verification,  international law, and peacetime conversion. Part Three troubleshoots the  relative strengths and weaknesses of each security alternative.<br />Despite  having three writers, this book is very readable considering it covers such  a deep topic. They clearly wrote it to make it accessible to everyday  people. My sincere hope is that Westview Press reprints this book, because  it's needed now more than ever, in the post-Cold War era we're in.<br />What  you come to realize after reading this book is that nations don't really  want peace, despite lip service and lofty rhetoric - or that true peace is  an obstacle to national and international power, not a goal in itself. Just  look at where the money goes. But everyday people do want peace, and in the  age of weapons of mass destruction, it seems more important than ever for  people to consider alternatives to war, rather than continuing the endless  upward spiral of military spending.<br />I held onto this book after college  because I realized it was an important work. I hope you can find it.ing three writers, this book is very readable considering it covers such  a deep topic. They clearly wrote it to make it accessible to everyday  people. My sincere hope is that Westview Press reprints this book, because  it's needed now more than ever, in the post-Cold War era we're in.<br />What  you come to realize after reading this book is that nations don't really  want peace, despite lip service and lofty rhetoric - or that true peace is  an obstacle to national and international power, not a goal in itself. Just  look at where the money goes. But everyday people do want peace, and in the  age of weapons of mass destruction, it seems more important than ever for  people to consider alternatives to war, rather than continuing the endless  upward spiral of military spending.<br />I held onto this book after college  because I realized it was an important work. I hope you can find it.	2000-04-21
US	52722159	R1M41ABKTMT0U1	1873176643	540721244	No Gods No Masters: An Anthology of Anarchism. Book 1	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very good book	Guerin's two volumes are really worthwhile, because they feature anarchists of the time in their own words, describing the idea. This is very good for anybody wanting a sense of the history, and it's also  worthwhile for modern applications of anarchism -- to see what's been done  and thought of before, and where to go from there. An excellent companion  to &quot;Anarchism&quot;, also edited by Guerin.	2000-04-20
US	52722159	RC3ARJ24LASMR	0252061225	854958211	The Politics of History	Books	4	43	45	N	N	Political History	Howard Zinn tackles the biases of historians in this important book. His thesis, which he explores with case after case, is that historians employ a double-standard with regard to covering history, basically serving a  propagandistic role in our society, camouflaging the bad deeds of business  and government, even as they claim to be objective and neutral  outsiders.<br />It's a similar argument that's made with the media, and no  less important here. He argues persuasively (and thoroughly) for a radical  approach to history, changing the role of historian to sideline cheerleader  for the status quo to active participant in true social change.<br />Because  this book deals with a lot of history, it may be of limited interest to  folks who aren't already into history, hence the four-star rating. But for  anybody who does find history interesting, I strongly recommend it.	2000-03-29
US	52722159	R2RAEMTLDTE2OL	0691006091	448390442	Anarchist Portraits	Books	5	20	23	N	N	An excellent study of anarchists	Paul Avrich is the best mainstream historian of anarchism out there. This book is a vital addition to anybody's library if they want a clue about anarchism, which is so often shrouded in myth and mystery.<br />The book  traces the history and culture of anarchism, tracing its progression during  its &quot;Golden Age&quot; (the 19th century, mostly) and the early 20th  century.<br />Anarchists were originally called &quot;internationalists&quot;,  and this is brought to bear in Avrich's portraits. It follows various  anarchists from disparate cultures and countries, from Russia and the  Ukraine, to the USA, to Italian, French, Brazilian, Mexican, Australian,  and Jewish immigrant anarchism.<br />It brings out the international flavor  that permeates anarchism, showing it to be a very human movement, rather  than the product of any given nationality. The photographs inside are good  as well, putting a human face on various prominent anarchists.<br />If  anything, this book will whet your appetite regarding anarchism. You'll  want to read and learn more about it.	2000-03-29
US	52722159	R32ZGP277S31PP	0679730222	838114599	Who Built America? V 2: Work.People&the Nation's Econom.Polit.Cult.Soc	Books	5	6	8	N	N	An excellent resource	When I saw this book, I bought it straightaway, because labor history gets short-shrift in American society. I'm sorry to see it's out-of-stock, but am unsurprised.<br />While this book is fairly mainstream in its orientation,  it is very readable and thorough, covering the struggle of working people  through the late 1800s to the early 1990s.<br />I consider this book a good  starting point for people interested in working people's history. What  makes it especially rich is the narrative flow and personal stories that  appear throughout it, and the sidebars with songs and other miscellaneous  information. This is the way a history book should be written.	2000-03-29
US	52722159	R1U6SYZPEB1758	1573226521	117734468	The Beach	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Beached	This book was the hyped book of the season, and it simply didn't deliver. Amid hipster pop culture references, this book follows a very well-travelled thematic path, ending up as a Gen-X &quot;Lord of the  Flies&quot;, which itself dealt with tired themes. This is a &quot;shocking  book&quot; for the easily shocked.	2000-01-08
US	52722159	R1TC12KZ0M0QSG	0374184054	654533738	Last Things	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Nifty	This is a great first novel. The writer has a quirky tone and explored the issues she raised in an interesting fashion. My only problems with it are that everybody seems to have their own eccentricities -- yes, that's  probably true to life, but the book is filled with'em, so you end up  waiting to see what the next person's kink will be, so the effect wears on  you as you go through it. Also, the book sort of repeats the same kind of  scene throughout, like a record skipping in a groove. Perhaps that's  intended, but I don't think so. I get the feeling the writer was just  unsure how to carry off some of the scenes, so she stuck with what she was  comfortable with.<br />But, ounce for ounce, it's an entertaining book --  much better than the way overhyped &quot;The Beach&quot;.	2000-01-08
US	52722159	RZ7G1NUO5E5RR	0803281900	833796128	A Girl Among the Anarchists	Books	3	9	10	N	N	A Glimpse into a Bygone Age	Truly anarchist fiction is hard to come by. This book fictionalizes the experiences of a pair of sisters who lived in London during the heyday of anarchism at the end of the 19th Century. These sisters wrote under the  pseudonym, Isabel Meredith.<br />The book breezily follows many quirky  characters who comprised the radical scene of the time, endlessly scheming  and intriguing. The book is mildly humorous, as you see the mix of sincere  revolutionaries, haughty poseurs, and dour ragamuffins intermingling with  one another and getting on each others' nerves. I found that amusing, and  still true today!<br />But the book ultimately disappoints, as the  protagonist, having dipped her toes into radical waters, ultimately  repudiates the ideas -- you can almost see her looking down her nose at her  former comrades, shaking her head wistfully.<br />Still, it does provide the  reader an entertaining look at a woefully under- and misrepresented period  of history from someone who was definitely in the midst of it. I wish more  people at the time had written fiction about this period.	2000-01-08
US	52722159	R2TTQ3JK29FXYI	0486224848	298909988	Anarchism and Other Essays (Dover Books on History, Political and Social Science)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Good Book	This book nicely sums up Emma Goldman's anarchistic views and gives you a good sense of her as a person. Few people lived as such an embodiment of radicalism as &quot;Red Emma&quot;. Still, she's something of a theoretical  lightweight -- her reputation as a vocal hellraiser overshadows her  contributions to anarchist theory, particularly when you compare her to  Voltairine de Cleyre, the other prominent (but overlooked) anarchist  feminist of that time.	2000-01-07
US	52722159	RZMERMCAL2BXB	0060926430	350275263	People's History of the United States, A	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A Vital Book for Students	This book should be in classrooms everywhere -- it gives the &quot;dark underbelly&quot; of history that is simply not taught in schools. Perhaps if students had access to this book, they'd enjoy history more, since it  gives a side that is seldom seen -- namely that of everyday people. This  book really is a people's history, in that it shows how normal people are  the driving force of history far more than the usual &quot;kings and  dictators&quot; fare students are force-fed. And even more exciting, Zinn  has a breezy, readable style that makes this one an easy read. I wish we  had more historians like Zinn.	2000-01-07
US	52722159	R23UKLD89D0QYA	187317683X	372403115	Social Anarchism or Lifestyle Anarchism: An Unbridgeable Chasm	Books	2	6	13	N	N	Preaching to the Choir	To me, this book is the work of a bitter old man. He seems to be making a pointless argument -- his vision of class struggle anarchism is outdated. Further, it reads more like an extended diatribe that latte-chugging cafe  radicals could snap their fingers to, rather than something for outsiders.  The strident tone of the book doesn't help, either. I give it two stars  because it does help you realize why anarchists devote so much time to  in-fighting. But Bookchin's age, this may be the last book he churns out,  and it's an unfortunate note to go out on.	2000-01-07
US	52722159	RMJDV5LJ7H7JZ	0394718747	171979453	Propaganda: The Formation of Men's Attitudes	Books	4	268	274	N	N	A Chilling Study	Published in 1965, this book is a significant, if creepy study of that oft-misunderstood concept of propaganda. The references are unfortunately dated, but the insights are valuable, especially given how much propaganda  is ignored in American society, particularly. It's not an easy read by any  means, mostly because he throws so much at you at once you're sort of left  punch-drunk. He lays it all out forthrightly.<br />The most terrible  revelation he offers is when he points out that the most informed  individuals (in the sense of consuming the most media) are the most  propagandized (but unaware of being so). This is why this book doesn't get  more play -- it would put the Massive Media and the &quot;public  relations&quot; (aka, propaganda industry) out of business if people  understood their real social role.<br />The book is bleak, and leaves you  reeling. But it does provide intellectual ammunition -- namely, critical  thinking -- as a hopeful vaccination from propaganda, except for Ellul's  statement that people who think propaganda doesn't affect them tend to be  propagandized....<br />I guess the safest thing you can do is assume you are a  victim of propaganda, and then deal with it by sorting out what opinions  are genuinely yours, and what are the result of &quot;conventional  wisdom&quot; and &quot;common sense&quot;. The alternative is to pretend  you're somehow immune.	2000-01-07
US	52722159	R3AP7ZDQ9201ZR	0871404001	620637787	The Essential Kropotkin	Books	5	27	27	N	N	A must-read for would-be anarchists!	Peter Kropotkin was one of the major figures of anarchism, and this book offers the reader a wealth of insight into his ideas. While Mikhail Bakunin represented the fire and brimstone revolutionary of anarchism, Kropotkin  focused his scientific intellect on making a workable anarchist society. To  that end, he rightfully focused a great deal of energy on cooperation and  reciprocity as the basis for a workable society. He was far ahead of his  time in his understanding of the ideas of mutual aid and cooperation, at  the time when capitalist &quot;dog-eat-dog&quot; ideas first came to  dominate society.<br />This book takes a cross-section of his thinking that  lets you understand how he came to be such a strong proponent of mutual  aid.<br />Kropotkin's ceaseless attempts at hashing out anarchism in practice  and theory are vital for anybody seeking to apply the ideas today. For  anyone who considers anarchy synonymous with chaos, destruction, and  bloodshed, this book is a must-read, as it should open their eyes to the  true ideas behind anarchism.	1998-11-30
US	52722159	R3679TD89ZRO1C	0691026041	510290784	Sacco and Vanzetti: The Anarchist Background	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Excellent book!	Paul Avrich has made a career out of anarchist history -- anarchistory, I suppose you'd call it. He's an excellent writer and this book is a welcome addition to his series. The title is a little misleading, as Sacco and  Vanzetti, who were executed in the late 20's in one of the most  controversial criminal cases of this century, aren't really dealt with too  much.<br />What is dealt with are the Galleanists, the followers of Italian  anarchist Luigi Galleani, who really framed American anti-radical policy  (unintentionally) by way of a series of bombings that occurred in 1919 and  1920. These bombings offered the government the pretext for the unlawful  series of police actions called the &quot;Red Scare&quot;. These events are  important even today because they framed American policy toward domestic  leftist radicalism, much of which remains in force today.<br />The book  follows the lives (and deaths) of many Italian anarchists, including  Galleani himself, and is a fascinating exploration of their lives and their  anarchist subculture at a time when anarchism was on the wane everywhere  except Spain.<br />To the modern anarchist, the book offers as much of a sense  of what anarchism shouldn't be as what it used to be. The Galleanist use of  bombs did anarchism a considerable disservice as it gave the press  something sensational to latch onto -- even today, some 70 years later,  people still link anarchism with bombs. This is a direct offshoot of the  Galleanists' activities, as explored in this book.<br />Avrich has a very  readable writing style, and the book is jam-packed with historical  references and interesting stories. Like all of his anarchist books, this  one is worth your time.	1998-11-30
US	52722159	R30XGFZIB15IBG	0853451753	990503246	Anarchism: From Theory to Practice	Books	5	63	66	N	N	THE book for understanding anarchism.	If you had to get ONE book on anarchism, this is the one to get. No book covers more ground in fewer pages, and leaves the reader with a better understanding of the theory, history, and practice of anarchism.<br />Daniel  Guerin walks the reader through it all, neatly dividing it into three  parts: the origins of the ideas in part 1; the assorted approaches to the  theory in part 2; and the revolutionary practice in part 3, going up to the  late 1960s (the book came out in 1970).<br />The bibliography is also a  valuable resource, as Guerin breaks it down topically, so readers can read  more on their own.<br />This book puts the lie to anyone who equates anarchism  with violence and turmoil, revealing it instead to be a sincere effort of  working class people to build a better world.	1998-11-30
US	52722159	R11YSX1SQA0MNF	048622483X	482554751	God and the State	Books	4	55	62	N	N	A worthwhile book for someone interested in anarchism.	This book features Bakunin's unfinished essay of the same title. It is an excellent exploration of the psyche and motivations of one of history's more influential also-rans. Bakunin's ideas eventually evolved into what  became known as anarchism -- the idea that the only way to a just society  is through a society where no one rules over another...where all are  equals.<br />This short book provides a window into the underlying ideas that  came to be anarchism. Bakunin was an excellent pamphleteer and polemicist,  but wasn't able to write a complete book. Perhaps this was ultimately  better for anarchism.<br />Bakunin's historical contributions to political  radicalism are largely overshadowed by Marx, his contemporary, even though  Bakunin's core critique of Marx -- that socialism could never be forced on  people and remain socialism -- was essentially correct. History,  represented by the former USSR, Cuba, North Korea, etc. has vindicated  Bakunin, and repudiated Marx. Where socialism was imposed by way of a  political vanguard, it ceased to be socialism.<br />Thus, at this time, it's  good for people to read Bakunin to realize there was an alternative vision  of socialism in his ideas -- namely, anarchism. Marx successfully blocked  Bakunin's ideas in his day, but I think that with the collapse of  faux-communism, Bakunin may finally get the reading he deserved.<br />Bakunin  represented in his time the very embodiment of radical revolution, and this  book lets the reader get a sense of this.	1998-11-30
