US	52721958	RTUZIVS5UJ1N0	1887392114	122852624	Tales of the Rational : Skeptical Essays About Nature and Science	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	A first-rate primer on scientific skepticism	In the realm of clear-thinking scientific rationalism, Massimo Pigliucci has few equals.  He is articulate, creative, kind, frank, amusing and fearless.  He writes informally, but is able to explain deep and difficult concepts without trivializing or oversimplifying them.  From his position as a university professor and evolutionary biologist, Dr. Pigliucci reaches out to the general public with articles and essays on a broad range of subjects including philosophy, religion, the limits of science and the incomparable value of intelligently-grounded skepticism.<br /><br />'Tales of the Rational' is a collection of 14 essays arranged as consecutive chapters under five organizing categories: Philosophical tales, Tales of science and religion, Creation tales, Tales of the personal, and Tales at the frontier of science.  I found all of the book very interesting, but for brevity I'll limit my comments to several parts that struck me as particularly significant and edifying.<br /><br />The second chapter compares methodological and philosophical naturalism.  We should care about these stuffy-sounding terms, says Pigliucci, because behind them lie important reasons to be skeptical of religion.  The author makes his points by contrasting the views of two well-known commentators on science/religion issues.  Party A, invoking methodological naturalism, maintains that science merely ASSUMES a strictly natural (material) world in order to function, hence can't comment at all on purported supernatural phenomena.  Party B, following philosophical naturalism, holds that the universe really IS material through and through, so science is perfectly well justified in skeptically examining any supernatural claims which have physical consequences, as nearly all of them do (for example, pick any of the 35 New Testament miracles).  The crux of Pigliucci's argument is that both parties are actually philosophical naturalists in that they recognize the overwhelming plausibility and observational dominance of natural causes in all aspects of existence.  But only Party B seems willing to concede that methodological naturalism IMPLIES philosophical naturalism, thereby enabling a sincere scientist to include within her reach any claim which can be checked for plausibility, regardless of the beliefs of the claimant.  Pigliucci sides with party B in affirming that religious assertions, many of which are eminently checkable, should be treated no differently from the general run of far-fetched notions.<br /><br />Chapter 4 neatly refutes the famous \\"wager\\" in which Blaise Pascal offered shallow and cynical encouragement to believe in god simply because it's a safe strategy.  A glaring non-sequitur in this advice is that it requires deceiving a supposedly omniscient being while simultaneously trashing blind faith's only admirable feature -- its sincerity.  Pigliucci mentions this but moves on to a more technical objection based on probability.  He points out that Pascal's implicit assumption of a 50-50 likelihood for god's existence is dead wrong,  and from this basis constructs a devastating critique based on simple reasoning supported by universally accepted scientific evidence.<br /><br />Chapter 5 details the author's preferred case against the existence of any type of personal, interactive, theistic god.  Although he is both interested in and knowledgeable about philosophy, Pigliucci makes it very clear that he has little use for formal philosophical proofs which attempt to emulate mathematics by ending in a triumphant \\"QED.\\"  As a biologist, he is dedicated to the natural scientist's view that the non-existence of ANYTHING is beyond absolute proof.  So gods are properly classified as no more than routine examples of dubious concepts awaiting rational evaluation based on the credibility of the claims and evidence supporting them. Contrary to the position of Stephen Jay Gould and other \\"non-overlapping magisteria\\" adherents, religions do make (and always have made) countless claims for their supernatural figures which imply direct interaction with the physical world.  In other words, gods ARE falsifiable, and the more completely they are described, the more testable they become.  It was a pleasure to read Pigliucci's application of these principles to his sensible and powerful arguments against what are historically the most widespread, puzzling and harmful superstitions ever devised.<br /><br />It has often been said that religion is helpful even if it's false.  Pigliucci critiques this assertion in chapter 7, using an article by P. F. Fagan of the American Heritage Foundation as a representative source of evidence supporting religious ideas as socially and psychologically beneficial regardless of validity.  Pigliucci (having himself spent some early years under the spell of \\"mild Catholicism\\") agrees that churchgoing, like any communal activity, confers the obvious advantages of belonging and sharing mutual concerns.  But he does not buy most of Fagan's more substantive claims.  In fact, he provides a convincing set of reasons for being skeptical even of the \\"hard\\" data which seems to show that a religious lifestyle confers statistical benefits in overall happiness, career success, family cohesion, reduced suicide rates, etc.  His objections are based on logical failures like confusing correlation with causality, and (in the case of double-blind prayer studies) procedural oversights such as neglecting to provide proper control groups and allowing slips in the blinding protocol.<br /><br />Chapters 10 and 11, categorized  as Tales of the Personal,  are first-person accounts of the author's public contests with Christian apologist William Lane Craig and young-earth creationist Duane Gish.  Both are experienced, nationally-known speakers with a reputation for demolishing unprepared opponents, including scientists.  In even attempting to take on a \\"world class\\" creationist, Pigliucci went against the advice of many scientific and educational organizations which worry a) that debates provide creationists with implicit issue-acceptance as well as the \\"worthy opponent\\" status they crave, and b) that the evolutionist might lose!  Pigliucci is in the rather small class of scientists who have the breadth of knowledge and natural skills to survive, and are willing to research the opponents beforehand.  Learning how the author made out, and how he dissected the strategies of his adversaries, makes fascinating reading.<br /><br />At the end, Pigliucci steps away from issues directly involving religion to take up extraterrestrial intelligence in chapter 13 and the use (and abuse) of chaos, fractals and complexity in chapter 14.  The author's thoughtful, lucid and penetrating treatments of these often-misunderstood subjects form a fitting conclusion to a truly outstanding book.lways have made) countless claims for their supernatural figures which imply direct interaction with the physical world.  In other words, gods ARE falsifiable, and the more completely they are described, the more testable they become.  It was a pleasure to read Pigliucci's application of these principles to his sensible and powerful arguments against what are historically the most widespread, puzzling and harmful superstitions ever devised. <br /> <br />It has often been said that religion is helpful even if it's false.  Pigliucci critiques this assertion in chapter 7, using an article by P. F. Fagan of the American Heritage Foundation as a representative source of evidence supporting religious ideas as socially and psychologically beneficial regardless of validity.  Pigliucci (having himself spent some early years under the spell of \\"mild Catholicism\\") agrees that churchgoing, like any communal activity, confers the obvious advantages of belonging and sharing mutual concerns.  But he does not buy most of Fagan's more substantive claims.  In fact, he provides a convincing set of reasons for being skeptical even of the \\"hard\\" data which seems to show that a religious lifestyle confers statistical benefits in overall happiness, career success, family cohesion, reduced suicide rates, etc.  His objections are based on logical failures like confusing correlation with causality, and (in the case of double-blind prayer studies) procedural oversights such as neglecting to provide proper control groups and allowing slips in the blinding protocol. <br /> <br />Chapters 10 and 11, categorized  as Tales of the Personal,  are first-person accounts of the author's public contests with Christian apologist William Lane Craig and young-earth creationist Duane Gish.  Both are experienced, nationally-known speakers with a reputation for demolishing unprepared opponents, including scientists.  In even attempting to take on a \\"world class\\" creationist, Pigliucci went against the adviceof many scientific and educational organizations which worry a) that debates provide creationists with implicit issue-acceptance as well as the \\"worthy opponent\\" status they crave, and b) that the evolutionist might lose!  Pigliucci is in the rather small class of scientists who have the breadth of knowledge and natural skills to survive, and are willing to research the opponents beforehand.  Learning how the author made out, and how he dissected the strategies of his adversaries, makes fascinating reading. <br /> <br />At the end, Pigliucci steps away from issues directly involving religion to take up extraterrestrial intelligence in chapter 13 and the use (and abuse) of chaos, fractals and complexity in chapter 14.  The author's thoughtful, lucid and penetrating treatments of these often-misunderstood subjects form a fitting conclusion to a truly outstanding book. <br />	2005-08-12
US	52721958	RDPQRVA7DQC6E	0399150374	630346787	The Student Conductor	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Music, mystery and love	After finishing 'The Student Conductor' and replacing the dust jacket, I noticed that the front flap contained a blurb comparing its author, Robert Ford, to John Fowles.  I hadn't thought of that but  instantly agreed on seeing it.  In fact, make it a blend of Fowles and Erich Ambler.  Mr. Ford's writing exudes erudition and clever insights without even a hint of showing off or straining for effect.  He effortlessly creates an authentically European ambiance and engages the reader with his characters' (and his own?) finely-tuned sentiments contrasting today's healthy Germany with its profoundly divided and dysfunctional predecessor during the cold war.  In this setting Ford weaves an Ambler-like tale of intrigue involving a promising American apprentice conductor, a brilliant but unstable teacher who seems bent on surreptitiously destroying his best pupils, and a beautiful oboist with an enigmatic past.<br /><br />But that's not all.  Ford delivers much more than just an engaging yarn to anyone who might be curious about the trade secrets of conducting, the ambitions and anxieties of classical musicians, and the nuts and bolts of orchestra management.  He has mastered the technique of using professional jargon and recondite references in such a way that the reader is gradually drawn into the psyche of the protagonist (Cooper Barrow, the student conductor) and begins to acquire an enhanced musical understanding that feels real.  And in fiction, the feeling is what counts.  I confess to a little thrill of edification on learning that the famous tuning note A-440 actually vibrates 443 times per second.<br /><br />A trio of tiny glitches stands out only because the book is, overall, so perfectly crafted.  On page 15 \\"lay\\" is used where \\"lie\\" belongs.  On  page 216 \\"lay\\" again appears where \\"laid\\" should be, and on page 231 \\"affect\\" incorrectly takes the place of \\"effect.\\"<br /><br />Mr. Ford's first novel is a treat on several levels and I am glad to recommend it with enthusiasm.with enthusiasm. <br />	2005-08-11
US	52721958	R2HOYN8J5ABW6V	0805074422	871647100	Freethinkers: A History of American Secularism	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Our most neglected minority finds a voice	In her introduction, Ms. Jacoby discusses our government's reaction to the September 11 massacre, recalling that great care was taken to avoid offending anyone's religious sensibilities while officials and clergy struggled (futilely) to rationalize the obvious failure of divine authority to prevent the tragedy.  On the other hand, she says, no effort whatsoever was made to explain or even mention the view held by her and millions of other Americans, namely that any interactive, rule-making, anthropomorphic god is extremely likely to be imaginary.  This includes, of course, the god which ostensibly supported the hijackers and promised to reward them handsomely for mass murder when they arrived in paradise.<br /><br />A critical, skeptical, analytical way of thinking, particularly about religion, is known historically by the term \\"freethought.\\"  Many people are barely aware that such a descriptor exists, and Jacoby's aim is to fill that gap in our knowledge by tracing the development of American freethought from its revolutionary roots, through its \\"golden age\\" (1875-1914), to the fractious and politically explosive church-state issues we face today.  The reader will quickly discern that the author is not a neutral reporter, but her scholarship and intellectual integrity are more than sufficient to prevent the book from lapsing into a tiresome pro-freethinker polemic.<br /><br />The narrative unfolds more or less chronologically, emphasizing key social themes as well as significant individual players.  Among the themes are historical links between freethought and feminism; the secularist component of the antislavery movement; the collective demonization of communists, atheists and Darwinists; and the 19th-century origins of what are now known as culture wars.  Major characters include Thomas Paine, Robert Ingersoll and Walt Whitman. Ingersoll, a famous and widely respected writer and lecturer in his day, was one of very few Americans able to make a successful full-time career out of freethought advocacy.<br /><br />Among the book's most interesting subtopics is Jacoby's analysis of the religious views held by Abraham Lincoln.  I should say interesting but maddening, because Lincoln proves fully as hard to pin down on matters of faith as was that other beloved icon, Albert Einstein.  In devoting a whole chapter to the subject, the author argues convincingly that Lincoln's early friends and law partners were exposed to his skeptical side, while later political associates and acquaintances saw a non-sectarian but nevertheless religious man. In the end, Jacoby is forced to conclude that whether Lincoln really was or wasn't devout  is \\"... a question that has never been answered.\\"<br /><br />As an absorbing, expertly-written history of an important subtrend in American culture, Jacoby's book fully deserves the enthusiastic praise it has received.  The minor drawbacks associated with it stem inevitably from the fact that the author is herself dedicated to freethought.  Thus she acts as both chronicler and defender, which can lead to occasional difficulties.  For example, in defining \\"freethinker\\" Jacoby casts the widest net that dictionaries will allow, thereby including deists, i.e. people who believe in a remote, non-interfering god.  She then maintains that Jefferson, Madison, and to some extent Washington, Adams and Franklin belong in the deist camp.  This enables her to categorize a significant core contingent of the founding fathers as freethinkers, and to offer that conclusion as evidence against the widely-held impression that America was established as a \\"Christian nation.\\"<br /><br />The problem, though, is that arguments over the beliefs of historical figures tend to degenerate into contests of what is wryly termed \\"quote mining.\\"  Since the founding fathers' speeches, writings and personal correspondence have been extensively published, and since casual expressions which are overtly theistic or Bible-based were extremely common in 18th-century discourse, the pulpits of America are at this moment fairly vibrating with newly excavated quotations which seem to contradict attempts at portraying the fathers (with the possible exception of Jefferson) as exclusive devotees of a remote, detached, impersonal god.  I think Jacoby could have made her case firmer overall by sticking closer to the strongest and most irrefutable evidence for a secularly-conceived America -- our pointedly godless constitution.<br /><br />'Freethinkers' is an excellent choice for any reader genuinely curious about the largely unheralded role of secular thought and action in U.S. History.pulpits of America are at this moment fairly vibrating with newly excavated quotations which seem to contradict attempts at portraying the fathers (with the possible exception of Jefferson) as exclusive devotees of a remote, detached, impersonal god.  I think Jacoby could have made her case firmer overall by sticking closer to the strongest and most irrefutable evidence for a secularly-conceived America -- our pointedly godless constitution.    'Freethinkers' is an excellent choice for any reader genuinely curious about the largely unheralded role of secular thought and action in U.S. History.	2005-08-11
US	52721958	R3BTUD3IZ7BYXJ	0345409469	137607328	The Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A masterful plea for rationality	In the first chapter of \\"Demon-Haunted World,\\" Carl Sagan poses a thought-provoking rhetorical question: \\"Whose interest does ignorance serve?\\"  An apt reply would be \\"No one we want to help.\\"  Charlatans, irrational ideologues, terrorists and  dictators invariably benefit from a credulous and superficial public, but the results endanger everything valued by the rest of us, including our freedom.  While his tone is sympathetic and humane, the author's case for critical thinking is urgent, firm and uncompromising.<br /><br />Early on, Sagan  addresses the seemingly paradoxical relationship between critical thinking and certainty.  He points out that science, the discipline most strongly dependent on critical thought, nevertheless thrives on doubt, error and revision.  Even mathematics, the scientific branch most likely to produce \\"eternal\\" truths, has to deal with controversy and uncertainty at its frontiers.  The strength of science is rooted in its error detection mechanisms and a willingness to revise its views if warranted by experimental results.  The net outcome is a structure that is messy at the edges ( the hubbub of today's findings) but solid at the core (a summation of results verified by feedback over time).<br /><br />From many different angles, Sagan argues that pseudoscience and religion fall short for very clear and simple reasons:  Pseudoscience either cannot produce enough data to allow proper judgments, or fails to evaluate critically the data it has.  Religion sets up arbitrary principles, declares them sacred, and enters a state of ideological paralysis about their veracity.  This pattern persists even when the \\"sacred\\" principles become readily testable (e.g. the configuration of the solar system, the origin and evolution of planet Earth, and the developmental history of living things).  Thus religions tend to converge on a structure which is the inverse of science.  At their outer edges, religions are strong in the sense that they provide social support and humanitarian services.  The closer one approaches core values, however, the weaker religions become because of their adamant refusal to test and verify claims which intersect with observable reality.<br /><br />Chapter 7, bearing the title of the book, traces the history of demonic phenomena from antiquity to the present-day exorcisms sanctioned by Rome.  In a rather startling quote, Plato blithely describes demons as something like divine city councilmen sent by Jehovah to watch over mortals.  The pathetic specter of demonology morphing into witch hunting still shocks with descriptions of persecution and execution via catch-22 rules that damn the accused no matter how they respond to charges.  The Taliban would have loved it.<br /><br />The only criticism I would make is that the book, written over nearly a decade, suffers a bit from sprawl and repetitiveness.  But this detracts only a little from readability, and not at all from the value of Sagan's message.  He really did see science as a candle in the dark that can help us learn to be skeptical, think critically, and use the priceless gift of intelligence wisely for the benefit of everyone.humanitarian services.  The closer one approaches core values, however, the weaker religions become because of their adamant refusal to test and verify claims which intersect with observable reality.    Chapter 7, bearing the title of the book, traces the history of demonic phenomena from antiquity to the present-day exorcisms sanctioned by Rome.  In a rather startling quote, Plato blithely describes demons as something like divine city councilmen sent by Jehovah to watch over mortals.  The pathetic specter of demonology morphing into witch hunting still shocks with descriptions of persecution and execution via catch-22 rules that damn the accused no matter how they respond to charges.  The Taliban would have loved it.     The only criticism I would make is that the book, written over nearly a decade, suffers a bit from sprawl and repetitiveness.  But this detracts only a little from readability, and not at all from the value of Sagan's message.  He really did see science as a candle in the dark that can help us learn to be skeptical, think critically, and use the priceless gift of intelligence wisely for the benefit of everyone.	2004-11-10
US	52721958	R3UUAYJZ3H2HLX	0387955011	798581112	If the Universe Is Teeming with Aliens ... WHERE IS EVERYBODY?: Fifty Solutions to the Fermi Paradox and the Problem of Extraterrestrial Life	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Contact is imminent....isn't it?	Attempts to predict the future tend to fall into two classes -- the ridiculously optimistic and the ridiculously conservative.  Consider, for example, Stanley Kubrick's 1968 film \\"2001, a Space Odyssey.\\"  Even with guidance from a team of experts including the sagacious scientific futurist Arthur C. Clarke, the story drastically overestimated what was going to be accomplished in space travel during three post-Apollo decades.  At the other extreme, Thomas Edison was pretty sure a few theaters in major cities would be adequate to serve America's long-term appetite for motion pictures.<br /><br />Among the minefields awaiting foolhardy prognosticators, few are more hazardous than the perennial question of extraterrestrial life.  As indicated by Stephen Webb's choice of title, \\"Where is Everybody?\\" focuses on the famous paradoxical question raised by Enrico Fermi:  If the universe is teeming with intelligent lifeforms, why haven't some of them dropped by for a visit or (at least sent us a message) by now?  To those who claim they have, Fermi would reply that he meant visits or messages yielding unambiguous evidence.  After all,  even Art Bell would have to concede that a verifiable contact, vetted by the scientific establishment, would be accepted worldwide within a few news cycles.<br /><br />The organization of the book couldn't be more straightforward.  Webb simply frames fifty candidate resolutions of the Fermi paradox and discusses them one by one, saving his own solution for last.  Hence the book has some aspects of a suspense story which I was, despite many temptations, careful not to spoil by jumping to the final chapter.  It is amazing how much scientific and philosophical juice can be squeezed from Fermi's innocuous-sounding query by methodically approaching it via every conceivable angle.  As a physicist, Webb is able to do his own reasoning and doesn't bore us by neutrally reporting a string of interviews with scientists touting their often-contradictory pet hypotheses.  Rather, he summarizes the hypotheses and gives his personal (but informed) evaluations of them.  Along the way he offers many insightful detours into matters such as the nature of paradoxes, the Beckenstein Bound, the anthropic principle, multiple universes, mass extinctions, plate tectonics, molecular biology, the prokaryote-eukaryote transition and the uniqueness of language.  My only reservation about the author's approach is a feeling that he may have been a little too prone to set aside potential solutions by classifying them as \\"plausible but not sufficient.\\"<br /><br />By the time the author steps up to the plate, the reader is well-informed enough to be a credible umpire.  Instead of estimating numerical values for the Drake equation, Webb carefully frames his quantitative analysis in an ingenious narrative analog to the sieve of Eratosthenes.  Of course no one knows if his answer is right, but  I found it quite surprising and much harder to dismiss than I would have before my guided tour of the other forty-nine choices.pet hypotheses.  Rather, he summarizes the hypotheses and gives his personal (but informed) evaluations of them.  Along the way he offers many insightful detours into matters such as the nature of paradoxes, the Beckenstein Bound, the anthropic principle, multiple universes, mass extinctions, plate tectonics, molecular biology, the prokaryote-eukaryote transition and the uniqueness of language.  My only reservation about the author's approach is a feeling that he may have been a little too prone to set aside potential solutions by classifying them as \\"plausible but not sufficient.\\" <br /> <br />By the time the author steps up to the plate, the reader is well-informed enough to be a credible umpire.  Instead of estimating numerical values for the Drake equation, Webb carefully frames his quantitative analysis in an ingenious narrative analog to the sieve of Eratosthenes.  Of course no one knows if his answer is right, but  I found it quite surprising and much harder to dismiss than I would have before my guided tour of the other forty-nine choices.	2004-11-09
US	52721958	R3KQYB90W3A8GC	0813531411	876487125	Sparing Nature: The Conflict between Human Population Growth and Earth's Biodiversity	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Dare to spare, else irreversibly impair	I am doubly familiar with this book because, in addition to reading the published version, I served as one of eight evaluators who provided feedback in the latter stages of manuscript preparation.<br />In chapter one the author points out that he had two meanings in mind when he chose \\"Sparing Nature\\" as a title.  The first echoes a warning from Malthus that nature has generously distributed the seeds of life, \\"...but has been comparatively sparing in the room and nourishment necessary to rear them.\\"<br />The second meaning comes straight from Prof. McKee.  To secure our own future and that of our planet, we must spare nature from the devastation human overpopulation can and will wreak if we don't voluntarily act to limit it.  In a country like America the problem is particularly insidious because we don't feel personally crowded, having had plenty of exposure to seemingly endless open spaces.  We take the food that crams our markets for granted, as if it grew in the backs of trucks.  We have little sense of the contiguous ranges that wild creatures need to survive, or of the degree to which forests, trees, plants, people, animals, insects and microbes are interdependent.  The aim of \\"Sparing Nature\\" is to gently but firmly raise our consciousness on all these issues in an entertaining and edifying way.  As a scientist the author would rather persuade than simply preach, and therein lies the strength of the book.<br />McKee's case is built on three theses:<br />1. Human population growth has had a long-standing causal relationship with loss of biodiversity.  In other words we have, deliberately  or not, acted from the very beginning to reduce the variety of living things on Earth.<br />2. The most effective measure available to combat further loss of biodiversity in our late-stage predicament is proactive slowing, halting or reversing of net population increase.<br />3. Conservation of nature's variety is vital to the health of our planet and therefore equally vital to our own self-interest.<br />To succeed the author must  convince us that theses (1) and (3) are true, and that thesis (2) is not only correct but presents a clear and present danger if not heeded.  Hence he is invested in an advocacy position and wants to enlist the reader as both believer and activist.  This is a tall order, far more difficult than simply identifying and elucidating a problem.<br />Since the themes implicit in the theses are both historical and global, the reservoir of possible talking points is enormous.  McKee chooses well and constructs a cogent set of chapter topics and subtopics designed to progress logically and incrementally to the appropriate conclusions.  His initial strategy is to define the nature and extent of plant/animal biodiversity, and to trace its evolutionary development together with that of early and modern humans.  The results reveal an inexorable Homo sapiens \\"wedge\\" steadily forcing other species into extinction and thus indicating that thesis (1) is true.  Additional evidence connecting biodiversity loss to harmful trends such as disease-prone monocrops, erosion-driven soil depletion, eutrophication of water habitats, thermal pollution, desertification and vanishing potable water sources supports the conclusion that thesis (3) is also true.<br />To establish the danger of ignoring thesis (2), the author argues strongly that neither resource rationing (i.e. conservation) nor improved technology, no matter how conscientiously pursued, can keep up with an essentially unregulated exponential population growth in the long run.  Further, we are a lot closer to the long run than the perennial \\"eco-optimists\\" realize.  On this point McKee is an unapologetic neo-Malthusian, and justifiably so because he shows quantitatively that Earth's usable land per person is already in the scary zone.  The finiteness of our planet and the mathematics of human reproduction (six billion and counting) virtually mandate an accelerating slide toward disaster if we don't voluntarily curb our built-in urge to procreate.  In the final analysis, a worldwide policy of self-motivated population control is the ONLY humane and practical measure available to sustain Earth in an ecologically viable equilibrium with nature.<br />Deadly serious as these matters are, reading \\"Sparing Nature\\" is by no means a depressing experience, nor is its tone even remotely overbearing or coercive.  McKee approaches the reader in a relaxed and friendly fashion,  using the recurring theme of his outdoor \\"office\\" on the banks of the Olentangy River in central Ohio to personalize his view of nature, family and the good things in life.  The book opens with an informal  survey contrasting creature variety in the author's suburban yard with that in a nearby patch of woods, and readers are encouraged to see for themselves what a toll human incursion exacts on biodiversity.  As in his previous book, \\"The Riddled Chain,\\" McKee sometimes underscores points by referencing his extensive anthropological field work in South Africa.<br />Greatly to the author's credit is his refusal to oversimplify or resort to hand waving.  The many difficult aspects of determining the true extent of biodiversity, estimating rates of loss, and assigning causes are not minimized. For anyone interested in delving deeper, the chapter notes provide a comprehensive list of source material.  Although it wasn't much fun to see the spread of humanity likened to proliferating weeds and cancer cells, I could not fault McKee's reasons for doing so, and he is clear about taking no pleasure in using the metaphors.  Reading \\"Sparing Nature\\" will prove more than worthwhile for anyone with an open mind -- and a little time to spare.oward disaster if we don't voluntarily curb our built-in urge to procreate.  In the final analysis, a worldwide policy of self-motivated population control is the ONLY humane and practical measure available to sustain Earth in an ecologically viable equilibrium with nature.<br />Deadly serious as these matters are, reading \\"Sparing Nature\\" is by no means a depressing experience, nor is its tone even remotely overbearing or coercive.  McKee approaches the reader in a relaxed and friendly fashion,  using the recurring theme of his outdoor \\"office\\" on the banks of the Olentangy River in central Ohio to personalize his view of nature, family and the good things in life.  The book opens with an informal  survey contrasting creature variety in the author's suburban yard with that in a nearby patch of woods, and readers are encouraged to see for themselves what a toll human incursion exacts on biodiversity.  As in his previous book, \\"The Riddled Chain,\\" McKee sometimes underscores points by referencing his extensive anthropological field work in South Africa.<br />Greatly to the author's credit is his refusal to oversimplify or resort to hand waving.  The many difficult aspects of determining the true extent of biodiversity, estimating rates of loss, and assigning causes are not minimized. For anyone interested in delving deeper, the chapter notes provide a comprehensive list of source material.  Although it wasn't much fun to see the spread of humanity likened to proliferating weeds and cancer cells, I could not fault McKee's reasons for doing so, and he is clear about taking no pleasure in using the metaphors.  Reading \\"Sparing Nature\\" will prove more than worthwhile for anyone with an open mind -- and a little time to spare.	2003-11-14
US	52721958	R1ZC9N32GR8LI5	0060930497	922947589	Finding Darwin's God: A Scientist's Search For Common Ground Between God and Evolution	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	An odd mix in a fine mind	It is certainly reasonable to propose that acceptance of evolution as the means by which living things developed does not necessarily conflict with belief in some sort of higher being as the agent by which life was initiated.  When Darwin chose the title &quot;Origin of Species&quot; he meant exactly that -- not the origin of life itself.  In chapter fifteen he states it explicitly:  &quot;...science as yet throws no light on the far higher problem of the essence or origin of life.&quot;  Despite more than a century of  scientific progress, that disclaimer remains substantially true today.<br />Evolution does, however, conflict with many religious claims, including those in the Genesis narrative of the Judeo-Christian bible.  It is widely agreed, and I enthusiastically concur, that no one has stated the scientific arguments against creationism and its intelligent design upgrade more effectively than Kenneth Miller.  The first half of &quot;Finding Darwin's God&quot; brilliantly summarizes those arguments, and in doing so emphasizes the notion that there ought to be a better way.  That is, there ought to be a non-fundamentalist religious viewpoint which is wholly compatible with biological evolution and the rest of science.  Miller is determined to discover such a viewpoint and tell us how he did it.<br />If one simply wants to avoid contradicting science, many paths are open to deistic constructs of the Einsteinian type, where god sets baseline parameters for nature but does not interfere with subsequent events or meddle in individual lives.  But Miller isn't about to settle for that.  He wants a loving, lovable, traditional, western-style supreme being.  No substitutes, please.  While reading about his passionate quest for a suitable candidate, I could not avoid the impression that what is presented as Darwin's god could more aptly be called Miller's god.  The author finds his breakthrough in quantum mechanics and its assurance that atomic-scale uncertainty is absolutely unresolvable, even in principle.  Here, claims Miller, is the foundation of free will and the perfect channel through which god can influence natural events or, perhaps, tweak human destinies.  Quantum uncertainty forms a sort of firewall which may, if god so chooses, forever bar us from directly perceiving his influence on Earth.  Well, what's wrong with such guesses?  Nothing, really, except that like all religious proposals they constitute an arbitrary, speculative overlay on questions which science is quite capable of answering eventually, provided only that accessible answers exist.  In the meantime, Miller is equipped as well as anyone alive to understand that without science he has no case, and that the aspects of his case which are intended to transcend science merely abuse it.<br />I highly recommend this book for two reasons.  First, because it is one of the best imaginable primers on the powerful evidence available to counter creationist claims of all flavors.  Second, because it is an intriguing example of first-rate rational analysis oddly mixed with inconclusive religious conjecture in the mind of a skilled, intelligent, skeptical scientist.lutely unresolvable, even in principle.  Here, claims Miller, is the foundation of free will and the perfect channel through which god can influence natural events or, perhaps, tweak human destinies.  Quantum uncertainty forms a sort of firewall which may, if god so chooses, forever bar us from directly perceiving his influence on Earth.  Well, what's wrong with such guesses?  Nothing, really, except that like all religious proposals they constitute an arbitrary, speculative overlay on questions which science is quite capable of answering eventually, provided only that accessible answers exist.  In the meantime, Miller is equipped as well as anyone alive to understand that without science he has no case, and that the aspects of his case which are intended to transcend science merely abuse it.<br />I highly recommend this book for two reasons.  First, because it is one of the best imaginable primers on the powerful evidence available to counter creationist claims of all flavors.  Second, because it is an intriguing example of first-rate rational analysis oddly mixed with inconclusive religious conjecture in the mind of a skilled, intelligent, skeptical scientist.	2003-08-28
US	52721958	RT7Y1TFBP1YJC	0465044263	772988533	What Evolution Is (Science Masters Series)	Books	4	18	19	N	Y	Modern evolutionary science clarified	Ernst Mayr is a commanding figure in the field of evolutionary biology.  Having published an awesome average of nine scientific papers a year since 1925, he has produced (at age 97) a comprehensive book on evolution for the general public.  I think &quot;What Evolution Is&quot; will best suit readers who already have some familiarity with biology as well as with science in general.<br />The author does not take the reader's acceptance of evolution for granted.  On the contrary, he pays considerable attention to opposing views and carefully builds a case using the mass of evidence which has accumulated in the 140 years since Darwin's speculative missile burst on a comfortably religious 19th-century world.  That world was almost universally assumed to be inhabited by specially-created humans presiding over a vast array of plants and animals provided solely to sustain, entertain and amuse them.<br />Mayr ably describes and explains the chain of factual evidence and logical inference which has established (with extremely high probability) that in actuality all living things evolved over billions of years through a partly random, partly directed, wholly automatic process which tended to suppress harmful changes and reinforce beneficial ones.  The inevitable conclusion is that humans were not supernaturally created as finished products, but rather were simply fortunate enough to emerge from a very lengthy parallel development contest as hands-down winners in the intellectual capacity category.  Implicit in Mayr's section on human ethics is the idea that along with markedly superior intelligence should come a self-imposed sense of moral responsibility.<br />As an active participant in the development of evolutionary science, Mayr doesn't hesitate to state clearly and defend vigorously his positions on controversial issues.  He freely acknowledges (as did Darwin) that evolutionary rates can and do vary considerably, but he views the Eldredge-Gould punctuated equilibrium concept as no more than a minor modification of the classical picture.  On another contentious question, Mayr holds firmly that natural selection should be viewed as acting on the whole animal (the phenotype) rather than on individual genes or subsets of genes.<br />The last chapter contains Mayr's views on the current frontiers of evolutionary biology.  As major unsolved problems he cites a) finding the true extent of biodiversity; b) solving the mystery of static species (&quot;living  fossils&quot;) which hardly change over hundreds of millions of years; and c) explaining the relatively rapid (200-300 million years) proliferation of new structural types in the early Cambrian.  The second of two appendices is a sort of rap session in which the author gives pithy responses to twenty-four FAQs about evolution.  These serve as a quick-reference guide to many of the points Mayr has tried to drive home in the main text.<br />&quot;What Evolution Is&quot; includes a generous complement of good quality illustrations and charts.  Mayr makes liberal use of technical terms, but is careful to compensate by providing a fairly comprehensive glossary.  I recommend this book to anyone ready to step up a notch from the normal run of popular books on evolution.cept as no more than a minor modification of the classical picture.  On another contentious question, Mayr holds firmly that natural selection should be viewed as acting on the whole animal (the phenotype) rather than on individual genes or subsets of genes.<br />The last chapter contains Mayr's views on the current frontiers of evolutionary biology.  As major unsolved problems he cites a) finding the true extent of biodiversity; b) solving the mystery of static species (&quot;living  fossils&quot;) which hardly change over hundreds of millions of years; and c) explaining the relatively rapid (200-300 million years) proliferation of new structural types in the early Cambrian.  The second of two appendices is a sort of rap session in which the author gives pithy responses to twenty-four FAQs about evolution.  These serve as a quick-reference guide to many of the points Mayr has tried to drive home in the main text.<br />&quot;What Evolution Is&quot; includes a generous complement of good quality illustrations and charts.  Mayr makes liberal use of technical terms, but is careful to compensate by providing a fairly comprehensive glossary.  I recommend this book to anyone ready to step up a notch from the normal run of popular books on evolution.	2003-08-26
US	52721958	R2KN4KKHN26BK7	0801857074	647051713	Higher Superstition: The Academic Left and Its Quarrels with Science	Books	4	63	71	N	Y	A scary crop of academia nuts	Despite the subtitle \\"The Academic Left and Its Quarrels With Science,\\" the dangerous aspects of the misconceptions exposed and dissected in this book are due much more to irrationality than to politics.  Fortunately the authors take pains to clear up a potential misunderstanding by pointing out that there does exist a generous complement of academics who are left-leaning, rational, and not inclined to quarrel with science.<br />Gross and Levitt perform a valuable service in three parts. They take the time and trouble to wade through the more obviously idiotic postmodern anti-science drivel, they refute it, and they remind us that the purveyors of it are firmly ensconced in the faculties of major universities.<br />The authors of \\"Higher Superstition\\" are academics themselves, and write elegantly in prose laced with vocabulary-stretching words like hermeneutics, conspective, auspicating, tatterdemalian and weltanschauung.  While not a particularly easy read, the book makes its main point clearly and simply enough: the postmodern science-bashers are aiming their largely spurious complaints at subjects they secretly resent and barely comprehend.  Science has produced edifying, useful, beneficial results with more regularity and less ambiguity than any other field of human endeavor.  To claim otherwise is deeply dopey.  If academia tolerates a clique where such claims resonate, something is seriously out of whack and we must thank Gross and Levitt for providing fair and frightening warning.  Self-styled progressives who berate science with politically correct non sequiturs are no less goofy than the religious zealots they so pointedly disdain.	2003-03-30
US	52721958	R344MX59Z7Q1DW	1877733075	163121156	Losing Faith in Faith: From Preacher to Atheist	Books	5	24	27	N	N	An outstanding guide to clear thinking	Dan Barker's book is partly an autobiography, partly a critique of religious irrationality, and partly an exploration and analysis of the freethought/humanist worldview.  It takes the form of a series of essays, many of which previously appeared in Freethought Today, a newspaper published monthly by the Freedom From Religion Foundation.  Five chapters, including two major ones, are original to the book.  The tone is often light and sometimes openly humorous, but the message is serious, firmly grounded in research, and consistently well-reasoned.<br />Raised in a strong religious environment, Barker became an ordained traveling minister, wrote religious songs and musicals, and used his keyboard skills to back up other performers (including, on one occasion, Pat Boone).  Initial doubts launched a five-year transition period (1979 through 1983) in which he questioned and studied his way from committed Christian to liberated atheist.  We learn in considerable detail how he handled the task of turning over not just a new leaf, but a new life.<br />As might be expected in view of his background, Barker places considerable emphasis on detailed criticisms of Christianity and the Bible.  Included are descriptions of many interesting and illuminating exchanges with Christian friends and relatives both before and after his announced deconversion.  It would be a mistake, however, to assume that Barker's overall case is limited to any particular brand or flavor of religion.  His reasoning is general and applies just as well to Unitarians or Zoroastrians as to Christian fundamentalists.  Built into his thesis is the recognition that successful critical thinking frees a person from all forms of irrational assumptions, not just selected sets of them.  He counters the frequent charge that atheism is merely another form of religion by pointing out that atheists reject the one defining ingredient essential to every religion -- belief based on faith alone.<br />Barker doesn't shrink from the controversial topic of morality without religion.  He freely acknowledges that atheism itself does not address morality, but he goes on to explain how humanism does.  For example, a humanist point of view allows us to perform logical triage on the famous ten commandments.  It is easily seen that the doctrinal commandments, one through four, are self-absorbed religious edicts having no discernible relevance to practical morality.  Five through ten, on the other hand, are social interaction rules which would be very familiar to anyone (religious or not) who has grown up in the company of other people.  They cover several obvious cases but do not address the many subtle issues of kindness, decency, trust and personal responsibility we face in everyday life. Barker maintains that it is both possible and desirable for comprehensive human morality to have a human source.<br />One of the major chapters in LFIF looks beyond the overrated ten commandments to examine the general moral and ethical scope of the Bible.  Having carefully read both Old and New Testaments rather recently, I was in a position to agree or disagree with Barker's observations on a reasonably well-informed basis.  I found that he hit point after point which had disturbed me enough to scribble emphatic notes in the margins and on the flyleaves of my copy.  The people of Biblical times can readily be pardoned for being morally naive and retrograde, but by definition their creator and teacher has no excuses.  When he orders the slaughter of children, passes punishment across generations, fails to condemn slavery, concocts original sin to demean and revile women forever, stoops to favoritism and jealous feuding, and instigates a monumentally selfish cult of personality, he earns himself a failing grade in Morals and Ethics 101.  By the same actions, he calls into serious question his existence as anything more than a fictional character.  The kinder and gentler-appearing Jesus seems benign by comparison until you look carefully, as Barker does, at his teachings.  The son repeatedly and unequivocally declares his support for the Old Testament regime and all its attendant injustices.  No one has put it more succinctly than Barker when he concludes,  \\"On the whole, the Bible does not have a grasp of ethics.\\"<br />Although Barker devotes a substantial portion of his book to well-justified criticism of the irrational core underlying religious beliefs, his baseline message is far from negative.  He emphasizes that humanism and freethought offer a means for each of us to step away from superstition and make the most of our one-and-only natural life.  As he says, \\"We are a movement, but a new kind of movement: one without followers.  Every freethinker is a leader.\\"parison until you look carefully, as Barker does, at his teachings.  The son repeatedly and unequivocally declares his support for the Old Testament regime and all its attendant injustices.  No one has put it more succinctly than Barker when he concludes,  \\"On the whole, the Bible does not have a grasp of ethics.\\"<br />Although Barker devotes a substantial portion of his book to well-justified criticism of the irrational core underlying religious beliefs, his baseline message is far from negative.  He emphasizes that humanism and freethought offer a means for each of us to step away from superstition and make the most of our one-and-only natural life.  As he says, \\"We are a movement, but a new kind of movement: one without followers.  Every freethinker is a leader.\\"	2002-12-06
US	52721958	RK1M7JSIXJDQP	0192860925	396036325	The Selfish Gene (Popular Science)	Books	3	19	29	N	Y	Sneaky genes caught in the act	Personification, or (more awkwardly) anthropomorphization, is a slightly silly convention practiced daily by all of us.  It consists of attributing sentient human characteristics to non-human entities, as in &quot;the computer thinks you want to shut it down,&quot; or &quot;my car is out to get me.&quot;  Such expressions are usually  harmless because everyone knows the metaphors aren't meant literally.  There are certain contexts, though, where personification becomes troublesome. Two of them are biology and evolution.  I once criticized Michael Behe for writing that viruses mutate &quot;in order to evade the immune system.&quot;  Viruses cannot strategize or harbor motives, and to imply that they do carelessly misstates the fundamentals of evolution, a theory Behe was attempting to refute!  Tacky.<br />The title itself should put any &quot;Selfish Gene&quot; reader on notice that a megadose of personification is coming, but even thus forewarned I was taken aback by the extent of it.  The author seems to be in the peculiar position of understanding perfectly well the drawbacks of anthropomorphization, but pressing on with it anyway.  An unfortunate result is that Dawkins incessantly uses the language of conscious motives while issuing caveats about it.  In both main text and chapter notes (1989 edition),  he alternates between backpedaling from personification (e.g. top, page 89) and irritably dismissing any reader or critic obtuse enough to suppose he means what he says (e.g. page 278).  Perhaps I am unreasonably sensitive, but personification issues in &quot;Selfish Gene&quot; significantly reduced my ability to enjoy it.<br />So if that's how I felt about the book, why did I finish it?  Because it was more than worthwhile to do so.  Like Dawkins' other works,  this one is a cornucopia of useful information, novel interpretations and clever insights.  It introduces such diverse topics as the ironic and unwisely-ignored concept of speciesism, the meme as a reproducing unit of imitative behavior, the significance of evolutionarily stable strategies (ESSs), and the game-theoretical aspects of ad hoc live-and-let-live behavior among WW1 combatants.  One would have to be anesthetized not to learn and profit from reading &quot;Selfish Gene.&quot;cing unit of imitative behavior, the significance of evolutionarily stable strategies (ESSs), and the game-theoretical aspects of ad hoc live-and-let-live behavior among WW1 combatants.  One would have to be anesthetized not to learn and profit from reading &quot;Selfish Gene.&quot;	2002-09-05
US	52721958	ROZQ2E1C07335	0060926708	490624966	The Perfect Machine: Building the Palomar Telescope	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A fine rendering of a historic achievement	Florence's narrative brings alive the fascinating saga of the great Mt. Palomar reflector, in its time the world's largest telescope and a pioneering example of &quot;Big Science.&quot;  The instrument's gestation period, beginning in 1928 and interrupted by the second World War, was so long that three of the principal figures didn't live to see it dedicated in 1948.  Included in this group was the project's founding father, George Ellery Hale, for whom the telescope is named.  The author uses Hale's remarkable abilities and seemingly unending physical and mental travails as a unifying theme throughout the book.<br />A renowned telescope developer and respected solar astronomer, Hale had the establishment clout and scientific connections to launch such a grand project and assemble a team to carry it out.  While suffering from a chronic nervous condition that often left him isolated in a darkened room, he was nevertheless able to lead the program through its most critical periods and help rescue it from a multitude of financial and organizational crises.<br />The immense 200-inch (nearly 17 ft) diameter of the Palomar telescope's main mirror gave it twice the theoretical resolution and four times the light grasp of its Hale-inspired predecessor, the 100-inch reflector on Mt. Wilson.  Everything about the 500-ton machine was Brobdingnagian, perhaps best symbolized by the fact that an observer at the prime focus actually sat inside the telescope tube, with plenty of clearance for starlight to stream past him to the mirror some fifty-five feet below.<br />In the hands of Florence, what might have been a confusing welter of facts becomes a coherent and utterly engrossing suspense story.  He seemingly overlooks nothing about the relevant issues of Astronomy, optics, engineering, business, politics and personalities; yet there is no sense of overkill  and one always feels eager to begin the next chapter.  The dozens of interacting characters are portrayed  with enough subtlety, irony and humor to make them seem real and familiar.  I have seldom gotten so much pure enjoyment from a book.tlety, irony and humor to make them seem real and familiar.  I have seldom gotten so much pure enjoyment from a book.	2002-09-04
US	52721958	R20W369XRXGCLD	0970292708	446622612	The Laser Odyssey	Books	4	15	15	N	Y	The last word on the first laser	In the contentious arena of laser history, there is one achievement that no one disputes.  Theodore Maiman of Hughes Aircraft made the first working laser.  This book contains a very personal account of how he did it.<br />Maiman used a ruby cylinder and a flashlamp to make a pulsed laser.  It was &quot;easy&quot; to do this in 1960 in the same sense that it would have been easy to make a tinfoil phonograph in 1877, provided only that Edison showed you how.  After Maiman's breakthrough other physicists (especially those associated with maser development) implied they had published or communicated information sufficient to make the pulsed ruby solution obvious.  To that Maiman replied roughly as follows: &quot;Everyone knows there was an all-out race to make the first laser.  If it was so obvious, why didn't you build it?&quot;<br />During his career Maiman became acutely conscious of the dismissive attitude sometimes exhibited by academic scientists toward industrial scientists.  He was in a special position to observe such prejudice because he made a major scientific advance while employed by an aerospace company. The maser, on the other hand, had come from Charles Townes and his university/Bell Labs background.  Although not a source of visible light, the maser was a coherent microwave amplifier widely promoted as the device that would naturally be &quot;extended&quot; to make a laser (Maiman's contrary views on this point are very interesting).  When Maiman succeeded there seemed to be an implicit feeling in academia that the achievement came from the wrong side of the tracks and was therefore somehow illegitimate.  Perhaps the earliest clear hint of such a feeling surfaced when the editors of Physical Review rejected Maiman's paper describing the world's first successful laser!  The excuse that Hughes had already announced only seemed to underline the journal's anti-industry bias.<br />Although it is centered on laser technology, Maiman's book  is really an autobiography.  We learn about his childhood and education, his mentors, and an early project in which, somewhat ironically, he greatly improved the design of a maser.  In contemplating his place in history, he is very frank about what he sees as injustices.  He usually has good reasons for complaining and generously praises those he admires.  Clearly Maiman has enjoyed the honors and awards that have come to him, since he describes them at some length.  I had a bit of trouble getting used to his writing style, particularly the placement of commas, but that reduces not at all my enthusiastic recommendation of &quot;Laser Odyssey.&quot;obiography.  We learn about his childhood and education, his mentors, and an early project in which, somewhat ironically, he greatly improved the design of a maser.  In contemplating his place in history, he is very frank about what he sees as injustices.  He usually has good reasons for complaining and generously praises those he admires.  Clearly Maiman has enjoyed the honors and awards that have come to him, since he describes them at some length.  I had a bit of trouble getting used to his writing style, particularly the placement of commas, but that reduces not at all my enthusiastic recommendation of &quot;Laser Odyssey.&quot;	2002-09-03
US	52721958	R3KX9GLTDDU81A	0316180661	358661477	Consciousness Explained	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Conscious is as conscious does	I believe it was Thomas Wolfe who once remarked with pride that he was a generous literary putter-inner, while minimalists like Ernest Hemingway were stingy leaver-outers.  No one who finishes &quot;Consciousness Explained&quot; will doubt that Dennett belongs among the putter-inners.  For example, on reaching page 280 the reader is  casually told, &quot;I have been coy about consciousness up to now.&quot;  If only we had known, Daniel, that you've been toying with us through half the book...<br />Dennett does make a coherent case, but the theme is buried in so many asides and diversions that one needs a conceptual GPS to stay oriented.  Since he has the whole map in his head, the author naturally tends to forget that others on the tour bus may have lost their bearings two or three turns ago.  On the plus side, Dennett's pleasantly conversational tone, clever analogies and colorful terminology (Stalinesque, Multiple Drafts, Witness Protection Program) help to sustain our interest and clarify difficult concepts.<br />The big picture (I think) is that investigations of consciousness have traditionally been hindered by reliance on the concept of a &quot;Cartesian Theater&quot; in the mind where a homunculus (the audience) makes conscious observations.  As long as the nature of the theater and the homunculus remain elusive, the whole approach merely begs the questions of what consciousness is and how it happens.  Dennett proposes that neither the theater nor the audience exists (i.e. the analogies are empty) and that a massively parallel process he calls Multiple Drafts is more descriptive of what happens in a conscious brain.  The thrust of his argument is that understanding consciousness requires no ultimate appeal to mind/brain dualities, souls, spirits, quantum weirdness or other trappings of the &quot;it can't be straightforward&quot; school.  This has led disappointed devotees of the ineffable to make dismissive remarks like &quot;Dennett explains everything under the sun EXCEPT consciousness.&quot;  Don't believe it.<br />Dennett's background in philosophy serves him well in addressing the subtleties of cognition, but the resulting terminology may wear a bit on the reader.  Sometimes I thought that if I saw the 22-letter monster &quot;heterophenomenological&quot; one more time, I would scream.  On the other hand, Dennett's tale of the imaginary deity Feenoman, based on the root of this word, manages to be both hilarious and instructive.  The book is an excellent choice for those who are not merely inclined, but also steadfastly determined, to learn more about the machinery of consciousness.the sun EXCEPT consciousness.&quot;  Don't believe it.<br />Dennett's background in philosophy serves him well in addressing the subtleties of cognition, but the resulting terminology may wear a bit on the reader.  Sometimes I thought that if I saw the 22-letter monster &quot;heterophenomenological&quot; one more time, I would scream.  On the other hand, Dennett's tale of the imaginary deity Feenoman, based on the root of this word, manages to be both hilarious and instructive.  The book is an excellent choice for those who are not merely inclined, but also steadfastly determined, to learn more about the machinery of consciousness.	2002-09-02
US	52721958	R1O4YQWAE8489I	0684835150	476226471	Laser: The Inventor, the Nobel Laureate, and the Thirty-Year Patent War	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Courtroom Combat in TechTown	I had heard intriguing snippets about the strange story of Gordon Gould and the laser, so this book went automatically onto my reading list as soon as I learned that Taylor had written it.<br />If the laser were an ordinary device like the phonograph or the sewing machine, its undisputed father would be Theodore Maiman of Hughes Aircraft, who designed and built the first operational example (a strobe-pumped ruby rod) in 1960.  In the realm of highly scientific inventions, however, things are not so straightforward.  The line of credit, including honors and prizes, tends to favor the people who first publish guiding principles, whether or not they actually get anything to work.  In the U.S. this point of view spills over into patents, and the initial winner in the race for a broad laser patent was not Maiman but Charles Townes, a distinguished physicist who had invented the maser (a coherent microwave amplifier) and published ideas for extending the concept to visible frequencies, i.e. creating an optical maser.<br />In 1957 a late-blooming Columbia graduate student named Gordon Gould was suddenly struck by an inspiration for solving the optical maser problem.  He subsequently made a number of mistakes in judgment, but failing to document his work was not one of them.  He carefully recorded his ideas in a signed and witnessed lab notebook.  He even anticipated the acronym &quot;LASER&quot; (light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation).  Ironically, one of the professors he occasionally interacted with was Charles Townes.<br />Taylor's book covers the three-decade saga of Gordon Gould's fight for recognition by the United States Patent Office.  In a sense the story pits a classic &quot;loser&quot; (Gould) against a classic &quot;winner&quot; (Townes).  In the end, neither of those stereotypes matter. The final outcome is governed only by facts on record, the communication skills of the principals and their lawyers, and the sometimes murky mental processes of patent examiners and judges.  The twists and turns that lead to that outcome, as expertly  navigated by the author, provide a pretty good primer in practical patent law as well as in the basics of laser technology.  The human side of the seemingly luckless Gould is also vividly explored.  We see that he is usually underestimated by those who don't know him well, and admired by those who do.<br />The author is not neutral, but he is convincing, and also conscientious about providing a good factual basis for the reader to judge whether or not this landmark intellectual property case was justly decided.of patent examiners and judges.  The twists and turns that lead to that outcome, as expertly  navigated by the author, provide a pretty good primer in practical patent law as well as in the basics of laser technology.  The human side of the seemingly luckless Gould is also vividly explored.  We see that he is usually underestimated by those who don't know him well, and admired by those who do.<br />The author is not neutral, but he is convincing, and also conscientious about providing a good factual basis for the reader to judge whether or not this landmark intellectual property case was justly decided.	2001-08-16
US	52721958	R312JI9YO5HQNF	073820143X	589019468	Isaac Newton: The Last Sorcerer (Helix Books)	Books	2	17	21	N	N	Newton through a filter?	Although he competently covers the basics of Newton's life and work, Mr. White has two bees in his bonnet that created, in my head at least, a persistent and annoying buzz.  The first is that Newton's mathematical and physical insights were somehow vitally linked to, and enhanced by, his dead-end alchemical studies.  The second is that he, the author, is qualified to read Sir Isaac's mind at will and report the results as fact.<br />There is no doubt that Newton could be difficult, but when he said in a letter to the even more difficult Robert Hooke &quot;...If I have seen further it is by standing on the shoulders of giants...,&quot; the reasonable assumption would be that he was paying a straightforward compliment to predecessors such as Copernicus, Galileo, Kepler and Descartes. White, however, takes this self-effacing remark as revealing &quot;the truly spiteful, uncompromising and razor-sharp viciousness of his character...&quot;  and decides that Newton was mocking Hooke's deformed physique.  Considering the whole of the letter and allowing for 17th-century styles, I see no justification for such an extreme interpretive leap.  The author does this kind of thing repeatedly.  He  claims on page 170 that Newton's modest remarks about his reflecting telescope were insincere,  but provides no supporting evidence.  He states on page 180 that Newton  was &quot;Unable to deal with fault-finding in any form, from anyone,&quot; but on the next page we find Newton dealing very effectively with criticism from Hooke.<br />On page 193 White argues that Newton had established an inverse-square &quot;receding&quot; force experienced by a body in orbit, but needed alchemical inspiration to realize that an attractive force also operated.  This is odd, because by Newton's third law the two forces were simply matched mirror images, and it seems more plausible that the action/reaction principle would have occurred to him through observation of everyday mechanical and electrostatic or magnetic (action at a distance) events, rather than through speculations on transmutation of the elements.  White further claims on page 199 that by 1687 Newton had &quot;...made use of concepts and images derived from his alchemical studies and researches into ancient theology to construct a workable celestial mechanics...&quot;  By Occam's razor it seems much more likely that a rational extension of the foundations laid by Galileo and Kepler, plus the confirming power of his calculus applied to astronomical observations, would have accounted for Newton's achievement  -- with or without alchemy.<br />This well-organized book contains much interesting and useful information, which makes me all the more sorry that the author's agendized approach interfered significantly with my ability to enjoy reading it.atic or magnetic (action at a distance) events, rather than through speculations on transmutation of the elements.  White further claims on page 199 that by 1687 Newton had &quot;...made use of concepts and images derived from his alchemical studies and researches into ancient theology to construct a workable celestial mechanics...&quot;  By Occam's razor it seems much more likely that a rational extension of the foundations laid by Galileo and Kepler, plus the confirming power of his calculus applied to astronomical observations, would have accounted for Newton's achievement  -- with or without alchemy.<br />This well-organized book contains much interesting and useful information, which makes me all the more sorry that the author's agendized approach interfered significantly with my ability to enjoy reading it.	2001-06-10
US	52721958	R3EWEN9L2W3UL1	081352783X	408628364	The Riddled Chain: Chance, Coincidence and Chaos in Human Evolution	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	How we got bright enough to wonder how we got bright	By choosing &quot;The Riddled Chain&quot; for his title, Prof. McKee may have meant to invoke both meanings of the R-word.  First, the eons-long ascent of living things from isolated cells to hyper-cerebral humans was so riddled with the vagaries of chance, coincidence and chaos that a repeat experiment on a twin planet might stall at some low level, or branch in unimaginably strange ways, or fail completely.  Second, the unlikely chain that did unfold on Earth is still to some extent a mystery, a riddle waiting to be solved.<br />Although McKee's informal style and frequent flashes of humor make for pleasant reading, the book also has much to teach.  Its central theme reflects the growing realization among scientists that spontaneous development to the level of thinking, planning creatures is a rare event, perhaps much rarer than previously thought.  The author puts it succinctly in his opening chapter: &quot;....Human evolution has been the product of many forces that together made us neither inevitable nor probable.&quot;<br />Drawing from Chaos Theory, McKee explores the drastic consequences that minute initial-condition changes can cause in long-duration, many-branched processes such as biological evolution.  At the end of such a process it may be impossible to distinguish the contributions of truly random events, such as gene mutations and natural disasters, from the deterministic but random-appearing effects of chaotic variation.  One way to &quot;separate the variables&quot; is to construct a simulation.  Reporting on an example of such evolutionary modeling by computer, McKee describes surprising results that seem to confirm the famous &quot;butterfly effect&quot; often cited in time-travel science fiction.<br />Although he underscores the inevitable roles of chaos and unpredictability, McKee does not ignore the feedback phenomena that stabilized evolution and drove it in the direction of increasing complexity.  Natural selection and its companion forces, gene flow and genetic drift, are given a thorough treatment which includes cases where selection fails, such as accidental early deaths unrelated to genetic fitness.  An entire chapter is devoted to the concept of autocatalytic (self-driven) evolution and its continuing importance as advanced species like H. sapiens willfully modify their environment and replace natural selection with artificial selection through social policies and medical intervention.<br />One of the book's most engaging chapters underscores the limitations of evolution, such as having to fashion every new model by tinkering nondestructively with an existing one (in contrast to supernatural design, which could start each species with a clean sheet.)  McKee amusingly details some of the dubious orthopedic compromises involved in raising mammals from quadruped to biped status, freeing their  increasingly articulated front feet to become full-time hands.<br />In  &quot;A Tale of Two Sites,&quot; the author gives a fascinating account of his fossil-hunting during ten years in South Africa.  While the main thrust of the book is dedicated to helping the reader understand big-picture issues in evolutionary anthropology, a detailed description of McKee's inspirations and frustrations in field work adds depth and practical substance to the theoretical portions of the book.<br />I greatly enjoyed &quot;The Riddled Chain&quot; and believe it will both entertain and educate anyone wanting to learn more about the awesome and mysterious, but not miraculous, origins of humanity.ene flow and genetic drift, are given a thorough treatment which includes cases where selection fails, such as accidental early deaths unrelated to genetic fitness.  An entire chapter is devoted to the concept of autocatalytic (self-driven) evolution and its continuing importance as advanced species like H. sapiens willfully modify their environment and replace natural selection with artificial selection through social policies and medical intervention.<br />One of the book's most engaging chapters underscores the limitations of evolution, such as having to fashion every new model by tinkering nondestructively with an existing one (in contrast to supernatural design, which could start each species with a clean sheet.)  McKee amusingly details some of the dubious orthopedic compromises involved in raising mammals from quadruped to biped status, freeing their  increasingly articulated front feet to become full-time hands.<br />In  &quot;A Tale of Two Sites,&quot; the author gives a fascinating account of his fossil-hunting during ten years in South Africa.  While the main thrust of the book is dedicated to helping the reader understand big-picture issues in evolutionary anthropology, a detailed description of McKee's inspirations and frustrations in field work adds depth and practical substance to the theoretical portions of the book.<br />I greatly enjoyed &quot;The Riddled Chain&quot; and believe it will both entertain and educate anyone wanting to learn more about the awesome and mysterious, but not miraculous, origins of humanity.	2001-03-22
US	52721958	R1DSL1O9ETUM6B	0393319911	81678570	Geons, Black Holes, and Quantum Foam: A Life in Physics	Books	4	44	44	N	Y	Remarkable scientist, admirable man	Having noticed over the years that Prof. John Archibald Wheeler's name turns up in an amazing variety of physics-related articles and anecdotes, I was particularly primed to read his autobiography.  The book doesn't follow a simple from-birth chronology, but rather begins with Wheeler teaching at Princeton and volunteering to meet the ship carrying his mentor, Niels Bohr, at a New York City dock in January of 1939.  From that pivotal moment at the brink of World War II, Wheeler fills out his story by reaching back to childhood and forward to his long career in teaching, research, and national service.  We learn of his brother Joe, whose body lay in a foxhole on an Italian hillside until it was reduced to bones.  Wheeler reminds us that if the Manhattan Project had geared up one year earlier, the lives of his brother and many others might have been spared.<br /> Wheeler's remarkable character pervades the book and helps make it unique and interesting. In a profession legendary for strong intellects and egos, he has achieved and maintained a pomposity coefficient of zero.  His judgments of other people are unfailingly generous, but also astute enough to be interesting and revealing. He provides candid firsthand impressions of legendary figures such as Bohr, Einstein, Oppenheimer, Teller, Ulam, Heisenberg, Fermi, Szilard and Feynman .  We also learn about many less well-known colleagues, friends and students whom he finds memorable for various reasons. In contrast to the eminent-scientist stereotype, Wheeler has always enjoyed teaching undergraduates and is genuinely interested in the problems and aspirations of the young people entrusted to his care.<br />Like the brilliant George Gamow, Wheeler has a talent for explaining difficult concepts and illustrating them with whimsically inventive diagrams.  The book's autobiographical threads are interwoven with a rich tapestry of subtle but plainly-spoken physical insights on dozens of topics, some arcane enough to leave even the author slightly bemused. I believe anyone interested in physics will find a personal revelation or two among Wheeler's lucid, informal scientific explanations.  There are touches of Gamowesque humor too, such as his theory that the fates somehow conspired to entangle him with a string of Hungarian emigres.<br />The title concepts of the book -- Geons, Black Holes and Quantum Foam -- were all named by Wheeler himself.  He began his career at  the minute scale of particle physics, moved on to the grand sweep of relativistic cosmology, and finally circled back to the hyperminuteness of quantum foam.  Of course there is nothing really disjointed about such a journey, since connections among the nested scales of nature constitute one of the grand unifying themes of physics.ven the author slightly bemused. I believe anyone interested in physics will find a personal revelation or two among Wheeler's lucid, informal scientific explanations.  There are touches of Gamowesque humor too, such as his theory that the fates somehow conspired to entangle him with a string of Hungarian emigres.<br />The title concepts of the book -- Geons, Black Holes and Quantum Foam -- were all named by Wheeler himself.  He began his career at  the minute scale of particle physics, moved on to the grand sweep of relativistic cosmology, and finally circled back to the hyperminuteness of quantum foam.  Of course there is nothing really disjointed about such a journey, since connections among the nested scales of nature constitute one of the grand unifying themes of physics.	2001-02-09
US	52721958	R30BOKHFCNF933	0380728397	995875512	Don't Know Much About the Bible: Everything You Need to Know About the Good Book but Never Learned	Books	4	46	54	N	N	A Good Look at the Good Book	I've always been leery of books with names like &quot;Personal Hygiene<br />for the Complete Idiot&quot; or &quot;Home Schooling for<br />Dummies.&quot; Is it good marketing technique to choose a title that<br />forces the reader into an embarrassing self-classification?  With his<br />popular &quot;Don't Know Much About... &quot; series, Mr. Davis<br />introduced a presumably unintentional double meaning that could be<br />construed as reflecting on the author as well. ....  In my own case,<br />having just finished reading the Old and New Testaments straight<br />through but lacking historical background, I readily admitted<br />ignorance in the hope of reducing it.  I wasn't disappointed.<br />Davis<br />tries to give the reader a sense of when, where, and by whom the 39<br />Old Testament and 27 New Testament &quot;books&quot; were written.  In<br />doing this he has no choice but to reveal how factually thin the<br />information base available to Bible scholars really is.  Since<br />uncertainty usually breeds controversy, the shrillness of the more<br />acid criticisms directed at the author by self-styled Bible buffs is<br />not surprising.  Perhaps the scholarly types are also annoyed by<br />Davis's effort to keep the tone light, and to emphasize anomalies<br />bound to surprise readers who have absorbed only the second-hand<br />biblical bromides that permeate popular culture.  For example, Eve's<br />snake-induced snack was not named as an apple, only as<br />&quot;fruit&quot;; there are two semi-contradictory versions of<br />Genesis; there weren't enough people to provide Cain with a wife;<br />Moses probably didn't cross the Red Sea, and Jesus may not have been<br />an only child.  Davis also maintains interest by highlighting the<br />Bible's copious sex and violence content.  I would characterize the<br />author's overall tone as bemused but respectful.<br />There are a couple<br />of places in the book where I question Mr. Davis's reasoning.  On<br />pages 116 and 118 he supports the view that bad people such as the<br />medieval crusaders, who committed atrocities in the name of religion,<br />were merely blasphemers pretending to be followers of God.  The<br />implication seems to be that a religious person can't be evil, because<br />if he is evil, then he's not truly religious.  Logically speaking, you<br />can't get more speciously circular than that.  Shall we argue that<br />when Jehovah orders the slaughter of promised-land citizens down to<br />the last man, woman, and guiltless child (Deuteronomy 20:16), he's<br />just taking a little time out to blaspheme himself?<br />The author takes<br />another puzzling position on page 126, saying<br /> &quot;....Many<br />passages in the Bible condone slavery, one reason it was justified by<br />American Christian slaveholders.  We can only consider slavery an<br />inhumane and immoral institution, a very clear case of something that<br />was acceptable in the time of Moses but is now considered<br />reprehensible.&quot;<br />There's nothing wrong with this comment in<br />itself, but it ignores a huge underlying issue.  Consider the<br />fundamental premise of the Bible.  A single being, Jehovah, created<br />the entire universe and populated a small part of it with intelligent<br />humans crafted in his own image. He interacted extensively with a<br />preferred group of these humans, talking to some of them directly,<br />teaching, making rules, in fact micro-managing them relentlessly (see<br />any part of Leviticus or Numbers).  The people of Biblical times were<br />fully as intelligent as we, and fully as capable of understanding<br />moral principles.<br />The underlying issue, then, is that to accomplish<br />what he is said to have done, Jehovah must have been a master of all<br />disciplines known to us, and must have been knowledgeable in every<br />conceivable area.  Humans have all sorts of excuses for being<br />ignorant, but Jehovah has none, and had none in the time of Moses.  So<br />why didn't Jehovah rule and teach unequivocally against slavery?<br />After all, he issued a formidable roster of laws, many of them fixated<br />on ceremonial trivia and imposing draconian penalties for minor<br />infractions (again, see Leviticus).  This is a small part of a much<br />larger question: Are Jehovah's character, actions and words, taken at<br />face value from Scripture, consistent with the knowledge and abilities<br />claimed for him?  I would have been very interested in Mr. Davis's<br />opinion.<br />In the end, the parts of the book most directly helpful to<br />me were the factual aids provided by the author to broaden a reader's<br />perspective.  These included:<br />An eight-installment timeline<br />(&quot;Milestones&quot;) relating biblical events to well-known<br />people, places and cultural developments outside the scope of the<br />Scriptures.<br />A discussion of various versions of the Bible with<br />guidelines on their interpretive strengths and weaknesses (Davis<br />prefers the New Oxford Annotated edition).<br />A table of 35<br />New-Testament miracles, showing in which of the four Gospels each<br />event is mentioned.  This creates an interesting ranking topped by the<br />ultra-certified, four-Gospel miracle of feeding five thousand people<br />from five loaves of bread and two fish.<br />If you are already an expert<br />in the Scriptures, the title alone should vector you away from this<br />book.  But for the rest of us, I recommend it.This is a small part of a much larger question: Are Jehovah's character, actions and words, taken at face value from Scripture, consistent with the knowledge and abilities claimed for him?  I would have been very interested in Mr. Davis's opinion.<br />In the end, the parts of the book most directly helpful to me were the factual aids provided by the author to broaden a reader's perspective.  These included:<br />An eight-installment timeline (&quot;Milestones&quot;) relating biblical events to well-known people, places and cultural developments outside the scope of the Scriptures.<br />A discussion of various versions of the Bible with guidelines on their interpretive strengths and weaknesses (Davis prefers the New Oxford Annotated edition).<br />A table of 35 New-Testament miracles, showing in which of the four Gospels each event is mentioned.  This creates an interesting ranking topped by the ultra-certified, four-Gospel miracle of feeding five thousand people from five loaves of bread and two fish.<br />If you are already an expert in the Scriptures, the title alone should vector you away from this book.  But for the rest of us, I recommend it.	2000-11-15
US	52721958	R110WTQX7S25Y3	0395633184	927643194	Strange Justice: The Selling of Clarence Thomas	Books	4	101	113	N	N	Truth matters, else nothing matters	It's no accident that the title of &quot;Strange Justice&quot; is a play on words.  In one context, the authors believe Anita Hill encountered strange justice at the hands of the Senate Judiciary Committee during her appearance at the 1991 confirmation hearings for Clarence Thomas (who prevailed and now sits on the Supreme Court).  In a second context, they present ample evidence for considering Mr. Thomas a rather strange man, and hence a rather strange Justice as well.<br />Hill claimed that Thomas said things to her which most people would consider offensive in any setting.  Add to this that the actual setting was the workplace, that Thomas was her boss, and that he was chairman of the EEOC, the agency responsible for nationwide tracking of employment-related sexual harassment complaints.<br />At the time of the televised hearings, my wife and I had a strong impression that Ms. Hill was telling the truth.  Opinion on the Judiciary committee appeared to follow political lines, with Chairman Biden shuttling between the two sides like an amiable ping-pong ball, ever conscious of the risks implicit in taking a stand.  Although Ms. Hill's testimony did not prevent Thomas's confirmation, all the senators made it clear that they considered her allegations very serious.  Thomas denied everything and Hill retracted nothing, so there's a 100 percent certainty of rampant lying by one of them.<br />Does this book do anything to clear up the question?  I think it does, for one powerful reason.  A number of named friends and colleagues of Thomas, both male and female, confirm for the record that he had a prior history of private and public behavior entirely consistent with Ms. Hill's complaints.  In an extended investigation, these facts would have come out.  There were many reasons why that didn't happen, not the least of which was Hill's appearance at the last hour.<br />If you are interested in the simple truth of the matter, and are willing to plow through the political and sociological underpinnings attached to it, I recommend the book.d sociological underpinnings attached to it, I recommend the book.	2000-10-30
US	52721958	R49AJMTJ4AURP	0691050511	241113184	The Fire within the Eye	Books	4	16	16	N	Y	Man, Light, and Time	The subtitle of Prof. Park's book is &quot;A historical Essay on the Nature and Meaning of Light.&quot;  That promise is faithfully kept in a thorough, erudite, and entertaining narrative.  Park, a physicist, seems equally at home as historian, philosopher and classicist.  Paying meticulous attention to the nuances of thought and language, he traces mankind's twenty-five century struggle to understand the phenomena of light and vision, beginning with Empedocles in Greek antiquity and ending in the quantum-mechanical era of Planck, Einstein and Bohr.<br />With scholarly patience, Park dissects and illuminates the struggles of early investigators to get a grip on the baffling mysteries of light and its interaction with the human eye.  This often requires the author to pick bits of sense out of mounds of nonsense.  He points out, for example, that even the wildly mistaken hypothesis of visual rays emanating from the eye led to some correct conclusions about geometric optics. Park also underscores the fact that taking the next step puts even the most accomplished scientists at risk.  For example, Newton's particle interpretation of light incorrectly called for an increase of speed on passing from air to a denser material and (due to his influence and prestige) delayed acceptance of the wave interpretation pioneered by Huygens and conclusively demonstrated by Young.  In an ironic twist, particles of light returned with a vengeance as thoroughly modern quantized photons.<br />Aside from some minor errors and omissions in figures,  the only factual problems I encountered came on page 165, where convergence point P in Figure 6.5 is incorrectly called the focal point of the lens (this would be true only for incoming rays parallel with the optical axis), and the inverted real aerial image formed by the lens is misidentified as a virtual image.<br />Perhaps the most distinctive quality of &quot;The Fire Within the Eye&quot; is Park's astute and encyclopedic grasp of historical context.  One senses that he is telling only a fraction of what he knows about the lives and times of the philosophers and scientists who populate the book.l context.  One senses that he is telling only a fraction of what he knows about the lives and times of the philosophers and scientists who populate the book.	2000-10-25
US	52721958	R2IEUV1WXDHSEJ	0060929960	40354766	The Ten Commandments: The Significance of God's Laws in Everyday Life	Books	3	46	63	N	Y	The 10C's on the dissecting table	Dr. Schlessinger and Rabbi Vogel have organized their book in the most straightforward fashion imaginable.  The 319 pages of text are doled out at the rate of one chapter per commandment, in numerical order.  The back  cover contains a handy condensed list which shows, at a glance, how the  commandments divide into two natural groups.<br /> The first group, 1 through  4, contains doctrinal commands bearing directly on religious practices and  traditions.  The second group, 5 through 10, consists of social interaction  rules which are not intrinsically religious at all, but rather address  behavioral issues very familiar to anyone who has reached adulthood in the  company of other humans.<br />It has always seemed to me that the doctrinal  commandments (I'm your God; don't worship any other gods; don't blaspheme;  keep the Sabbath) offer next-to-zero practical guidance for solving moral  problems. Hence I was especially curious to see how Dr. Schlessinger and  Rabbi Vogel would treat the initial four commandments in their effort to  relate them to everyday life.  One answer is, &quot;thoroughly&quot; --  roughly 44,000 words of commentary for 190 words of commandment.  The  result literally defies summary, but I'll try.<br />C1).  The authors  characterize the First Commandment as a challenge to take relationships  with God seriously, as a means for laying down the authority of one God,  and as a reminder that proper interaction with God is covenantal, not  casual.  Five supporting points are made by stating reservations that a  person might have in accepting doctrinal-command obligations, then giving a  rejoinder or counter-argument in parentheses. The first  is<br />&quot;Abdication of personal freedom (but not so - you always retain  free will).&quot;<br />Fair enough.  The fifth is<br />&quot;Acquiescence of  intellect to ancient mysticism (but imagining one's own intellect as the  ultimate possible intelligence and power is supreme  arrogance).&quot;<br />Oops. Note that the rejoinder spuriously attempts to  limit the possible responses to two. In truth the reader does NOT have to  choose between a) acquiescing to mysticism or b) appointing himself Master  of the Universe.  It is entirely possible to reject mysticism and remain  one's humble self.  In fact, I and many others do it regularly.  In the  end, the First Commandment remains about as simple as it sounds: I'm the  main man; I rescued you from Egypt; take it or leave it.<br />C2). In the  opening pages of the C2 (false idols) chapter, the authors quote from  Exodus 34:6,7, describing God as one &quot;...Who cleanses -- but does not  cleanse completely, recalling the iniquity of parents upon children and  grandchildren...&quot;.  In my Bible, a similar threat of generational  pass-through punishment for idolatry is included in the wording of C2  itself (Exodus 20:5,6).  If there is any moral point on which every  resident of Earth could intellectually and instinctively agree, it would be  that each child is rightfully born innocent.  What, then, should we think  of an authority figure who takes vengeance by deliberately subverting that  eminently just and fair principle?<br />According to Dr. Schlessinger and  Rabbi Vogel,  C2 is taken so seriously in Judaism that breaking it, i.e.  engaging in idolatry, is a sin one must be willing to die to avoid.  They  go on to define idolatry as everything from full-blown, golden-calf idol  worship down to common foibles such as superstitions, Princess Diana  fixations, egocentrism, bowing to feelings, selfish pursuit of happiness,  and love of things or style.  If you would, then, rather die than break C2,  you'll be very careful or very short-lived.  Having twice absorbed all 39  pages of C2 elucidation, I can pretty confidently reduce it to this: God is  really, really touchy about competition.<br />C3) and C4).  My reading of the  C3 (blasphemy) chapter led to an interesting discovery.  Back on page 33 of  the C2 chapter, the authors had pointed to mass killings in Russia, the  Third Reich, China and Cambodia as &quot;blatant testimonials to godless  chaos and cruelty,&quot; the implication being that if people who are not  religious do bad things, it must be BECAUSE they are not religious.  A  little additional thinking would have helped the authors realize that lack  of Judeo-Christian religiosity may, or may not, account for a given  instance of bad behavior.<br />I wondered why the alternative cases where bad  things are done by religious people, such as Northern Ireland, the  Crusades, the Spanish Inquisition, etc., were omitted.  A partial answer  came when I reached page 93, at the end of the C3 chapter.  Sure enough,  the Crusaders were condemned for &quot;raping and murdering with the sign  of the cross embroidered on their chests and banners,&quot; but as  blasphemers, not as religious criminals! That, I had to concede, was  ingenious.  Evidently the reasoning goes as follows: No evil can be done by  religious people, because if you're evil, you're not really religious.  So  the Crusaders can be passed off as blasphemers who were merely masquerading  as murderous religious zealots.  It is a perfectly circular bit of Catch-22  logic that Yossarian, the Abyssinian bombardier, would have loved.  The  fullsome C4 chapter says, six ways to Saturday, that the Sabbath or day of  rest is enhancing and uplifting, provided it is dedicated to spiritually  acceptable activities.  A list of suggestions is provided to clarify what  is acceptable.  Coincidentally, there are 10 of them.<br />Having learned many  things about the four doctrinal commandments, I was nevertheless left with  the depressingly tautological conclusion that they can be inspiring, but  only if you are religious to begin with, or become religious while studying  them.<br />The remainder of the book, covering the social interaction  commandments 5 through 10, deals with common-sense moral rules that can  help anyone, religious or not. But they consist of isolated cases rather  than embodying a  general  principle that covers all  situations.  I can't  write much more and stay within the Amazon word limit, so suffice it to say  that I'm coming to believe the moral-guidance value of the 10 C's is rather  overrated, and the power of the golden rule is definitely underrated.the authors had pointed to mass killings in Russia, the  Third Reich, China and Cambodia as &quot;blatant testimonials to godless  chaos and cruelty,&quot; the implication being that if people who are not  religious do bad things, it must be BECAUSE they are not religious.  A  little additional thinking would have helped the authors realize that lack  of Judeo-Christian religiosity may, or may not, account for a given  instance of bad behavior.<br />I wondered why the alternative cases where bad  things are done by religious people, such as Northern Ireland, the  Crusades, the Spanish Inquisition, etc., were omitted.  A partial answer  came when I reached page 93, at the end of the C3 chapter.  Sure enough,  the Crusaders were condemned for &quot;raping and murdering with the sign  of the cross embroidered on their chests and banners,&quot; but as  blasphemers, not as religious criminals! That, I had to concede, was  ingenious.  Evidently the reasoning goes as follows: No evil can be done by  religious people, because if you're evil, you're not really religious.  So  the Crusaders can be passed off as blasphemers who were merely masquerading  as murderous religious zealots.  It is a perfectly circular bit of Catch-22  logic that Yossarian, the Abyssinian bombardier, would have loved.  The  fullsome C4 chapter says, six ways to Saturday, that the Sabbath or day of  rest is enhancing and uplifting, provided it is dedicated to spiritually  acceptable activities.  A list of suggestions is provided to clarify what  is acceptable.  Coincidentally, there are 10 of them.<br />Having learned many  things about the four doctrinal commandments, I was nevertheless left with  the depressingly tautological conclusion that they can be inspiring, but  only if you are religious to begin with, or become religious while studying  them.<br />The remainder of the book, covering the social interaction  commandments 5 through 10, deals with common-sense moral rules that can  help anyone,religious or not. But they consist of isolated cases rather  than embodying a  general  principle that covers all  situations.  I can't  write much more and stay within the Amazon word limit, so suffice it to say  that I'm coming to believe the moral-guidance value of the 10 C's is rather  overrated, and the power of the golden rule is definitely underrated.	2000-06-16
US	52721958	RLGVNXL8X5Y9R	071673561X	379897019	How We Believe: The Search for God in an Age of Science	Books	4	14	14	N	Y	Being is believing - but can you choose wisely?	In the preface to &quot;How We Believe,&quot; Michael Shermer thanks his family for raising him in an atmosphere free of pressure regarding either religious or secular beliefs.  I feel the same gratitude toward my family,  and greatly enjoy the game of truth-hunting without having to drag along  the millstones that childhood indoctrination can attach.  Shermer's book  covers a lot of ground, ranging from general philosophical commentary on  belief systems, to Cargo and Messiah Cults, to the author's personal  intellectual journey and conclusions.  Along the way (Chapter 4) we are  shown interesting results from a study, co-designed by the author, in which  selected groups of individuals were asked to explain and interpret their  own religious views.  Shermer is able to deduce some fascinating,  revealing, and occasionally amusing generalizations from the survey  data.<br />In terms of creative content the book's most important contribution  is Chapter 10, &quot;Glorious Contingency.&quot;  Here Shermer expands on a  theme credited to S.J. Gould, the central idea being that the evolutionary  chain leading to H. Sapiens (us) was contingency-intensive, and therefore  probably  irreproducible if a repeat trial could somehow be arranged.  Gould attributes the irreproducibility not primarily to true randomness or  asteroid-type disasters, but rather to overwhelming practical uncertainties  rooted in the sensitivity of final outcomes to initial conditions and early  events in lengthy, complex processes.  As the author points out, recent  trends in Chaos Theory lend support to such a conclusion.  After addressing  some criticisms of Gould (primarily from Daniel Dennett), Shermer  introduces his own concept, Contingent-Necessity, which is generalized to  cover not just biological evolution, but any historical sequence or  process.  He proposes a shifting balance (bifurcation) between contingency  and necessity  that could clarify the nature and genesis of events ranging  from punctuated equilibria in evolution to the great social upheavals in  human history.<br />A common complaint about Shermer's books is that he tends  to ramble; that is, every chapter is not centered on the book's title  subject.  True enough, but I don't see a serious problem if the material is  at least related to the book's main theme.  One Amazon reviewer saw no  satisfactorily-explained connection between religion and the  above-described Chapter 10.  It seems to me that in the chapter's last  section (&quot;Finding Meaning in a Contingent Universe&quot;), the  connection becomes clear enough: To evaluate intelligently any religion's  view of how and when we got here, one requires more than passing  familiarity with what science, with its built-in BS detectors, can tell us  about the very same subject. On the critical side, I have to agree with the  reviewer who found Shermer's reference to science as &quot;a type of  myth&quot; quite annoying.  The problem isn't so much the statement itself  as the author's assumption that no supporting explanation was necessary.om punctuated equilibria in evolution to the great social upheavals in  human history.<br />A common complaint about Shermer's books is that he tends  to ramble; that is, every chapter is not centered on the book's title  subject.  True enough, but I don't see a serious problem if the material is  at least related to the book's main theme.  One Amazon reviewer saw no  satisfactorily-explained connection between religion and the  above-described Chapter 10.  It seems to me that in the chapter's last  section (&quot;Finding Meaning in a Contingent Universe&quot;), the  connection becomes clear enough: To evaluate intelligently any religion's  view of how and when we got here, one requires more than passing  familiarity with what science, with its built-in BS detectors, can tell us  about the very same subject. On the critical side, I have to agree with the  reviewer who found Shermer's reference to science as &quot;a type of  myth&quot; quite annoying.  The problem isn't so much the statement itself  as the author's assumption that no supporting explanation was necessary.	2000-06-05
US	52721958	R2G7GBC5BQDDAW	0393008681	392718393	Rosalind Franklin and DNA	Books	5	87	93	N	Y	What &quot;The Double Helix&quot; didn't tell you	Sayre's book is a biography with an agenda.  It is also one of the rare instances where an author is sufficiently thoughtful and objective to keep the agenda from ruining the piece.<br />Rosalind Franklin was a chemist doing  x-ray crystallography on DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) in Maurice Wilkins'  laboratory at King's College, London.  Concurrently, James Watson and  Francis Crick were trying to puzzle out DNA's molecular structure in the  Cavendish Laboratory at Cambridge.  Technically the two institutions were  not competitors, because the English scientific establishment had  &quot;ceded&quot; the DNA problem to King's.  The world knows that Watson  and Crick were first to publish the correct structure of the substance  which encodes and controls every detail of the configuration, development,  maintenance and reproduction of living things.<br />Watson and Crick were the  kind of bad boys we generally admire.  From positions very low on the  Cavendish totem pole, they tunneled under, around and through the decorous  conventions of incremental science to snatch a  Nobel-caliber breakthrough  from the very hands of the people who were supposed (eventually) to produce  it.  They even had a plausible excuse for ethical shortcuts, because the  American superstar-chemist Linus Pauling, unconstrained by British decorum,  was known to be working on the DNA structure.<br />In 1968, Watson published  &quot;The Double Helix&quot;,  an entertaining and irreverent personal  account of the triumph he and Crick had achieved in 1953.  On the positive  side, the book gave many people (including myself) their first look at the  fascinating scientific and human details of a brilliant achievement in the  relatively new field of molecular biology.  On the negative side, Watson's  version of the story did not please everyone who had prior knowledge of the  people and events involved.  Among the least pleased, to put it mildly,  were the family and friends of Rosalind Franklin (Ms. Franklin herself did  not live to see the cruelly caricatured &quot;Rosy&quot; that Watson  sketched for his largely naive and trusting audience.)<br />One of the  friends, Anne Sayre, took on the task of providing a comprehensive portrait  of Franklin, interwoven with a retelling of the DNA story centered on the  tragic consequences flowing from the simple inability of two intelligent  people (Franklin and Wilkins) to get along.  But the book is much more than  a psychological study.  Sayre documents some unambiguous facts that  establish what Franklin knew about DNA and when she knew it.  Also revealed  are the instances in which her work was used without her knowledge and,  even more unfortunately, the degree to which misunderstanding of Franklin's  conclusions about the B-form of DNA slowed everyone's progress and robbed  her of due credit.<br />I found Sayre to be unfailingly perceptive and  balanced while following a course of strong, even indignant, advocacy.  This is no mean feat, and follows in part from her extensive interviews  with all the principals, as well as fruitful discussions with her scientist  husband. I highly recommend the book to anyone interested in gaining  perspective on the DNA story, and on science itself.anklin herself did  not live to see the cruelly caricatured &quot;Rosy&quot; that Watson  sketched for his largely naive and trusting audience.)<br />One of the  friends, Anne Sayre, took on the task of providing a comprehensive portrait  of Franklin, interwoven with a retelling of the DNA story centered on the  tragic consequences flowing from the simple inability of two intelligent  people (Franklin and Wilkins) to get along.  But the book is much more than  a psychological study.  Sayre documents some unambiguous facts that  establish what Franklin knew about DNA and when she knew it.  Also revealed  are the instances in which her work was used without her knowledge and,  even more unfortunately, the degree to which misunderstanding of Franklin's  conclusions about the B-form of DNA slowed everyone's progress and robbed  her of due credit.<br />I found Sayre to be unfailingly perceptive and  balanced while following a course of strong, even indignant, advocacy.   This is no mean feat, and follows in part from her extensive interviews  with all the principals, as well as fruitful discussions with her scientist  husband. I highly recommend the book to anyone interested in gaining  perspective on the DNA story, and on science itself.	1999-09-21
US	52721958	RS8OYA0C0ABY2	0486256642	507528488	One Two Three . . . Infinity: Facts and Speculations of Science (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	5	29	29	N	Y	A grand tour of science by a master	I'm happy to join the list of reviewers who owe something personal to this marvelous book.  As a liberal arts undergraduate in 1955, I borrowed &quot;1,2,3...&quot; from my physics-major roomate.  I liked it so much that  he kindly gave me his copy.  Its influence contributed to my later decision  to become an engineer, and marked the beginning of my lifelong interest in  science.<br />On recently re-reading the 1961 edition, I was impressed all  over again by Gamow's friendly, conversational, agenda-free style.  Since  he never talks down, never hand-waves, and always goes straight to the  essence of a topic, this decades-old book still seems fresh and  contemporary.  And yes, the dry, slightly pixilated humor still works.<br />I  once met a man who had taken a course from Gamow at the University of  Colorado.  He said he would never forget the sight of the professor  careening around campus in an open convertible -- in the middle of January!	1999-09-21
US	52721958	R5PQQKHS5LBSY	0684834936	667246406	Darwin's Black Box: The Biochemical Challenge to Evolution	Books	3	22	29	N	N	A biochemist throws down the gauntlet	Prof. Behe is quick to immobilize his target.  In the preface to &quot;Darwin's Black Box,&quot; he takes aim at evolution (as a word) and pins down its &quot;full-throated biological meaning&quot; as &quot;...a  process whereby life arose from non-living matter and subsequently  developed entirely by natural means.&quot;  Such a sweeping definition is  central to Prof. Behe's case, because he ends chapter one by stating  &quot;...for the Darwinian theory of evolution to be true, it has to  account for the molecular structure of life.  It is the purpose of this  book to show that it does not.&quot;<br />Behe's goal is to convince the  general reader that the logical foundations of evolution cannot reach back  into the cell itself because a number of intra-cellular subsystems and  processes are &quot;irreducibly complex.&quot;  By analogy, he describes a  mousetrap as irreducibly complex because each of its parts is necessary for  the whole to function.  Therefore any step-by-step assembly sequence of the  mechanism would produce non-functioning precursors until the last part was  in place.  In the equivalent biological model, there would be no way for  the machinery of the cell to evolve by natural selection of small random  variations, because the non-functional precursors could never gain a  foothold on the ladder of increasing survivability.<br />After apologizing  rather profusely to his readers for asking them to actually follow a  technical description, Behe expertly and entertainingly presents several  examples for which he claims irreducibility, namely the bacterial flagellum  (propeller), the blood clotting cycle, vesicular transport, the immune  system, and AMP/ATP molecular synthesis.  As one of the biological  innocents in his target audience, I confess to being bowled over by Behe's  arguments on first reading.  When he says, in effect, &quot;O.K. Darwin,  evolve THAT,&quot; a layperson can't be blamed for feeling  overwhelmed.<br />However, on looking over the many responses to  &quot;Darwin's Black Box&quot; from molecular biologists and evolutionists,  one can see that Behe's fellow professionals are far from cowed.  The most  telling counter-argument points out a fundamental flaw in the mousetrap  analogy -- the implicit assumption that the parts themselves can't change  as the mechanism develops.  Evolutionists maintain that the  &quot;finished&quot; components of an evolved system may not even resemble  the initial components, and that parts or subsystems are likely to serve  different functions at different stages.  These possibilities provide many  additional ways for intermediate assemblies to be partially functional and  to improve incrementally.  What was merely helpful at one stage can become  necessary at a later stage, so irreducibility in advanced systems need not  imply irreducibility along the way.<br />The latter half of the book is  devoted to the implications of evolution's imputed failure at the molecular  level.  In Behe's view, the only viable alternative is design, which  implies a sentient designer.  What kind of entity the designer might be,  where and how it functioned, whether it still exists, why it left no traces  of laboratories or equipment, and all such reasonable and obvious questions  are not only unanswered but unposed.  The author makes it clear that he is  a religious person, but does not provide anything further to help a reader  unravel the conundrum he has raised.<br />Behe generously cites some evidence  of evolution at the molecular level by saying, on page 15, &quot;...viruses  such as the one that causes AIDS mutate their coats in order to evade the  human immune system.&quot;  Note that this description blatantly  anthropomorphizes the virus. Viruses don't mutate in order to evade things,  because they have no brains with which to strategize.  The mutations occur  by chance, and if a particular change happens to help the virus survive and  reproduce despite the immunesystem, then that mutation will tend to  sustain and spread. I am positive the author knows better, but he shows  poor judgment by carelessly misstating the fundamentals of a theory he is  attempting to refute.<br />Nevertheless, Prof. Behe has produced a vivid,  instructive and thought-provoking polemic.  Its widely publicized challenge  to molecular evolutionary biology is bound to stimulate useful results.system, then that mutation will tend to  sustain and spread. I am positive the author knows better, but he shows  poor judgment by carelessly misstating the fundamentals of a theory he is  attempting to refute.<br />Nevertheless, Prof. Behe has produced a vivid,  instructive and thought-provoking polemic.  Its widely publicized challenge  to molecular evolutionary biology is bound to stimulate useful results.	1999-02-10
US	52721958	R32002MKCX8GK5	0393315703	194483165	The Blind Watchmaker: Why the Evidence of Evolution Reveals a Universe without Design (Reissued in 2006 and 1996)	Books	5	5	9	N	Y	&quot;BW&quot; is a superb introduction to the case for evolution	&quot;The Blind Watchmaker&quot; is the antithesis of the take-no-position surveys that are regularly served up as scientific literacy booster shots.  In these books the author, frequently a journalist, earnestly runs around  interviewing a bevy of competing scientists who, naturally enough, are very  taken with their own work but not too enthusiastic about the other  competitors who share the cutting edge of whatever field-du-jour is  involved.  The bemused reader is left wondering what, if anything, to  conclude about the cross-currents which have been described (but not  illuminated) by the maddeningly neutral science writer.<br />Prof. Dawkins, by  contrast, does not go softly or neutrally into the controversies of  evolutionary biology and the philosophical issues that any inquiry into  life's origins must invoke.  He steadfastly defends the Darwinist outlook,  not out of reflex or veneration, but because continual research and  evaluation of the factual record, by himself and many others, appear to  justify it.<br />&quot;Watchmaker&quot; exemplifies the best kind of science  popularization, in which a professional scientist gives you a seminar, a  one-on-one tour of his or her field.  You are treated as an intelligent  skeptic, open to being convinced but not to being indoctrinated or  patronized.  Dawkins lucidly builds the logical case for evolution as an  inevitable result of two interacting factors.  Factor one is the automatic  natural occurrence of random, incremental, molecular-level mutations in  reproductive (germ cell) DNA .  Factor two, also automatic and natural, is  the distinctly non-random selection filter of survivability at the  whole-creature level.  Dawkins also takes ample space to dissect and refute  many arguments, bogus and legitimate, from laughable to laudable, AGAINST  evolution.  You may not agree, but you will learn about the issues and  personalities of a great scientific debate from a skilled and ingenious  participant.<br />I was especially impressed by the thoroughness with which  Dawkins addresses a pair of forgivable weaknesses that prevent many people  from grasping the essential reasonableness of evolution.  These are  insufficient feeling for the immensity of geologic time spans, and  inadequate understanding of what is, and is not, probabilistically  feasible.  The second point, in particular, must be successfully  communicated to combat the venerable misconception that wildly unlikely  coincidences are required to explain evolution's stunning results.<br />A good  deal of the criticism leveled against Dawkins seems to stem from the  underlying thesis of the book - that evolution is a blind process, not  influenced by the thinking or planning of any conscious entity.  Those who  support the existence of such an entity seem to have agreed by consensus to  call it a &quot;designer.&quot;  I can easily understand why any thoughtful  person would be tempted to assume a designer when studying the sublime and  superb technology that all living things embody.  The more you learn, the  more awestruck you must be.  In my opinion, Prof. Dawkins is the epitome of  such a thoughtful person.  So when he concludes that the case for a  designer is weak, I am more than willing to pay close attention.<br />At  present the defenders of designer intervention seem to have retreated to  the pre-cellular era of molecular genesis.  Numerous Amazon.com reviews  have warned that one should not pass judgment on the current state of the  evolution debate without considering the irreducible complexity arguments  now in vogue.  Frankly, I wouldn't want to miss them.s especially impressed by the thoroughness with which  Dawkins addresses a pair of forgivable weaknesses that prevent many people  from grasping the essential reasonableness of evolution.  These are  insufficient feeling for the immensity of geologic time spans, and  inadequate understanding of what is, and is not, probabilistically  feasible.  The second point, in particular, must be successfully  communicated to combat the venerable misconception that wildly unlikely  coincidences are required to explain evolution's stunning results.<br />A good  deal of the criticism leveled against Dawkins seems to stem from the  underlying thesis of the book - that evolution is a blind process, not  influenced by the thinking or planning of any conscious entity.  Those who  support the existence of such an entity seem to have agreed by consensus to  call it a &quot;designer.&quot;  I can easily understand why any thoughtful  person would be tempted to assume a designer when studying the sublime and  superb technology that all living things embody.  The more you learn, the  more awestruck you must be.  In my opinion, Prof. Dawkins is the epitome of  such a thoughtful person.  So when he concludes that the case for a  designer is weak, I am more than willing to pay close attention.  <br />At  present the defenders of designer intervention seem to have retreated to  the pre-cellular era of molecular genesis.  Numerous Amazon.com reviews  have warned that one should not pass judgment on the current state of the  evolution debate without considering the irreducible complexity arguments  now in vogue.  Frankly, I wouldn't want to miss them.	1999-01-22
