US	52735321	RSV1K9O56O0GC	1402202296	361109494	Fiske Guide to Colleges 2005	Books	5	41	41	N	Y	The Best I've Seen	I think Fiske is the most useful of the college guides.  It tells the most about each college's academic strengths, and it explains to parents who may have gone to the school twenty or more years ago how the school has changed.  Most of the sidebar statistics are very helpful.  Fiske rates academics, social opportunities and overall quality of life on a 1 to 5 scale.  A lot of people are looking very closely at freshman retention and graduation rates these days, and Fiske provides those numbers as well.    <br /> <br />I don't feel Fiske does an adequate enough job with each schools expense.  It rates schools on a 1 to 4 dollar sign scale which I feel can be misleading because a school's price tag doesn't often equal the amount a student will have to spend if a school has a lot of financial aid available.  There are times when students actually end up with more debt from public schools. <br /> <br />Except for finances, I think Fiske is better than Princeton Review in every regard.  It does a better job detailing a school's strongest majors and describing which schools overlap the ones you are considering.  Princeton Review uses a system where they tell you which schools are \\"often preferred\\" to the school you're looking at or which schools are \\"rarely preferred.\\"  That would be interesting if it wasn't so subjective and inconsistent.   <br /> <br />Compared to Peterson's, Kaplan and Princeton Review, Fiske is the most exclusive as it states it restricts its list to the top 10% of colleges.  So on the one hand there are fewer schools to choose from, and on the other you know that the listed institutions are respected enough to get the Fiske seal of approval.  (Barron's Guide to the Most Competitive Colleges has even fewer schools, but I feel that book is not very useful in that it offers too few schools and each entry is written by an alumnus of that school.)   <br /> <br />Fiske does give a fair amount of student opinion and covers subjects such as Greek life, athletics, and general atmosphere quite adequately.  While it may skew a bit to the positive, I think this can be an asset as it will help make students excited about college.   <br />	2005-01-19
US	52735321	R15G9EG5NDGQEI	0768913896	227241374	Competitive Colleges 2004-2005 (440 Colleges for Top Students)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not the worst, not the best	I think Peterson's Competitive Colleges is somewhat less successful than its rivals such as Princeton Review, Fiske, and Kaplan because the book is very dry and uninteresting.  Some may appreciate that there is no student opinion to subjectively cloud a reader's view of the schools.  It's almost entirely factual statistics although some schools have small self-promoting blurbs that are potentially helpful.  Overall, you don't get more information on each college than you do in Barron's mammouth Profiles of American Colleges, and in Barron's book, you get about 1200 more schools.  Almost every page has some blank space so Peterson's could do a little more to describe a school, but its policy seems to be \\"only the facts.\\"<br /><br />(I should note that all of these books are far superior to US News & World Report's annual rankings which does nothing but provide statistics that are re-calculated every year so they have something new to report.  There is no way to ever know if US News was right last year or this year or if they will finally be right next year.  I feel it's an example of journalism at its worst.)<br /><br />What are the good things about Peterson's?  The book is honest in that it calls itself \\"competitive colleges\\" as opposed to \\"best colleges\\".  It states pretty clearly that these schools admit above average students but doesn't claim that every school in the book is a national powerhouse.  Because of this Peterson's has about 50 more colleges than Princeton Review and 70 to 100 more than Kaplan or Fiske.  The good thing about this is that if you feel your academic record is only a bit above average, you will have more schools to choose from than the other books.  The down side is that one might think that being in a book such as Peterson's means a college will help you get a job, but you may find that there are a couple dozen schools here that a lot of employers haven't heard of.<br /><br />Peterson's guide also has a very helpful section on figuring out what your financial aid situation will be.  I also find their website to be a very good resource.<br /><br />Peterson's does a much better job than the other books with religiously-affiliated schools.  Most of the schools that aren't in the other books are Baptist, Catholic, nondenominational Christian, etc.  If you are specifically interested in Christian schools, I think you'd do best with this book.  However, if you buy Peterson's, you'll still get almost all the schools that the other guides cover.  The one notable mainstream exception I can think of is Babson, a business college.  A bit more glaring is the fact that Peterson's only has one Historically Black College, Morehouse.  I imagine Peterson's would defend itself by saying that the strongest African American students often go to \\"mainstream\\" schools so Historically Black Colleges just aren't that competitive.  However, if you are interested in schools such as Howard, Fisk, Spelman, Tuskeegee, Hampton, Xavier of Louisiana and Florida A&M then some of the other books like Princeton Review will be far more helpful.al aid situation will be.  I also find their website to be a very good resource.      Peterson's does a much better job than the other books with religiously-affiliated schools.  Most of the schools that aren't in the other books are Baptist, Catholic, nondenominational Christian, etc.  If you are specifically interested in Christian schools, I think you'd do best with this book.  However, if you buy Peterson's, you'll still get almost all the schools that the other guides cover.  The one notable mainstream exception I can think of is Babson, a business college.  A bit more glaring is the fact that Peterson's only has one Historically Black College, Morehouse.  I imagine Peterson's would defend itself by saying that the strongest African American students often go to \\"mainstream\\" schools so Historically Black Colleges just aren't that competitive.  However, if you are interested in schools such as Howard, Fisk, Spelman, Tuskeegee, Hampton, Xavier of Louisiana and Florida A&M then some of the other books like Princeton Review will be far more helpful.	2004-12-29
US	52735321	R1ZKP5WASEJ5ZB	0743251997	786520486	Unofficial, Unbiased Guide to the 331 Most Interesting Colleges 2005 (Unofficial, Unbiased Insider's Guide to the Most Interesting Colleges)	Books	4	58	58	N	N	Not bad at all	This book is quite good.  After the Fiske Guide to Colleges, I think this is my favorite.  Even though Kaplan makes it plain that they are biased as the \\"un\\" in \\"unbiased\\" is crossed out on the cover, the book is more balanced and less negative than Princeton Review's Best 357 Colleges.  Kaplan says that the book covers the \\"most interesting\\" colleges as opposed to the \\"most selective.\\"  However, they say right away that highly selective schools happen to be very interesting, so you will see mostly the same schools you will see in Fiske.  Princeton Review has been faulted for including some big public universities for the sake of sales that, according to many, don't really belong in books on the best universities.  Well, for better or worse, Kaplan has a few less state schools (as does Fiske). The \\"interesting\\" schools that other books leave out include many music or art schools or other specialty schools.  For example, I haven't found Julliard or the Culinary Institute of America or Gallaudet University (for the hearing impaired)in any other books of the best schools. <br /> <br />The statistics in the book are understandable and helpful. I feel that Princeton Review does a slightly better job with their coverage of financial aid, but Kaplan is sufficient.  Kaplan does something smart by offering a range of SAT scores for the middle 50% of accepted students for each school instead of giving a specific median score.  Even though I think it's fun to see median scores, it can be discouraging to students who score below the median, and is therefore a less useful statistic.   <br /> <br />I think parents and students will find this a good compromise between Fiske and Princeton Review.  One reviewer said he felt that Princeton Review quoted student statements that made good copy instead of statements that accurately reflected a school's true nature.  There's no way to know that for sure, but Princeton Review is pretty gossipy, so I have a sneaky suspicion that the reviewer is right.  Fiske does a really great job explaining the academic strengths and opportunities of each school, but someone else pointed out that Fiske says so little that's negative that the reader has a hard time figuring out which school is best.  Kaplan provides readers with more student opinion than Fiske, and while the reading is a fair amount drier than Princeton Review, it focuses on the classroom a bit more than the frat parties.	2004-12-29
US	52735321	R2NGGGFG1N2GV6	0375764054	532805737	Best 357 Colleges, 2005 Edition (College Admissions Guides)	Books	3	22	23	N	N	Pretty Useful	This book is a pretty good compromise between facts and opinion, but it's not flawless.  While it does a substantially better job than US News & World Report, a few of Princeton Review's ratings and sidebars probably need to be improved.  Here are some examples:     First, what does an \\"admissions selectivity\\" rating of four stars mean?  To many it means that the school has a four star reputation and admission to a \\"four-star\\" school will open doors to grad schools and job opportunities.  To others it means that their sons and daughters who don't have A averages ought to think of applying elsewhere.    The problem is that schools like Harvard and Elon College both receive four stars.  No one is saying that Elon is anything but a good school, but it's a bit misleading if it makes students think their shot at getting into Elon is only a few little points better than getting into Harvard.  Then there's the problem of interpreting selectivity.  Princeton Review says that the percentage of admitted students who enroll at George Washington is low while Millsaps College has a high percentage of acceptees who enroll.  Meanwhile, according to their own statistics GW has an acceptee enrollment rate of 32% while Millsaps is at 30%.  What's up with that?  Barron's does a much better job with accurate, understandable selectivity.      As far as awarding academic stars, it's very interesting to note the pronounced differences between public and private universities.  If you analyze Princeton Review's findings, your conclusion will be \\"you get what you pay for.\\"   Students apparently get lost in the shuffle at big public universities and teachers are largely inaccessible.   A three-star academic rating for a public university is really quite excellent while three stars is a bit low for a private school.    However, student opinion skews the ratings against schools known for engineering and sciences.   Very high-powered schools like CalTech, Case Western, Johns Hopkins and Cooper Union all received only three stars despite very favorable student-teacher ratios and very low levels of classes taught by TA's (if any).  Are these low ratings the result of having many foreign professors who are difficult to understand?   Could it be that students were forced to go into the sciences by their parents and didn't really want to go to CalTech in the first place?  Princeton Review doesn't do enough to explain why students might feel less than fully satisfied.    Another problem is their sidebar of competing schools.  If you look at George Washington University, the sidebar will tell you that students offer prefer Boston University over GW.  Then if you look at BU's, it says that students often prefer GW.  Can you have it both ways?  Much more confusing is the phrase \\"students rarely prefer\\" because it can mean two very different things.  It could mean that there is heavy overlap in applicant pools, but student rarely pick the second school or it could mean there is rarely an overlap, but if there is, the student will usually pick the second school.        Princeton Review is better than a lot of the guides when it comes to finances.  Some books, such as Fiske, don't mention specific tuition costs.  Princeton Review analyzes each school's financial aid policies pretty well.  Princeton Review does not match Fiske when it comes to information on each school's strongest departments.      The book also does a better job than many at showing student perspective which is helpful, but readers should remember that college students are often world champions at sarcasm.  I think students would prefer this book over something dry that only presents facts, but this book pays too much heed to its own opinion to be considered truly unbiased.	2004-11-21
US	52735321	R1RJ3YRRYE63G8	0764175750	53382580	Profiles of American Colleges with CD-ROM (Barron's Profiles of American Colleges)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	One of the Better Ones	I'm not sure there's any specific reason, but it seems that counselors trust the information in Barron's more than other guides, but it may have to do with the fact that it's been around for almost thirty years.  The CD-rom is pretty helpful for searching for schools by major, by location, by price tag and several other variables.<br /><br />The problem with listing just about every four year college is that you're not going to have much space for in-depth description.  The entries are dry but factual and makes comparisons very easy.  Noticeably there are many schools that don't list their SAT medians in Barron's when the information can be found in other books such as Princeton Review's.  My suspicion is that Barron's is the one being honest -- the precise information isn't being made available.  However, I have to admit I buy the other guides also to see what scores they are reporting anyway.<br /><br />If a student isn't considering one of the top 350 or so schools or wants more choices than most books offer, then he or she probably needs a book such as this.  Frankly, if the book and software are available at a library I might sooner suggest looking at it there, and then buying a more in-depth guide such as Fiske, Princeton Review or Barron's own guide to the \\"best\\" colleges as this book may frustrate high school seniors who want some sort of opinion from the college students themselves instead of just statistics their parents want to know.	2004-11-19
US	52735321	REZLNQ3K9H5D7	0071357130	432367007	Get Your Degree Online	Books	2	9	9	N	Y	Needs A New Edition	This is a useful book, but a lot of improvement is needed.  A table of contents would have been very helpful, or, at least, the list of colleges in the back could have been accompanied by page numbers.  That was a pretty silly oversight.      More importantly, I've been researching about thirty business administration programs and only about a third of them are listed in this book.  The programs are well-publicized on sites like WWW.ClassesUSA.Com and (I'm fairly certain) all accredited.  The problem is that if you want answers to questions without giving the schools your home phone number, you really need a book like this.  Since new programs start all the time this book is really way out-of-date even if it's only from 2000.  Still it does provide phone numbers that are often hard to find on the schools' websites and the entries often list sample course titles and program requirements.  Hopefully, an improved and updated edition is forthcoming.	2004-11-18
US	52735321	R2GQ72JXC3XF2M	1883062535	572107555	Rugg's Recommendations on the Colleges, 21st Edition	Books	3	46	46	N	Y	Not Bad, But Not The Best	I do agree that guidance counselors probably do need a copy of this book, and the author was wise to avoid the increasingly discredited practice of re-ranking schools each and every year.  It's perfectly reasonable to list colleges in general selectivity categories, which he does, but more and more people are realizing that schools don't change markedly in the period of one year and the annual ranking lists are simply bad journalism. <br /> <br />However, I feel that this book is not as useful as Fiske's Guide To Colleges.  Rugg's basically groups under each major a very long list of schools that are purported to be strong in that field.  It's not a very stylish book, but it's effective and no-nonsense.   <br /> <br />Here's the problem:  If you pick any major (say art) and then find a school that is strong in that field (say Vassar) you're probably going to want to know a lot more information about Vassar and the only thing Rugg's will tell you is whether its student population is small, medium or large, and if you search through the back of the book you may find what other majors are strong at Vassar and their average SAT score.  That's pretty much it.   <br /> <br />Fiske also includes a similar list of majors and schools that excel in each field near the front of the book.  Then each college is profiled in depth similar to books such as The Princeton Review Guide to Colleges.   (Fiske is also better than Princeton Review for recommending strong departments.) <br /> <br />One thing to note is that Fiske covers about 300 of the most prestigious and best-known colleges which is great but not exhaustive.  If the schools you're interested in aren't included in Fiske then Rugg's can probably still help because it lists about a thousand schools.  Barron's Profiles of American Colleges also includes over a thousand schools and offers much more information on each school than Rugg's.  However, with Barron's I do think you will need to at least browse through Rugg's because Barron's frequently only lists \\"most popular majors\\" as opposed to most recommended.	2004-11-18
US	52735321	R1QW8PLIIPIGXE	1582971692	929019736	Writer's Guide to Places	Books	2	26	28	N	N	Skip it	Writer's Digest comes out with a lot of helpful books, but this one isn't one of them.  I'm glad the book description here explains that the book only covers the United States and Canada.  In the Writer's Digest ads, it doesn't.  So if you want to set a story in Venice or Cairo, you'll get no help.<br />A lot of the information the book does have seems more appropriate for a rather unexciting history book about the states than something that helps create a setting.  I don't see myself writing anything where a character says &quot;Virginia is the second largest seafood processor in the nation&quot; or &quot;The Pennsylvania Turnpike was begun in 1940 and completed in 1956.&quot;  If this is the kind of information you need, it's available on the internet.<br />There does seem to be some helpful information about some cities that would tell you which neighborhood your character would live in if he's rich or middle class.  However, after looking at information that I know a bit about, there's a lot that's wrong or out of date.  For example, the book describes New York City's &quot;Hell's Kitchen&quot; as bombed out and full of gangs when actually it's gentrified to the point that realtors have renamed it Clinton and it's pretty upmarket.  On the other hand, the book says Houston's Sharpstown is a good place to raise a family.  Nope, it's dangerous to the point that people are warned not to go to the mall.  It makes one wonder what one can trust in this book.  <br />I might still use this book to help me find information elsewhere about settings.  But since there are no international settings (except Canada) and the internet is going to be more current, I don't think I'll use it much.	2004-07-05
US	52735321	R1P0X9E427BLK1	1555833764	932929863	Closing Distance	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	An odd lesson in siezing the day	A friend of mine insisted that this was the best book he'd ever read, and after finishing it, I'm curious to know if I missed something.  Jim Oliver's novel is the story of a wealthy family's handling of their matriarch's terminal illness.  It is told mostly through the viewpoint of the family's gay son, Pete, an affable but wishy-washy character.  I feel the one main problem with this book is the abundance of sub-plots created for undeveloped characters.  Most of them are summarily dropped without conclusions.  One sister is having an affair, another sister is worried her husband is having an affair, the brother is doing some kind of insider trading, and a friend is considering going to Saudi Arabia for a job despite being Jewish and deathly afraid of flying.  These characters are given screen-time but little development, and the reader ends up having no real investment in them.   <br />Pete is vaguely dissatisfied with his life, and he doesn't learn until very late in the story what his goal is, and it's probably much too late for the reader.  What he wants involves a contrived, unexplained get-rich scheme and the new found ability to be spontaneous and do things he's always wanted to do.  The reader doesn't know of these desires until two-hundred pages into the book, and the book only has 249 pages.  Apparently, a major hurdle for our hero is officially coming out to his family.  The problem is that it wasn't established very well that he was fearfully or despondently closeted and it's fairly obvious that they all know anyway and accept him as he is.  <br />On the plus side, Liz Flowers, the aforementioned matriarch, is a strong and believable character.  A reader could probably be inspired by her fortitude in the face of death.  Furthermore, the topic of AIDS is discussed intelligently and rationally, and although the AIDS subplot is also unresolved, one can deduce that it's not important to know if Pete has AIDS, it's just important for him to start living life.  A good lesson, but if perhaps he had been a more vivid and lovable character, this would have been a more compelling story.  I would probably still recommend it to some readers interested in early 90's gay fiction.	2004-06-26
US	52735321	R3Q9JUZK99KBC	0345470664	91253765	The Ruins of Dantooine (Star Wars: Galaxies)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Strong Addition to Star Wars Story	The Ruins of Dantooine is a mostly well-written story from the classic era of the Star Wars saga taking place between the events of Star Wars: A New Hope and The Empire Strikes Back.  Talented author Voronica Whitney-Robinson is also a biologist, and she plays to her strengths by making her heroine, Dusque Mistflier, an Imperial bioengineer.  Dusque is an intelligent and eminently competent protagonist although a bit overly prone to self-doubt.  Whitney-Robinson deftly insinuates a bit of feminism into the plot which could help attract more female readers to the series.  Also, the addition of romance has been trending fairly heavily recently in science fiction and fantasy, and the author adds a dash of that here, but not so much that the central action/adventure suffers at all.  Like a lot of Star Wars authors, Whitney-Robinson skews heavily to the techno side of the saga and hardly touches on the mysticism of the Force at all.  What is different here is the author's ability to create a large menagerie of alien fauna and her protagonist's ability to use her knowledge of \\"xenobiology\\" to keep one step ahead of death.  Pantheon characters such as Luke and Leia are used sparsely, but the author does a good job of keeping them true to character.  The best Star Wars stories evoke the energy of the &quot;little people&quot; risking their lives for freedom from tyranny and, in places, Whitney-Robinson captures that essence.  Although there is a faint sense of incompletion suggesting that a sequel is forthcoming, this is stronger than a lot of Star Wars fiction and certainly recommended.	2004-05-17
US	52735321	R1TJ97Q9XHOMX9	0767917219	865691715	The Right Address	Books	1	8	11	N	N	No good, I'm afraid.	As a former resident of the 10021 zip code, I admit I bought this with considerable glee.  Unfortunately, the book is more or less dreadful.  After the first hundred pages I faced the fact that there were no likable characters, and I would have put it down if I hadn't been trapped with it on an airplane.  My perseverance was rewarded with insipid story lines and inelegant prose.  Frankly, it was so poorly done that when I saw that another book I was planning to purchase was from the same publisher, Broadway Books, I put it back on the shelf.  That may have been irrational, but when I read The Right Address, I had to stop and shake my head angrily at the photo of the authors on the back cover on many occasions.  Perhaps, since I lived &quot;East of Lexington&quot; I can't fully appreciate the novel. (The authors will tell you that is very gauche so I did have to laugh that once)<br />I will give them credit for one very good thing.  The authors deserve to be lauded for exposing the illegal shahtoosh market where extremely endangered Tibetan antelope (also known as chiru) are killed to make shawls for Park Avenue matrons.  Even so, I'm afraid I'd suggest the money you might spend on the book should go to the World Wildlife Foundation instead.  I wish I'd read the Publisher's Weekly review first as it's quite accurate.	2004-05-16
US	52735321	R28753YB215BVL	0441008534	486021067	Dead Until Dark  (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 1)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Fun with vampires	Charlaine Harris borrows liberally from fellow writer Laurel K. Hamilton in her girl-meets-vampire novel.  However, Harris is certainly more comical than Hamilton (at times to the point of spoofing vampire fiction) as well as less interested in the macabre.  The very silly author starts off on the right foot by dubbing her blood lusting hero \\"The Vampire Bill.\\"   Not Ambrose.  Not Vladimir.  Bill.  Then later she one-ups herself by introducing \\"The Vampire Bubba\\" and a were-collie.  Again, her bizarre love triangle (vampire-human woman-lycanthrope) is lifted from Hamilton's work.  The twist here is that Charlaine Harris' heroine, Sookie Stackhouse, is psychic while Hamilton's protagonist can merely raise the dead.  The author sets herself a tough task by setting her book in tiny Bon Temps, Louisiana, a town she seems to be depopulating very rapidly.  If she is going to continue the series, a busload of new characters will need to move into town or the action will have to move elsewhere.  There are at least a dozen murders in this book (counting four vampires and one pet cat), but they are largely \\"off-camera\\" so the content is generally not too violent or gruesome.  Still, conservative parents might want to screen this book first before letting their pre-teens read it since it is fairly explicit in parts.  All-in-all, Sookie is a pretty likable heroine and the book turns out to be a fun, quick-paced read for those who enjoy humorous paranormal mysteries.	2004-05-16
US	52735321	RKVLQM6UXZBCE	0767917219	865691715	The Right Address	Books	1	9	11	N	N	Horrible	This is probably one of the worst books I've ever read.  The writing is awkward at times and the ways the various plots are resolved are completely absurd.  (I'm going to give away a few things so stop reading if you want to read the book.)  For one, the rich billionaire planning to off his paramour decides to call off the hit at the last minute and suffer the consequences of his infidelity.  But, lucky him, there happens to be an insane taxi driver intent on killing a woman in a fur coat, and miracle of miracles, it's the billionaire's tacky Hispanic mistress.  Then, the rather unlikable heroine of the novel informs the lovely socialite author that her novel plagiarizes Valley of the Dolls.  This happens in an elevator some time after the book is published.  Really, now.  It is ludicrous the book is published and none of the editors at the publishing house or, at least, someone reviewing the book in the media didn't discover the plagiarism a long time before the elevator encounter.  The only semi-redeemable character is the butler, Mr. Guffey, and if one reads the acknowledgements, one will find that Mr. Guffey is actually the creation of the authors' editor, Stacy Creamer.  I can't imagine what this mess looked like before this poor editor worked on it.  Even so, the authors reduce Mr. Guffey into being their mouthpiece so they may decree which fashion designers they deem acceptable.  Moreover, nearly every character is inconsistently written, usually about something major, such as their feelings about their most important relationships.  There is also some pretty offensive stereotyping.  Honestly, I was hoping to like this book, but don't make the mistake of buying it.  (...)	2004-05-14
US	52735321	RCNO30AWERWCR	0385721420	120680919	Three Junes	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Mild and Intelligent	It has been said that Three Junes \\"rescues and refurbishes\\" the plot-driven novel, and it is easy to argue that the relatively mild-mannered main characters are pulled about by events that are not of their own making.  Julia Glass makes particularly striking contrasts between many of the prominent male characters and the much more fiery and strong-willed women in their lives --generally their mothers and wives.  Those who study the craft of writing will be impressed with the way the author weaves past and present action and first and third person narrative.  While I recommend this book fairly strongly, particularly for its craft and introspection, I suspect some readers won't feel completely satisfied at the end as the book doesn't seem to build to a climax or tie up every loose end completely.  For those who feel that literary fiction is always depressing, this book touches on tough subjects such as AIDS, childlessness and failed relationships while keeping an ultimately hopeful outlook.  Those who liked the strong characters of Michael Cunningham's The Hours or the episodic narration of Barbara Kingsolver's The Poisonwood Bible, will probably find this to be a fine novel.	2004-05-10
US	52735321	RIZRODQDPNHV6	0767917219	865691715	The Right Address	Books	1	11	15	N	N	The Wrong Book	The Right Address concerns itself with the lives of the richest denizens of New York's 10021 zip code, which, if I remember correctly has the greatest number of millionaires of any zip code in America.  This attempted send-up of the rich hopes to capitalize on the momentum of a very successful and witty book entitled The Nanny Diaries.  However, the authors of The Right Address fail miserably.     To begin with, the writing is sub-par.  The authors seem somewhat unaware of the necessity of synonyms as they overuse expressions such as \\"creme de la creme\\" and \\"warming to his topic,\\" adjectives such as \\"pencil-thin\\", the color \\"gunmetal\\" and the verb \\"thrilled.\\" They make this mistake of giving characters similar names like the Goodchilds and the Goodyears.  The novel is overpopulated with minor characters which makes one wonder if this is a roman-a-clef that one would only fully \\"get\\" if they knew the authors' social circle.  Lastly, the authors resort to ridiculously convenient and highly improbable circumstances to resolve their plots.      The Nanny Diaries balanced an intelligent, likable and funny narrator with her atrociously presumptuous and spoiled employer.  On the other hand, there is no truly likable character in The Right Address.  The cruel society ladies make fun of the main character, stewardess-turned-socialite Melanie Korn, but Melanie is pretty rude and spiteful herself.  Shortly after Melanie is soundly humiliated in a newspaper article, one of her male high society detractors is murdered in what is referred to as a \\"gay porno sex slaughter.\\"  Melanie's reaction is she's \\"relieved\\" that attention to her social downfall has been eclipsed by a greater scandal.  In another instance, they describe a tacky Hispanic woman as looking like \\"Miami threw up on her.\\"  It appears these authors have no idea how offensive they are.      Even so, the kiss of death for this book is that it's not all that funny.  Take the Publisher's Weekly review very seriously.  This is a train wreck of a novel.  I expect some will want to buy it because they will be unable to look away.	2004-05-02
US	52735321	R24RYEWBXPFU4M	0743259823	708489743	Party Monster: A Fabulous But True Tale of Murder in Clubland	Books	5	59	63	N	Y	A Portrait of a Murder In Full Shade	Personally, in the early 90's I was enchanted with club kids, but would never let them in my apartment for fear that several somethings would turn up missing.  James St. James' wonderful book lets me know I probably did the right thing.  Although the story regularly digresses from Michael Alig and Robert Rigg's murder of Angel Melendez, he does so with purpose, and the book is an intriguing read.  He shows how Alig transformed from an unwelcome wannabe to a creative force in New York's club scene to a heroin-addicted nightmare.  Similarly, He explains Freeze's (Robert Rigg) three phases as well from a reticent but clever costume designer to a  \\"well-respected\\" drug dealer to a practically homeless ball of anger.  Instead of blaming it all on Michael's upbringing like most authors would, St. James finds that changes in the music, the scene and, most particularly, the drugs of trend led a lot of club kids, particularly Michael Alig, down a path of darkness.<BR>        Not that Michael was very nice to begin with.  St. James relates that Michael's first \\"superstar\\" was Christina, an ugly drag queen.  By foisting her on the club scene, he hoped to garner approval from everyone who enjoyed making fun of her.  <BR> Some have argued that both club kids and St. James' book are too self-absorbed to warrant any warm feelings.  It is true.  However the author makes himself very three dimensional, focusing on his foibles as well as his successes.  And his moral conflict is depicted beautifully.  On the one side Melendez, an acrid drug dealer (probably connected to a dangerous cartel) was hurting so many people that death didn't seem like a bad fate for him.  (After all, St. James argues, no one arrested Dorothy even though she accumulated a body count of two wicked witches.)  On the other hand, Melendez' murder was particularly brutal (a drano injection), and Michael's callous reaction was to go on a shopping spree with Angel's money.  <BR> The book sheds light on a fairly secretive world and shocks the reader.  However, it is also, bizarrely, entertaining.  For example, when James' is trying to come to terms with Angel's death he finds himself approaching dogs and saying \\"Hello, little doggie!  Aren't you the sweetest thing?  I bet you wouldn't ever inject anyone with drano, would you?\\"<BR> Admittedly, I've been fascinated with this scene since the days of Project X magazine and films such as Paris is Burning, but even for the uninitiated, I suspect they'll find that this book is such a good read that it won't take them any longer to get through than would seeing the movie.	2003-09-17
US	52735321	RJEW9NIQMGO74	0312104332	782505887	The Boys on the Rock (Stonewall Inn Editions)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Finished in one sitting	Granted that this is a very short book, it still read remarkably quickly.  John Fox paints what appears to be a very clear picture of what life was like for a gay Catholic school teenager in 1968.  At the very end of his novella, Fox hints at the horrible danger of being gay in that time, but he mostly highlights the struggle to accept oneself and the blossoming of first love.  Though that story line is hackneyed, Fox creates a very, very personal and touching rendition within the historical context of a fascinating and chaotic time.  The cover says that Boys on The Rock is a novel, but the work feels non-fictional.  Learning more about the life of protagonist Billy Connors in a sequel would be most rewarding.	2003-07-12
US	52735321	R3VLYCB1VB4RAY	0375759093	990371894	The Summer They Came	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	Fun, but needs more	After reading both of the current spotlight reviews, I decided both were partially right.  One complained that the book is chock full of one dimensional characters, and mentions that book publishers should stop putting muscle boys on book jackets.  Well, first I've done a fair amount of research on what's selling in gay fiction, and it seems to be books with nearly naked men on the cover and plots that contain 18 year old boys.  The Summer They Came has both.  Anthony is arguably the main character of this book, and the transformation of the town into a gay beach resort affects him the most personally.  For Anthony, the conflicts created by the \\"gay invasion\\" result, more or less, in his own trial by fire.  <br />The book does have a lot of characters.  Similar to soap opera-ish works like Larry Kramer's Faggots or Armistead Maupin's Tales of The City, William Storandt's work follows a lot of different story lines.  Storandt has some charming characters, a lot of them are the town locals, but he would have done well to spend more time defining characters and making them more recognizable.  I'd recommend making a character list so you don't have to keep flipping back to figure out who's who.  Storandt has two characters named Jim.  He also uses similar names like Wesley and Wendell.  <br />As far as use of stereotypes, it's hard to disagree that Storandt falls into the trap of using them, but then I also feel that he's portrayed the culture of a gay beach resort pretty accurately.  I suspect the old families of Fire Island were probably pretty shocked with the rather r-rated turn their community took when gay men started arriving in flocks.  Storandt builds slowly but steadily to a final stand-off.  He's demonstrated that some of the gay men have been troublemakers (specifically, Bart Connors, the media gadfly) and that some of the locals are rallying to support the newcomers.  I feel it's a fair portrayal that neither side is completely in the right.  <br />I feel the biggest flaw with the book is that there's no strong resolution.  There are some unanswered questions.  Storandt brings up the concept of anonymous sex in a variety of ways without ever telling us if the community is just going to \\"wink\\" at the practice while counting their cash or whether they're going to mount a backlash to the affront.  There seem to be some growning tensions between the developers.  There was a near fiasco at the climactic \\"circuit\\" party that might have ended the popularity of this new little resort.  Perhaps we should all look forward to \\"The Summer They Came Back.\\"	2003-07-11
US	52735321	R1U2C3KZIIVIDV	1555836577	230808636	Making A Killing	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great sequel, can't wait for a third installment	The Publisher's Weekly review can't be improved upon.  It's accurate and wonderfully written.  I would just add that you really need to read Soon To Be A Major Motion Picture before Making a Killing.  While the plots have very little to do with each other, Dunford doesn't waste much breath on back story as he spends his words in the sequel on developing an intricate plot and new characters such as Cortland McPhee.  To be properly enchanted with the main characters, Mitchell, Ingrid, and Ramir, one should first enjoy Soon To Be, and then the sequel will be that much more delightful. Readers who enjoy Warren Dunford's books would also like Misadventures in the 213 and Sex Toys of the Gods.  I hope Warren Dunford writes another!	2002-12-31
US	52735321	R1OZBF5FQTGA6A	1555832059	463500914	Uncle What-Is-It Is Coming	Books	1	11	13	N	N	Unqualified Disaster	You know, this book meant well. It meant to make introducing a gay relative to your kids less confusing and free of prejudice. However, it starts off with the kids being told their gay uncle will wear black leather and chains. The cartoon leatherman looks like he just bit through a beer can, and the kids tremble with fear. Then, they are told that he could be a drag queen. This time the book depicts a Carmen Miranda figure with a hairy chest floating through the air, and again the children are spooked. But, hurray, kids, he's totally \\"normal!\\" He likes football and he makes great desserts! However, the author has revealed his own prejudices. What if the uncle really is something like a leatherman or a drag queen? The book does very little to say those \\"stereotypes\\" could actually turn out to be nice, loving people. And furthermore, all he's done is create a new, family-friendly stereotype, so now children will expect the poor uncle or cousin to have a perfect spiral and bake layer cakes. Okay, perhaps it's not a complete disaster. I noticed in an editorial review that Uncle What-is-it points out that all that \\"gay\\" means is that one man loves another, which is one positive sentiment. However, as this book is apparently out of print, it seems that the public has caught on that replacing one stereotype with another isn't fair to the poor gay relative or the kids.	2002-12-19
US	52735321	R1LMCO1D9D8AZY	0312187203	670188717	Getting Off Clean (Stonewall Inn Editions)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Getting Off Clean	I agree with a lot of the other reviews that this book is well-done, but has a strange and unnecessary ending.  One of the reviewers on the back of the hardcover says that the author shows how \\"white people use black people\\" for catharsis, and I don't agree that's what Murphy intended.  What he did was give an excellent example of \\"alterity\\" or otherness.  To a greater or lesser degree, everyone is conscious of difference - race, creed, class, nationality, etc. and the misunderstandings and trouble this sometimes causes.  After a murder of young white woman by someone believed to be hispanic or black, the misunderstanding caused by alterity flares up sharply.  I believe that Murphy's characters serve him well in showing how individual lives are deeply affected by societal hysteria.  <br />  Eric Fitzpatrick doesn't strike me as the most three dimensional, lovable character but he is an excellent portrait of a high school student so wrapped up in his studies that he's hardly had time to discover his own sexuality.  The cover of this book is very sexual, and the books few sex scenes are described by Eric in pretty mild tones -- which is perfect because it's much more realistic for the young narrator to be somewhat shy about detailing his experiences.  <br />  Brooks Tremont would be hard to believe if, amazingly,  I didn't know someone exactly like him.  It's not hard to imagine a disenfranchised, wealthy african-american teenager.  But Murphy slightly downplays Brooks' borderline psychotic behavior.  He is not at all a good person to Eric, and his condescension is the least of his sins. <br />  The only reason the relationship is believable is that it takes place in 1987 before the internet was popular and before many high schools had gay friendly organizations.  Eric latches on to Brooks because he's the only gay person he knows.  Still with the abuse Eric takes, Murphy pushes realism a bit.  However, Eric is a good role model, and this is an important book for gayyouth of high school age to discover.	2002-12-07
US	52735321	R1NAEH1UO3Z0BN	1555835821	417729328	Soon to Be a Major Motion Picture: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Awesome!	Early on in the book, the author describes a character as \\"nondescript\\" and I thought \\"oh, no. This will be bad.\\" but no! This book is tremendously well-written. I think I'm pretty hard to please when it comes to gay humor fiction, so it's great to find something to recommend whole-heartedly. Similar to Misadventures in the 213, Soon to Be.. has a little triumvirate of lovable characters (though Mitchell's friend Ramir can be less than lovable) that are drawn very well. Even minor characters such as the unnerving and condescending Kitina is spot on and Dunford's Carmen Denver strikes me as a Hollywood tyrant completely encapsulated.<br /> The reader will probably figure out what's really going on before Mitchell does, but that's okay because there are still a few surprises. Mitchell's other friend Ingrid is very lovable and shy. The reader really roots for her triumph in the Toronto artworld and her subsequent stresses caused by her fame are very touching and affecting. <br /> People who liked this book would also enjoy the aforementioned Misadventures in the 213 and Christian McLaughlin's book. I can't wait to read the next Warren Dunford.	2002-12-07
US	52735321	R2OE3F44ND251G	0670894494	939558795	The Passion of Artemisia	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A good novel and art psychoanalysis piece	Similar to Tracy Chevalier's Girl With a Pearl Earring, Susan Vreeland creates character based on what she interprets in Artemisia Gentileschi's artwork. Vreeland is greatly aided by her real-life heroine's well-documented rape, and therefore it's easy to make the connection that her art would frequently be disquieting and violent. Vreeland intelligently concludes that this violence (in the depiction of blood, severed heads, and daggers) may be the reason that Artemisia's own daughter was repelled by her mother's art as a child. Here, Vreeland should be credited with the \\"invenzione\\" she bestows on her subject.<br />Artists frequently reflect that art is a lonely lifestyle, and Vreeland portrays the conflict between living for one's art and living for love. Artemisia fairly often comes across as self-absorbed, and then is later stunned when her husband or daughter rejects her in some form. It is probably a realistic if not wholly sympathetic portrayal. Occasionally, Vreeland interferes with her character by putting modern thoughts into her seventeenth century characters' heads. (\\"Let them wonder about that for centuries,\\" Artemisia muses) Certainly a worthwhile read for art lovers, and also, I feel, a book that can generate discussion of the conflict of love and loyalty versus pursuit of one's art and independence. Excellent for book groups.	2002-10-03
US	52735321	R13IG67ZDS91DH	0822218275	580775512	The Book of Liz - Acting Edition	Books	4	11	13	N	Y	nice and cheesy	Sister Elizabeth Donderdock is unappreciated in her Squeamish township. (So as not to offend the Amish, the Sedarises replaced the \\"A\\" with \\"Squea\\". I'm sure no one suspects.) She is the only person who has the secret touch it takes to make the famous Squeamish cheese balls, but the town doesn't realize how important she is until she disappears. Although not David's best work, this play is a lot of fun to read and features a lot of good-natured silliness. On the otherhand, it appears difficult to stage. Make sure you have four good actors who can play male and female roles, Amish as well as alcoholic and can speak Ukranian.	2002-09-05
US	52735321	R3QCZPX8U7RQ11	0844295191	662067283	Just Enough Hungarian	Books	3	6	8	N	Y	You shouldn't have to make much effort speaking Hungarian...	...So we won't make much effort writing a book.  This guide to the Hungarian language begins with an explanation that locals will &quot;feel gratified&quot; that you're making an attempt at Hungarian and will &quot;probably go out of their way to understand you.&quot;  The editors' view is that Hungarian is very difficult to pronounce, so why bother with much of a pronunciation guide, so &quot;just wing it.&quot;  Hmm, well.  To be fair, they do offer phonetic transliterations beneath each phrase that approximate the proper pronciation while still being pronounceable by English speakers. Still, since they offer three (whoo! three!) pronunciation hints in the pronunciation guide, they might have made a point of also mentioning something pretty major such as &quot;J' apparently is pronounced as a &quot;Y&quot;.  However, they let you figure that out as you go along.  Again, to be fair, the book is very economical and should be sufficient for a short trip.	2002-08-17
US	52735321	RY5JXCNOIZ233	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Fascinating, even for the biblically ignorant :)	I'm certain that there are tons of well-written reviews of this novel already.  However, I wanted to add that this novel holds interest for those who are unfamiliar with biblical text.  The lives of women in Egypt, Mesopotamia and the Levant are detailed exquisitely.  The difficult transition that women had in giving up some of the power and status granted them by indigenous beliefs for the new monotheistic beginnings of Judaism would make for heated discussion.	2002-07-16
US	52735321	R3BE0ORUZRJ3DV	0395869323	714511375	Dupont Circle	Books	2	1	2	N	N	A kindly concept poorly conceived	I feel somewhat confused by the number of positive reviews, and I have to admit I'm wondering if I missed something. However, after careful consideration, I feel that what Kafka-Gibbons has attempted is an updated Henry James novel of sophisticated characters and polite plot twists. But unlike Washington Square of the 1880's, present day Dupont Circle is not an area known for it's genteel, old money families. Perhaps Georgetown or Capitol Hill, but Dupont is the land of young gays and lesbians, rough and tumble bicycle couriers, and a number of generally aggressive homeless people. It's a nice enough area, but despite its proximity to the embassies down Massachusetts Avenue and the Ritz Carleton Hotel, it's not an aristocratic locale so Kafka-Gibbons' characters are out of place.     The book is short, and he self-consciously creates enough undeveloped characters to make War and Peace seem underpopulated. And then similar to the Russian epic, some of the characters have multitudes of nicknames which only adds to the confusion. At one point, the author claims that the one character's pet names for the other were indicative of the all the different ways he loved her. However, the nicknames were \\"radish\\" and \\"banana.\\"      The unifying thread of the work is marriage in various forms. But what's strange is that frequently Kafka-Gibbons creates difficult, uneasy partnerships. The poor woman referred to as \\"radish\\" and \\"banana\\" finds herself loving her fiance \\"despite herself\\" -- a fact that feels false after the author depicted her wincing and cringing at his appearance, demeanor, language and practically everything else. In fact, women in general are drawn as cool and controlling beings which Kafka-Gibbons tries to portray through several women characters' mastery of a pair of unruly male hound dogs. The two gay characters are sadly indistinguishable from one another. In fact, his one vivid character, Dee, a 20 year old riding instructor seems to be a patchwork of 21stcentury frankness and 1920's manners and language.     What is admirable about this novella is Kafka-Gibbons support of gay marriage. His characters debate its merits intelligently, and hopefully this work will enlighten some lawmakers. Still I feel that Kafka-Gibbons weakens his own case by showing unions of seemingly less than happy couples.	2002-07-12
US	52735321	R2CAWJ57X04AXX	0684857952	848828731	Sunday You Learn How to Box: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	an invitation into a sad, unique life	What is most interesting about Wright's boxing motif is that the main character's abuse is more or less what leads to his liberation. Despite his mothers' generally selfish motivations and his step-father's brutality, Louis Bowman's story is one of triumph. The most poignant part of Wright's story are the places where the young narrator gives us the briefest glimpses of friendship between him and his mother, and how few these moments were. Minor characters such as a racist schoolteacher and a pedophile businessman are well drawn. I wouldn't expect much cross over from fans of E. Lynn Harris or James Earl Hardy, the two most prominent writers of gay African-American fiction, as their writing tends to be a lot more gossipy and soap-operatic. Wright's work is a fair amount more literary, and would probably appeal more to fans of Edwidge Danticat's \\"Breath, Eyes, Memory.\\"  From the perspective of someone who is more or less caucasian, this book opens up a whole new world of gay experience that went unexplored in classics such as A Boy's Own Story and The Best Little Boy In The World.  Certainly worth the price of admission.	2002-07-05
US	52735321	R3702W4JYXB9TE	0590426176	876415242	Do You Know What Day Tomorrow Is?: A Teachers Almanac	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Bring this back in print!	Hopkins and Arenstein did a wonderful job on this.  Besides being useful in the classroom, events coordinators and trivia buffs will find it indispensible.  I suspect the people who write the questions for The Weakest Link have a copy.	2002-06-28
US	52735321	R3N3MXYRGBQ987	0440508460	206261965	The Ins and Outs of Gay Sex: A Medical Handbook for Men	Books	1	23	33	N	Y	Frightening reading	As a run-of-the-mill college educated individual without a high level of medical knowledge, I found this book to be at best, scary.  I am certain that the author is not being the least bit homophobic, and I can't imagine any reason for him to be unreasonably alarmist about the dangers of gay sex or sex in general.  But as a previous reviewer noted, the book's context does seem to run to the negative, and I wouldn't be too surprised if a lot of readers are completely turned off to gay sex by this book.  Perhaps a book shouldn't be judged for not couching its topics gently, but I think a better effort could have made to make this book less frightening.  Apparently here is the blunt, in-your-face, truth, and it's not pretty.	2001-09-27
US	52735321	R2N3O3D2OH5ZRH	0892551941	946642920	The Lord's Motel: A Novel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Flighty story with a flighty heroine	I liked the other reviews of this book, and it's generally hard to disagree with them. However, the character of Web Desiderio was less than fully developed, and it makes the narrator's conflict less believable. Colleen's main conflict is that she is kept &quot;off-balance&quot; by her mixed feelings for Web. She's drawn to him, but he hurts her and makes her feel worthless. It's clear why he's a toxic person for her, but what is the reason for her attraction? She mentions his physical attractiveness, but only in passing, as if that's not that important to her. There is a scene where he discusses his dead mother, and it seems that Colleen feels for him, but it fails to render him adorable. When about to make a critical error in judgement, Colleen simply defends the enormous mistake by saying it's to &quot;have the experience.&quot; I feel like her mind conveniently shut down, and it did not feel like the author had built up Web's powers of persuasion effectively. Further more, Colleen's relationship with the doctor develops unrealistically quickly and feels a bit false. On the whole, the book is enjoyable, and at times Colleen is remarkably insightful. Also, I chose this book because I may have to relocate to Houston. The author's depiction of Houston is very helpful.	2001-08-30
US	52735321	R21KAF6X6JGMAU	0688171281	817701876	Misadventures in the (213)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Very hard to put down	Along with Christian McLaughlin and Joe Keenan, I've found another author who is absolutely great.  What I consider the &quot;gay boy&quot; genre of fiction consists of generally fun, light and usually wickedly humorous writing.  Fans of Doug Guinan, Robert Rodi, and McLaughlin will most likely know what I'm talking about.  What's rarer is a character one can really care about.  Dennis Hensley's Craig Clyborn has a lovable soul and an air of insecurity that's easy to identify with.  His friend, Dandy Rio, a very brash loose cannon of a starlet, is a riot. I highly recommend this book to anyone in need of a laugh.	2001-08-23
US	52735321	RGA3PSOWQ0308	1555831532	664013730	The Buccaneer	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A fascinating tale of gay buccaneers	It's too bad this book is out of print.  The stories and lives of Caribbean privateers (careful, don't call 'em pirates) revealed in this book are indeed intriguing.  Some of M.S. Hunter's fabrications such as the existence of an Italian island in the Caribbean are a bit baffling, yet his rendering of a fairly utopian interracial (albeit a bit misogynist) buccanneering society is captivating.  Though, granted, I picked this book up because of my interest in gay fiction, the book would be of interest to a general open-minded readership.  The book's erotic passages are thankfully short enough not to interfere with the story which is far more interesting.  Because of this novel, I am much more interested in reading other literature concerning the adventures of buccaneers.	2001-08-18
US	52735321	R2TNZCG9GXD0UF	1555833853	442470476	Hormone Pirates of Xenobia and Dream Studs of Kama	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Not a great read	There's a dearth in gay oriented science fiction, and this book sadly wasn't worth reading. It makes sense that in this type of book, the erotic aspect would come before the science fiction theme, but the book didn't strike me as erotic either. Perhaps it's me, but when the body fluids you're describing are vomit and blood, I don't see how that's a turn on. In my opinion, John Preston's work might be preferable or for gay science fiction, perhaps consider Kyle Stone's The Initiation of PB 500 and it's sequel The Citadel.	2000-05-15
US	52735321	R254JO4JOHUUH8	0805947876	254371687	The Westerner	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not bad at all	This is the first time I've read a novel from the 'Western' genre so I can't comment on the book's originality.  The book was sent to me as a sample of 'on-demand' publishing, and despite a couple typos, I couldn't  tell that it wasn't from a traditional printing press.  Rusty Levack's  writing is pretty easy reading (perhaps on a middle school level), but  there are some adult situations.  Levack's plot is intriguing, his heroes  are intelligent and likeable, and his villains are cunning and cruel.  For  someone who never thought he would like Westerns, this was a surprisingly  satisfying read.	1999-12-14
US	52735321	R12Q3UCCKOVAOF	0312145535	573448635	Boy Culture: A Novel	Books	3	7	9	N	Y	Review of Boy Culture	I didn't find Boy Culture to be screamingly funny as I think it's advertised.  However, not that I would know firsthand, it appeared to be an intelligent rendering of the psyche of a male prostitute conditioned to  protect himself from love.  The central love triangle is written well  enough to give the book some tension.  If you're looking for a  &quot;fun&quot; or &quot;witty&quot; gay novel, I'd sooner suggest  Christian McLaughlin or Joe Keenan.  If you're interested in reading a  novel about a male prostitute, with the possible exception of Rent Boy by  Gary Indiana, I'd say this book among the most literary I've read.	1999-12-09
US	52735321	R17CQCHXUIU4AW	0609804138	849376137	The Sweet Potato Queens' Book of Love: A Fallen Southern Belle's Look at Love, Life, Men, Marriage, and Being Prepared	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Good Fun If You Can Handle The Royal Sass	Well...Queens Tammy, Tammy, Tammy, Tammy, Tammy, Tammy, Tammy and Jill certainly are crazy as loons.  I read this book because of a review in Publishers Weekly which expected Sweet Potato Queens to be the next Divine  Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood.  Both books revolve around a small group  of mischievous southern women who are lifelong friends, and both books are  pretty funny.  However, as a bookseller, it's going to be a bit hard for  one to unconditionally say &quot;If you liked Divine Secrets then you'll  love The Sweet Potato Queens...&quot; because the Queens are much more  raunchy.  I was fine with it, I think a lot of readers who enjoy one will  enjoy the other, but there are going to be some who will balk.  The Queens'  book is also not a novel, but a book of humorous advice, such as why a  chainsaw is an excellent wedding gift, and anecdotes such as one that  reveals that cooking an unopened can of sweetened condensed milk might be  worth risking potential death or dismemberment.  You won't be reading this  to get a sense of bonding and history among these women like in Divine  Secrets but to learn about bawdy fun, relationships from below Hell, and  the Queens' cult of personality.  If you're the &quot;modern&quot; type who  doesn't flinch at R rated humor, you'll probably like this quite well.  But  if &quot;Divine Secrets&quot; was pushing the limits of your base of  comfort out from Jan Karon's Mitford books, then make sure your jawbone can  tolerate a lot of drops from shock.	1999-09-10
US	52735321	RHX3OE01RAOXK	0679448586	843523696	The Student Body: A Novel	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A fun gossipy read	I agree with the reviewer from the Boston Globe that this book would make a good movie.  I'm surprised that it hasn't gone to paperback yet, and I suspect that it's sales don't do justice to this page-turner.  A couple of  reviewers mentioned that they were angered when contacted by one of the  authors via e-mail.  That happened to me, and I think it was a very bright  idea.  I reviewed Olivia Goldsmith's The Bestseller, and the Jane Harvard  member was exactly right.  If you enjoy complex, scandal-filled plots, you  will enjoy The Student Body.   I think readers of E. Lynn Harris would  enjoy this book as well.  On an emotional level, I think the most important  aspect of this kind of writing is creating &quot;good guys&quot; whom the  reader actually roots for and villains who are detestable.  I feel they  succeeded with flying colors.  I hope Michael Melcher, Faith Adiele,  Bennett Singer and Julia Sullivan will keep me informed of any future  novels.	1999-08-14
US	52735321	R2ZBT1TISDNL4K	1889138126	367628900	Bad Boys on Video: Interviews with Gay Adult Stars (v. 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	How do you get a job like this?	Mickey Skee's book is a lot of fun. He chose a wide variety of stars from different age groups and backgrounds. Mickey Skee is obviously very adept at getting his subjects at ease with being interviewed. I noticed that he revealed that some of the stars who were given accolades for their performances as \\"bottoms\\" tended to be somewhat embarrassed and uncomfortable with that honor. (Maybe honor should be in quotes in that case...) Overall, Skee shows us that these seemingly unattainable stars have likable personalities, and are often quite charming.	1998-12-30
US	52735321	RBDSOII8E1IM5	1889138088	959199788	The Films of Ken Ryker	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Another excellent book from Mickey Skee	Sure the topic isn't of earth-shattering importance, and no the New York Times will never say &quot;Move over Samuel Johnson, here's the new definition of a world class biography&quot; but hey, it's a fun book, lots  of nice pictures, and it gives that Ryker is a good guy who has had a good  experience in the adult film industry.  It's a very interesting contrast to  Isherwood's &quot;Wonderbread and Ecstasy&quot;.	1998-12-30
US	52735321	RG76OZPOBEEM1	0517131307	188068146	The Male Cross Dresser Support Group	Books	1	2	5	N	N	A disappointing and far-fetched read.	Tama Janowitz's creation, Pamela Trowel, is one of the most self-defeating and sorry protagonists I've seen.  Janowitz piles on the problems for Pamela, but doesn't equip her with the sense or the wit to cope.  It's one  thing for an unrelenting series of bad things to happen to a character, and  quite another when the protagonist does nothing about them, or worse,  brings them on herself.  For instance, seeing a bad psychiatrist who holds  his sessions in a bar is something that should be easily remediable.  The  point where I decided the book wasn't worth it anymore was where Pamela  comes across a severed head in a plastic bag, decides it's one of those  fake severed heads from a novelty shop, and merrily takes it to the kid she  is sort-of, kind-of kidnapping.  Well, oops, it was an actual bloody, messy  severed head, and we are supposed to believe that she couldn't tell the  difference.  No, and if she truly is that ignorant, I have no interest in  her story.	1998-12-30
US	52735321	RVGFZG1BK7UUH	188913810X	506851927	The Best of Gay Adult Video 1998: Mickey Skee's Dirty Dozens	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	More in-depth than other guidebooks	The Sticky Remote Guide, The Adam Gay Video Annual Guide, and Sabin's Gay Adult Video Guide are all worthwhile books.  The first two are great for their photos and recommendations as well as their brief synopses of lots of  films.  Sabin's guide is very useful for containing info about a huge  number of older films, and is very helpful to those who look for videos  based on specific performers.  The reason you also need Mickey Skee's book  is because of the in-depth coverage and behind the scenes information he  gives you on the best recent films.  The photos are quite nice too.    Definitely worth the investment.	1998-12-30
US	52735321	RA5KMOMK6SXVT	0553578979	254727570	Iron Fist (Star Wars: X-Wing Series, Book 6)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Extremely Successful Sophomore Effort	Aaron Allston's second Star Wars book equals any other episode in the X-Wing series in intelligent writing and fast-paced action.  Allston again successfully gives his main character an endearing set of qualities and  emotional troubles.  In this book, he switches focus from Kell Tainer, who  was afraid of failure and cowardice to Garik &quot;Face&quot; Loran, who is  wracked with guilt of his childhood service to the Empire.  Unlike some  other Star Wars novels, such as Darksaber, the enemy is both sophisticated  and strong enough to present a legitimate battle. Though the ending is a  bit predictable, it is nevertheless satisfying and worthy of the adventure  tradition begun by George Lucas.	1998-11-28
US	52735321	R2GNHXC4KDLU1M	1560251824	268897922	Memories of Cuba	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Modern Memories	The book consists of photographs and the memoirs of two French visitors in modern day Cuba.  It is interesting to see how Cuba has changed since it's Pre-Castro heights, but those looking for a book to reflect their own  memories of the old Cuba would be a bit disappointed.	1998-11-27
US	52735321	R2YDP7Y9ARTBEA	1555833926	146622302	Making It Big: Sex Stars, Porn Films and Me	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Director and diva charms with wit and humility	This is a fun biography which makes a good contrast to Ecstasy and Wonderbread, the biography of Joey Stefano that portrays a very definite downside to the gay porn industry. Although LaRue does discuss the pain of Joey Stefano's addiction and death, she focuses more on her early life, her drag achievements, and her quick rise to the director's chair in the pornographic film industry, Unlike many divas, she doesn't appear egotistical or mean-spirited, and she freely gives credit to her many friends and even her enemies for their ideas and support. Furthermore, she satisfies one's curiousity about life in the porn industry and she's full of tips about making a film or putting on make-up. She discusses many of the porn stars she's directed, and she details several of her favorite films. She also discusses enough of her famous drag queen acquaintances to rival the book, The Drag Queens of New York. Making It Big is well-written (no, I don't suppose it compares with War and Peace, but still...) and fun.	1997-12-02
US	52735321	RLA92P92Y7XCP	0452261295	738308939	The Dancer from the Dance: A Novel (Plume Contemporary Fiction)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The pinnacle of gay literature?	This book is often considered the best post-stonewall work of fiction by a gay author.  If so, I'm not sure I understand why it's worthy of such high praise, though it is a powerful book.  The book portrays the downward spiral of an extremely promising and handsome gay man.  His apparent sexual addiction and depression destroy any promise he had and he remains painfully closeted from his family.  Similar to Larry Kramer's epic, Faggots,  it is often considered a classic, but in a Post-Aids light, it seems more of an important period piece portraying the pain of gay life in the allegedly liberated 70s.  Even if one's goal is not to be &quot;well-read&quot; in gay lit., picking up this moving work is well worth the effort.	1997-11-25
