US	52736376	R2316AD8P23QQ5	0875527159	383660868	The Heart of a Servant Leader: Letters from Jack Miller	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	Great Grace-Driven Book for Church Leaders	The late Jack Miller was a man wonderfully used by God to help the American church rediscover the impact of the Gospel of Grace.  The ripples of his ministry continue to have impact today.  This book, lovingly compiled and edited by Jack's daughter Barbara Miller Juliani, contains many of Jack Miller's letters to all kinds of people- ministers, elders, counselors, and just ordinary Christians.  His focus is always Christ and His grace.  His message is always clear, humble and loving, and yet very convicting and powerful.  These letters were for me, models of applying the Gospel to a lot of situations.  Be warned, these letters will stretch you and expose your own self-righteousness and self-protective patterns. <br /> <br />The book is divided into sections by theme:  Motivation for Serving:  The Glory of God; The Basics of Serving: Faith, Humility, and Prayer; Perservering in Serving; and Encouragment.  I found myself frequently underlining paragraphs in these letters and have already emailed some quotes to some friends for their encouragement.  I highly recommend this book to anyone who is interested in ministry, growing in their faith, or just how the Gospel is for Christians and non-Christians alike!	2005-03-21
US	52736376	RE0TOQ3QE8VCT	1581345631	95613273	A God Entranced Vision of All Things: The Legacy of Jonathan Edwards	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Historical Theology/Biography with Plenty of Application!	A God Entranced Vision of All Things is a wonderful look at the legacy and relevance of Jonathan Edwards life and teachings.  John Piper and Justin Taylor have assembled (and also contributed to) a remarkable series of essays on the different aspects of Edwards' legacy.  As the back of the book declares:  \\"This book's contributors investigate the character and teachings of the man who preached from a deep concern for the unsaved and a passionate desire for God.  Studying the life and works of this dynamic Great Awakening figure will rouse slumbering Christians, prompting them to view the world through Edward's God-centered lens.\\" <br /> <br />The book is divided into three sections.  Part I \\"The Life and Legacy of Jonathan Edwards\\" introduces the book, and contains 3 essays on our need to rediscover Edwards, a biography of Edwards, and information about his marriage and family (ably done by Mrs. Noel Piper).  Part II \\"Lessons from Edward's Life and Thought\\" contains some excellent essays by J.I. Packer and Mark Dever. But, for sheer impact and power, the highlight of this section was the essay by Sherard Burns, \\"Trusting the Theology of a Slave Owner\\".  Mr. Burns, an African-American pastor and theologian, thoroughly and fairly looks at the reality of Edwards' ownership of slaves, and the failure of Edwards to apply his theology to that area.  Burns, without excusing Edwards, gives a remarkable analysis of this sin in Edwards.  Here are the paragraphs that blew me away: <br />  <br />\\"As an African American, I know daily the pressures of being in a predominantly white society.  Yet how I approach that society, the grid by which I engage that society, is more telling than anything else.  God cannot be sovereign over some things and yet not in control of others.  This is no justification for abuse or racism, for such perpetuators will have their day of reckoning.  But the eradication of racism today, as would be the case with slavery then, will not come about throughprograms, but by means of a God-centered and God-entranced view of reality.  We must not be governed by the political persuasion of today, but governed by the sovereign reign and rule of God.  Whatever we may think of Edwards, one thing is for certain:  He left the American church with the necessary theological truths to kill racism in our hearts and to be conquerors of it in the church. <br />  <br />In light of that, though we fight and should fight the residue of such hatred in our day, the reality is that the desire to be theologically orthodox means we must add to our shelves books by dead white men who owned slaves.  All our heroes today have clay feet.  Jonathan Edwards was not a perfect man, and he did not get everything right, nor did he stand for all the right things.  Neither do any of us.  His blind spots and sins are pointers to our own blind spots and sins.  To ask for grace and mercy on our own sins is, by logical implication, to be ready and willing to extend it to Edwards.\\" (p. 170-171).\\" <br /> <br />Wow!  'Nuff said! <br /> <br />Part 3 \\"Expositions of Edwards's Major Theological Works\\" is also very helpful in understanding some of Edwards more(admittedly) difficult works.  The book concludes with an Appendix by (of course) Piper, who writes an \\"Edwardsean Sermon\\" in honor of Edwards, and a helpful guide by Justin Taylor on \\"Reading Jonathan Edwards:  Objections and Recommendations\\". <br /> <br />All in all, I highly recommend this work to anyone interested in gaining a more God-centered, God-entranced view of all things. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-02-16
US	52736376	R1Q27AVXEJCX21	0875525717	528218720	Tenth Presbyterian Church of Philadelphia: 175 Years of Thinking and Acting Biblically	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Enjoyable History of a God Glorifying Church	Church history is a worthwhile area of study.  As we see how God has worked among sinful men and in imperfect churches, we are even more amazed at how He uses these churches and men in great ways.  Tenth Presbyterian Church of Philadelphia is an enjoyable read that combines insight from early American Presbyterian history, early Philadelphia social and religious history, and of course, the individual histories of the men God called to preach and shepherd at Tenth Pres.  An introduction by Linda Boice, the widow of James Boice, brings a personal touch to the history, and seems to show how God clearly planned and prepared for James Boice to pastor there and impact both Philadelphia and the world through his ministry.  Anyone who has benefited from any of Boice's many books, or from those of his successor, and the current Sr. Pastor there, Philip G. Ryken, should enjoy this book.  It covers the whole history of the church up until the time of Dr. Boice's death, and it concludes with Dr. Ryken's chapter, \\"A Church for Twenty-First Century\\" that outlines what the church is doing now, and where they see it going.  All in all, a very encouraging, interesting, and God-centered history of one of the leading churches in America today.	2004-12-10
US	52736376	RB87D1RBA9VNX	0875527973	277188105	He Speaks To Me Everywhere: Meditations On Christianity And Culture	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Great Follow-Up to My Father's World	Dr. Ryken is quickly becoming one of my favorite authors.  As the Senior Pastor of Tenth Presbyterian church in Philadelphia, he is leading a church that is attempting to reach and transform the city in all areas of life based on a Reformed Biblical world-view.  This book is the follow up to his \\"My Father's World:  Meditations on Christianity & Culture\\", and again it is composed of messages he gave during his Sunday evening \\"Window on the World\\" talks.  He divides the book into sections, focusing on areas such as:  Love, Marriage and Family; Sports and Leisure; Science and Technology; Social Issues, Feasts and Festivals; Church History and Christianity Today (to name a few).  It is a thoroughly enjoyable book, and I highly recommend it.  As you read his musings and reflections on all aspects of life, and then his thoughtful application of Scripture to them, you will hopefully start to see how faith in Christ works through all areas of life.  It is my prayer that more and more believers will learn to think biblically, and then to act biblically.  If that is a desire of yours, Ryken's work is a great place to start!	2004-12-01
US	52736376	R1HQCV9JTRZA68	185792925X	741599379	Heroes And Heretics: Pivotal Moments on the 20 Centuries of Church	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Excellent primer to begin studying church history!	Twenty centuries of church history sounds like a lot to learn. Where do you start? Can you really get a handle on the whole scope of church history without reading giant reference books? The Rev. Dr. Iain D. Campbell has provided a wonderful new book for anyone who is interested in beginning to learn about church history.      As the author says, \\"Church history is important because there we see the outworking of God's truth in man's life, truth for life, theology that cannot be divorced from the events that shape our thinking and our living.\\" (pp. 12). Dr. Campbell has provided a great resource for a believer to begin exploring this important area of study.      According to the author, the chapters were originally 1/2 hour Sunday School lessons done at his church. Each chapter covers one century of church history. The chapters are short, concise, and yet very interesting. Dr. Campbell has also included helpful user-friendly charts and graphs, and each chapter begins with a short list of key dates in that century. The book is relatively short (192 pages), and easy to read. The author also provides a list of books for further reading (with his comments about each) if someone wants to learn more about church history after finishing this book. If the old adage is true that 'those who don't learn the lessons of history are doomed to repeat them', than I urge anyone who cares about the Christian faith and the Lord's church to grab this book, and see how the Lord has worked through history (or more accurately, His-story).	2004-07-21
US	52736376	R2W20RST1QXPLW	0875525601	179240484	My Father's World: Meditations on Christianity and Culture	Books	5	8	8	N	N	How to Live in My Father's World !	My Father's World:  Meditations on Christianity and Culture has become one of my new favorite books.  This book arose from a series of messages from Tenth Presbyterian Church's evening service, where Ryken regularly takes a few minutes to analyze some current event or popular trend from a Biblical point of view.  They call it, \\"Window on the World\\".  This book is a collection of those meditations.  Each \\"meditation\\" is only 1-3 pages and they cover a wide range of topics.  Here is how Ryken describes their focus:<br />\\"All around us there are many happy reminders that our Father made this good world and everything good in it.  At the same time, what is happening in the world provides many painful reminders of the way that sin distorts, disfigures, and destroys what God has made.  All is not lost, however.  Our Father is at work in his world and also in us.  By his grace he is preparing us for glory...The essays that follow are much too short to offer anything like the definitive word on any of the subjects they address.  They merely offer preliminary thoughts that invite further theological reflection.  My prayer is that they will inspire you to become a better theologian by thinking clearly and biblically about our Father's world.\\" (pp. 17).<br />Ryken is a good writer, and his essays are all interesting, biblical and thought provoking.  I have given this book to several folks in the church, and I have heard good feedback.  It was a great help to my own thinking as well.   He divides the essays into five sections of the book, by theme.  They are:  Christians in the World; The Bible; Love, Marriage &amp; Family; The Arts; Science and Technology; Social Issues; Feasts and Festivals; The Church Yesterday; and The Church Today.  As you can tell, he covers a lot of ground, and because the book is organized into a series of short essays, you can read it straight through, or just look at the articles that interest you.<br />I highly recommend this book, and I will finishby sharing  a quote from Charles Colson's review of it:  \\"Articulates a Christian perspective on topics as diverse as evangelism and evolution, shopping and science.  Readers will not only gain wisdom from his conclusions, but will also learn to think Christianly.\\"	2004-05-14
US	52736376	R1NZDIUFM38ZWD	158134516X	927318424	Walking with God Day by Day: 365 Daily Devotional Selections	Books	5	30	30	N	Y	Wonderful, Deep Devotional Material in a Readable Format	Finding helps for our devotional time can be a challenge.  Often, many of them merely offer a &quot;Daily Crumb&quot; rather then a satisfying meal of Scripture.  This new collection of the late Dr. Martin Lloyd-Jones writings, arranged into 365 daily readings, seeks to offer devotional material that engages the mind in addition to the heart.  One feature I especially like in their arrangement is that each month has a theme, such as &quot;New Life in the Spirit&quot; (January) or &quot;Knowing and Serving God&quot; (August).  I have enjoyed the continuity and thematic thinking that this enables the reader to do.  One other feature that I enjoy is that each excerpt lists the book and page numbers from which it was taken, something that many collections like this fail to do.  This enables a person who is interested in reading more on a given topic, to know where to find it!<br />All in all, editor Robert Backhouse has provided a great service in compiling these many words of wisdom, challenge, and devotion from Lloyd-Jones into a useful resource for believers today.  Try it and see how it can help you 'glorify God and enjoy Him forever'.	2004-01-13
US	52736376	R2KYTLKL0IL6FZ	0875525768	432866714	Redeeming Pop Culture: A Kingdom Approach	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Excellent Introduction to Think Christianly About  Culture	Applying theology to popular culture has long been a neglected area for evangelical Christians.  Thankfully, it is an area that is receiving more attention in recent years.  I am especially thankful for T.M. Moore's recent book, Redeeming Popular Culture.  This is a very accessible, well-written book that helps the reader think about our daily interaction with, as the author describes it, the \\"kudzu\\" of popular culture (meaning it is everywhere, and spreads like it is out of control).  Moore's work is biblical, insightful and challenging and will force the reader to evaluate their views on culture.<br />Redeeming Pop Culture, is not an attack, but an evaluation and a work of theology. It is not an alarmist work, but instead gives the reader tools to help discern, and a vision to help impact the culture we live in.  Here is a sample, \\"...we cannot pursue a kingdom approach to popular culture without at the same time seeking the Lord more earnestly.  We are not interested in learning about popular culture for its own sake; rather, our objective is to discover the beauty, goodness, and truth of the Lord, to improve our own tastes, to be pleased with what pleases Him, and to prepare ourselves as His ambassadors to serve the interests of His Kingdom.\\" (pp. 149).<br />I highly recommend Redeeming Pop Culture for anyone who wants to think more biblically about the culture in which we live and breathe and how to impact it for Christ.  For those interested in going more in depth on this, I recommend All God's Children and Blue Suede Shoes by Kenneth A. Myers, a work that Moore quotes frequently and builds upon.	2003-10-13
US	52736376	R313GWSTFPNHC2	1857928741	38100530	This World Is Not My Home: The Origins and Development of Dispensationalism	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Excellent, Fair, Assessment of the Beginnings of a Movement	Dr. Michael Williams has waded through the many writings of Chafer, Scofield, and Ryrie, to examine the origins of the Dispensationalist mindset that still impacts the majority of American churches today.  Williams is excellent at analyzing and critiquing (but never harshly) this theology, and in laying out all the implications of their system.  He is charitable - always trying to give these men the benefit of the doubt when it comes to their motives and intentions, which he believes were good.  But he is clear at holding up their conclusions against the Biblical data, and showing how they fall short.  It can be a little dry at times, but overall, I would highly recommend this book to anyone who is interested in why vast numbers of Christians in America have had so little impact on the culture over the last 100 years.  Read this book, and you will understand, as R.C. Sproul would say, \\"that ideas have consequences\\".	2003-10-09
US	52736376	R3HNBS2ETJUC89	0851518214	7646120	Valley of Vision (Leather): A Collection of Puritan Prayers and Devotions	Books	5	21	22	N	N	A Joyous Corrective to A Man-Centered Prayer Focus	I can think of no other work that I have read that has influenced my prayer life, and the content of my prayers, as much as this gem of a collection that Arthur Bennett has complied and edited from some of the great Purtian divines.  I owned the original paperback, and now am very pleased to have this new bonded leather version (complete with ribbon bookmark).<br />These men of faith prayed Scripturally informed, joyous, repentant prayers that never left any doubt that God was the focus, and that pleasing and praising and enjoying Him was the goal of the prayers.  Here is just a small sample:<br />&quot;O Lover of the Loveless, it is thy will that I should love thee with heart, soul, mind, strength, and my neighbor as myself.  But I am not sufficient for these things.  There is by nature no pure love in my soul; Every affection in me is turned from thee; I am bound, as slave to lust, I cannot love thee, lovely as thou art, until thou dost set me free.  By grace I am thy freeman and would serve thee, for I believe thou art my God in Jesus, and that through him I am redeemed, and my sins forgiven.&quot; (pp. 250).<br />There is a wonderful sense of joy, hope and love, mixed with seriousness, repentance, and faith.  I turn to these prayers again and again when my heart is hard, my mind lacks the right words, or when I am tempted.  At our church, we often include prayers from this work in our bulletin for folks to meditate on as they prepare for worship.  They are also wonderful for 'jump starting' your own personal worship and prayer times with the Lord.  Get a copy today - you won't regret it!	2003-10-01
US	52736376	R93N3N4MWVVWZ	0802441998	169240543	City on a Hill: Reclaiming the Biblical Pattern for the Church in the 21st Century	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Call for the Church to Again Be the Church!	Philip Graham Ryken is a worthy successor to his mentor James Boice, both as the pastor of Tenth Presbyterian, and as a voice calling out to the church in our day to turn back to her first love.  In this great book, City on a Hill, Ryken sets out the Biblical priorities for a church.  There are no earthshaking new ideas here, but timeless truths presented in new and fresh ways.  Much of this book is based on messages given reaffirming Tenth Presbyterian's mission statement, but the focus given is applicable to any Bible-believing church.  He calls the church to return to:  expository preaching, corporate worship, fellowship, pastoral care, discipleship, missions and evangelism, mercy ministry and repentance and renewal.  Each chapter covers one of these areas and is biblically supported and persuasively argued.  The book also has an 'action guide' at the end for pastors and church leaders to evaluate how their own churches are doing, and it provides additional resources for further reading in the areas covered in this book.  I highly recommend this book for anyone who cares about having a God-honoring, gospel-centered &amp; driven church that can impact a community.  May He use it for His glory!	2003-07-17
US	52736376	R1TKLZKD1MVLUJ	0851511368	466669383	Fair Sunshine	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Inspiring Story of Men and Women Kept by the Gospel	In an age of easy believe-ism, Jock Purves' classic Fair Sunshine, is a much-needed reminder that, as Bonhoeffer wrote, \\"When Christ calls a man, He bids him come and die\\".  We take freedom of religion for granted here in America.  These stories of the martyrs of the Scottish church in the 17th Century are great reminders of the cost that all believers must be willing to bear if they are to take up Christ's cross and follow him.  The stories reveal men and women who feared God more than men.  In the face of deprivation, torture, and death, they remained faithful.  The issue that most died for was over who was the head of the church, Jesus Christ or King Charles II.  The established church and the royal officials were determined to bring the church under the control of the King, and many faithful ministers and laypersons were persecuted, tortured and executed as a result.  The stories point  us not to how great these men and women were, but to how great a God they loved and served.  The last words many spoke were of praise and thanksgiving to their great God that they were able to live and die for Him.  Use this book to remind you of the cost of discipleship, and the power of a life lived Coram Deo- before the face of God.  Read it - you won't regret it!	2003-07-16
US	52736376	R1OJWIWRA26H35	0802839746	450079635	Finding the Will of God: A Pagan Notion?	Books	5	35	38	N	N	Powerful Wisdom for Confused People	Many sincere believers in their commendable desire to seek God's will wind up using very un-Biblical methods of guidance.  With the knowledge of a Biblical scholar, the clarity of an excellent teacher, and the wisdom of one who has walked with the Lord a long time, Bruce Waltke has given us a wonderful summary and practical description of what it truly means to seek God's will (and Waltke explains and clarifies all the meanings that phrase can carry).  As the author would say, &quot;One does not divine God's will.  One lives God's will as one comes to know Him through His word.&quot; (pp. 71).<br />This is not merely a critique of many modern ways of &quot;seeking God's will&quot;, but also a Biblical description of God's pattern of guidance for the believer.  As his later chapter titles sum up, God's program for guidance includes (in order): Read your Bible, Develop a Heart for God, Seek Wise Counsel, Look for God's Providence, Does this Make Sense? and (rarely) Divine Intervention.  Dr. Waltke has reminded us all that our Father is not one who hides His overall purpose for our lives, and the author does a great job of showing us how our loving Father guides and leads His children.  Pick up a copy today - even if you aren't facing a &quot;major decision&quot; right now, it will still help you gain wisdom and direction in how to glorify God and enjoy Him forever.	2003-06-30
US	52736376	RJE8G1UWJSMMK	1582291896	323927286	Objects of His Affection: Coming Alive to the Compelling Love of God	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	Refreshing, honest, powerful, and Biblical	For too many Christians, who take the Bible and their duties seriously, God's love is a concept that is comprehended without being apprehended. Scotty Smith's very personal account of how God moves us to a greater understanding of His great love for us is a wondeful tool for people who only know duty and doctrine in their Christian walks. But, this book is doctrine as well, in the best way! It is doctrine applied, and since all theology is practical, Scotty Smith shows how understanding and receiving God's love changed him.<br />Here is a sample from the introduction: \\"In essence, this is the story of God's pursuing and passionate mercy revealed in his Word and through his Son. It is the story of how subjects of futility and foolishness become objects of God's affection. It's about how God makes worshipers out of idolaters, a wife out of a whore.\\" (p. 6).<br />Each chapter has a prayer at the end to ask God to apply some aspect of what the chapter has covered. There are some thought provoking and heart probing questions in the back of the book for each chapter, to help you apply the book to your life and walk.<br />Personally, I read this book when I really needed to hear its message (and the message of the Bible that it explains), and it has helped me to \\"have power, together with all the saints, to grasp how wide and long and high and deep is the love of Christ, and to know this love that surpasses knowledge\\" (Eph. 3:18-19, NIV).<br />I highly recommend this book, not as some quick fix formula to \\"jump start\\" your walk, but as a starting point, on a journey to grow in your understanding of the God who has loved you with an everlasting love! Pick one up today - you won't be disappointed!	2003-04-17
US	52736376	R2NKYS1WKSR0CX	1576833542	622160227	Hero for Humanity: A Biography of William Wilberforce	Books	5	22	23	N	Y	Phenomenal Biography About A Too Little Known Hero	In an age when celebrities are made through self-promotion, selfish excess and even 'reality' television centering on the lowest forms of human behavior, Hero for Humanity is a refreshing look at a man who by his faith, life and commitments, made his country, and indeed his time, better for him having lived.<br />Kevin Belmonte has been fascinated by William Wilberforce for years, and is determined to have the world rediscover this man, and hopefully follow his example to change their world.  Wilberforce was an Englishman of noble birth who was born into a nominal Christian home in 1795.  A few years after being elected to Parliament, and with a bright political future ahead of him, the Lord worked in his life to bring him to faith.  Counseled by John Newton to continue in Parliament, Wilberforce set his sights on bettering English society.  His aim was to abolish the African slave trade (and later slavery itself in England)and to have a 'reformation of manners', meaning moral change in society.<br />Unlike many modern \\"Christian\\" statesmen and politicans, Wilberforce did not need to couch all his ideas in Christian language, nor did he feel that he had to quote Scripture on the floor of Parliament to make his case, but he was clearly and consciously informed by Scriptural principles in all that he did.  He had many opponents who ridiculed his faith and attacked his reforms because of it, but he resisted the temptation to 'demonize' his opponents (again, unlike many today) and instead sought to win them over by integrity, honesty, care, and by using his incredible gifts of oration and persuasion.  His struggle to eliminate the slave trade and slavery took many years and had many setbacks and defeats.  But in the end, he and his group of co-workers achieved their goals.<br />Belmonte also portrays Wilberforce as a man people just wanted to be around.  He could carry on intelligent conversations on almost any topic.  He was as home with intellectuals as he was with the working class man.  His great gifts were balanced by a genuine humility, knowing that all he had was a gift from God, and all he accomplished was much less than he could have.  Belmonte paints a portrait of Wilberforce as a man who you would just want to spend time with.  I would urge you to do just that and read this book.  It will inspire you to see how you can be used by God in greater ways in whatever sphere of life He has called you to.	2003-04-10
US	52736376	R2HDG313TNCCE2	0310223539	687328197	Timeline Charts of the Western Church	Books	2	21	31	N	N	Conservative Christians Be Careful	While this is a work of great volume, detail and overall is an excellent timeline, I am disappointed that the editors at Zondervan did not look more closely at the author's content.  Suprising for an \\"evangelical\\" publisher like Zondervan, this work generally assumes the critical theories of the 19th & 20th centuries as \\"fact\\" when it comes to the dating and authorship of much of the New Testament canon.<br />For example on p. 16 she writes (under the year 65 AD): \\"The Pastoral Epistles - the Epistles to Timothy and Titus -- are written.  (Their dating, not to mention their authorship, is a point of substantial controversy.  Estimates range from 65 to 110).\\"  It gets worse!<br />On p. 17, she writes (under the year 70): \\"Disciples of the apostle Paul write Colossians and Ephesians. (Possibly as late as 90) Some scholars suggest Colossians is written by Paul around the time of Philemon.\\"  Notice here that the authorship by Paul (in her mind) is ruled out right away, and \\"oh by the way\\", some people actually think Paul might have written Colossians - can you believe it?.<br />One more that I've noticed, p. 18 (under the year 100):  \\"1 Peter is written. (ca.)\\".  This clearly shows that she does not believe Peter is the author, since his death is listed as being in 64 or 68 on her charts.  She apparently doesn't believe he wrote 2nd Peter either, since 2nd Peter is listed (with 1st, 2nd and 3rd John) as being completed in 110 AD, thus in one listing ruling out Peter and John as the authors of the books that claim their authorship.<br />The author is much better once she gets into the rest of the timelines of the Western Church, but I have serious problems recommending this resource to anyone who believes that the Scriptures were actually written by who they say they are written by!<br />An excellent scholarly counter to these types of claims of pseudonymity (writings claiming to be written by one person that were actually written by another)is the excellent \\"An Introduction to the New Testament\\" by D.A. Carson, Douglas J. Moo, and Leon Morris (all 1st rate New Testament scholars by the way!)and also published by Zondervan!  They go into detail in the case of all NT books that critics claim are pseudopigraphic.  Here are a few of their findings:<br />\\"One noteworthy fact among the Jews and the Christians is the rarity of pseudepigraphic letters.  Writers might claim great names as having been responsible for other kinds of literature, but only two pseudonymous letters have come down to us from Jewish sources....A false claim to writing a letter would probably be easier to detect than, say, a false claim to writing an apocalypse.  Whatever the reason, pseudepigraphic letters among the Jews are extremely rare.\\" (P.367).<br />\\"The difficulty is not the idea of pseudonymity but the lack of evidence that the New Testament Christians gave any countenance to the idea.  Nowhere is evidence cited that any member of the New Testament church accepted the idea that a pious believer could write something in the name of an apostle and expect the writing to be welcomed.  The contrary, as we have seen, is often maintained.\\" (p.370).<br />\\"There appears to be no example of anyone in the early church accepting a book as truly canonical while denying that it was written by the author whose name it bears.\\" (p. 371).<br />So, to sum up.  You can use this for your post-apostolic history, but be very wary about the dating of the writing of the books of the NT canon.  Look for a reliable conservative source instead.	2003-02-11
US	52736376	RKEXKVCNZGXQ	0875524656	93131185	Adopted by God: From Wayward Sinners to Cherished Children	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Neglected Theology Recovered!	With the exception of Sinclair Ferguson's excellent, Children of the Living God, there are very few books that deal with the doctrine of adoption in the christian life.  Adopted By God fills a great need for this generation of believers-to know the wonder and privilege that our Lord calls us His sons and daughters.  Peterson makes it clear that God has taken those who are naturally His enemies because of their sin and rebellion, and through the finished work of Christ on the cross, has brought them into His family and made them His heirs.    <br />By mixing careful Biblical study and analysis with personal stories of application, Robert A. Peterson has given us a book that is understandable by all, and yet worthy of a scholar's study.  This is a truth that needs to be studied and meditated upon over and over again.  Highly recommended!	2002-02-05
US	52736376	RHMQM3DYCXVA7	1581343086	235586221	The Life of a God-Made Man	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	We Need More Men's Books Like This One!	In The Life of A God-Made Man, Dr. Doriani has done a great service to the church.  As he says, the book is a proposal and a protest:<BR>\\"It protests all the books that reduce the life of a Christian man to a string of techniques and how-to lists.  It proposes instead that the course of the Christian man is the course of his God....It also proposes that we focus on character over technique and law.  God has renewed His sons and is remaking us in His image.  Therefore, it is our heritage, our destiny, to become more like the Father and the Son.  Men are most true to themselves when most like Christ.\\" (p. 10 from the Preface).<br />In this book, grace is proclaimed and applied to men's relationship to God, their families, their jobs and even their recreation (His chapter on A Man and His Play is excellent!).  Instead of being given ten steps to be a better man (Doriani calls this kind of thing \\"Nike Christianity\\"), which none of us can ever follow, Doriani shows where and how the power comes from to change, and how God has provided for His sons to conform more and more to the image of Christ.<br />The book is filled with solid biblical support & analysis and yet it is also filled with helpful illustrations and stories to make it a joy to read.<br />The book also has discussion questions at the end of each chapter and it would be a great book to use in small groups and men's groups.  I plan to recommend it to a lot of the men in my church.	2002-01-28
US	52736376	R14JY5YP5YV262	0939443031	56392019	God's Politician	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A Man Worth Knowing About	I want to highly recommend the biography of one of my heroes of the faith, William Wilberforce.  Wilberforce was an English citizen who in 1781 was elected to Parliament at the age of 21.  While a Member of Parliament, he was converted to Christianity at the age of 24.  Curious about whether he should remain in government now that he had come to Christ, he consulted with John Newton.  Newton's reply to his question was, \\"The Lord has raised you up for the good of his church and for the good of the nation\\".  <BR>Wilberforce followed Newton's counsel, and over the next 18 months, formulated his goals:  \\"God Almighty has set before me two great objects:  the suppression of the slave trade and the reformation of manners\\" (manners meaning the morals).  As Lean writes, \\"The two were, of course, intimately related.  On the one hand, it would take a profound moral reformation in leaders and people to obtain the suppression of the slave trade; on the other, only an unselfish battle like the abolition of the Trade would demonstrate to God and the world that such a moral reformation was genuine.\\" (p. 47).<BR>Wilberforce's goals of spiritual revival and the abolishing of the slave trade would not come easy.   His bills against the slave trade were continually defeated, and his character was assaulted frequently by his opponents.  Throughout the many battles he and his friends faced, Wilberforce remained committed both to the cause and to prayer for the cause, yet Wilberforce was also gracious and gentle towards his opponents.  After many years and many defeats, in 1807, the bill abolishing the slave trade was finally passed!<BR>Wilberforce also wrote a book called, Practical Christianity (1797) which God used to help convict many people in England of their sin and their need for Christ. Wilbeforce's book helped to bring about the \\"reformation of manners\\" that he sought in the form of the Second Great Awakening.  This book was on the bestseller list in England for nearly 50 years!<BR>I recommend Lean's biography on Wilberforce, both as an encouraging model of a Christian leader, and as a model for how societal change can occur through prayer and through Christian revival in society.  Wilberforce saw that politics couldn't change society, but he knew that society could change politics.  May we learn from his example!	2001-11-05
US	52736376	R36WIQ9ZQCGQBR	1581342373	405684564	Whatever Happened to The Gospel of Grace?: Rediscovering the Doctrines that Shook the World	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Diagnoses the Disease Plaguing the Church Today	The late James Boice was a great asset to the Kingdom of God.  His books communicated great truths in an understandable manner.  His last book, released almost a year after his death is no exception.  With grace and gentleness, yet with a passion for the truth of Scripture, he examines evangelicalism today.  His conclusion is that we have lost much of the Gospel in our churches.  The lives of many Christians differ very little from the world around us!  He looks back to the truths of Scripture that transformed the church during the Reformation, and says that we must return to them if we hope and truly long for revival today.  We need to recover the great Reformation and Biblical doctrines of Scripture Alone, Grace Alone, Faith Alone and Glory to God Alone.<br />Here's a sample:<br />\\"No people ever rise higher than their idea of God.  Conversely, the loss of the sense of God's high and awesome character always leads to the loss of a people's highest ideals, moral values, and even what we commonly call humanity, not to mention the loss of understanding and appreciation for the most essential Bible doctrines...We deplore the breakdown of moral standards in the church, even among its most visible leaders.  But what do we think should happen when we have focused on ourselves and our own, often trivial needs rather than on God, ignoring his holiness and excusing our most blatant sins?  To listen to many contemporary sermons one would think man's chief end is to glorify himself and cruise the malls.\\" (pp. 151-152).<br />Whatever Happened to the Gospel of Grace?  is a much-needed reminder of  what we should again believe, and why it matters.	2001-09-06
US	52736376	R3P8CRKEQJAYGV	0851517838	736724381	Evangelicalism Divided: A Record of Crucial Change in the Years 1950 to 2000	Books	5	85	87	N	N	A Record of Good Intentions and Sad Results	Iain Murray's history of the change within evangelicalism over the last 50 years is both impressive and frightening.  He shows how decisions by some noted evangelical leaders in Britain and the U.S. for the sake of &quot;unity&quot; or &quot;results&quot; have compromised the church and watered down the message of the Gospel.  This helps us see why so many claim to be beleivers in Christ, and yet there is so little impact on lives and on our culture(s).<br />In one insightful passage, he asks, &quot;If the evangelical belief that it is faith in the gospel which brings spiritual unity is true, then it follows that where the gospel ceases to be believed there unity ceases to exist.  Therein lay a long-standing problem for evangelicals who found themselves in denominations where many ministers and people did not believe that gospel.  In such circumstances, how could they give the commitment to denominational unity which Scripture gives to the unity of Christians?&quot; (p. 83).<br />While Murray points out failures of certain well-known leaders, he does not throw stones, nor does he assault character or motives of these men.   He is charitible and gracious even when he disagrees, which I found very refreshing compared to many &quot;critiques&quot; that people write.  <br />As he writes, &quot;Like the Corinthian Christians we are prone either to idolize men or to be unduly critical.  We too readily form parties behind men in forgetfulness of the direction, 'One is your teacher, the Christ, and you are all brethren' (Matt. 23:8).  Because an eminent Christian is evidently right in some things, or owned of God in his work, we are liable to take him as a leader in all things and to treat any who disagree as opponents.&quot; (p. 308)<br />He also moves beyond simply the history and focuses on practical lessons to be learned from the last fifty years.  He also reminds us that our true hope is in the Lord Jesus Christ and His Gospel of Grace.  &quot;At almost all times in history the kingdom of God has appeared to be in confusion to the outward eye.  It is faith in the promises of God which provides a different perspective.  The Holy Spirit assures us that infinite wisdom and love are presently directing the life of the church and that eternity will be witness to their success when a multitude which no man can number will be glorified with Christ.  What we see now is but the beginning.&quot; (p. 317).<br />All in all, a helpful perspective and a firm corrective for all of us who seek unity and truth in the church.	2001-05-24
US	52736376	R1M6T9QK40HX5Q	1885767633	240130303	Plowing In Hope: Toward a Biblical Theology of Culture	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Outstanding!	Christians desperately need books of this kind to think about God's view of human culture.  The author does a wonderful job of laying out a biblical theology of culture.  I especially appreciated his demonstration of the progressiveness of God's redemptive work in culture as well as in us!  If you are tired of &quot;culture wars&quot; and &quot;boycott lists&quot; as the only interaction many evangelicals have with culture- this book is for you.<br />The book is well written and solidly argued.  A must for anyone interested in reforming all of life for the glory of God!	2001-05-15
US	52736376	RRBN4THYXNUCT	0801052289	907600287	Biblical Christian Ethics	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Much Needed Framework	As Christians, too many of us have the tendency to approach ethics using the cultural standards from the past, or isolated proof texts that may be taken out of context.  In this wonderful book, Dr. Jones gives a balanced, thoroughly biblical approach to a way of life that glorifies God and helps us to consistently apply our faith to the issues we will face. One excellent example:<br /><br />\\"The divinely appointed way to good works is through the gracious gift of faith which unites us to Christ.  The handiwork of God's new creation is exhibited in discipleship.  Before faith our attitude was:  'Nobody tells me what to do.'  Now the attitude of faith is:  'Show me what you want me to do.'  Before faith we assumed our lives were our own to be lived as we pleased.  Now with Jeremiah we confess, 'I know, O Lord, that a man's life is not his own; it is not for man to direct his steps (Jer. 10:23).  Those whom God has bought with a price he does not leave on their own to figure out what to do with their new lives.  God gives directions for the the good works he has prepared in advance for believers saved by grace to do.  The directing principle of the Christian life is the will of God as revealed in Christ and the holy Scriptures and illuminated by the Holy Spirit.\\" (p. 60).<br /><br />Jones is clear, Biblical, and grace-centered throughout.  After setting up the framework, he also shows how to apply it to some big areas of ethics - Marriage & Family and Divorce and Remarriage.  If you are desiring to base your beliefs about issues on the truth found in Scripture, and not on political, cultural or social opinions - this is the book for you.  Thank you Dr. Jones for doing such outstanding service for the Kingdom.  Soli Deo Gloria!	2001-05-04
US	52736376	R3BIEZLG5KFH2E	1578564212	516937244	I Exalt You, O God: Encountering His Greatness in Your Private Worship	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The Prayers Alone Are Worth the Price!	Jerry Bridges, a modern Puritan, has once again done a great service to the church.  In contrast to most devotionals, that can be trite, or moralistic - Bridges has put together a 31 day devotional that is God-centered.  Each day focuses on an aspect of God's character, and how we should be challenged and/or comforted by that.  At the end, he creates prayers of Scripture verses that flow together and are wonderful for making our prayers worshipful and praising God for who He is.  If you would like to spend some time praising God and learning about Him during your devotional times, this is the book for you.  The Christian life is not about techinques, or formulas (you just pray this and God will do that), but about knowing our awesome, glorious, loving, holy, wonderful and terrible God better, and being changed by growing in our Knowledge of Him through Christ.  This book is a step in the right direction if you want to know Him in that way.  I only pray that more books like this are written!  Thanks Mr. Bridges!	2001-04-17
US	52736376	RZXYCNLA9MAHH	0830815341	442178395	The Church (Contours of Christian Theology)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Christians - Please Buy This Book!	In our culture, the church is almost irrelevant in the eyes of many Christians.  It ultimately becomes a consumer item, and and people choose to attend the one that meets their &quot;needs&quot; the best.  Dr. Clowney, a gifted scholar, gentle spirit, and dedicated churchman, has written an important work on what the church IS according to Scripture.  Dr. Clowney, an ordained minister in the PCA, does not argue that any one denomination is the most biblical, instead, he shows what the Lord has called His church to be.<br />&quot;If [the church] is to stand against the gates of hell, it must know its own divine charter, its bond to Jesus Christ, and the 'Holy Spiritual' power of its calling.  For the church to be the church in the year 2000, it must be more than 'seeker-friendly'; it must be 'Seeker-sent', thrust forth by the Lord to bear his gospel of the cross to the peoples.&quot; (from the preface).<br />Dr. Clowney deals with both the theological foundations of the church, and many issues that are controversial in Christendom today.  But his arguments are Biblical, and his tone is gracious.  Give this book a chance, and let the Lord use it to give you a greater love for the bride of Christ, his body- the church!	2001-04-17
US	52736376	R15NIPLFAV07VY	1857921917	521007342	Puritan Profiles: 54 Contemporaries of the Westminster Assembly (Biography)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Outstanding!	Will Barker has done the church a great favor by writing this book.  Many in the Reformed-Presbyterian tradition know and love the Westminster Confession of Faith, but few know anything about the men that God used to write it.  A fascinating work that is not only good history, but is devotional too.  You see a diverse, yet Godly group of men brought together in extraordinary times, to create one of the greatest (human) confessions ever written.  The 54 men profiled are divided into sections such as &quot;The Officers of the Assembly&quot;, &quot;The Episcopalians&quot;, &quot;The Erastians&quot;, &quot;The Independents&quot;, &quot;The Scots&quot;, &quot;Noted Preachers&quot;, &quot;Notable Scholars&quot;, &quot;London Clergy&quot;, and &quot;The New Englanders&quot;.  The profiles themselves are brief, yet give you a clear feeling that you know the man who was profiled.  For anyone who loves church history, or loves the Reformed faith, this is the book for you!	2001-02-26
US	52736376	R11YMSGRK6ZCXM	1573580325	636973857	The Art of Divine Contentment	Books	5	32	33	N	N	A Much Needed Remedy	Watson, one of the most understandable and practical of the Puritans, gives us a much needed remedy for the discontent that is rampant in our society today, even among Christians.  He gives a warm and God-centered view of how contentment as a Christian is not only possible, but should be normal.  His thesis is:  &quot;That a gracious spirit is a contented spirit.  The doctrine of contentment is very superlative; and til we have learned this, we have not learned to be Christians.&quot; (p. 19).  He rightly focuses the source of contentment on God's promises and His sovereign keeping of them.  &quot;There is one promise brings much sweet contentment into the soul, 'They that seek the Lord shall not want any good thing,' Ps. xxxiv. 10.  If the thing we desire be good for us, we shall have it; if it be not good, then the not having it is good for us.  The resting satisfied with this promise gives contentment.&quot; (p. 108).<br />All Christians can benefit from this kind of work, that we might be different, and not live in the same discontent that we see all around us.  If you're looking for a treatment for your heart, Watson is a fine physician of the soul.	2001-02-26
US	52736376	R1CNZUFFAH3JGB	0664501095	509991051	Being Presbyterian in the Bible Belt: A Theological Survival Guide for Youth, Parents, & Other Confused Presbyterians	Books	1	17	25	N	Y	Not Proud of this Kind of Presbyterianism	Since Jesus began his letters to the churches in Revelation with praise, and then critiqued, I will do the same. The positives in this book are their emphasis on grace, that God alone saves, that understanding grace should cause us to be humble and accepting of those made in God's image. I affirm that these things are true and from the Bible.<br />However, as for the problems. I had great hopes for this book, but they were quickly dashed. The authors assume (wrongly I believe) that true Presbyterianism is of the form that has only existed for the last 80 years- a watered down, man-centered imitation of the tradition that began over 300 years ago. They take the phrase 'God alone is Lord of the conscience' to mean that any interpretation of Scripture is valid and no one can say any one view is right! Calvin and Knox would not recognize or agree with the views stated here. Among the problems, the authors have a very wooden view of \\"literal\\". They say, if you believe the Bible is literal - the world is flat, etc. They do not take into account the idea of genre, or literary devices that the writers of Scripture used. They do not use the historic principle of letting Scripture interpret Scripture. They also don't seem to understand the difference between a \\"real\\" contradiction and an \\"apparent\\" contradiction, and thus fall on the old liberal view that \\"the Bible is full of contradictions\\". Instead of having a Word of God that we can seek truth in, the authors claim we have a book that gives us God-encountering experiences. While the authors quote the Westminster Confession at many points, they have hollowed out and weakened the very faith those Divines sought to preserve. If you are looking for a book that really defends Presbyterian and Reformed views, avoid this book. It does a disservice to all who have borne that label through history.	2001-02-23
