US	52746531	R3KUCEIPG9HQ6V	1594480818	353133291	Crossing California	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Uneven, but a promising debut	<br />It is probably necessary for the reader to have lived through a very specific time period to fully appreciate \\"Crossing California\\". Set in the final months of 1979 through the beginning of 1981, it is a vivid slice of life from the dawning of a new decade. While Adam Langer nicely captures the time period with references to the Iran hostage crisis and late 70s/early 80s pop culture, there is no real plot. Instead, we jump back and forth among day in the life type vignettes of a number of different characters. As other reviews have mentioned, none of these people except for Muley (and in my opinion, Michelle, at least towards the end) are particularly likeable. However, it doesn't really seem to matter, since we don't get to spend much time with any one of them before the POV jumps to a different person. This was confusing at times, and I could have done with a few less characters and about one hundred fewer pages to make a more cohesive plot out of the seemingly dozens of thinly related storylines. Still, it definitely had its' moments, some of them hilarious (the Peachy Moskowitz fiasco) and some quite poignant (the films that Muley creates for Jill).  <br /> <br />\\"Crossing California\\" has its' flaws, which is to be expected for a first novel. However, to the author's credit, I find myself still thinking about these characters, days after finishing the book. Langer shows a great deal of promise, and I enjoyed his work well enough that I'm looking forward to reading the sequel, \\"The Washington Story\\". <br />	2005-09-19
US	52746531	R7PEDB1BKIJZS	0802142109	937955469	Broken for You	Books	5	7	8	N	N	I loved these broken, beautiful characters	Once in a while, a novel comes along with characters so wonderfully written that we actually miss them when the story is over, and take the book down from the shelf again and again, just to visit with them once more. \\"Broken For You\\" is one of these. It starts off primarily as the story of Margaret, an eccentric seventy-something determined to live life to the fullest, now that she knows she doesn't have a lot of life left, and fragile Wanda, badly wounded by heartbreak and seemingly unable to love again. However, the cast of characters soon expands to include several other \\"broken\\" people whose lives are somehow touched by these two women, and their stories intertwine with one another as circumstances bring them together to heal and form a new kind of family.     We get to know each of these people as they cross paths with Margaret and Wanda, and as we do, we also grow to care deeply about them. There's Gus, the charming Scottish valet who steals Margaret's heart, and sweet Troy, who would love to love Wanda. Their entrances into the story are followed by those of the dignified nanny Susan, who longs for a child of her own, and loveable gay caterer Bruce, whose new role in Susan's life is introduced toward the end of the book and just may make you gasp aloud in delight, as I did. Then there is the lonely drifter M.J. - the chapter about how he finds a home among the patrons of the Aloha Lanes bowling alley was quite moving, and could stand alone as a short story. The final sentences of that passage, \\"Without meaning to, M.J. Striker had become a resident of somewhere. He'd acquired a family and a colorful wardrobe. He was no longer invisible\\" took my breath away. Even minor characters, such as Sylvie, the staid French research librarian who assists Margaret in her search for Holocaust survivors, have a powerful impact. Margaret looking up at the previously emotionless Sylvie from her hospital bed, and noticing that she is crying, was just one of the moments when Ireached for a tissue and then shook my head in amazement, astonished at how much I cared.     Each of these people play a role in the main plot, somehow assisting Margaret in coming to terms with her dark family history and finding closure, which in turn helps Wanda to move on from her own past. By the time the story reaches it's conclusion, they have all had an impact on one another's lives, and they have all achieved some degree of peace for themselves.     Granted, the story is not without flaws. As an earlier review states, there are some unlikely coincidences used to neatly tie up loose ends. I noticed these, but after finishing the book, I found that I didn't really mind them. I cared so much about these people that I was willing to overlook a little manipulation in order for their broken selves to heal. Absolutely a five star read.	2005-09-13
US	52746531	R32CRZ2U9JK73C	0142501115	572423975	Double Fudge	Books	5	14	17	N	N	You can never have too much Fudge!	YES! Fudge is back! I'm not ashamed to admit that I was as excited to learn of the latest installment now as I was at the age of 9, when \\"Superfudge\\" was published. :-) And I was not disappointed. Fudge is one of Judy Blume's most endearing characters, a five going on forty year old whose quirky approach to life always ends up causing problems for his older brother Peter. This time around, Fudge's new obsession with money leads to more embarrassing misadventures, and indirectly to an unwanted family reunion with distant relatives. A new twist here is the addition of a younger cousin to the usual cast of characters, a four year old who may just be Fudge's troublemaking match. It's interesting to watch Fudge beginning to experience the same kind of frustration that Peter suffered through in the first three books. We can only hope that he doesn't learn from it TOO quickly!  <br /> <br />In response to the review complaining about the 21st century pop culture references that don't synch with the 70's feel of the earlier books, well, granted the first books are a bit dated upon re-reading 30 years later (when was the last time you saw an elevator man, for example), just as \\"Double Fudge\\" will seem dated 30 years from now. But, you can't predict what will or will not still be in style a couple decades from now, and the writing would have to be pretty bare bones if Blume had avoided any mention of things that are in vogue today. Besides which, I think I got my biggest laugh at Fudge's eccentric superstition about Harry Potter - \\"DON'T SAY HIS NAME OUT LOUD!\\" :-) <br /> <br />I'm thrilled to add more Fudge to my collection of beloved children's books, and can't wait to introduce him to my own \\"mini-me\\" in a few more years. Thank you, Judy Blume!  <br />	2005-09-09
US	52746531	R1PZC8C69915FJ	0060755911	206165065	My 15 Minutes	Books	1	4	8	N	N	I want my 15 minutes back	Well, more like the roughly 3 hours I spent reading this. \\"My 15 Minutes\\" has a lame plot, unlikable characters, and way too many descriptions of vomiting. It's badly written (characters are described as \\"giggling like a bookworm at a Beatles concert\\" and \\"pale as a poltergeist\\"), poorly edited (it's Bruce Springsteen, not \\"Springstein\\"), and the setup makes no sense. Chad, the movie star who has been the object of waitress Julie's lust since she was a teenager, has moved into a cheap apartment in her crummy building. He's done this because he is playing a \\"regular guy\\" in an upcoming movie, and he wants to research how regular guys live - since he's been a celebrity since childhood, he's never experienced normal life. OK, but why did it take him this long to decide he needs to know this? Has he never played a \\"regular guy\\" in a movie before? And more importantly, how \\"regular\\" does living in a one bedroom apartment make him, when he is still going to nightly parties and premieres, hanging out with movie stars and models, and basically leading the exact same lifestyle he enjoyed while living in a mansion? It's just a flimsy excuse for Chad and Julie to meet cute, which could have been accomplished more believably by having them meet at the restaurant where she works - precisely the story Chad's publicist feeds to the paparazzi, upon deciding that his client will gather a fan base of \\"regular people\\" (what? His only fans were other movie stars and royalty?) if he appears to have fallen in love with \\"one of them\\".     Julie eagerly agrees to a publicity stunt in which she will pose as Chad's girlfriend, solely for the opportunity to spend time with him. She soon learns that her idol is a brainless oaf, and to drive the point home the author has him say things like \\"I wouldn't f--- you anyway. You're a [size] twelve\\". And yet, Julie puts up with this treatment, while getting nothing for it in return - no money, and she still has to work at her lousy waitress job with people who treat her as badly as Chad. How is it that her manager is allowed to say things within earshot of her such as \\"Julie looks like a whore\\" and not be fired? She has a college degree, and yet she's afraid to leave because she doesn't think she can get another job.     The book muddles along for 260 pages of Julie following Chad around, taking abuse from him, and throwing up on him, then reporting to her waitress job, taking abuse from her boss and co-workers, and throwing up on the patrons (yes, seriously - unfortunately, Julie's obvious alcohol problems are never even addressed), until the inevitable ending that you can predict from page 2 - if you still care enough by then.     One final warning, although it's one thing I can't blame on the author, since her book was released a few weeks ago. You may cringe as I did at the reference to a fictional hurricane that devastates New Orleans, prompting a star studded benefit gala attended by Hollywood types who don't care in the slightest until word gets out that \\"New Orleans was so badly damaged that the city would have to abandon it's annual Mardi Gras debauchery.\\" Obviously, the book was written before the real New Orleans hurricane took place, but reading about the fictional one was pretty creepy, and just made the bad taste in my mouth that much worse.	2005-09-05
US	52746531	R3P6BLWGR3NNMB	0373895151	477314930	Fat Chance (Red Dress Ink Novels)	Books	1	21	22	N	N	Why can't they ever end up fat and happy?	I really wanted to like this book. I read the first few pages at the bookstore and thought, finally! A heroine who is overweight and, if not deliriously happy about it, accepts this about herself. While the back cover blurb did promise that Maggie would lose sight of what was truly important when given the opportunity to meet her celebrity crush, I could certainly understand that... EVERYONE has fallen into the trap of wanting to look like society's idea of the perfect woman at one time or another, haven't we? Besides, it wouldn't be much of a story if Maggie simply went about her life perfectly content to be wearing plus sizes.     What disappointed me was not only the unrealistic weight loss (30 pounds in 5 weeks?) or the unbelievable transformation Maggie underwent (30 pounds and she's suddenly edging out a supermodel for a movie star's attention), but Maggie's complete reversal from fat acceptance advocate, assuring women everywhere that it's okay to eat what your body craves and the heck with anyone who tries to force a diet on you, to diet guru, piously spouting the same tired \\"hints\\" that the \\"experts\\" have been plugging for decades. Some of Maggie's tips: cut the hot dog in half and fill the rest of the bun with sauerkraut! (Mmm, yummy!) Eat a whole orange instead of a glass of orange juice! Starve yourself for two days anytime the needle on the scale inches a little to the right! The self proclaimed food lover even sits in a gourmet restaurant, reads the dessert menu, and puts it down again. But no, these aren't diet tips, just lifestyle changes. WHATEVER.     Then there was Tex - the best male buddy who supposedly loved Maggie just as she was all along. Oh, really? Then why didn't he profess his love BEFORE she became svelte and gorgeous? Oh, that's right, he was dating Sharon then - the girl that a co-worker refers to as \\"Legs\\". Not hard to guess what kind of figure Sharon had, eh? I did giggle at the scene where Maggie and Tex had breakfast after their first night together - Maggie melting butter and scrambling eggs, then going out to buy a loaf of crusty Italian bread (\\"for him\\"). At that rate, it's not going to take long for those 30 pounds to go back on, sweetheart. Will you still love yourself then? Will Tex?    I didn't think another book could ever infuriate me as much as \\"Jemima J\\" did. Sadly, I was mistaken.	2005-07-29
US	52746531	RSL7J5VMFLGKN	0758203675	256585771	The Perils of Sisterhood	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Want to laugh? Watch The Simple Life instead	The fun of Paris Hilton is in the guilty pleasure we take in laughing at her. So a novel that shamelessly rips off Ms. Hilton's cluelessly priviliged lifestyle, right down to her geographical name, would work best if it was a laugh out loud satire. Unfortunately, The Perils Of Sisterhood is not. It plods predictibly along through a weak plot in which London and Madrid La Mira, twin sisters and heiresses to billions, are cut off from their annual $850,000 checks by their grandmother, who decides that they need to learn the value of money. We get the obligatory scenes of the dim witted siblings messing up every attempt to win back their grandmother's favor by doing good for others (killing endangered sea turtles, being grossed out by the needy in a soup kitchen, being fired from volunteer work building houses for the homeless after wondering aloud where the pool is going to go) until finally, both find their true calling - London as a chef, and Madrid as a matchmaker - which makes them better people and clearly deserving of their fortunes.    Not only is The Perils Of Sisterhood not funny, it borders on offensive with over the top stereotypes of gays, blacks, and <gasp> unattractive people. Madrid's gay friends shriek, giggle and sashay their way through every scene they're in, every black character talks like an episode of Amos 'n Andy, and the heavyset woman who is looking for love is loud, crass, and uneducated. I almost put the book down in disgust more than once without finishing it. I should have, since it never did redeem itself. Don't waste your time.	2005-07-05
US	52746531	R1S86QVDE4K4TQ	0688317081	149778287	Janitor's Girl	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Timeless story of snobbery and friendship.	Sue couldn't be happier when her family moves to a big New York City apartment building, despite her older sister's warning that no one will have anything to do with them, because their father is the building's new janitor. Sue doesn't believe anyone will look down on them simply because of the work their father does. After all, they're nothing like neighbor girl Magda, an immigrant from Europe who can barely speak English, and wears funny looking out of style clothes. At first, things go great. Sue befriends pretty and popular Cathy, and fits right in with Cathy's group of friends. Her happiness is short lived, however, when snobby Rosalie moves in to the building. Rosalie makes it clear from the start that the \\"janitor's girl\\" is not good enough for her. When Sue inadvertently upsets Rosalie, Rosalie retaliates by organizing an \\"exclusive\\" club for all the girls except Sue. Even Cathy wants to be part of the fun, and Sue is left as lonely as Magda, until Magda makes a gesture of friendship. Slowly, Sue realizes that she is just as guilty of snobbery as Rosalie, and that Magda may not speak or dress as well as Sue, but knows a lot more about being a true friend.  <br /> <br />\\"The Janitor's Girl\\" is long out of print, but despite some things being a bit dated, the themes are timeless and appropriate for pre-teen girls today.  <br />	2005-06-27
US	52746531	R2DT2HUB608YGV	B0007EDZ2Y	997907168	Carol from the country (Morrow junior books)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An "old fashioned" story with a timeless message	12 year old Carol is miserable when her father loses his job and the family is forced to move from their spacious country home to a tiny New York City apartment. While her parents and 8 year old twin brother and sister make the best of the situation and find new friends, Carol looks down on the neighborhood children who are poorer and not as well dressed as her friends back home. She rebuffs their attempts at friendship until they finally stop offering it - leaving Carol as alone and unhappy as the cranky downstairs neighbor lady. When Carol's mother expresses concern that Carol has \\"no talent for friends\\", Carol is frightened. Could she, too, end up a friendless old nag like Miss Tyler? She is forced to face this question as she watches the neighborhood girls have fun together while no longer bothering to try to include her. Carol wishes for a second chance to make friends, but it doesn't seem likely, until an emergency forces her to stop putting herself first, and shows the other children that she is capable of caring about and giving to others.  <br /> <br />This is one of those \\"old fashioned\\" books (written around the 1950's!) that I inherited from my mother's elementary classroom library and grew up reading over and over. Although some of the things in the story are obviously a bit dated, the themes are timeless and would appeal to any preteen girl today. <br />	2005-06-27
US	52746531	R3HF7ILE6QVNNL	0758206984	260126020	White Bikini Panties	Books	2	10	14	N	N	Who wrote the back cover blurb?	Did that person actually read this book?  <br /> <br />Green Melusine and I must be kindred spirits - I came here intending to make EXACTLY the same points! First of all, reading the back cover was what made up my mind to buy this book. It sounded like a fun and funny read about a young woman who tries to change her life and personality after she catches her boyfriend cheating on her. Instead, she spends the rest of the book whining and starting even more dysfunctional relationships, one after the other. Trina does not change or develop AT ALL, and that was disappointing.  <br /> <br />Most disturbing, however, was the overall message. I don't know what points the author wanted to get across, but it seemed to me that she spent most of the book complaining that the outlook is grim for single women in their thirties - the only available guys are into disturbing sex games, or they have STDs. The moral of the story was that it's better to return to the guy who cheats on you (hey! He SAID he wouldn't do it again!) than to develop a shred of self esteem and show him the door, since the pickings are so slim. WHAT? <br /> <br />Despite the annoying protagonist and infuriating ending, I'm giving White Bikini Panties two stars, since it's fairly well written and there are some interesting moments (while I was sick of Trina by the book's end, I found myself absorbed by the subplot involving her older sister Jessie, and Jessie's struggle with infertility. Although it is also implied that Jessie can do no better than to settle for a cheating husband... hmmm...) If you really NEED another light chick lit read, this one will pass the time. However, if you're like me and your shelves are overflowing with this kind of book, don't bother adding this to the collection.  <br /> <br />	2005-02-09
US	52746531	R2UBV33ZA49UTB	0758204787	166362899	Who You Know	Books	2	3	4	N	Y	Nothing new here...	Maybe I've read too much chick lit, because it's all starting to seem the same to me. Twenty or thirty something woman (or group of twenty or thirty something women) has an okay job but doesn't get ahead because there is always someone less deserving but more conniving - or just cuter - than she. She has an okay boyfriend but he's nothing special, and she wonders if he really is Mr. Right. Or else she WANTS a boyfriend but just can't seem to find The One - until the final pages, when she will realize he's been there by her side all along (in the case of the single woman, it's the loyal male sidekick; for the committed woman, it's her very own underappreciated boyfriend or ex-boyfriend). Then, to add some depth, we get The Deeper Issue - an eating disorder, perhaps, or alcoholism, or low self esteem brought on by an abusive relationship. After three hundred pages or so, there is some life changing event that makes the protagonist (or each of the protagonists) take a good look at herself and gain the insight and the courage to change herself. And they all live happily ever after, with a post script adding that it's not exactly the happily ever after she/they may have dreamed of (for example, she didn't lose 60 pounds, but she realized that she loves herself anyway), but it will do.     \\"Who You Know\\" doesn't deviate from this formuala, and really, there's no need to. It's a suitably entertaining read with two of the three main characters being quite likeable (sorry, but I could not stand Jen). I might have given it a solid three stars, had it not been for the way too neat (even for chick lit) resolution to the alcoholism subplot. I'm sorry, I don't care how cute you are, if you have a drinking problem it takes more than going to one AA meeting to see the light and acheive sobriety (and a great new job and loving boyfriend along the way).      Negative comments aside, this is not a bad read for chick lit. Don't expect anything ground breaking and you just may enjoy it.	2004-09-07
US	52746531	RY6CKMCXO6HHT	0312312504	413458343	Same As It Never Was: A Novel	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	Not just your average fun chick lit	I admit, I picked this one thinking it would be a fun piece of chick lit fluff (nothing wrong with that, right?) Instead I was surprised to find myself genuinely moved by Olivia's story as she's suddenly forced to grow up fast. It's fascinating to watch Olivia change from being a self absorbed and shallow brat, to accepting her responsibility towards her orphaned little sister Celia, and growing to love Celia despite herself. There are plenty of laugh out loud scenes (for example, Olivia's obnoxiousness in her English Lit class), but just as many tender moments, such as Olivia watching Celia on the playground and thinking how cute she is, then realizing she never would have had that thought a few months ago.     My one gripe with the novel, bringing my rating down to four stars instead of five, is the lack of any real exploration of Olivia's feelings about her father's death. It is established that they weren't close; even so, realistically she would have experienced *some* grief. A perfect set up for this - Olivia discovering that her father had kept and used an ugly paperweight she made for him as a small child - was basically glossed over, and the subject never came up again. That flaw aside, this was a wonderful and touching read.	2004-08-20
US	52746531	R2T5QRMBMTXT5Y	0345453565	412113807	Vivian: The V Spot	Books	1	5	6	N	Y	Sorry Viv, but we're through	Sigh. I've now read all three of the Vivian books, and sadly, it's been downhill all the way. &quot;The Autobiography Of Vivian&quot; introduced a loveable chick lit heroine, whose story was a fun bit of rather unrealistic fluff with a major flaw - Vivian's barely mentioned dark past with an abusive boyfriend. Not that I object to heavier storylines (you can't live on chick lit alone), but the Viv we met in this book was way too well adjusted for this bit of plot to be believeable, and it just felt like these particular details were tacked on during a later draft, maybe to generate some sympathy for the girl who got everything handed to her on a silver platter. <br />The sequel was a much darker story, with Vivian's personality doing a 180 degree turn. The once happy go lucky city chick still had everything going for her, but instead of rejoicing, she was now spending her time brooding and sabotaging her relationship with her perfect boyfriend - all because of the painful history that was only glossed over in her first book. While Viv's new attitude was perhaps more befitting an abuse victim, it didn't mesh with the wacky chick lit romp that was her first book. I'm all for authors trying out different genres, but not within the same series. Our heroine just became a completely different person in the second book, and I found that hard to swallow. <br />So here we are a third time. Just like in the first book, good fortune falls into Vivian's lap every time she turns around, but this time it's even more over the top. Without lifting a finger, she's landed a book deal, a TV deal, a recording deal, and to top it off, a big time Hollywood director she's never met has somehow noticed her and wants her to audition for the leading role in a movie. Yeah, okay. But despite the fame and fortune that has somehow found her, Viv is bummed. Having driven away her boyfriend Jack by rejecting his marriage proposal, she has made an astonishing discovery: she MISSES him! Oh, boo hoo!And she spends the entire book moping over him, while all around her, her many devoted friends and admirers seem to slave 24/7 towards making her happy, famous, and wealthy. Honestly, that about sums up Book Three. (Picture me grabbing Vivian by the shoulders here and screaming into her face, &quot;stop whining already!&quot;) <br />I loved Vivian in the first book. I was disappointed in her in the second. This time, I really didn't like her. I don't know whether a fourth book is planned, but if so, it will go on without me.	2004-07-11
US	52746531	R2EI29NM04XFQD	0786888695	890637026	Breathing For a Living: A Memoir	Books	2	19	25	N	N	Don't Hate Me, But...	I have a lot of respect for Laura Rothenberg, for having lived her whole (entirely too short) life struggling with health issues that most of us can't imagine, and for trying to give others a glimpse into the world of the chronically ill. That said, I would be lying if I claimed to find her memoir as compelling as so many others have. I think my biggest problem was that I didn't feel I got to know much about Laura as a person. Most of the book seemed to consist of detailed descriptions of the procedures performed on her, using medical jargon that I am not familiar with, so while I definitely got a sense of the hell she went through on a daily basis, and the frustration it caused her, I didn't garner any real knowledge of her disease. That would have been okay if the book was balanced out with more about her life away from the hospital - her family, friends, and school, and how she balanced these with her illness. So many friends and relatives were mentioned in passing, but we never got to know them. The emails she wrote to the people she cared about are presented anonomously, so we don't know who she's writing to. I didn't even know that she had a boyfriend until the epilogue, when she mentioned moving in with him. I just didn't feel that I got to know much about this young woman at all, and I really would have liked to.	2004-06-26
US	52746531	R1LT9EP9I4SE78	0553382411	301470528	The Elegant Gathering of White Snows	Books	1	11	14	N	Y	Women Walking. Yes, That's It.	I don't know what I was expecting from this book, since the back cover pretty much says it all. A group of women friends are suffering from a severe case of discontent, and come to the unanimous decision that all will be made better if they get up and start walking down the road. They themselves don't really understand HOW this will make everything better (and if they don't, how are the readers supposed to?) but somehow they know that this is something they must do. Along the way, they change the lives of everyone they meet (for example, the self absorbed police officer who decides to call his mom). OK, I should have known from the start... but I guess I thought the women would actually DO something to bring about the miracles promised in the synopsis, and to garner the international media attention bestowed on them by the second day of their walk. I was wrong. <br />Sometimes, a ridiculous or non existent plot can be saved by sympathetic characters or superb writing. That is not the case here. The POV shifts around so abruptly from one of the many characters to the other that it is difficult to keep track of who is narrating when. It's just a jumbled mess. And when you do catch on to which woman's life story you are reading, you still can't distinguish her from any of the others, because the characterizations are so dull and flat.<br />I disliked this book so much that I couldn't even finish it, and that is rare for me. Sorry, but it really is that bad.	2004-06-19
US	52746531	RVWACQ03IEWGN	0066211115	10483428	Islands	Books	1	14	15	N	N	This was almost a 4 star rating!	I've been a fan of Siddons' work for years. I've enjoyed most of her novels, loved some of them (Downtown, Outer Banks, Colony), and maybe once or twice just felt one of her books wasn't up to her usual standards (Low Country). In general I've looked forward to each new release, and enjoyed reading them. This is the first time I've ever actually been disgusted. I'm referring here only to the ending. The rest was quite good, not her best ever, but an interesting story with wonderful characters. Oh, I thought there were a few flaws - for example, the immediate acceptance of Anny into a tight knit group of lifelong friends, who were all a good 15 years older  than she, seemed a bit unrealistic. There was a very brief mention of animosity between Anny and Fairlie at their first meeting. But suddenly, a page or two later, they are the best of friends, with no indication of how their relationship developed. Anny's romance with Lewis seemed a bit forced also. It felt like the author was quickly laying down the background so she could get to the main part of the story. I was actually willing to overlook that, since the rest of it was absorbing and often touching. But the ending! Ugh! I won't spoil it by saying what happens, but the last 15 pages completely negated everything else about the story, by turning it into a bad soap opera or a B-movie. I agree with another reviewer - it really seemed as if another person wrote the last chapter. It did not fit at all, with the story as a whole or with the characters. Worse than that, it was completely ludicrous. I am extremely, extremely disappointed.	2004-04-24
US	52746531	R1LMRQCX6F9ETV	0373250436	292447391	My Life Uncovered (Red Dress Ink)	Books	1	11	14	N	N	I'm In The Minority...	I didn't like this book at all. Laura, the main character, who has no prior interest in or knowledge of the porn industry, is desperate for money and so she writes a screenplay for a porn film. She writes it in three days, on no sleep, and it is so ground breaking and brilliant that it is immediately bought by a producer for more money than any other porn writer in the industry has ever received. Within a matter of weeks, the film has been made, earned critical raves and won several awards, and has become (as we are reminded about every five pages) \\"a cult classic\\". This quickly helps Laura get over her reservations and she writes six or seven more films, which are produced just as quickly and to just as lavish praise, in the space of a few months. Sigh. Come on, I enjoy chick lit as much as the next chick, but for me, there needs to be *some* realism for a story to work. <br />More distracting than the flimsy plot elements was the cheesy dialogue: \\"When I left Michigan and headed out west, I could feel the heat of adventure in front of me. I knew then that writing movies would be my way of creating social change\\" and \\"Why do you want to make love to me?\\" \\"To help you know yourself\\", and my personal favorite: \\"I went to synagogue to forgive myself for baring my breasts\\". Lines like this were so reminiscent of the dialogue that is typically in the kind of movies Laura made that I found myself wondering if the author has written some of these herself. If so, hopefully she has a better psuedonym than Bella Fleega! :-) <br />Most of the characters were completely one-dimensional stereotypes. There was the cigar chomping porn film company head taken straight from \\"The Godfather\\".  There was the monosyllabic oaf of an ex-boyfriend, who geuinely can not understand why Laura dumped him just because he impregnated another woman. There was the saintly new boyfriend, kind and loving, who didn't even blink when Laura decided she needed a break from sex because hanging around porn movie sets was turning her off. Neurotic parents, an in the closet gay brother (who stops speaking to Laura because she tells him she's making a documentary about strippers, but openly admires her secret alter ego Bella - \\"I think she's fab\\"), a loyal best friend, etc etc etc. We've seen all these characters before, and in far better incarnations. <br />Honestly, I really did think this was an interesting set up, with the potential to be a hilarious chick lit romp. Unfortunately, the writing was just so poor that it never got off the ground.	2004-04-18
US	52746531	R2TFZSGI4XMRDH	0345453557	93310662	Vivian Lives	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Sequel Still Doesn't  Get It Quite Right	My biggest problem with \\"The Autobiography Of Vivian\\" (as stated in my review, to which you may refer if so inclined ;-) ) was that it seemed the author felt it necessary to pad an entertaining, but unrealistic, fluff piece about a girl who has EVERYTHING with an awkward, briefly mentioned backstory of an abusive relationship in the heroine's past. I felt that this particular plot element was an afterthought, to make Vivian seem more accessible to readers who could not get past her too perfect life. However, it didn't work, because the Vivian we met in that story did not come close to displaying any traits of an abuse victim. I was not the only reader who commented on this. <br />It appears Vivian's creators took our criticism to heart, as the past comes back to haunt her in the sequel, \\"Vivian Lives\\". A few years down the road, Vivian is the star of her own website, has a great apartment, and the perfect boyfriend in Jack, the fireman who rescued her dog Omelet in Book One. But she's not the same loveably shallow twenty something without a care in the world that we met in the prequel. This Vivian has a dark side, and can't let go of the past, even at the risk of losing the man who adores her. Her moodiness and passive agressive behavior in this book are a startling change from her earlier personality. And while it may be more in keeping with someone who survived an abusive relationship, it doesn't fit with the Vivian we knew in the first novel. <br />I certainly don't object to heavier plotlines and complex characters - in fact, the first book might have earned a higher rating from me if it had shown us more of this side of Vivian - but the series started out as basically mindless, but fun, chick lit, and that's how it should continue. Turning it into a dark drama about the effects of abuse doesn't make sense. Either choose one approach or the other to Vivian's story and stick with it, or strike a balance between the two from the beginning. Doing an about face halfway through is confusing and leaves the impression that the creators of Vivian and her website are trying far too hard to please their target audience. The sad thing is, they still aren't quite getting it.	2004-02-10
US	52746531	R1TY0DMM1D8LNO	0375703764	383727435	House of Leaves	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Interesting Concept Falls Short	While I'm not a big horror fan in general, I enjoy a good psychologically scary story now and then, and I'd heard so much about this novel's unique set up that I was intrigued enough to give it a shot. My overall opinion is mixed. I found The Navidson Record portion itself fascinating, but after a while the lengthy footnotes from the narrator about the effect it had on his life, bored me. A large part of the problem for me was realizing early on that Johnny Truant was kind of a jerk BEFORE he stumbled across the manuscript. I couldn't muster much sympathy for him as his life fell apart, nor could I help but think that if finding the Navidson Record hadn't driven him into a personal hell, eventually the drug ridden lifestyle he was already leading surely would have. In addition, the one word per page and upside down text sections, which seemed intended to give the impression that you were reading this the same way Truant was, as a bunch of papers slapped together, just got annoying after a while and made the book way too long. In short, my three star rating is broken down as: 2 stars for The Navidson Record, 1 star for originality of design, and zero stars for unlikeable slacker Johnny Truant and his descent into madness. While I'm not sorry I read it, it's not one I'd re-read or highly recommend.	2004-02-09
US	52746531	R9WYGFFEWR4HT	0743224620	202444591	Along Came Mary: A Bad Girl Creek Novel	Books	2	1	1	N	N	What Happened To The Bad Girls?	Fans of &quot;Bad Girl Creek&quot;, be forewarned - you won't spend much quality time with the Girls (Phoebe, Ness, Beryl and Nance) here. Mapson's quirky, multi-dimensional characters from her previous novel are little more than minor supporting players in &quot;Along Came Mary&quot;. Touted as a sequel, it's mainly the back story of Rotten Rick, who was briefly mentioned in BGC as Nance's loathsome ex, and Mary Madigan, a talented but underacheiving drifter mourning the loss of her twin sister in the Oklahoma City bombing several years earlier. The two meet  after Rick loses his dead end job at a music magazine and Mary Madigan (Maddy) ditches her loser boyfriend. They team up as road trip partners, as Rick pursues a career as a journalist, and Maddy tries to make a living singing on the open mike bar circuit, and form an odd relationship as lovers, but not quite friends. Exploring the dynamics of this unlikely pairing might have made for a good story if either Rick or Maddy were interesting or likeable characters. However, Rick was dull and Maddy was irritating (I was ready to throw the book across the room the next time she said the word &quot;feck&quot;) and I never grew to like either one of them enough to care about what became of their relationship.<br />In sharp contrast to the Rick/Maddy storyline were the chapters (sadly, very few) written from original Bad Girl Phoebe's point of view. My heart broke for Phoebe's loss of her first and only love, Juan. Her grief and her anger towards their unborn child were painfully realistic, but tempered by the love of the other Bad Girls as they rallied around to support her. It is in these few chapters, and a few journal entries written by Beryl, that we glimpse the spirit of the original book. However, the lack of any real focus on the other Girls (a subplot about about Nance's eating disorder is reduced to a few pages here and there, and there is virtually nothing of Ness) keeps this from being a true follow up to their story. <br />Maddy and Rick are briefly brought together with the Girls through a chance meeting with Beryl. The unlikely friendship that sparks between them leads to Beryl urging Maddy to head out to Bad Girl Creek. Aha, one thinks, so Maddy will become the new Bad Girl. Nope! The new roommate hinted at in BGC doesn't appear until the very end. She, like the original four, promises to be a fascinating, multi-layered character - unfortunately, we don't see much of her before the focus jumps back to the tired Rick and Maddy saga. <br />The chapters focusing on Phoebe give us a tantalizing hint of what a real sequel to BGC could have been, and earns the book the two stars of my rating. Stars are lost by the sheer disappointment caused by the near abandonment of my beloved Girls in favor of the boring Rick and Maddy. Here's hoping the third installment, &quot;Goodbye Earl&quot;, will return to true Bad Girl form.	2004-02-01
US	52746531	R1G5AI6222ALPM	038070918X	786106077	Beezus and Ramona	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Childhood Treasure About Sisterly Love	This was one of my very first chapter books, given to me in the first grade, and it left such a lasting impression on me. I literally read it to pieces throughout my elementary school years, and even had two little dolls that I re-named Beezus and Ramona, who I used to act out many of the stories. <br />Each hilarious chapter about another mess Ramona causes for her big sister Beezus (my favorite was Ramona's first trip to the library, and her disastrous attempt to claim a beloved book for her very own) can stand on it's own. But connecting the different segments is a more complex running plotline about Beezus' horrible secret - sometimes she gets so mad at her little sister that she doesn't love her at all! Oh, the horror! :-) <br />After suffering through one embarrassing misadventure after another at the hands of her infuriating sister, Beezus finally confesses to her mother and her favorite aunt about the \\"wicked\\" thoughts she's had about Ramona. Expecting them to be shocked, she is stunned when both burst out laughing and begin reminiscing about their own childhood, when they had some not so loving moments themselves. Yes, even Mother and Aunt Beatrice, who are now the best of friends, experienced sibling rivalry. It's a tremendous relief to Beezus to learn that it's okay not to get along with Ramona all the time, and she realizes that along with the annoying times, she and her sister share plenty of affectionate moments as well. <br />Originally published in the 1950s, some things are obviously rather dated, but as a child of the 1970's I could completely relate to these two little girls. I am sure kids today can also, especially if they have younger sisters!	2003-09-17
US	52746531	RTN7EZMOYG30R	0007154615	958226210	Unless: A Novel	Books	1	10	15	N	N	Unless. Tedious.	I admit, I thought this book would be something else when I bought it, after skimming the back cover - a novel (\\"with a beginning, middle, and end\\") about the effects of a 19 year old girl's emotional breakdown on the people who love her.  Unfortunately for me, Norah's desertion of her family to become a homeless panhandler was given very little attention - instead, it served as a springboard for Reta's musings on goodness, and, primarily, feminism. <br />I certainly consider myself a feminist; however, I was put off by the implication that all of society's ills are a result of women feeling incapacitated. Reta believes her daughter has come to this because she feels insignificant? All right, then instead of writing those tedious \\"letters to the editor\\" about the lack of mention of women's achievements in a newspaper article or book or lecture, DO SOMETHING about your daughter! If you think she needs to see that women can accomplish something, show her that her own mother has some backbone - haul her off the street corner and get her the psychiatric help she needs!<br />This is not my only problem with the novel, however. My other complaint is simply this: it's dull. While the author has some interesting thoughts on the notion of goodness and some valid points about women's struggle to achieve greatness, these come few and far between. The remaining 300 pages consist of far too many laborious descriptions of Reta's house and daily rituals, a numbered list of writings she has published in her career, and of course, those repetitive letters to authors and journalists. Other family members (her husband and two younger daughters) are introduced and then virtually vanish - we never learn how THEY feel about Norah. Only Reta's mother in law gets an interesting backstory, and that comes in the final pages - far too late to redeem the rest of the book. <br />Other readers have defended the plodding pace and lack of character development by explaining thats just what Carol Shields DOES. Gotcha. Great for you if you enjoy Ms. Shields style; I just didnt.	2003-07-30
US	52746531	R34V78F65JMB13	0375757597	455937043	Normal Girl: A Novel	Books	1	4	5	N	N	Awful	If I were interested in hearing drugged out, talentless celebrity offspring whining about their priviliged lives, I'd watch The Osbournes - at least then I'd laugh a few times. I couldn't even finish this drivel. Amazing - not to mention depressing - how far a famous last name will get you. Don't waste your time on this one.	2003-01-17
US	52746531	R33AQ7VZIU797G	0151008884	472760741	The Life Before Her Eyes	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Three and a Half Stars	I started this book over my morning coffee, and the first chapter was so compelling I had to tear myself away to head to work. It was therefore a bit of a letdown to return to it that evening, as much of the rest of it consists of rather tedious descriptions of the minutiae of a middle aged housewife's suburban life. Some of the metaphors and descriptions are lovely (I'd like to read some of the author's poetry; she certainly has a gift for language), but they do little to move the plot along. The flashbacks to Diana and Maureen's high school years were interesting, but somewhat confusing because the teens are never referred to by name (&quot;one girl says to the other...&quot;) - I'm not even entirely sure which one finally snagged Nate Witt! Because I had such difficulty telling the girls apart, I didn't feel that I got to know either of them over the course of the story, and that was disappointing. <br />The slow pace picks up further on with the bizarre events that begin to disrupt Diana's middle aged life, such as the reappearance of Timmy the cat and the mysteriously altered story young Emma writes for school. Other, more subtle hints are dropped here and there, so you do eventually guess what is happening. Still, the final pages are quite powerful and well worth sticking with the novel through it's slower moments. A highly original story that's lingered in my thoughts ever since I closed the book.	2003-01-02
US	52746531	R20K7PTIRQBS1J	0767905180	310021894	Jemima J: A Novel About Ugly Ducklings and Swans	Books	2	18	19	N	N	I Liked It Until I Finished It	I was so upset when I finished this book that I considered giving it one star. But I reserve single star ratings for books that are so awful I can't finish them, or have to struggle to do so, and \\"Jemima J\\" was not one of those. On the contrary, it is very well written, with a likeable protagonist and an interesting storyline. So what was the problem? <br />Basically, everything that's already been outlined by other Amazon reviewers. The funny thing was, while I was reading I wasn't shocked by the fact that a 217 pound, 5'7 woman was portrayed as grotesquely obese, and that her isolation and unhappiness were blamed entirely on her weight. I knew that this was ridiculous, and my assumption was that this was simply insecure Jemima's perception of herself, as it is for many women who can't wear a size six. I did raise my eyebrows when Jemima dropped a hundred pounds in a matter of months, but I was sure that later on it would catch up to her in the form of some kind of health effects, perhaps placing her under a doctor's much needed care. And I hoped that either a) Ben would recognize that he loved Jemima BEFORE he saw her newly emaciated body, thus displaying some depth of character that we hadn't previously seen, or b) Jemima would realize that she was way too good for such a shallow celebrity wannabe. <br />None of this happened. Instead, when I closed the book I was left with the message that people who weigh much more than a hundred pounds are fat, and that fat people have no friends, lousy jobs, and eat like horses. People who find fat women attractive, like Brad, are sexual deviants, and even they are ashamed to be seen with a fat girlfriend - and that this is all okay. Moral of the story: if you are fat, your only chance for happiness is to lose half your body weight, which is simple once you put your mind to it. Once you conform to society's standards of acceptable size (or at any rate, the author's standards), all your deams will come true, just like they didfor Jemima. EXCUSE ME?!? <br />There is a brief postscript tacked on to the last page, advising that now that Jemima has acheived all of her goals, she's let herself go a little, but don't worry, she's come to accept and love herself for what she is: a \\"voluptuous\\" size 10. Voluptuous? Are you kidding me?<br />I know that Jane Green has a few other books published, and once I get over feeling offended by \\"Jemima J\\" I might give one of them a try. To my knowledge, Green's other novels don't deal with the overweight, so perhaps Ms. Green heeded that old adage about writing about what you know. It's just a shame she didn't stick to that here.	2002-11-14
US	52746531	RM1QTXT7A5FW7	0345453514	831236497	A Peanuts Christmas	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Wonderful Strips, Poor Presentation	Any collection of Peanuts strips starts out with five stars, simply for the fact that it's Peanuts. I never fail to smile at Charlie Brown's loveable (and always thwarted) attempts to fit in, Linus's philosophising, and Snoopy's imaginary adventures. However, stars are subtracted for the poor editing of this collection, which seems to have been put together by someone who quickly scanned through every Peanuts strip, pulling out any one that contained the word \\"Christmas\\". I didn't so much mind the inclusion of non-holiday related strips, for example, Peppermint Patty handing in a book report in August that was due last Christmas, as I did the incompleteness of several story lines that happened to take place during the holidays. Once the Christmas references stopped, the storylines are cut off in this book, leaving several hanging threads, such as the strips about Snoopy dreading Poochie's visit. Additionally, at least two strips appear twice in this book, giving the impression that it was quickly slapped together to get it into stores in time for the holiday shopping season. What would Linus think?!?<br />My other gripe is with the packaging. These strips have all been published in other collections, so a real Peanuts enthusiast already has them on the bookshelf. Simply gathering all the Christmas strips together into a high priced hardcover volume doesn't add much to them. It would have been nice to have some commentary on the strips, or perhaps include some stills from \\"A Charlie Brown Christmas\\". <br />In short, this is a good holiday gift for the casual Peanuts fan, but something of a let down for the die-hards. However, you'll still smile while reminiscing about childhood Christmases with the gang, and that can only be a good thing. Merry Christmas, Charlie Brown!	2002-11-03
US	52746531	RHXL9UYAG0LIH	0345453549	93310662	The Autobiography of Vivian	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Loved Vivian, Wish Her Book Was Worthy Of Her	I have to start by saying that Vivian is one of the most lovable, funny characters I've come across in quite a while. Her narrative was like chatting with a friend (\\"okay, so anyway...\\" \\"Anywho, moving on...\\") I even liked the multiple exclamation points and emoticons - I do that all the time when emailing my friends, so it rang true for me. <br />However, because Vivian was so cool it was a disappointment to see her stuck with such an unbelievable, Sex In The City wannabe story. As many times as I giggled out loud reading one of Vivian's daffy, totally genuine 20-something chick observations, I spent just as much time rolling my eyes at some of the more outrageous plot elements. So many things, big and small, were just completely ridiculous, from the very beginning when she writes a prize winning song (no prior musical experience, and she apparently never picks up a guitar again), to Vivian and Sophie affording a one-bedroom apartment in the Village on the money they earn as a part time waitress and a retail store clerk, to Vivian being offered a prestigious job by a VH1 bigwig just 'cause she's cute, to how she ended up with her own website. As Vivian herself might say, riiiiiiight! <br />I could have accepted the unrealistic elements and treated this as a bit of mindless, but entertaining, fluff if not for the back story of how this wonderfully vivacious and well adjusted heroine was just a few months outside of a four year long physically and emotionally abusive relationship. This was just blatantly ridiculous - at no time did Vivian demonstrate any characteristics of an abused woman. She was independent, outgoing, and quite willing to start new relationships. And when they turned sour, she had enough self respect to be the one to end them, and end them immediately. I had the uncomfortable feeling that this bit of Vivian's history was tacked on as an afterthought, in order to make her more sympathetic to readers who might be put off by her way too perfect life.It was unnecessary, and I would imagine very offensive to anyone who really has been the victim of abuse, by implying that overcoming such trauma is or should be this simple. I had a big problem with this, and my rating lost at least one star because of it. Vivian deserved better than this!<br />As a side note, I didn't realize when I bought the book that there really is a Vivian website, which apparently existed before the book was published. I was curious enough to go and check it out, and thought it was sorta cute (Hey look! There's Omelet!) but not much else. I can't really imagine what use someone who hadn't read the novel would have for it. I wonder, however, looking at how much effort has gone into the drawings and animation, if Vivian was originally conceived as a cartoon (kinda like Daria or King Of The Hill). As long as there were better storylines, that might be pretty cool...or should I say, clutch?!! :0)	2002-08-30
US	52746531	RNCQ54U16ZSSF	0152013954	323177635	Adopted Jane	Books	5	5	5	N	N	I'm So Glad I Found Jane Again	I \\"inherited\\" this book from an older cousin when I was nine or ten, and I read it so many times that my copy simply wore apart and was discarded. I never forgot the story though, and was thrilled to come across a copy at a used book store just a few days ago. Reading Adopted Jane once again was just like running into an old friend I'd lost touch with. It's the story of a little orphan girl, about eleven years old, who is resigned to the fact that she's too old and too plain to have much hope of being adopted ... The decision she finally makes, and the reasons she makes it, continue to touch my heart more than twenty years after my first reading, and will again and again as I reread this wonderful book for years to come. I'm so glad I finally found my good friend Jane again.	2002-08-04
US	52746531	RPJPANYSQ9RSO	037575931X	520261516	Crossing to Safety (Modern Library Classics)	Books	3	103	114	N	Y	I Wanted To Love It...	The premise was wonderful - a subtle, sometimes moving, sometimes disturbing examination of the lifelong friendship of two couples. I didn't have to think twice about buying this one after I read the synopsis. The first several chapters seemed to be living up to its' promise. I was touched by the early scenes where the Morgans and the Langs first met and seemed to know instantly that they had found something special. Charity Lang showed signs of being a wonderfully unforgettable character - sometimes sweet, sometimes manipulative, always fascinating. A little further on, however, something changed. The author seemed to abandon character development and instead concentrate on lavishly detailed descriptions of places and events. He hinted at the passive/dominant relationship between Sid and Charity, but gave us very few first hand glimpses. Instead, we had to take the word of our narrator, Larry, based on his passing mentions of past events and comments to his wife Sally. There was so little actual interaction between the two couples - the one sequence during which they spent a good deal of time together, the hiking trip, was as much about Larry fretting over his career than it was about showing us anything about the relationships - that one wonders how accurate Larry's point of view could be. The hike ends in tragedy, and we jump ahead to more than a decade later in Italy, where the foursome are spending a year together. Much of this sequence, too, involves Larry recalling past events; mentioning in passing, rather than describing, how deeply entwined the two couples lives became as they dealt with Sally's illness and the financial burden it brought upon the Morgans. We see one more example of Charity's controlling personality, before jumping ahead years later to when Charity is on her deathbed. Here, we find the Langs' children and grandchildren, who have apparently grown up with Larry and Sally and consider them family. Again, we must take the author's word for this, as we never see any of these characters develop, and never &quot;meet&quot; them until they've grown up. The Langs' children acknowledge not just the tensions between Sid and Charity, but those between the Morgans and the Langs. They give enticing examples, but never elaborate. On the other hand, the final chapters begin to pick up where the earliest ones left off, showing rather than simply telling what is happening. Sid's anguish is realistically portrayed, as is Larry's helplessness as he witnesses his friend's grief. The conversation between the two men in which Sid admits he was always secretly glad that Larry had been burdened by Sally's disability, because it made them more like equals, was very touching. It was here that Sid really began to come alive for me and made me feel something for him other than contempt for how he let his wife control him. I found myself unable to tear away from the novel during the final scenes. They, along with the earliest chapters, provide an intriguing overview of what could have been an excellent character study. Unfortunately, it was never realized.s, as we never see any of these characters develop, and never &quot;meet&quot; them until they've grown up. The Langs' children acknowledge not just the tensions between Sid and Charity, but those between the Morgans and the Langs. They give enticing examples, but never elaborate. On the other hand, the final chapters begin to pick up where the earliest ones left off, showing rather than simply telling what is happening. Sid's anguish is realistically portrayed, as is Larry's helplessness as he witnesses his friend's grief. The conversation between the two men in which Sid admits he was always secretly glad that Larry had been burdened by Sally's disability, because it made them more like equals, was very touching. It was here that Sid really began to come alive for me and made me feel something for him other than contempt for how he let his wife control him. I found myself unable to tear away from the novel during the final scenes. They, along with the earliest chapters, provide an intriguing overview of what could have been an excellent character study. Unfortunately, it was never realized.	2002-06-29
US	52746531	R1KZJS1RI4DIJK	0345311485	12581581	On the Beach	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Is This How It Ends?	I generally post my book reviews within days of finishing them, while they are freshest in my mind. However, in a strange twist of fate, I read On The Beach during the second weekend in September of 2001, and I dont need to remind anyone what happened on the following Tuesday. When I closed the book, I had chills up my spine, but at the same time I was relieved, complacently sure that the events described by Nevil Shute could never happen. After all, the Cold War ended years ago. Then, just days later, the world as I knew it was suddenly changed, and the impossible was possible once again. During those first few surreal days after September 11th, I found my thoughts returning to this book time and time again as I stared at the horrifying images on my TV screen and listened to the chilling speculation about what would happen next. But each time, I consciously pushed it out of my mind, because it was suddenly hitting a little too close to home.<br />Even before the specter of nuclear war became a more tangible threat, this was a frightening book because its so realistic (despite the scientific inaccuracies  keep in mind, this was written half a century ago). Other reviewers have complained that theres not enough action, but think about it  if you knew you were going to die in a few months and there was nothing you could to do to prevent it, what would you do? I think most of us would find ourselves spending our final days more in the manner of Shutes characters than like anyone in a Bruce Willis film. Wed be the young married couple, tending our prized garden and cherishing our baby daughter. Wed be the lonely naval commander, dreaming of the wife and children we lost. Wed be the party girl, cramming in all the good times we could. In other words, wed be doing what we knew for as long as we could, until we were forced to face the unknown. Maybe wed try something wed always dreamed about, like the Grand Prix, if the opportunitycame along. Maybe, like Moira, wed grow a little, and salvage something out of what remained of our life. But there wouldnt be any Hollywood style heroics to save the universe. If youre looking for a Die Hard type action adventure story, this is not the book for you. If you want a subtle, thought provoking psychological drama, it is.	2002-04-10
US	52746531	R3QE7N8OS5IRWM	0156012014	220950434	The Sopranos: A Novel	Books	1	8	13	N	Y	Tender, Funny, and Sad? Which Book Was That?	I ordered The Sopranos based on the reviews posted online, but now I wish I had gone to a bookstore and thumbed through it first, because if I had, I would not have wasted my money. I was expecting a good naturedly raunchy, fun read about Catholic school girls gone wild during a night on the town. I looked forward to the tender, funny, and sad parts that were promised along with the bawdiness. Instead, I threw the book down in disgust less than halfway through, unable to read any further. Instead of snickering at the antics of a group of oversexed teenagers, I actually found myself feeling ill after reading the chapter detailing one girl's attempted rape of a nearly comatose cancer patient, complete with graphic descriptions of the dying man's loss of control over his bodily functions as she molested him. That anyone can refer to this scene as \\"grimly funny\\" is astounding. Exactly what was funny about it? Would it be just as amusing if the roles were reversed and an adult forced himself on an unconscious child? I continued to read for a while longer, although I was having difficulty with the unfamiliar Scottish dialect (while not fair to criticize the book on these grounds, since it was written in the UK, after all, I wonder how accessible this makes it to the average US reader). I got as far as the gory description of the death of a litter of puppies brought about by one of the girls' stupidity. At that point, I finally decided it just wasn't worth the effort, since none of what I read before giving up was tender, funny or sad enough to take away the lingering bad taste in my mouth.	2002-03-21
US	52746531	R1FM9M42IDATTX	0688171281	817701876	Misadventures in the (213)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	You May Not Want To Read This One In Public	...because you will get some weird looks from strangers who see you laughing out loud (I drove most of the other passengers into different cars on a NYC subway while reading the &quot;Aladdin&quot; rug section). But while &quot;Misadventures In The (213)&quot; is quite possibly the funniest book I have ever read, that isn't the only reason I keep pulling it off the shelf to reread parts of it. The characters are so well drawn and interact so wonderfully with each other that I found myself longing to be a part of their circle of friends. They all get their share of hilarious one liners (while watching the movie &quot;Babe&quot;- &quot;The proud farmer looks down at Babe and delivers the final line: &quot;That'll do, pig&quot;. &quot;Reminds me of the last time I had sex,&quot; says Claudia.&quot;), but there are a number of touching moments as well (Craig and Dandy's conversation after Craig catches Dandy with his ex-lover). I've read the book in it's entirety 2-3 times, as well as reading specific sections over and over, and each time I put it back in the bookcase wishing I could fly out to LA and join Craig, Dandy, and the rest of the gang in some of their 213 misadventures.	2001-12-15
US	52746531	R96W7GDF5LDC	0141001771	884489587	Welcome to My Planet: Where English Is Sometimes Spoken	Books	1	8	10	N	Y	My So Called Boring Life	There seems to be a growing number of people in their late 20s/early 30s whose lives are not quite perfect. They don't have any serious problems, and yet they aren't entirely satisfied. In fact, their lives are kind of boring. Shannon Olson (for the purposes of this review, the name Shannon Olson refers both to the author and the book's protagonist, who have the same name and are more than likely the same person) suffers from this fate. Her job is unfulfilling and doesn't pay enough to keep up with her credit card binges (although Mom and Dad are there to bail her out), her first boyfriend doesn't have enough money to take her traveling through Mexico (but at her insistence he hits his parents up for a loan to do so - however, she doesn't enjoy herself and breaks off the relationship soon after), and her second boyfriend is too busy working towards a graduate degree to pay attention to her 24/7 as she neglects her own studies and vegetates in front of the TV. Shannon's biggest problem is that her mother is diagnosed with a brain tumor, although there seems to be no doubt in anyone's mind from the beginning that it is benign and Mom will be fine. And she is, but she's a little depressed after her surgery. This is presented as more of an inconvenience to Shannon than anything else, and is soon forgotten as the more pressing issues of Shannon's own life, such as her too large breasts, and the nasty teacher who doesn't like her writing, take precedence. <br />Shannon is so bummed about her less than exciting existence that her wealthy dad springs for her to see a counselor. The counselor immediately prescribes Prozac (nowadays I think you are handed a Prozac prescription as you walk through the door on your first visit) and earns her money listening to Shannon describe, in minute detail, how dull her life is. And it is dull. I'm sure Shannon's counselor was paid enough money to patiently listen to laborious descriptions of Shannon's gynecological symptoms and the plotsof the &quot;Roseanne&quot; episodes and infommercials she watches while picking her toenails, but I wasn't. This was a short book, which I thought I'd breeze through in a day or two. Instead it took me nearly a week of grimly forcing myself to pick it up and plod through another thirty or forty pages each day until I was finished (I have this awful need to finish a book once I've started, especilally if I've paid for it. Hmm, maybe I need to see a counselor...).<br />One of the most irritating symptoms of My Life Is So Boring Syndrome is the victim's inexplicable belief that as uninteresting as their own life is to them, other people will find it fascinating. Luckily, most of them don't write a book about it. <br />About two thirds of the way through, Shannon's counselor finally says something to her that made me nod my head in agreement: &quot;No one else cares about this but you.&quot; She's referring to Shannon's breakup with Boyfriend Number Two. But actually, it pretty much sums up my feeling about Shannon's life.	2001-12-09
US	52746531	R2NDN177SOIH5G	0618109277	16808580	Kit's Law: A Novel	Books	2	12	14	N	N	Not Enough Story	I hate to be the lone dissenting voice here, but... I'm sorry, I just did not think it was that great. Donna Morrissey writes well. Her descriptions, such as those of the desolate coastal village, are lovely, and the dialect her characters speak in is charming, but those things alone do not make a good novel. There is just not enough happening here. The Shine murder is the only real plot, and there are only fifty pages or so covering his stalking of Kit and Josie, the murder, and the trial. I don't necessarily require complex plotlines to enjoy a book, but if you're going to have this little going on, you need to have well developed characters to carry it along. Most of Morrisey's characters are too one dimensional, either all good (Sid, Loret, and the doctor) or all bad (the Reverend and his wife) and lack believability. Lizzy and Josie are more interesting, but Lizzy is killed off after fifty pages, and with the exception of a few scenes, Josie is mainly reduced to running around and irritating everyone else with her childishness and promiscuity. Kit is the only character that develops much, but she is rather overshadowed by the larger than life secondary characters. The &quot;shocking&quot; relevation about Sid just made me roll my eyes and wonder how many VC Andrews novels the author read before beginning her book. It was at that point that I pretty much just skimmed the rest of the book. I do think that this author has promise, and I'd probably give another novel from her a chance. Now to move on to my next read and duck the hate mail and &quot;unhelpful&quot; reviewer votes that will surely be coming my way! :-)	2001-08-27
US	52746531	RTXO3X05AUBPB	0451136306	691337390	Making Half Whole	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Is Friendship Worth The Risks?	&quot;Navy Brat&quot; Allison is used to moving around a lot, based on her officer dad's schedule. She knows better than to get attached to people or places, since everything in her life has always been temporary. But when her father takes an extended leave of absence while he gets a degree, Allison finds herself ready to settle in for a while. She enjoys her new town and the new friends she makes there, especially Jane and Marnie. Jane and Marnie are twin sisters with a big problem. Marnie has a debilitating kidney disease and has to undergo dialysis on a regular basis. Her illness has isolated her (and her sister) from the other kids at school, who are put off by what they don't understand. At first, Allison is not sure she wants to be involved either, but the twins are unlike anyone she's ever known before. Their friendship is so special that the twins decide to share their life changing news with Allison - Jane has decided to donate one of her kidneys to Marnie. As the girls prepare physically and emotionally for their major surgery, Allison becomes their confidante and biggest supporter. Sharing this experience brings the three girls closer than ever, but Allison begins feeling overwhelmed. What if one, or both, of the twins die? She is also troubled by news of political unrest, and the possibility of her father being called back into service as a result, forcing the family to relocate yet again. Is caring about someone worth the risk of possibly losing them? This is an excellent story about learning to let down your guard and not allowing fear of loss get in the way of forming friendships.	2001-08-26
US	52746531	RL0LVEDI6BCYE	0451141342	310295794	Fifteen 3: So Who Wants	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not As Good As The Rest Of The Series	&quot;Fifteen&quot; was a short lived series of young adult books published in the mid eighties. The books were written by different authors, and loosely tied together by having the characters in each book attend the same high school. The protaganist was always a fifteen year old girl facing universal adolescent problems such as fitting in, crushes on boys, relationships with parents, and self image. There were only six books in the series, which is a shame because they were always interesting and well written. &quot;So Who Wants To Be Popular Anyway?&quot; is about four girls who have been friends since they were young children together. Now that they're in high school, things are starting to change. One of the girls, Darcy, seems to be breaking away from their cozy foursome. She begins hanging with the popular crowd at school and has less time to spare for her old friends. The three left behind are resentful over this desertion, but soon begin to let go of their anger as they realize that newly popular Darcy is actually pretty miserable, and band together to &quot;rescue&quot; her. Like the other books in the &quot;Fifteen&quot; series, this novel explored relevant issues for teens about friendship, but was somehow not as satisfying as the others. The characters were not as well developed as some of the other in the series.	2001-08-24
US	52746531	R2ETPJV9IPI6WN	0451140583	625509068	Fifteen 2: Faking  It (Fifteen)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Being Yourself	\\"Faking It\\" is part of the \\"Fifteen\\" series from the mid eighties. The books were written by different authors, and loosely tied together by having the characters in each book attend the same high school. The protaganist was always a fifteen year old girl facing typical adolescent problems such as fitting in, crushes on boys, relationships with parents, and self image. There were only six books in the series, which is a shame because they were always interesting and well written. In \\"Faking It\\", Lori is virtually abandoned by her best friend Monica, when Monica finds a boyfriend. They've always done everything together and never needed anyone else. Now Lori has no one, so she decides to find a new best friend to take Monica's place. She chooses two possible \\"candidates\\", based soley on their popularity: Jodi, the school jock, and Hildy, a wild punk rock girl. Deciding that the best way to win the girls' friendship is to have something in common with them, Lori then goes about trying to make herself over into something she's not, or rather two things she's not, a jock when she's with Jodi and a party girl for Hildy. For several weeks, Lori juggles her two new, completely separate images, doing things she doesn't enjoy (such as five mile runs followed by a yogurt lunch and \\"borrowing\\" a car to TP a boys house) to impress her new friends. Eventually, she realizes that friends don't have to be clones of each other, and friendships don't need to be exclusive. Though this series is out of print, the themes are still relevant for teens today.	2001-08-23
US	52746531	R1MB5I1CRGCD0F	0451142705	931678174	Fifteen 6: All Out of	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Family Ties...	&quot;Fifteen&quot; was a short lived series of young adult books published in the mid eighties. The books were written by different authors, and loosely tied together by having the characters in each book attend the same high school. The protaganist was always a fifteen year old girl facing universal adolescent problems such as fitting in, crushes on boys, relationships with parents, and self image. There were only six books in the series, which is a shame because they were always interesting and well written. &quot;All Out Of Grape Jelly&quot; is a little different from the others in that the primary focus is on family relationships rather than school and friends. Michelle (aka &quot;Mickey&quot;) and her older sister Ann are so different it's hard to believe they're related. But Mickey is so involved with her friends and school activities that she doesn't concern herself with her sister's life - until everyone at school begins pointing out that Ann is changing. The once popular, successful Ann has dropped out of the cheerleading squad and hasn't been on a date in ages. Instead, she's spending her time home alone, cooking and cleaning while the girl's parents are at work. Becoming concerned about this change in her sister, Mickey tries to find out what's wrong and begins to notice things she hadn't seen before. Why are her parents working such late hours lately? Why doesn't her mother cook dinner any more? Why don't her parents talk to each other? Suddenly, happy go lucky Mickey is faced with serious family problems as her parent's marriage falls apart and her once confident sister sinks into depression. Desperate to keep her family together, Mickey begins to put some effort into trying to solve their problems and forms a new bond with Ann along the way. A good story about family relationships. Mickey and Ann are well developed, though the parents are rather one dimensional (and the father is outright obnoxious, demanding that his wife and daughters &quot;shape up&quot; to keep the household running while insisting that cooking and cleaning are not his job). The ending is perhaps a little too neat, but overall a good addition to a teen's library.	2001-08-23
US	52746531	R1AFHYO73UHJCD	9995481316	363534257	Princess Ashley	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very Realistic	This is one of only a few books about high school kids that I really related to when I was in high school myself. The characters are so real and multidimensional. You see how shallow and immature golden girl Ashley really is, yet you also realize she has problems that make you just a little more sympathetic, and you're even drawn by her seeming worldiness and sophistication just enough to understand narrator Chelsea's admiration for her. Didn't we all wish at one time or another that we could be part of the In Crowd? Chelsea herself is a wonderfully realistic teenager, and her character is extremely well developed as we follow her through high school. Her relationship with her mother is very true to life, and progresses believably as Chelsea matures. And Pod is probably the most lovable, interesting high school boy I've ever come across in young adult fiction. This is one of those books that I've saved since I was a teenager and re-read once a year or so. This book in particular is a real blast from my past as it was published when I was in high school and makes references to things that were big then (Molly Ringwald, Sheila E singing \\"The Glamourous Life\\"). Though those things may make it a bit dated, the storyline and characters are sure to appeal to young adults today.	2001-08-23
US	52746531	R36SLPOG8E1HNW	0451141741	827488261	Fifteen 4: What Don't	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Popularity And Friendship Are Two Different Things	&quot;Fifteen&quot; was a short lived series of young adult books published in the mid eighties. The books were written by different authors, and loosely tied together by having the characters in each book attend the same high school. The protaganist was always a fifteen year old girl facing universal adolescent problems such as fitting in, crushes on boys, relationships with parents, and self image. There were only six books in the series, which is a shame because they were always interesting and well written. &quot;What They Don't Teach You In Jr. High&quot; is the story of Betsy, a big fish in the small pond of her middle school, who is preparing to enter high school. She expects a smooth transition, despite the fact that new zoning regulations have resulted in most of her old friends attending a different school. After all, she was so popular in ninth grade that she's sure to be just as important in high school. She eagerly anticipates the first day of school and stepping into her expected role of big woman on campus. But it doesn't take long for Betsy to see that things are different in her new school. There are many funny moments as Betsy tries desperately to get in with the &quot;right&quot; crowd, failing miserably at each attempt. With the help of her &quot;geeky&quot; older brother, Betsy slowly begins to realize that there are a lot of people worth knowing at her new school, even if they aren't part of the in crowd. This is a good story of a young girl learning that popularity and friendship are two different things. I must mention one plot element that really bothered me, from the first time I read this story as a fifteen year old: The school musical! Apparently, the author did not know her musical theater, because she had these high schoolers putting on a production of &quot;Cats&quot;. First of all, at the time this book was written, &quot;Cats&quot; had been around for about two years and was still setting records for selling out tickets (kind of like&quot;The Producers&quot; today)- hardly a likely high school show. Secondly, she refers to students landing speaking parts or singing in the chorus - neither of which exist in &quot;Cats&quot;. And why on earth would high schoolers be asked to audition by reading scenes from Shakespeare? I realize someone not familiar with theater probably wouldn't care, but it annoyed me! :-) My other complaint was that Betsy was not as likeable as the other &quot;Fifteen&quot; characters. That didn't detract from the story - in fact I remember feeling a bit smug when she goofed in her attempts to impress, so maybe that wasn't a bad thing! Overall, a worthwhile read, and I recommend it along with the other books in the &quot;Fifteen&quot; series.	2001-08-23
US	52746531	R2QURH5UWW2HOU	0451142438	125965139	Fifteen 5: My Little	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Nice Story Of Friendship And Self Confidence	The &quot;Fifteen&quot; series of young adult novels was published in the mid eighties, and came at a perfect time for me because I was then fifteen years old myself. The books were written by different authors, and loosely tied together by having the characters in each book attend the same high school (the protaganists never seemed to cross paths, but I do recall a few minor characters from one novel making a cameo appearance in another). The protaganist was always a fifteen year old girl facing universal adolescent problems such as popularity, crushes on boys, relationships with parents, and self image. There were only six books in this short lived series, which is a shame because they were always interesting and well written. &quot;My Little Big Sister&quot; was my favorite. It is the story of Sylvie, a not quite in with the in crowd, not entirely sure of herself, soon to be sophomore at a new high school, who is stunned when out of the blue, junior class golden girl Marylin chooses her to be her &quot;Little Sister&quot;. Big and Little Sisters is a tradition at the school, wherein a junior girl &quot;adopts&quot; a new sophomore and shows her the ropes. Generally, only the popular crowd is involved in Big/Little Sisters. Though she can hardly believe her luck, Sylvie is soon comfortable with her new role as part of the in crowd, and begins to blossom as she becomes deeply involved in school activities and develops new found self confidence, inspired by Marylin's constant encouragement. Her circle of friends expands to include many members of the sophomore and junior classes, and she even begins attracting the attentions of her older brother's best friend. The one shadow on Sylvie's happiness is Marylin's best friend Meg, who harbors a seemingly unfounded grudge against Sylvie. When Sylvie finally confronts the antagonistic girl, Meg spitefully lets her in on a disturbing secret. Exactly why did Marylin choose Sylvie for her Little Sister? Is their friendship genuine or does Marylin have an ulterior motive? This story will hit home with most teenage girls, who will relate to Sylvie's desire for acceptance. It is interesting to watch her confidence develop and inspire her to stand up for herself when things begin to go wrong. Although it's out of print, this would be a good, relevant story for teenage girls to read today.	2001-08-23
US	52746531	RP49VPY180W09	0606038965	695764673	Princess Ashley (Laurel-Leaf Contemporary Fiction)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Very Realistic	This is one of only a few books about high school kids that I really related to when I was in high school myself. The characters are so real and multidimensional. You see how shallow and immature golden girl Ashley really is, yet you also realize she has problems that make you just a little more sympathetic, and you're even drawn by her seeming worldiness and sophistication just enough to understand narrator Chelsea's admiration for her. Didn't we all wish at one time or another that we could be part of the In Crowd? Chelsea herself is a wonderfully realistic teenager, and her character is extremely well developed as we follow her through high school. Her relationship with her mother is very true to life, and progresses believably as Chelsea matures. And Pod is probably the most loveable, interesting high school boy I've ever come across in young adult fiction. This is one of those books that I've saved since I was a teenager and re-read once a year or so. This book in particular is a real blast from my past as it was published when I was in high school and makes references to things that were big then (Molly Ringwald, Sheila E singing &quot;The Glamourous Life&quot;). Though those things may make it a bit dated, the storyline and characters are sure to appeal to young adults today.	2001-08-23
US	52746531	RJGD1VLLNR6FJ	0451140575	750641778	Fifteen 1: Is There a	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Grass Is Always Greener...	&quot;Fifteen&quot; was a short lived series of young adult books published in the mid eighties. The books were written by different authors, and loosely tied together by having the characters in each book attend the same high school (though the characters in one book never seemed to know the ones in the others. The protaganist was always a fifteen year old girl facing universal adolescent problems such as fitting in, crushes on boys, relationships with parents, and self image. There were only six books in the series, which is a shame because they were always interesting and well written. In &quot;Is There A Cure For Sophomore Year?&quot; Maggie has just begun tenth grade and already has a cool new friend named Carol. Maggie would give anything to be in Carol's place. Her rich parents give Carol a huge allowance and let her do all kinds of things that Maggie's overprotective parents don't allow. Maggie feels smothered, and when her parents are suddenly called out of town for a few weeks, it's a dream come true when she's allowed to stay with Carol. However, it isn't long before Maggie begins to see the down side of Carol's glamourous life. Could it be that Carol's parents give her so much freedom because they don't really care about her? This is a good story about learning to appreciate what you have, and not to envy those who seem better off. I recommend it along with the others in the &quot;Fifteen&quot; series. Although the books are out of print, the themes are pretty universal, and most teens should be able to relate.	2001-08-23
US	52746531	RIXHHJ15MFH83	0671441442	984598893	Bugs in Your Ears	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Not The Brady Bunch!	After thirteen years of leading a quiet life with her single mom, Carrie's world is turned upside down when her mother suddenly remarries and the two move into the noisy, crowded home of Dominic and his three kids, who Carrie has never even met. She has a lot to get used to, such as sharing a room with sullen older stepsister Ginger, changing schools and being put into the same class as nerdy stepbrother Newton, and dreading the upcoming day in family court, where Dominic plans to legally adopt her. Miserable at first, Carrie gradually begins to understand and accept her new siblings as they begin to warm up to her as well. However, she continues to keep her distance from Dominic, clinging to the dream that her real father, who she hasn't seen in years, will suddenly appear and &quot;rescue&quot; her from this family. This is a nice story about the conflicts that arise when two families blend into one. I read this as a pre-teen in the early 1980's when divorce and remarriage wasn't quite as prevalent as it is today, so it seemed much more unique back then. However, it is still a good story with well developed characters, and I recommend it for middle school aged girls.	2001-08-23
US	52746531	R3QRX7MWQ7XC4	0440042992	629282360	Just like Jenny	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Good Story Of Friendship With A Dancing Background	The two most important things in Stephanie's life are dancing and her best friend, Jenny. Ever since they were little children in beginning dance class, Stephanie and Jenny have dreamed of becoming stars - together. Stephanie can't imagine a professional dance career without Jenny by her side. But now that they are teenagers, everything suddenly seems to be changing. Stephanie begins to question her abilities as Jenny moves steadily towards her goals. For the first time, Stephanie wonders if she and Jenny are really destined for the same future. And does their friendship mean as much to Jenny as it does to her? This was one of my favorite books as a young girl, and it's themes of friendship and self confidence are relevant today. I hope to see this book back in print.	2001-08-21
US	52746531	ROUXZP03KJMMF	0688068669	416372031	Girlhearts	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Nice Follow Up To One Of My Favorite Teen Reads	I read &quot;Silver&quot;, the first novel about Sarabeth Silver, in junior high, and have saved my paperback copy along with a number of other childhood favorites for occasional re-reading. I found the sequel to be a pleasant, quick read, with believable characters and a good storyline. However, I too was bothered by several inconsistencies, some of which were so obvious they detracted from my enjoyment of the book. The age thing really annoyed me - why did everyone become a year younger? Many of the things Sarabeth and her friends do and say seem more consistent with 15 year olds (which is the age they would really be a year after &quot;Silver&quot; took place) than 13 year olds. &quot;Silver&quot; was supposed to have taken place a year earlier, and yet Cynthia's baby is a toddler, though she only became pregnant at the end of the previous book. And why do Sarabeth's friends no longer call her Silver, her nickname in the first novel? These things may not be a big deal, but I read &quot;Silver&quot; so many times I feel I know the characters well, and it bothered me to see so many inaccuracies. I also felt the ending was too rushed - I would have liked to have gotten to know Sarabeth's relatives better, especially Traci. Maybe another sequel is in the works? Flaws aside, I did enjoy the story, and my rating is more like three and a half stars. I certainly recommend the book to anyone who enjoyed &quot;Silver&quot;.	2001-08-19
US	52746531	R8IHMSU4I1TQN	0060931795	622224150	Like a Sister: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	The Ending Cost It At Least One Star	I would have given &quot;Sister&quot; four or even five stars if not for the final chapters. What started out as an interesting character study of an endearing, believeable teenager struggling for survival and respect turned into a bad movie of the week with gaping holes in the plot. I won't spoil the ending for anyone planning to read this book, but how incompetent are we to believe the law officials in this town are? For heaven's sake, the neighbors' dog even - well, if I say any more, I'll give it away. I did think the title character was one of the most lovably realistic fictional teens I've ever come across, and I was rooting for her the whole way through. I just wish the author hadn't spoiled things for her with such a ridiculous plot twist.	2001-02-20
US	52746531	R5S7CFSD7GMJK	0802137008	910496991	Pure	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Absorbing Read, A Bit Unpolished	Rebecca Ray gives a stunningly realistic portrayal of the patterns of abusive relationships. However, I agree with another reviewer on one gaping hole in the plot - I can not believe that any parents, no matter how dysfunctional, would be so accepting of their 14 year old daughter's relationship with a man seventeen years older. Additionally, I would have liked to see more loose ends tied up (for example, what was going on with Dawn and the protagonist's father? Definitely creepy undertones there, but they were never fully developed). However, the main character was touchingly real and the story was absorbing enough to keep me glued to it for three days. An admirable first novel, especially from such a young author. I look forward to future releases from this young woman.	2000-10-21
US	52746531	R3U9Y7CTSBTDW4	0802137008	910496991	Pure	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Absorbing Read, A Bit Unpolished	Rebecca Ray gives a stunningly realistic portrayal of the patterns of abusive relationships. However, I agree with another reviewer on one gaping hole in the plot - I can not believe that any parents, no matter how dysfunctional, would be so accepting of their 14 year old daughter's relationship with a man seventeen years older. Additionally, I would have liked to see more loose ends tied up (for example, what was going on with Dawn and the protagonist's father? Definitely creepy undertones there, but they were never fully developed). However, the main character was touchingly real and the story was absorbing enough to keep me glued to it for three days. An admirable first novel, especially from such a young author. I look forward to future releases from this young woman.	2000-10-21
US	52746531	R28HSMZS42F5BH	0380558300	170497357	Breaking Up	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Wonderful Earlier Norma Klein	This was the first Norma Klein novel that I read, sometime back in junior high school, and the one that introduced me to Klein's wonderfully real teen characters. This particular novel stands out in my mind not only for  the fact that Ali, Ethan, and Gretchen were some of my favorite fictional  characters, but also for what must have been one of the very first  homosexual relationships to be portrayed in a young adult novel (I believe  this was first published in the 1970's). As realistically and sensitively  done as the subplot involving Ali's mother is, it is still only a  contributing factor to what makes this book great. Ali's struggle to adjust  to the many changes in her life, such as her parent's divorce and being  forced to choose between them, a move to the opposite end of the country,  and her changing relationship with her best friend when Ali falls in love  with her friend's brother, are very true to life. Norma Klein's books are  always a refreshing change from the Sweet Valley clones flooding the  market, and this is one of the best.	2000-04-02
US	52746531	R15FK1KKSTDG3G	0833532022	405747157	Goodbye Doesn't Mean Forever	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Sequel That Is Better Than The Original!	I read (and loved)Too Young To Die right before starting Goodbye Doesn't Mean Forever. Both books are wonderful, and I felt as close to Melissa and Jory as if I knew them. While Too Young To Die did an excellent job of  showing the reader what a cancer patient goes through, it is Goodbye...  which makes us feel the emotions of those the disease affects, not only the  patient, but the people who love them. While Melissa, the protagonist of  Too Young To Die, is still very much at the center of this novel, it is  really the story of her best friend, Jory, and Jory's pain as she watches  the closest person in the world to her preparing to die. Jory's wide range  of emotions are realistically portrayed as she as fluctuates between  optimism and fear during the course of Melissa's illness. I felt her  frustration at not being able to do anything to help her best friend, her  grief and anger at the the thought of losing her, and finally her  loneliness as Melissa accepts what is happening and moves on to face her  death, leaving Jory behind. Reading this novel is an emotionally draining  experience, but an absolutely wonderful read.	2000-03-29
US	52746531	R2GB4Y9T7VPGC9	0451154134	865853568	Allegra (Signet)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Childhood Favorite That Has Kept It's Charm	From the first time I read it, back in junior high, to the most recent reading (a few months ago!) Allegra by Sandy Miller has never lost it's place in my heart. It is the story of a sheltered, much loved ten year old  girl who loses everything when her parents are killed in a car accident -  everything except her extraodinary musical talent. Devastated and lonely,  Allegra throws herself into piano practice as a means of escape from her  unloving relatives, now her guardians. With the help of a dedicated piano  teacher, Allegra grows as a musician, and as a person, over the next  several years as she learns to accept her new family for what they are, and  for the first time in her life is confronted with another young pianist  whose talent rivals her own. A wonderful story, with realistic characters,  that still touches this &quot;kid&quot;'s heart with every reading.	2000-03-29
US	52746531	R3RRUP4F0QFZLN	0671897071	438906347	Girl: A Novel	Books	5	22	22	N	N	I Wish This Book Had Been Around When I Was In High School	Early into my teenage years, I grew disenchanted with the &quot;young adult&quot; fiction that was on the market. I just could not relate to those twins of Sweet Valley, nor to their counterparts in other teen  novels. NO ONE lives their lives the way those characters did! I enjoyed  reading, and it was a big disappointment not to be able to identify with  any fictional characters of my age group. (I often wonder if this is why so  few teens like to read). Two years ago, long after I moved into my 20s, I  found &quot;Girl&quot;, and was completely blown away. I didn't think it  was possible that Andrea could be purely the creation of Blake Nelson's  mind. She speaks like a real 16 year old, experiences things that happen to  real 16 year olds, and has friends who are like the ones real 16 year olds  have (I want to meet Cybil! I wish I had known her when I was in high  school). I'm sure that many parents and teachers would like to believe that  their little ones do not say or do the things that Andrea does in  &quot;Girl&quot; (what first sparked my curiosity about this book was  reading a review in a magazine in which the critic said this would be a  good young adult novel if not for the graphic language), but you need only  spend half an hour in a high school cafeteria to understand that there is  nothing in this novel that any teenager is not already aware of. Many  readers have expressed amazement that Blake Nelson, a man, could capture so  perfectly the essence of a young woman. I admire him for this too, but am  even more impressed to find an adult writer who still remembers what it's  like to be a teenager, and can make others remember as well.	2000-01-04
