US	52744964	R4FN9NXOBI17C	1416503900	769417678	The Constant Gardener: A Novel	Books	5	18	21	N	N	The movie is great too	John leCarre of Cold War espionage fame has over the years widened his scope, while still giving us the insider's look into the worlds of diplomats and spies--which turn out not to be so separate at all. I need not rehash the plot, other than to say that this is intelligently written and suspenseful, a great read as most of LeCarre's books are. The author raises many ethical issues that are hard to resolve, but bear considering. The major issue in the book, testing of a drug that is still unsafe on an unsuspecting poor population, and a cover up of the bad results, is clearly abhorrent. But LeCarre raises more subtle issues.What are the developed world's obligations to the third world in the case of pharma companies? How far must we go in protecting their patent rights if the result is denying access to the poor? Is exclusive protection in rich nations sufficient reward, and should we let generics be developed much more quickly where they are needed? LeCarre raises issues about the basic morality and efficacy of a simple issue like food aid--should we continue it if doing so requires making deals with the very governments which pursue a fruitless civil war that causes the famine in the first place? And of course LeCarre brilliantly paints the world of diplomacy and its compromises. <br />If all this profound thinking scares you away, don't let it. LeCarre includes an unprobable, doomed love story, a mystery to unravel, and a few surprises along the way as characters slowly reveal their true selves. This one is an intelligent page turner of high quality. <br /> <br />	2005-09-19
US	52744964	R1PBUO8D9KA6FQ	0743262433	769417678	The Constant Gardener: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The movie is great too	John leCarre of Cold War espionage fame has over the years widened his scope, while still giving us the insider's look into the worlds of diplomats and spies--which turn out not to be so separate at all. I need not rehash the plot, other than to say that this is intelligently written and suspenseful, a great read as most of LeCarre's books are. The author raises many ethical issues that are hard to resolve, but bear considering. The major issue in the book, testing of a drug that is still unsafe on an unsuspecting poor population, and a cover up of the bad results, is clearly abhorrent. But LeCarre raises more subtle issues.What are the developed world's obligations to the third world in the case of pharma companies? How far must we go in protecting their patent rights if the result is denying access to the poor? Is exclusive protection in rich nations sufficient reward, and should we let generics be developed much more quickly where they are needed? LeCarre raises issues about the basic morality and efficacy of a simple issue like food aid--should we continue it if doing so requires making deals with the very governments which pursue a fruitless civil war that causes the famine in the first place? And of course LeCarre brilliantly paints the world of diplomacy and its compromises.  <br />If all this profound thinking scares you away, don't let it. LeCarre includes an unprobable, doomed love story, a mystery to unravel, and a few surprises along the way as characters slowly reveal their true selves. This one is an intelligent page turner of high quality.  <br /> <br />	2005-09-19
US	52744964	R3BA02H5US2MGJ	1400032806	418900469	Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith	Books	5	24	28	N	N	A study of Religion, not just Mormonism	In his \\"Author's Remarks,\\" Krakauer says he began with a very different book in mind, a study of the nature of religious belief, using Mormonism as an example, a sort of case study. What emerged is the book other reviewers have described, but I would argue Krakauer wrote more about his original idea than he realized. The history of Mormonism is the story of a charasmatic leader and a small group of followers, who are persecuted and beleagured on all sides, and who wander from place to place before finally settling in a remote area where they can live in peace. In the beginning they were united and passionate about their faith, wanting simply to be left alone. But over time they become victims of their own success, and the price of their success is that they enter society and are forced to abandon their more extreme practices. But there are always a few who feel that going mainstream is a departure from the pure faith, that they alone have the truth direct from God, and they will do anything to protect their belief system and way of life. These are themes that run through all religions--some have argued that fundamentalism is a reaction to modernity. And there are numerous examples of where the siege mentality  leads to the most extreme behavior. Think about fundamentalist movements today--all seek a return to bedrock beliefs. I kept thinking about Islam--isn't this what's going on right now?  <br /> <br />In any event, there's no question this is a chilling and scary story, especially because Mormonism is the youngest of the major religions, it is the only purely American religion, and the excesses Krakauer describes occur in real time. Krakauer draws clear distinctions between the extremeists and the mainstream LDS church, but I can certainly understand why Mormon leaders were upset with the book. Who would want this history exposed in a nationwide best-seller? <br /> <br />Krakauer is one of the best popular non-fiction writers around. The book was extremely well-written, meticulously researched, and a page turner. Highly recommended!	2005-09-16
US	52744964	R3W3CN3X11ESP3	0525480978	270570698	Favourite of the God	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Revisiting a favorite theme	Most of Bedford's work--I've read a lot of it--circles around a favorite theme--that time between the wars in Europe, when there was almost complete freedom of movement, and many people seemed to live very well on very little money, relying on the generosity of wealthy friends. \\"A Compass Error\\" and \\"Jigsaw\\" are her best and most autobiographical, but I find the further she strays from her own life story the murkier things get. In this novel, Constanza is the daughter of an American heiress and an Italian prince, who finds her life upended when her mother self-destructs after discovering the Prince's long-standing affair. Constanza moves to London and grows up to become very beautiful, intelligent, a little wild, and quite self-absorbed. She seems oddly without anchor--she marries a man she doesn't love, has a child without seeming to notice, and is then devastated when her husband divorces her because she never loved him. Constanza gets another chance with a different man, but throws it away. For me it was as if I observed this from a distance--I never really understood Constanza's motives. Her mother Anna also confused me--I never quite had a handle on how wealthy she really was or wasn't, despite a great deal of discussion on the subject of money. And I never really figured out what Anna's \\"problem\\" was. Bedford is a beautiful writer and I love the picture of the world between the wars that she paints, and for that I give this book a 4, but her characters were disturbingly vague, and the book left me oddly disatisfied.	2005-09-16
US	52744964	RNDMQHFKXEZF0	0316089699	279731145	Sea Glass: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	At the edge of the Sea	Shreve's \\"Seaglass\\" is typical of her wonderful, well-plotted, literate love stories, but the serious treatment of the events in a New England mill town at the beginning of the long Depression give this novel greater weight than some of her other works. \\"Seaglass\\" is the story of Honora Beecher, who as a new wife moves into the house that played so big a role in \\"Fortune's Rocks.\\" Readers of that novel will find tantalizing references to the house's earlier, somewhat scandalous, history. Honora's husband jumps at the chance to buy the house outright, but uses a sleight of hand that later jeopardizes their entire lives. Both the reader and Honora slowly come to the realization that Sexton bends the rules for his own gain, but life is OK, and Honora ignores her instincts as she falls in love with her house and the beach. <br /> <br />Then 1929 comes, Sexton, her husband, loses his job, and the mill begins to squeeze its workers. Shreve paints a vivid picture of the conditions in the mills, child labor, the living conditions, and especially the plight of the children through the story of the boy Alphonse and his idol McDermott, who both work in the mill. Sexton and Honora eventually become involved in the mill workers' plan to strike, and their large, out-of-way home becomes a refuge for the organizers. Honora and McDermott inevitably fall in love, and Shreve once again so masterfully describes those first moments of love, where every detail of a chance encounter is memorized and examined, every word plumbed for meaning, and the whole world looks different. But their love is as doomed as the strike, and Sexton leads then all to disaster. <br /> <br />I like Shreve's work--it's not seriously literary, but extremely well-written, with interesting characters, beautifully drawn settings and great plots. And the historical background of \\"Seaglass\\" is an added bonus. Perfect for summer reading!	2005-08-02
US	52744964	R1QS3KT8PD0BJ7	0316678104	155429542	Fortune's Rocks: A Novel	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Lyrical, forbidden love	\\"Fortune's Rocks,\\" an upscale, rocky beach community reminiscent of Newport and Maine, is the setting for the shocking love affair of 15 year old Olympia Biddesford and John Haskell, forty-ish. The two are drawn to each other over the great divide of their ages by an almost mystical pull, which quickly turns into a torrid love affair. The setting makes the book--I loved the descriptions of the sea, beach, rocks and sky in all moods and seasons, Olympia's joy in shedding boots to walk in the sand, the shock of the icy New England water. Shreve also does a fine job of recreating the golden years before WWI, the sheltered upbringing of young women, the iron-clad rules of propriety. Inevitably the lovers are found out, in a scene at Olympia's 16th birthday party which would shock even today.  <br /> <br />Olympia is dragged away and cloistered in her Boston home, only to be met with a further shock--she and Haskell conceived a child, who is also taken away from her.  Away from the sea, the story oddly lags, and Shreve keeps this part mercifully brief. These seemingly doomed lovers who have lost everything re-emerge to try to claim their lives and the child, but Shreve is known for surprise endings, and the child seems lost forever. Read the book to see how it all works out. <br /> <br />I only wish Shreve had made our heroine just a bit older--I couldn't help be bothered that no matter how compelling the passion, how mystical the bond, how passionate Olympia was in pursuing her lover, even today in a society whose mores have utterly changed, Haskell would have been thought to have done something terribly wrong, even criminal. But otherwise this is a fine summer book--well written, beautifuly conceived, but not too heavy.	2005-07-29
US	52744964	R1839KNBI2DW41	0743226712	53542661	1776	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Oddly Disappointing	After the riveting \\"John Adams\\" I eagerly picked up \\"1776,\\" but found it's just not up to par. \\"1776\\" is a military history of the first year of the war, but unlike others of his works, McCullough doesn't focus on one or two individuals, and this leaves the stories oddly flat. He focuses on three battles--Boston, an American win, Brooklyn, a British victory, and Trenton, an American morale-booster of little strategic importance. The portraits of George III and Washington are interesting, the writing is first-class as always, and scholars no doubt will find much that is new--and for that I still give it 4 stars. But after Trenton it stops. Yes, we all know the ending--but at the end of this first year  it seems as much of a stand-off as when it all began. The truly momentous event of that year, the Declaration, is barely mentioned. And where are the maps??? Luckily, being a New Yorker, I could envision a lot of it, but for other readers I can only imagine the frustration. I thought McCullough must have used research left-over from \\"Adams\\" for this work. But it just doesn't make a whole book on its own.	2005-07-26
US	52744964	R11SWJDABGPXW7	0316011770	454028739	The Historian	Books	5	4	8	N	N	This summer's DaVinci Code	Kostova has taken a winning formula and turned it into a hugely entertaining summer read. Take a wide-spread legend (Dracula), mixed in with fasinating history (the fall of the Byzantine empire in 1453 to the Otttomans), add castles and ancient manuscripts, a lost mother, a smart daughter, a discreet love affair and religious intrigue, and there you have it. The book is a first person narrative told in letters by several characters--Bernard Rossi, a brilliant historian and scholar who mysteriously disappears; his protege Paul, the recipient of Rossi's letters and \\"heir\\" of the quest to solve the Dracula mystery; Paul's wife Helen, bitten twice and plagued by the belief that she's been polluted. Ultimately Paul's daughter--also Helen--follows her father's trail and all meet at Dracula's hiding place for the final confrontation. Occasionally I got lost in letters within letters quoting manuscripts, and the novel inevitably ends with a living room discussion that fills in the blanks, but no matter. It's great fun--highly recommended.	2005-07-24
US	52744964	R2AOA41PON9JVE	1582431698	882486840	Quicksands: A Memoir	Books	3	37	41	N	N	A disappointment	I had eagerly awaited \\"Quicksands,\\" undoubtedly the last of this wonderful writer's books, given her advanced age, but sadly I was disappointed. Bedford's novels, which I have read, are autobiographical, despite her disclaimers, but I didn't realize how true to life they were until reading her memoir. Bedford lived an erratic, charmed, difficult life, part of the European artistic generation between the wars, when one could exist for long periods of time on the generosity of friends and move relatively freely from country to country. But Bedford's memoir feels removed from her life, in a way her vivid novels are not. \\"Jigsaw's\\" characters reappear--her father and mother, Oriane, Issa, Allessandro--but she observes them from afar, and they feel flat to me. She assumes the reader knows a lot already from her novels, so some incidents are briefly and cryptically covered in a way that without prior knowledge they are meaningless. An example is the story of Rosie, whose lover was a famous English jurist who secretely led a double life for many years. Bedford covers this emotional, painful, amazing story in a page and a half for the sole purpose of finally revealing the jurist's name, but without the vivid background from her novel the revelation has little impact. \\"Quicksands\\" is leading me back to the novels I haven't yet read--she's an exquisite writer. Try \\"Jigsaw\\" for the real story of this amazing woman's life.	2005-07-15
US	52744964	R2GD2T0O5DBCBX	0452286514	342331676	Transmission	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Silicon Society	\\"Transmission\\" is an immensely enjoyable offering from the talented Hari Kunzru. Kunzru takes a version of his trademark character--a brilliant but isolated young man living increasingly on the edge--and places him firmly in the 20th-21st century. Kunzru presents us with the other side of the \\"Asians are taking away jobs from Americans\\" story. Arjun is a brilliant young techie who dreams of a better life in America. Hired on the spot by what turns out to be a supplier of temp help to US companies, he's sent to America, where he waits for a job \\"on the bench\\" in a miserable apartment with other young Indians. With no money to return home, no visa if he leaves his employer, Arjun is trapped, until he lands a job at an internet security company. Then the bubble bursts, and desperate to keep his job Arjun unleashes the most invasive virus yet created, shutting down critical systems around the world. <br /> <br />Within this story Kunzru creates a vivid picture of young, brilliant, tatooed techies making too much money much too fast in the valley, the craziness of Bollywood, the cutthroat environment of the venture capital investor, and the rich consultant-entrepreneur whose product is thin air. Kunzru also brilliantly describes how the internet works and how viruses are spread in a way that's understandable and exciting for this non-techie reader. As Arjun's scheme fails to save his job, the Bollywood movie stalls because of its star's mysterious illness, the consultant loses his final pitch, and Arjun's sometime-lover Chris gets caught up in a criminal investigation, Arjun's world spins out of control--and then he simply disappears. The ending is fanciful but it works! I hope we hear a lot more from the young Mr. Kunzru	2005-07-15
US	52744964	RDWM3D81GDYC5	0394800389	774620371	Fox in Socks (Beginner Books)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Classic Seuss	A wonderful, silly Seuss, filled with tongue twisters. Great illustrations. And for adults---I teach ESL, and have a relatively advanced class, but the students' pronunciation isn't great. I tried this out to drill vowel sounds and it was a winner! The students are enchanted with the silliness of it, it makes a boring activity--drilling--fun, and several bought the book for their kids. A great find! Published 40 years ago, Seuss never gets old.	2005-07-14
US	52744964	R1CQUR9OX032KH	0194341992	349695743	The New Oxford Picture Dictionary (Monolingual English Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent resource	I use this book a lot even for adult ESL students. I find this a great resource for one of the basic ESL techniques--describe the picture. I've also used the verb pages to practice tenses. Pages on prepositions are also very good. The pictures are clear and easy to understand.	2005-06-29
US	52744964	R1O840BUTS0HBI	0394865804	703040761	The Butter Battle Book: (New York Times Notable Book of the Year) (Classic Seuss)	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Not just for kids	\\"Butter Battle\\" tells the story of the Yooks and Zooks, two identical races living on two sides of a high wall, differing only in how they butter their bread. The book is about passing on prejudice and hatred to children, when grandfather reveals the terrible bread-buttering practices of those who live on the other side. It's about hair-trigger readiness for war, and the arms race. All this, with Seuss' rhyming prose and vivid, funny illustrations. <br /> <br />\\"Butter Battle\\" was a departure for Dr. Seuss, a serious book about the nature of war and the nuclear arms race. Perhaps he wrote it with the Cold War in mind, and some object that the book trivializes the nature of that conflict. But our history since 1984 provides too many examples of what Seuss was talking about--the Balkan conflicts, India-Pakistan, the Middle East. The book isn't widely available (except on Amazon!) but it's certainly worth tracking down. I used it in an \\"English as a Second Language\\" class on discrimination and prejudice. They loved it! <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-06-20
US	52744964	R3V7UMGZTTZCTT	074352571X	396603305	Spanish	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Good for a quick review	I bought these to get back the \\"sound\\" of my long-unused high school Spanish and it did the trick. I found I could understand the Castillian accent and even manage a few words. BUT--I think it's almost impossible to learn a language from CD's or tapes--it's just not the same as having to think on your feet in a real live conversation. But I was glad to have access to Pimsleur's high-quality product at an affordable price.	2005-06-20
US	52744964	R3EPK9CKOMA2QW	3886185443	499491107	Korea (South & North) 1:1,500,000 Travel Map 2003*** (Nelles Map) (English and French Edition)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The choices are limited	I bought this map as a teaching aid for an English class for Korean students. They thought it was pretty good, but I can't comment on accuracy. I did find it rather busy--the map attempts to show everything--topographical features, main roads, towns, historic sites, beaches, parks, mileage and so on. But there's not a huge amount of stuff out there on Korea, at least in the US, as it's not much of a tourist destination. Probably OK for planning a trip--probably you'd need something clearer if you were driving around.	2005-06-20
US	52744964	R39RHFHLFBYTJR	1585730025	488807607	Insight Guide Korea (Insight Guides)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Wonderful as always	I've bought bought many Insight Guides through the years, and this one runs true to form--lavishly illustrated, chock full of information on the history, culture and people of Korea. As others mention, these guides are not good for hotel and restaurant information, but they're not intended to be--in fact, you may not even want to carry it along on the trip. But for research they're indispensible. A note: I have not gone to Korea but used this book in an English class for adult Korean students. They gave it a big thumbs up, said it \\"has everything.\\" They would know!	2005-06-20
US	52744964	R2YYH9ZWBEVN0Q	8175300256	937131961	Countdown	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A scary picture	This slim little volume is a study of the psychology and reality of India's and Pakistan's nuclear policies, and it is scary indeed. Ghosh begins by describing the nuclear test by India in 1999, conducted aboveground in total disregard for the safety of the people in surrounding areas. Amazingly, celebrations in the streets of towns and cities followed. Ghosh says that for these two countries the weapons are a status symbol allowing them to take a place at the table of \\"world powers.\\" As he traveled and interviewed people on the subject, he found their views of the tests a mixture of fantasy and niavete. He feels India has made a tragic error in its struggle with its historical enemy--relying on nuclear weapons, India has given up its historical advantage of superior conventional forces, leaving it to defend itself with a weapon that will only invite a horrible counter-attack. Ghosh ends with a minute analysis of the aftereffects of an attack on New Delhi. Interestingly, the immediate death toll, he says, would only (only!) be in the 200,000 range, but the destruction of the infrastructure, the loss of records, and most of all the suffering of those unlucky enough to survive, would precipitate a horrible national collapse. One can only ask \\"Why?\\"	2005-06-17
US	52744964	R1PUYUBQX4E1U2	0133621200	89761817	Graded Exercises in English (Dixson English series)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A lifesaver!	This book has become an indispensible resource for me. One of the huge challenges of being an ESL teacher is to figure out how to explain more or less logically what native speakers know intuitively. I am often stymied by grammar exercises in workbooks that are not properly explained, have too few examples, or the vocabulary in the examples is too difficult. Dixson avoids all these problems. This book is also great when you feel a quick review of a basic point is needed, or just for a quick quiz. What ESL student doesn't need to periodically review irregular verbs? You'll use it over and over once you buy it, guaranteed!	2005-06-06
US	52744964	R1ZR2LB2SI6W0W	1573222984	401018820	The Portrait	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Smaller in scope but beautifully written as always	Iain Pears writes two completely different types of novels, a series of entertaining art mysteries, and the serious, erudite \\"Instance of the Fingerpost\\" and \\"Dream of Scipio.\\" For the first time he's blended the two in \\"The Portrait,\\" a monologue by an artist in exile from the London art scene who invites his friend and well-known critic William Naysmith to his remote island to have his portrait painted. The entire book is a monologue, the artist McAlpine forcing Naysmith to listen as he paints. Through McAlpine alone, Pears tells the story of the lives of both of these men, from McAlpine's struggles as a young, naive Scotsman trying to escape from the bleak highlands, to Paris and art school in the late 19th century, to London and success for both. We are left to imagine Naysmith's side of the conversation only from McAlpine's comments on the critic's reactions as McAlpine for the first time reveals how much he knows of Naysmith's real life. But as the story unfolds, we're also treated to two insiders' views of the art world at the turn of the century, the effect of the French Impressionists when introduced to London, the emergence of Picasso and Matisse who so quickly eclipsed them. The role of the critic as the true power in the art world is deftly portrayed by Pears in Naysmith, and we soon suspect that Naysmith has done more than just destroy careers with his biting criticism. And McAlpine has been far from an innocent bystander. I didn't anticipate the ending, but was delighted to realize that Pears had deftly set it up without my ever realizing it. <br /> <br />This little novel owes much to \\"Embers,\\" a novel employing the same monologue device to an encounter between two friends estranged for many years, who come together for a last time over dinner and the revelation of a secret. Pears writes as beautifully as ever, and his story is as riveting as his other two serious novels, although far less grand in scope. The novel is well worth your time; I only wishPears were more prolific. <br />	2005-06-06
US	52744964	R1H0M5666RJJGN	0743254805	834074263	No Place to Hide	Books	3	5	7	N	N	But what to do?	O'Harrow has written an important book, cataloging the numerous ways in which our right to privacy is being invaded by everyone from the government to big chain stores to supermarkets to the police to identity thieves. The aggregation of bits of data into comprehensive pictures of our lives was something that began long before 9/11, with the advent of supermarket discount cards, EZ Pass, the easy availability of credit cards, and the use of Social Security numbers as a surrogate for national identity cards. O'Harrow makes a persuasive case that 9/11 legitimized the trend and silenced those who had expressed privacy concerns all along. He also explains the arguments on the other side, that we want speedy electronic transactions, instant credit availability, fewer traffic jams and waiting lines, the instant access to everything the internet provides a consumer. Advocates of data collection argue that hampering this effort will slow down commerce in a way that consumers would not find acceptable today.O'Harrow dismisses that argument, but it deserves greater consideration than he gives it in this book. <br /> <br />The book left me dissatisfied for several reasons. It chronicles the stories of several big companies whose names are not household words, their intimate ties with government, the billions being made in the quest for security. But O'Harrow doesn't suggest a solution--he pays lip service to the need for balancing the needs of security and privacy, but doesn't tell us where he thinks the balance should be struck. Like other reviewers, I would have welcomed a chapter on what an average citizen can do to buck the trend. Some obvious things come to mind--don't give out a phone number where supplying it is optional, don't fill out warranty cards, give up the pharmacy discount cards, pay tolls with cash, use cash more and give up on the quest for credit card frequent flyer miles. But couldn't he have told us how to check the accuracy of certain records? Explained that in many states credit agencies are now required to provide free copies of credit reports on request? Such a knowledgable guy could have helped us out.  <br /> <br />Finally, I found the organization of the book extremely confusing. O'Harrow jumps around maddeningly from the 1970's to 2004, likes to start each chapter with a current anecdote and then go back to the beginning of the story, and returns over and over to a few characters, sometimes identifying them anew as if they hadn't been discussed in prior chapters. One's eyes glaze over after awhile. Less data, more analysis, would be a good thing--in writing as well as in homeland security!	2005-06-06
US	52744964	R2H1Y61WL4TTYR	0801335213	887715514	Longman Dictionary of American English (Dictionary (Longman))	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent Resource	This is a great English-English dictionary for intermediate to advanced students. The definitions are clear and easy to understand and are often offered by way of example--e.g., bereaved--if someone is bereaved, someone he or she loves has died. The illustrations are really nice, the layout clear. I strongly advise my students to use this as soon they can handle it--at higher levels I tell them they must break themselves of the habit of translating. I'm also a big fan of the Collins Co-build, which is more complete, but it's hard to get in the U.S., and the alternate British/American definitions could be confusing to all but the most advanced students. This is a winner. Given the bad reviews of the CD I haven't tried it yet, but this book stands on its own just fine.	2005-05-31
US	52744964	R3GWR0NUT7MTJC	0876283075	460697090	The Esl Teacher's Book of Lists	Books	3	25	25	N	N	Tough to Categorize--a little of everything	I bought this book based on the great reader review, but now that I have it I'm not sure what to do with it. It's true, if you need a lesson and have nothing to start with--a rarity in my experience--you could whip something up with this. But, if you have a course book and need more work on a grammar point, it's hit or miss if the grammar is covered in this book. There are vocabulary lists--weather, time, school, travel--but not work, homes, food. There are some good pronunciation exercises, and an excellent list of idioms. But this is the kind of resource that I'll check once in awhile on the chance it will have something, but I won't count on it.	2005-05-22
US	52744964	R2RQR9PMYCBBZ1	0838478573	782566045	The Heart of the Matter: High-Intermediate Listening, Speaking, and Critical Thinking	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Be prepared to supplement a lot	This book is listening, speaking and critical thinking--no more no less. The chapters are interesting generally, with lots of authentic listening material and discussion topics--music, art, dreams, work, the nature of intelligence, etc. But there's no grammar--I actually had a student ask me to add grammar exercises to each unit! And no writing, little reading. Plus by now it's dated. You'll have to add a lot if you're doing a general high level course, as I am. In the future, I'm sure I'll use some of the listenings to supplement other course books, but on its own this coursebook is quite narrow.	2005-05-22
US	52744964	R1B4HLXXT2VR97	1853753823	618928945	The Education of Hyman Kaplan (Prion Humour Classics)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Loving and humorous	As a new ESL teacher, my husband thought I'd enjoy this book. H*Y*M*A*N K*A*P*L*A*N* is an irrepressible immigrant to the US, struggling to master English, but that doesn't stop him from communicating at every opportunity. Waves of malapropisms spoken with a thick Eastern European accent don't get in the way of his enthusiasm. Set in the 30's, this is a world where teachers and students are Mr., Mrs. and Miss, immigrants worked in garment factories, and all still believe in the American Dream. Even Mr. Parkhill, the god-like teacher, can't help but be infected by Mr. Kaplan's unique interpretations of the great works of English literature--the Shakespeare story was a classic. Definitely dated, certainly politically incorrect, these stories hail from a simpler, but maybe tougher time--Leo Rosten originally wrote under the name Leonard Ross. A lovely little collection of stories!	2005-05-16
US	52744964	R3TFOENZ8IHLSD	1573222631	795188046	Aloft	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Disappointing third novel	Having read and loved \\"Gesture Life\\" and \\"Native Speaker,\\" I jumped on this as soon as it came out, but like several others I was disappointed. In this third novel, Lee returns to familiar territory, the man who holds himself aloof, or \\"aloft,\\" from life. Gerry Battle is a rather ordinary almost 60-ish kind of guy, moderately successful and content, whose life starts to unravel as his girlfriend leaves him and his daughter returns home with a terrible problem.  <br /> <br />But unlike Lee's other books, where the protagonist slowly reveals himself through his actions, Gerry is observing himself all the way. I found him a self-conscious narrator--Lee tells us more than shows us how he's lived his life and where he now stands. Also, Gerry is American through and through--I can't be sure but perhaps there are some false notes here that weren't there with Lee's Asian characters. And certainly the plots of the first two books were more interesting. <br /> <br />But the biggest problem I had with the book was the completely improbable ending. It just wasn't credible. I won't say more, but the transformations that occur just don't happen in real life. In the end, unfulfilling.	2005-05-13
US	52744964	RBKG7SQXWSGMM	0345461347	258301458	To the Last Man: A Novel of the First World War	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Masterful and personal story of the Great War	It was only after WWII occured that the world came to view the war to end all wars as only the prelude to a second, more global conflict. But even so, WWI has retained the very dubious distinction of being the cruelist, from a soldiers' point of view, of global conflicts. In the 19th century, with the Industrial Revolution, man's ability to create new, \\"modern\\" weapons lept forward, but the techniques of warfare didn't follow. The stalement on the Western Front, \\"no man's land,\\" resulted from this terrible mismatch. On the ground, Sharra's book tells the awful story of Roscoe Temple, part of a squad in the US Army ordered again and again to march forward into the line of machine gun fire, grenades and poison gas. The men were no match. In the air, the story was a bit different--airplanes were new and primitive, and Shaara is at his best describing the one-on-one duels between the aces on the French/American and German sides.  <br /> <br />As with his other books, and that of his father, the author of the brilliant \\"Killer Angels,\\" Shaara tells his story through the eyes of the leaders in the field and the men on the ground. He uses military maps very skillfully, allowing the reader to follow the details and envision what's happening without getting lost in the details. He's at his best, as I've said, portraying the escapades of the flyers, less successful with the story on the ground, and at the end we get bogged down in the politics of the Armistice, but \\"To the Last Man\\" remains a masterful blend of fact and fiction which brings this terrible period in European history to life.	2005-05-13
US	52744964	R262MTN8VU00CR	0060987561	406344440	I Know This Much Is True (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	I read the first sentence and was hooked!	\\"On the afternoon of October 12, 1990, my twin brother Thomas entered the Three Rivers, Connecticut Public Library, retreated to one of the rear study carrels, and prayed to God the sacrifice he was about to commit would be deemed acceptable.\\" Who wouldn't be intrigued? Lamb has written a masterful psychological portrait of two brothers, twins, completely different, totally entwined. Thomas is schizophrenic and institutionalized, clearly very sick. Dominick is the normal brother. It is only as the novel unfolds that we realize  Dominick is in trouble too. How he crawls out of the pit of anger and loss he finds himself in is the core of this wonderfully written story. <br /> <br />After reading this novel and \\"She's Come Undone\\" a few years ago, I've started to wonder why Lamb isn't more highly regarded than he is. Did the Oprah stamp of approval hurt? Are his books too long? Don't be put off! Lamb is a wonderful writer, totally engrossing, and the 900 pages of \\"I Know This Much is True\\" will whiz right by. Take it on vacation this summer and savor it!	2005-05-13
US	52744964	R2571HR359VTE4	0805077111	489911585	The Breaking Point: How Female Midlife Crisis Is Transforming Today's Women	Books	5	11	15	N	N	I recognize some of these people!	For years Sue Shellenbarger has written a \\"Work and Family\\" column for the Wall Street Journal, one of the first to focus on the practical consequences of juggling careers and home. She's not a psychologist or sociologist, and doesn't pretend this is a scientific study. Rather, she tells the stories of women who reach the mid-point of their lives and find that somehow it doesn't work anymore. It's much more than menopause, the empty nest syndrome or a mid-life crisis. The author lays out six \\"archetypes\\"--representing six types of change women seek--the leader, the lover, the adventurer, etc. It made sense to me--I know far too many women who reach mid-life and abandon successful careers and start new ones, travel--with or without spouse, begin new ventures or new businesses. <br /> <br />When I was 40, I attended my husband's 35th college reunion--he and his classmates were in their mid-50's. I listened in on a women's breakfast meeting, and heard thrilling stories one after the other from women who were soaring, having finally completed child-rearing and the struggles to establish careers. What was going on I wondered?--being only 40, they'd seemed old to me. Now I understand!	2005-05-13
US	52744964	RKDJU0PQWZBZM	1400043395	813354201	Never Let Me Go	Books	5	61	73	N	N	The slow dawning of a terrible truth. . . .	Ishiguro's latest is a masterpiece of understatement, a view of science run rampant through the eyes of children. Ruth, Kathy and Tommy are a tight triangle in the privileged world of Hailsham, an elite boarding school in the heart of the English countryside. Ishiguro's rendering of the enclosed, often cruel world of a private school is eerily familiar, unerringly told from the point of view of three adolescent characters--certain students are inexplicably \\"on the outs,\\" friendships change on a whim, dominant students hold sway over others in irrational ways, secret pacts are made and die. But permeating all is the fact that these students have a role to fulfill once grown. The details are revealed with almost maddening slowness, but isn't that how certain truths often dawn on us? And the characters' acceptance of their roles is terrifying in a way--will human beings accept anything as long as properly indoctrinated? Perhaps not, as Kathy, Tommy and Ruth reach adulthood and become gripped by the notion that their donations may be deferred. Ishiguro's astute rendering of the details of everyday life, the slow unraveling of the truth, the \\"trueness\\" of the narrator's voice, all add up to a masterpiece.   <br />	2005-04-16
US	52744964	R37JC0T4VAD8W7	0316713732	704361388	The Last Time They Met: A Novel	Books	4	4	6	N	N	What might have been. . . .	Anita Shreve is a  master of the painful/mysterious/doomed lovers sort of love story and this one is no exception. Linda and Thomas meet at a writers' convention after years of separation, and their story unfolds in reverse--a painful one of being separated by parents after a car accident which was partly Thomas' fault, then meeting several years later in Africa, coming so close to being together only to be wrenched apart by chance again. Finally they meet, unattached, middle-aged, successful, unencumbered. Both have had tragedy in their lives, especially Thomas, but are still able to love. But wouldn't this have been a rather prosaic ending to a wild passion? As you already know, it doesn't quite end up that way. <br /> <br />Anita Shreve doesn't write great literature; her books are the perfect thing for a long plane ride--well-written, engrossing plot, but not too heavy. And each is different enough to avoid the feeling you've read it before. Not enough meat here for a book club, but a good read nevertheless.	2005-04-08
US	52744964	R1KQIL3UPT3DYA	0375413189	900014736	The Spiral Staircase: My Climb Out of Darkness	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Stunning story of a spiritual quest	Karen Armstrong is one of the best general interest writers on religion today, and this wonderful autobiography relates how she got there. Armstrong was a Catholic nun in the 60's, during a time of great upheaval in the church. After a 7 year struggle to subdue her intelligent, inquisitive spirit, described in \\"Through the Narrow Gate,\\" she left the convent, and the struggle really began. Armstrong describes herself as caught in between, in a sort of no-man's land, having lost the vision of God she pursued for so long, but ill at ease in the secular world. She also suffers from deep depression, loss of memory, and hallucinations, which years of psychiatric treatment fail to cure. It is a measure of her misery during this period that a diagnosis of epilepsy is a liberating turning point for her.  <br /> <br />Armstrong's long and tortuous path towards a life as an author includes a failed doctoral thesis, being fired from a teaching job, and a failed TV project on the Crusades. But \\"Through the Narrow Gate\\" was a surprising success, and \\"The History of God\\" established her as a popular (meaning non-scholarly, but serious) writer on Christianity, Judiasm and Islam.  <br /> <br />As honest as Armstrong's account of her struggle is, it's not all here. She dismisses her apparently limited experience with men in a terse paragraph, viewing any such involvement as a loss of freedom. And her view of Christianity is, perhaps understandably, quite negative, her view of Islam perhaps overly positive, as she downplays the fanatical, \\"jihad\\" aspects that have marred Islam in modern times. <br /> <br />Armstrong's story is an important one, spanning four turbulent decades in the history of modern religion. Read \\"Through the Narrow Gate\\" first, then \\"Staircase.\\" They're well-worth your time.	2005-04-04
US	52744964	R1Z3X4T5MSJN32	0131439103	255615916	NorthStar High Intermediate Listening and Speaking, Second Edition (Student Book with Audio CD)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An excellent up-to-date text	This book can form the basis for an excellent up-to-date American English speaking and listening course. There are 10 thematic chapters, on topics like natural disasters, American diets, the environment, etc. Each topic is examined through introductory readings, listening and speaking exercises. The accompanying CD is excellent--many of the exercises are authentic radio excerpts, clearly reproduced. Two or three grammar points are addressed in each unit, integrated into the topic. If you're CELTA-trained, you'll recognize many of the techniques. Good accompanying website too with extra material.	2005-04-01
US	52744964	R8666ELJB9HLT	0385721420	120680919	Three Junes	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The mystery of relationships	Julia Glass has managed an impressive debut in \\"Three Junes.\\" In three almost-self-contained novellas she dissects the many forms of love, each unique in its own mysterious way. In the first chapter, a widower wanders Greece on a tour, remembering his marriage, an outwardly happy one. We get tantalizing hints about Maureen, first through her husband's puzzled eyes, then much more clearly as we come to know her children. Can two people be married for so long and not know each other? In the second \\"June\\" the family re-unites for the funeral of their father, and we see two very different marriages, both puzzling to older brother Fenno, who is struggling with his own unique ways of loving. In the third chapter, the story comes full circle, as a character from Greece re-surfaces in a surprising way. <br />This isn't a plot driven book, which explains many of the poor reviews. It is beautifully written, with unique fully-developed characters and a fresh perspective on human love. But don't expect it to end wrapped up in a neat package. In fact, this is my one big criticism--perhaps an editor felt the book needed a little trick to keep the reader guessing, and so one races through the last chapter waiting for the \\"Six Degrees of Separation\\" to be revealed. But Glass leaves us hanging, in a false note that mars an otherwise genuine story.	2005-03-30
US	52744964	R1H1DHI732T6C8	0374527229	198259676	Ex Libris: Confessions of a Common Reader	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A kindred spirit	In Anne Fadiman's collection of essays, I met a kindred spirit, a fellow addict. As someone who recently had a panic attack upon boarding a plane and discovering I'd forgotten my book, I loved this collection of essays. Fadiman grew up in an intensely literary family, where words were the subject of discussion and games. Although my own family was hardly distinguished as Fadiman's was--and still is--I remember the hush that would descend Christmas morning, as each of my siblings and I would retreat to quiet corners of our tiny house to devour the book we'd gotten as a gift that day. Fadiman tells wonderful stories of combining book collections with a spouse for the first time, the inability to ignore typos, the tactile pleasure of a new book, the joys of exploring a used bookstore. I'm always amazed when someone says they don't like to read--it's like saying you don't like to eat! If you have a friend who feels that way about books, give him or her this one--they'll love it!	2005-03-28
US	52744964	R2WYXMOVFO6IE5	0385480016	980380074	Bird by Bird: Some Instructions on Writing and Life	Books	2	22	42	N	N	Self-indulgent, self-absorbed	This isn't a book about writing, it's a book about Anne Lamott. And I guess you either love her or you don't--unfortunately I didn't. <br />Lamott is a minor writer of modern fiction, and a college teacher. There's a lot of good advice in here, although not too original--write what you know, write to write, do it every day, become a keen observer of life, take notes about everything, just get it down on paper and worry about how good it is later, etc. One would think that with some success would come some perspective, but that doesn't seem to be the case for Lamott. Her life is a roller coaster ride of ecstatic moments of real creativity, alternating with suicidal impulses when she blocks on writing a restaurant review. \\"Even after I'd been doing this for years, panic would set in. . .I'd write a couple of dreadfull sentences. . .It's over, I'd think. . I'm toast. . .I can get my old job back as a clerk-typist. . .I'd obsess about getting creamed by a car. . .people would read what I'd written and believe that the accident had really been a suicide. . \\" and so on. All this over a restaurant review? <br />These crises occur regularly, along with allusions to a drinking problem, crummy boyfriends, successful friends that Lamott hates, and so on. I wearied of it all after awhile, and she made writing sound like a most unappealing profession. I felt like saying \\"Grow up!\\"	2005-03-28
US	52744964	R3SXOY62AN35CP	0374528012	673004245	Cheri and the Last of Cheri	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Love born of illusion	\\"Cheir\\" and \\"The Last of Cheri\\" could only have been written by a Frenchwoman, one who understood the notion of \\"love\\" created out of passion, money, beauty and artifice. Cheri, himself son of a courtesan, was the lover of Lea, a beautiful, older, worldly wise woman, who achieved independence and wealth in a pre-WWI society where men normally held all the cards. With his mother's blessing, Cheri takes up with Lea for a passionate six years, but eventually marries and leaves her. Cheri realizes he can't leave her behind though, and Lea discovers she's done the unpardonable--allowed herself to love. At the end of \\"Cheri\\" he returns, for one more night, but reality and age intrude in the morning, and in an excrutiating scene Cheri leaves again, this time for good. <br />Or maybe not, because the war, his marriage, the modern age, aren't enough to break the hold Lea has on his heart--but of course it's an illusion, there's no turning back. Life moves on, but Cheri remains mired in his youth, protected by money from having to move on. Cheri's life ends as he stares at a wall of pictures of Lea, a Lea who disappeared long ago. <br />Almost 100 years later, it's an image of love, of women, of aging, that's hard to relate to. But Collette does a beautiful job of evoking the time and place, the peculiar French sensibility of courtly, unreal, illusory love.	2005-03-28
US	52744964	R1GMVOBSQ5UPL3	0385511809	740331338	Saturday: A novel	Books	4	6	10	N	N	A return to earlier themes	Ian McEwan is one of the most compelling writers around, and I picked up \\"Saturday\\" eagerly, in anticipation of a new, fresh, exciting experience. And at first I wasn't disappointed. McEwan writes some of the finest first chapters I've ever read anywhere. No one who's read \\"Enduring Love\\" will ever forget the completely gripping ballooning accident of the first chapter, or the excrutiating description of the kidnapping of a child in the first chapter of \\"Child in Time.\\"  \\"Saturday\\" opens in the pre-dawn hours, when Henry, a highly succesful and respected neurosurgeon, goes to his window and by chance witnesses the emergency landing of an airplane at nearby Heathrow. McEwan does a wonderful job of evoking the mystery of the hour, the underlying anxiety of the post-9/11 era, and the eeriness of the experience. But the aura is lost as the day begins, and McEwan returns to the \\"crazy man invades life of normal family\\" theme. Henry is involved in an accident, and uses his medical knowledge to out-psych the other driver and escape physical attack. Henry's subsequent agonizing over whether this was ethical was wearying, especially in light of the book's ending. I won't ruin it for you, but it was inconceivable that any physician would do what Henry did at the end of that Saturday. The themes seemed lame--life can change in a moment, comfort and security are illusions easily stripped away, life is fragile. <br />\\"Atonement\\" was a breakthrough for McEwan, a completely new set of themes and subjects for him, and I expected great things after that. I was disappointed to see a return to well-trod ground. It pains me to give this book a only a 4--it's masterfully written and plotted--but McEwan is capable of so much more.	2005-03-24
US	52744964	R3F6X1MKXGHG0Z	0618509283	528177434	The Plot Against America: A Novel	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Yes, it could happen here. . .	Roth's latest kept my book club talking for a couple of hours--no mean feat! This novel is notable for a lot of reasons. Much as Gore Vidal does, Roth weaves the story of his fictional characters--the Roth family of northern New Jersey--into the real events of the early 1940's, the ambivalence of the American public about the war, and the very real fascist movement in the US. With the benefit of 60 years hindsight, it's easy to lose sight of the fact that maybe things weren't as black and white as they seem to us to be today.  <br /> <br />Roth tells his story through the eys of a 9 year old boy, who is as engrossed in his stamp collection and school as he is in what's going on around him. The events that unfold are even more frightening given the helplessness of the young Philip to do anything about them. I also thought the portrait of cousin Alvin particularly painful. Alvin goes off to war in a burst of idealism after the US refuses to become involved, and promptly loses a leg. He returns home bitterly angry, depressed, with no life ahead of him. It would be nice if Alvin got it together and ended up a heroic figure, but the reality is often not as pretty. As in the \\"Human Stain,\\" Roth shows great sensitivity to and understanding of the soldier home from the war. <br /> <br />Scariest of all, though, is the way the anti-Semitic elements in the country take hold of the machinery of government and business. The notorious Henry Ford joins the cabinet. Some Jews are co-opted, including Mrs. Roth's sister and Philip's older brother Sandy. Some flee. Some stay and hope for the best as things get worse. But it's when private industry begins to cooperate, by transferring people away from the northeast to other parts of the country in an effort to integrate them, that the situation becomes desperate. Ideals can crumble--although not in the Roth's case--when parents are faced with not being able to feed the family. Could it happen again? Maybe. The legal protections are far greater now than they were back then, but legal remedies are expensive and slow, and Presidential power much greater. When we look back at the internment camps during WWII, the McCarthy era, the abuses of rights during the Vietnam war, the lesson is that we should always be cautious about giving up rights, no matter how rational the reason at the time. <br /> <br />Roth's writing is as wonderful as ever, and the plot gripping. Some may think the political message too heavy-handed, but the book club didn't think so. Whatever you think, you won't be bored.	2005-03-12
US	52744964	R2WDGY5G7Z9LRS	0452274427	705687248	In the Time of the Butterflies	Books	5	11	12	N	N	The sources of courage. . .	Julia Alvarez masterfully tells the story of the Mirabal sisters in the Dominican Republic during the reign of the dictator Trujillo in \\"Butterflies.\\" Alvarez follows the story of the Mirabal family from childhood to their brutal murder in 1960. Historically accurate but creatively retold, Alvarez answers a question that I've often wondered about--why do people become dissidents and risk all for a set of ideals? Where do they find the personal and physical courage to do what they do? <br />The sisters' story suggests that it's a personal decision in every case, sometimes an eagerly embraced choice, sometimes a consequence of personal ties. For Minerva, a natural rebel, there was never a choice. For Patria, the traditional wife and mother, it suddenly becomes clear when her son joins the rebel movement. For Mate, she fell in love. For Dede, the distractions of an unhappy marriage and failed business ventures kept her out of harm's way.  <br />Alvarez allows each sister to tell her story in her own voice, and allows all the doubt, fear and uncertainty to emerge. These women are only human like everyone else. Their deaths turned them into the saints they never were in real life. But what they dared to do becomes even more amazing once we understand who they really were. I'd highly recommend this book!	2005-03-09
US	52744964	R3761PEHGXNLPS	0375724818	696295159	The Golden Age: A Novel	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Always entertaining--this time with a modern twist	Gore Vidal is a quintessentially American writer, intensely focused on our history, character and future. This last of the \\"Narratives of Empire\\" takes the saga begun with \\"Burr\\" right into the 21st century. \\"The Golden Age\\" starts in the pre-WWII period, as the fictional Caroline Sanford returns to Washington to be swept up in the machinations of FDR leading the country into WWII. A good chunk of the book makes the case that FDR \\"knew\\" that the Japanese were about to attack, and Vidal argues that he sacrificed American lives to get us into the war, with the ultimate goal of turning American into THE superpower. WWII comes and goes, and the narrative quickly moves on to the post-war period, the naive bungling of Harry Truman, and the creation of the Communist \\"bogey-man\\" to keep the American public committed to remaining armed and tolerating a peacetime draft. Vidal suggests that with the collapse of the Soviet Union, perhaps the new \\"bogey-men\\" are the Islamic terrorists.  <br />Vidal has strong views, which readers may or may not agree with, but no matter--his semi-fictional renditions of American history are intelligent, amusing and well-written. I highly recommend ALL of the \\"Empire\\" series.	2005-03-09
US	52744964	R2MBATXGB8CMEM	0375725601	517121775	The Devil in the White City: Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	3	2	5	N	N	I was disappointed!	I eagerly dove into this book, expecting something great based on the reviews, but ended up unimpressed. Larson takes two quite separate stories, the story of the Chicago Fair and that of the murderer Dr. Holmes, and tries to weave them together--but I remained unconvinced that the two were related. The World Fair certainly marked a turning point in American cultural history, which until then had been dominated by the East. Chicago made a daring, impossible bid to host the Exhibition, and against overwhelming odds, a ridiculous timetable, and engineering disasters, the Fair was a success. The details of how and where it was built, and the impact it had on Chcago, are indeed interesting.  <br />But perhaps Larson felt there wasn't enough of a story there. At the same time, there lived in Chicago a true psychopath, Dr. Holmes, who with his magnetic personality lured young women to his boardinghouse, where they were brutally murdered. I kept expecting there to be a link between the stories--for bodies to be found at the Fair, for Holmes to get a job there--but the link never materialized. The fair closes, and the focus of the story shifts radically to a dogged investigator who finally tracks Holmes down. Ultimately it's just a story of a madman who happened to be in Chicago during the Fair. I'd recommend this book to fans of Chicago, but it was a letdown otherwise.	2005-03-09
US	52744964	R1EQ4N3R60VW5M	0099459353	287960689	Living's the Strange Thing	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A wonderful writer!	Carmen Martin Gaite was totally new to me; I only discovered her work during a month-long stay in Spain. Billed as one of the most important female Spanish novelists of the 20th century, the reputation is well-deserved. Agueda is a woman in her 30's whose mother has died. The book takes place over a one-week period as she prepares to face her grandfather, living in a nursing home, unaware of the death of his daughter--or is he? In a series of flashbacks and inner journeys, Agueda is revealed as a woman very like her mother, but nevertheless estranged from her. A former writer of popular songs (NOT a rock singer as the book jacket suggests), Agueda is now a researcher and archivist. Her work on the story of the mad Vidal y Villalba, an 18th c. adventurer, becomes a metaphor for her discovery of the undercurrents of her own life.  <br />Perhaps the plot sounds familiar, but the insights were to me new and startling. My favorite scene occurs early in the book, when Agueda lunches with a professor who discovered the story of Vidal. They talk of life as a succession of choices, each choice narrowing the range of possibilities. \\"It was so impoverishing--he said--having to adhere so rigidly to what you'd chosen, rejecting anything else as merely an interesting possibility. . .our thirst for infinity banging against the bars of our cage. . .you go in one door and then there's only one corridor that gets darker and darker with doors at the end through which you must pass, ever narower and more imperious.\\" And yet the professor gives Agueda the gift of the Vidal story to follow. <br />Sounds a bit heavy but it's not. Agueda is a flesh and blood woman, struggling as all do with relationships, work and family. But with Gaite's gorgeous prose it all seems new and fresh and insightful. Highly recommended!	2005-03-09
US	52744964	R593SZ06GLF57	0007102011	707138887	Collins Cobuild English Dictionary for Advanced Learners: Major New Edition	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Endlessly fascinating!	I bought this book for my ESL teacher training course, but I'd recommend it to anyone interested in language and usage. Built up from a database of millions of examples of language in context, Collins Cobuild lists every usage of the most common words in English, both American and British, from slang to literary and formal usage. Much more than a mere dictionary, Collins Cobuild focuses on how the word is used in the real world. A great companion to a traditional dictionary.	2005-03-09
US	52744964	R2WZDVHSM7RXAL	0582403855	473975637	The Practice of English Language Teaching, 3rd Edition (Longman Handbooks for Language Teachers)	Books	3	28	33	N	N	Too theoretical to be useful. . .	Harmer was one of the two recommended texts for my CELTA English as a Second Language course. I found it heavy going, long on theory, short on practical advice for the new ESL teacher. I much prefer Scrivener, \\"Learning Teaching.\\" It's hard to find in the US, but worth the effort.	2005-03-09
US	52744964	R1BS5D9G4OUQXX	0345348109	227222206	The Killer Angels: The Classic Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Unique and Compelling	\\"Killer Angels\\" was recommended by voracious reader friend of mine as her favorite historical novel ever. Why not give it a try? I began reading, and quickly was immersed in the bios of famous officers from the North and South, maps of battlefields, and descriptions of movements of troops. Military history? --definitely not my thing!  <br />But I stuck with it--and I'm very glad! Shaara recreates the battle of Gettysburg in a way that made me understand the Civil War as I'd never understood it before. What were these men really fighting for? Slavery plays a minor role in Shaara's re-telling--the North and South were fighting a war of ideas, a war between the old Europe and the new, a battle to preserve a way of life, a set of ideals. Yes, we've heard that before, but never was it so personal, so real. I'd highly recommend this book to students of American history and fiction lovers alike--it's well worth your time.	2005-03-09
US	52744964	R1USZ2PLZYIVJ0	0195219864	117438870	Atlas of the World	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Maps and so much more. . . .	As an avid traveler, I've missed having a good set of world maps, and this book more than met my expectations. The maps are clear, readable and up-to-date. But there's so much more here--the \\"Images of Earth\\" from outer space are truly breathtaking. The \\"Introduction to World Geography\\" is misnamed. In 50 or so beautifully laid out pages, all the statistical information you'd ever need to know about our world is beautifully laid out in maps, graphs and charts--everything from wealth to health to population to natural resources to climate to migration patterns and more. A gazetteer of nations contains thumbnail descriptions of countries with key facts available at a glance. This is the kind of book a bright child will pour over for hours, and remember forever.	2004-12-22
US	52744964	RZWT8CQLTV648	0764504525	497230280	Microsoft Office 2000 For Windows For Dummies	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Really for "Dummies"	As others have said, this book is very very basic--perhaps because it attempts to cover all the components of the Office 2000 suite in less than 500 pages. If you have even basic familiarity with the program you're using, it won't be much help. For example, I turned to this book to see if I could discover some of the more sophisticated features of Outlook email, and was disappointed. It's pitched to the \\"how to send a message\\" crowd. But, I also am trying Excel for the first time, and it helped a lot just to be able to easily find how to enter a basic formula. Bottom line is, once you start using a program regularly you'll graduate from this manual pretty quickly.	2004-12-02
US	52744964	R2EGUTV1OOQ4P2	0374281580	481407616	I Am Charlotte Simmons: A Novel	Books	4	4	6	N	N	The most important book about youth in a generation?	I hope not! <br />\\"Charlotte Simmons\\" is a deeply disturbing book. A pretty, very smart, and incredibly naive college freshman arrives at Yale/Harvard/Princeton, looking for the \\"life of the mind,\\" carrying with her the hopes and dreams of her poor, Appalachian, North Carolina town. What she finds is chaos. <br /> <br />At first Charlotte holds herself aloof, focusing on her studies, isolated from everyone around her, feeling hopelessly nerd-like. She soon hooks up with two friends who cautiously explore the revelry going on around them, and soon Charlotte attracts the attention of three seniors, a frat boy, a basketball player, and an intellectual, all of whom lust after her from the minute they meet her. Charlotte makes a bad choice, undergoes the inevitable deflowering, and sinks into a hole so deep we wonder at first if she'll ever emerge. She does, and Wolfe gives us a superficially \\"happy\\" but totally unrealistic ending. Is Wolfe telling us it's hopeless to try to be different? <br /> <br />Wolfe's books are always over the top. Can anyone really be as gross and crude as the frat boy Hoyt? As obnoxious as the roommate Beverly? As fumbly-bumbly as the good guy basketball player JoJo? As sheltered as Charlotte? Probably not. But there's enough truth in the stereotypes to give one pause. <br /> <br />Wolfe paints a college scene that's largely out of control. Alcohol flows as freely as OJ, and in one particularly nasty scene a drunken Hoyt comes on to a female investment banker who's on campus interviewing students for jobs. Video games and ESPN seem to account for 18 hours or so of every day, the rest being spent sleeping off binges. The age-old divisions between the cool few and uncool masses are so extreme that the few literally trample on the rest.  <br /> <br />But most disturbing to me was the issue of sexuality. Sexual freedom for women seems to have turned into a weapon that men use to degrade them. Basketball players joke about sleeping with women whosenames they don't know(sleeping in the euphemistic sense only--encounters of half an hour seem more the rule). \\"Hooking up\\" is the goal--the old-fashioned date seems to have gone the way of vinyl records. There's barely a positive male-female relationship in the entire 700+ pages.  <br /> <br />So why the 4 stars? Wolfe writes masterfully as always, and some of his set pieces stand on their own as incredibly vivid and riveting. One reads the story of the frat formal in Washington DC with dread as it moves towards its inevitable conclusion. Wolfe's description of what it feels like to play big college basketball is awe-inspiring. And his description of the \\"black-white\\" thing in college sports is incisive. The bits on language are priceless--I never knew there were so many meanings for the words \\"sh%t\\" and \\"fu*#.\\" By the way, if you are offended by such language do not waste your money on this book, because each appears thousands of times. <br /> <br />There's been a great deal written about how much research Wolfe did to write this book, and on the other hand, many say he doesn't know what he's talking about. But even if only a meaningful segment of the \\"privileged elite\\" spend four years like this, there's a big problem. Those of us who came of age in the 70's and 80's pride ourselves on being pretty sophisticated about stuff like this, but Wolfe's characters take promiscuity, drinking, drugs and so-called freedom to new heights. Let's hope he doesn't know what he's talking about!	2004-11-29
US	52744964	RRC4UB4THP17X	0609609742	303660294	Lucrezia Borgia: A Novel	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A creative re-telling	Lucrezia Borgia is one of those historical characters about whom so little is known, historians and novelists can take lots of poetic license. Lucrezia was the daughter of Rodrigo Borgia and his mistress; when Rodrigo was elected Pope the mistress was banished but Lucrezia and her golden brother Cesare were installed at the Papal court. Italy at the time was a muddle of warring city states and shifting alliances, and the Pope was no different from any other powerful ruler of the time, except that he had the power of of forgiveness of sins and excommunication. Now known as Alexander VI, the Borgia pope did not hesitate to use all means at his disposal--spiritual threats, Papal wealth, his children--to engage in a constant struggle to extend his realm. Whether Lucrezia was an active participant or a mere pawn in this exercise has been a subject of fierce debate, but Faunce takes the more sympathetic view. His Lucrezia is beautiful and smart, but her fatal flaw is her inability to disentangle herself emotionally from her brother and father. Given many chances to kill her evil brother, each time she hesitates; she refuses to acknowledge the obvious about her father, that he is the mastermind behind his son's barbaric exploits. Faunce's Lucrezia struggles to understand God's will in the midst of the bloody turmoil of Italy at the time. <br />Faunce freely plays with historical facts to create a blameless Lucrezia--she is faithful to her husbands, even loving two of the three of them; she murders only at the direction of her father; she is innocent of charges of incest. The one time she kills with intent, Faunce makes us feel it is totally justified. <br />I found this book fascinating in its historical detail, its picture of an unbelievably cruel and bloody world, in its portrait of the papacy. But the book also has an overwrought quality--the constant references to the Greek and Roman classics, allusions to ancient philosophers, footnotes that do little to clarify a thought. And the tortured vocabulary and sentence structure at times just get in the way. But the novel--and but for the barebones names and dates, pure fiction it is--is entertaining and a fast read.	2004-11-20
US	52744964	R1FUD3ILH7JX39	0743272935	412606618	The Good Earth (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Universal Story	Buck's classic story of a China that no longer exists has won new popularity as an Oprah book, but that shouldn't detract from its universal appeal. This is the story of Wang Lung, a simple farmer in the China of the early 20th century, when the political and international conflicts that wracked this country for so many years were barely on the horizon. This is a China where women are referred to as slaves and are sold off to raise money when the family could not be fed, where drought devastates villages every six or seven years, where land is worked by hand and modern methods of agriculture are unknown. Wang Lung takes O-lan, a house slave, as a wife, and although she rarely speaks she quietly engineers the survival of the family through a terrible famine, and provides the means for Wang Lung to begin acquiring land.<br /><br />The story is an age-old one, of a family that survives terrible crises intact but as times change and wealth grows, old values weaken and money breeds disatisfaction. Drugs, women, and corruption all take their toll, but do not prevail as long as the land is secure. But by the end we know the old way of life is dead, and if Wang Lung's sons don't destroy what their father has built we know the coming wars will.<br /><br />Buck's story is simply and beautifully written. This same story written today would be more complex--perhaps we'd get a glimpse of secret rebellion in O-lan's heart, or more of a sense of the wider political landscape. At times \\"the simple life\\" is idealized in a way modern readers no longer find credible. But this novel remains a classic, and its new popularity well-deserved.	2004-11-16
US	52744964	RJ1NIR6L63OF0	140004281X	449937415	Runaway	Books	5	66	73	N	N	Through the prism of time. . .	Alice Munro's newest collection of short stories is about time, how small events change lives, and how different those events look as time passes. Several of the stories span the lifetimes of the characters, focusing on one event that changes things forever.  <br />Take \\"Chance,\\" \\"Soon\\" and \\"Silence,\\" a trio of stories about Juliet, a young woman whose choices about who to speak to on a train change her life forever. Munro masterfully picks three incidents, the train ride, a visit home, and a search for a daughter, and through them tells the story of Juliet's life. I found it sad to see how the great passion of the first story ends in an accident by the third. Or \\"Tricks,\\" perhaps the most painful story in the collection. The story opens with Robin saying the most banal thing one could imagine, \\"I'll die if that dress isn't ready.\\" Then we learn why, and when Munro repeats the line again we see it's fraught with meaning. We learn of a chance meeting that offers a promise that's snatched away a year later; only at the end of her life does Robin learn what really happened.  <br />Suicides, lost souls and disappointments thread through these stories. Munro's world is a lost and lonely place, and be forewarned--none of these stories promises a happy ending. But they're beautifully written and struck a chord--don't we all recall brief, seemingly trivial moments years later and wonder what if?	2004-11-16
US	52744964	R32BF15KIOQFP2	1740593669	832579928	Lonely Planet Sacred India	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Overview with gorgeous photos	India is a place where you'll miss A LOT if you don't have some understanding of the religious traditions. This lovely book covers the great religions--Hinduism, Zoroastrianism, Buddhism, etc.--with an admittedly broad brush, but it's enough to give you a taste of what you'll see and hopefully whet your appetite for more. Not quite a coffee table book, not really a guide book--but Lonely Planet generally does a good job of conveying  culture as well as travel facts. Would also make a nice gift.	2004-11-08
US	52744964	RQJKOGAL89RXQ	0374166447	82302003	The Great Fire: A Novel	Books	5	9	11	N	N	The style can be annoying at times, but. . .	I loved this book, much more so than \\"Transit of Venus.\\" Set in post-war Asia, \\"Great Fire\\" focuses on the end of war, not the gory aftermath of Hiroshima, but the more subtle effects on the victors, in this case the British. Leith and his friends wander Asia looking for the end of the war and not quite finding it. For them the end is not V-J Day, a triumphant return home, a house in the suburbs. It's been too long, too wrenching. Rather, for Leith it's finding love in an unlikely place, with the teenage Helen. Yes, Helen seems one-dimensional and almost too good to be true, but Leith's tortured soul more than makes up for it--and I could easily see how two sensitive, isolated siblings could build the relationship she and her brother had.  <br />Hazzard's style is a little obscure in places and I'll admit once or twice to just skippping something I didn't get on the second re-reading. But the plot and characterizations more than made up for it. And I liked the ending--Hazzard allows herself to satisfy us without falling into sentimentality. A good read!	2004-11-08
US	52744964	R2I5IKGKGGTBIA	0786868716	891971809	The Five People You Meet In Heaven	Books	4	2	4	N	N	I Know It's a Huge Bestseller,  but. . . .	. . . I just wish it weren't so superficial. \\"Five People\\" is well-written and you're hooked early on by wanting to know the outcome of the situation in which Eddie dies. And there's a neat twist to the war story. But I balked at the message--yes, we all have a chance to make a difference, but there are people who live hard and sad lives, like Eddie, and to make it all \\"OK\\" by this vision of heaven left me cold. Isn't it all more complicated than this? I think my Mom would like this book.	2004-11-08
US	52744964	R315EH4FU3TQKQ	1400060737	595261029	The Birth of Venus	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Lusty Historical Fiction	Set in 15th century Florence, this book has it all--love, lust, intrigue, art, war, mystery, religion--you name it. Allesandra is a young woman all but locked up in her wealthy home, as was the custom of the time. She's wilful, stubborn, not pretty, can't dance, and is a constant source of exasperation to her mother, who has an ambivalent attitude towards her for reasons we discover only late in the book. She longs to be a painter, an unsuitable occupation for a young woman. Allesandra rather predictably seeks out the new painter who arrives from the north to paint the family chapel, and perhaps also predictably falls in love. But war is brewing, and she is married off ostensibly to protect her from the coming invaders. As it turns out the marriage is an unexpected and cruel betrayal by her brother, and her story starts to take unexpected and unusual turns.  <br />I loved the details of daily life--was anyone else surprised to discover that slavery existed at this time in Florence? And the Savonarola episode is at once mystifying and chillingly familiar. If you like historical fiction I'd highly recommend this book.	2004-11-08
US	52744964	R3VQJ22834TPEA	0679735879	628163864	The Unconsoled	Books	3	4	8	N	N	I couldn't get through it. . . .	As one Amazon reviewer said, this book is like the nightmare you can't rouse yourself from. Ryder, the principal character, arrives in a town he recognizes--or maybe doesn't--for an event he can't quite recall having committed to. He meets the butler in the hotel, who is also his father-in-law--or at least the father of the woman who may or may not be his wife. This pattern is repeated over and over, as Ryder constantly finds himself praised for doing nothing, or criticized for breaking commitments he doesn't know he's made. Ishiguro creates an atmosphere of anxiety by drawing on the standard stuff of common dreams--showing up at a public event in pajamas, or driving endlessly along dark roads only to end up where one started.  <br />\\"When We Were Orphans\\" had this same surreal quality, but it built up over time until with a start the reader realizes he or she is really in the middle of a nightmare; that novel was also firmly grounded--at least at first--in a time and place. In \\"Unconsoled\\" the gloom never lifts. <br />Readers here praise Ishiguro's portrait of modern man, but it's far too bleak for me. Love and happiness are real, even in the 21st century, but not in Ryder's world. Stylistically the book is compelling, but the story was too tough for me.	2004-11-01
US	52744964	R2HDL4F6V9REMA	1931561648	798265328	The Time Traveler's Wife	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Unputdownable!	I loved this good old-fashioned love story with a futuristic twist. Henry and Clare are lovers for life in a world where time switches, bends back on itself or fast forwards at dizzying speeds. Henry is a time traveler who is apt to appear and disappear at a moment's notice, with no ability to take the necessities of life, mainly clothing and money, with him. Henry meets Clare when she is six and he's in his late 30's or early 40's--he knows their \\"future\\" but she doesn't. The story of how she falls in love and discovers sexuality as a young woman was sensitively handled and their passion for one another moving. Throughout the reader is intrigued by the twist to the whole thing, and I'm not quite sure I ever grasped how two \\"Henry's\\" could exist at the same time, but it was fun to try to keep straight their ages at each encounter, what had happened and what was to come.<br /><br />Midway through we briefly read a scene which foreshadows the end, and indeed it's a miracle Henry survives as long as he does when you consider escapades like arriving naked and penniless in the dead of winter in an underground parking garage in Chicago. The end was scary and sad, but we're left with hope that science can unlock the mystery for other travelers.<br /><br />This is a wonderful book, well-written with an original twist, and worth your time.	2004-10-30
US	52744964	R1K2E7FEXV1L50	0345449347	990748107	The Fourth Hand	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Vintage Irving	Although not his best, \\"The Fourth Hand\\" doesn't disappoint--Irving rarely does. Irving has a gift for taking bizarre incidents--in this case a reporter's loss of a hand at a circus in India and medical advances in transplanting limbs--and turning them into an unlikely love story and social commentary. Patrick Wallingford is a very handsome but shallow person who lives in the media world's fast lane, working for the all-news \\"disaster channel.\\" Irving roasts the media mercilessly, its focus on accidents and personal tragedy, the unwillingness to develop a thoughtful story, the cut-throat environment. Ironically, Patrick is more successful as a one-handed rather than a two-handed news anchor, but comes to see that there's more to life than choosing successive girlfriends from the news room crew. There's also a great story line involving the Green Bay Packers. We've come to know and love Irving, and his bizarre story twists don't shock us the way they did when \\"Garp\\" was first published, but I liked this book. Well-written as always and as imaginative as ever, it's worth your time.	2004-10-30
US	52744964	R2RTGXF2XL11QY	1400061849	714772964	Father Joe: The Man Who Saved My Soul	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Transcends the Controversy	Although Tony Hendra takes a lot of airtime for himself in this book, Fr. Joe is the real star. Discovered in a relationship with a married woman as a young teen, Hendra is hauled off to a monastery on the Isle of Wight to see Fr. Joe. The irate husband didn't really do this to save Hendra's soul, I didn't think, but hoped Hendra would be given a good scare. But Hendra suggests that the one who got the talking to was the husband, who had condemned his wife to an austere existence where affection and love had little place.   <br />In any event Hendra develops a life-long relationship with Fr. Joe, who accepts him as he is, first as a naive teenager who wants to be a monk, then as a cynical young man who is entranced by satire, then as an adult who's wasting himself in the fast lane, then once more as a man who wants to return to the monastery. Throughout Fr. Joe gently guides souls with a few questions--is what you're doing helpful or hurtful? does it really make you happy? are you being kind to the other person? Hendra's activities often fail these simple tests, but Fr. Joe's real genius is that he doesn't judge. <br />There's been much controversy about Hendra's relationship with his kids, but no one reading this book could picture him as a loving father. He has little to say about their mother, and gave little thought to fatherhood--the first child was conceived in ignorance, but the second? He never mentions seeing them, loving them, thinking of them. No surprise there. <br />Hendra's not a good guy, but surprisingly that didn't ruin the book for me. Fr. Joe had two little secrets--love and acceptance. There are Fr. Joe's in every religion and culture--too few unfortunately--but the message is always the same.  <br />	2004-10-30
US	52744964	R1Y8LLR8XV3V51	0618340696	954406690	Red Poppies: A Novel of Tibet	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Feudal Tibet	Anyone who thinks of Tibet as a land of peaceful Buddhists will be in for a surprise on opening this book. The story is of a powerful clan in eastern Tibet on the eve of the Chinese revolution. Theirs is a life unchanged in hundreds of years, a life of autocratic rule supported by slaves and soldiers, enforced by torture and summary executions. Women are commodities with no control over their futures. Constant fights over territory and intrigue among the clans occupies the oldest son and heir to the chieftan. The only one who senses that life is changing is the \\"idiot\\" second son, who builds the clan's fortunes not on constant wars for territory but trade. The Chinese introduce the poppy to Tibet, and lured by promises of fantastic wealth all the clans plant nothing but poppies; when famine hits the canny \\"idiot\\" second son dominates all the other families by having been the only one who planted grain. <br /> <br />The book is written by a Chinese and has a lyrical, surreal quality not often found in Western literature. Timelines are murky, and a sense of impending doom slowly builds with stray references to a war in far-off China. The references to Lhasa and Tibetan Buddhism are interesting--a monk from the west arrives to spread the \\"new teachings\\" but leaves when his efforts are met with indifference. We are reminded that although Tibet was not part of China in a formal sense their historical relationship was much stronger than with other surrounding countries, such as India. <br /> <br />We know the sad end of the story--such a primitive society was powerless to resist the invading Chinese. That such a society could have existed a mere 60 or 70 years ago is incredible and fascinating.	2004-10-27
US	52744964	R1CUFFFOTQTZXN	0874778883	651232010	Seven Years in Tibet	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Incredible Adventure	I'm always intrigued by adventure stories of this kind from the 19th or early 20th century. Europeans of the time were an amazing lot, venturing into the unknown with little but their wits about them, under conditions unimaginable today. Heinrich Harrer's story of his capture at the outset of WWII, his daring escape from a prison camp, and his journey into the forbidden land of Tibet makes for exciting reading. I picked up this book mostly because I am fascinated by the present Dalai Lama, and hoped that I'd get more insight into Harrer's relationship with him than I did from the movie, but on this score I was a bit disappointed. Harrer is not a writer, and his businesslike prose didn't quite convey the magic of this encounter the way the movie did. But otherwise, the details of life in pre-1950 Tibet were fascinating. Tibet was an isolated land untouched by the modern world, with hardly a prayer of resisting the powerful Chinese. This poor country simply became a pawn in the post-war power struggle--the Chinese needed to protect their borders, and used the pretext of a long historical relationship, particularly with the eastern part of the country, to annex the entire territory. A sad ending to a great tale.	2004-10-27
US	52744964	R3BVMCA8C9FS7P	0375414576	786383328	My Life	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Not the last we'll hear from him. . . .	MY LIFE is well-written, funny, thoughtful, and will provide grist for the mills of historians for years to come. Clinton's 900+ page autobiography won't be the last we hear from him on the subject of his presidency, I think. He wrote this one quickly, we've heard, and although very well done, it's more a chronology than an analysis of his presidency.  <br /> <br />By far the best part of the book is the first 150 pages or so, where he chronicles his early life and the very beginnings of his political career. With the passage of time and the benefit of hindsight, I found Clinton very frank about the problems of his childhood and the botch he made of his first term as governor of Arkansas. I found he had an attractive, self-deprecating sense of humor about the early years which faded a bit when he gets to the meat of his eight years as president.  <br /> <br />At times the book slides into a month by month recitation of what he was working on, and here is where I wished his editors had been a bit tougher on him. But if you keep plodding along, fascinating portraits emerge of world leaders, such as Arafat, Rabin, and Blair, and the drama of the peace processes in the Middle East and Ireland seems very real. I kept thinking how hard it was to imagine the current occupant of the White House engaged in the sort of high stakes complicated negotiations Clinton led. And Clinton's command over the political process, and the distinctions he makes between good policy and good politics, make great reading. <br /> <br />Don't expect any juicy revelations about his marriage, Monica or the impeachment debacle. Both he and Hillary point to allowing the appointment of a special prosecutor as the biggest mistake they made and it's easy to see why. Clinton also has little to say about the 2000 election, Gore or Bush. It's way too soon to know how it's all going to turn out. <br /> <br />I also read LIVING HISTORY by Hillary, and the two Clintons present an interesting contrast. Both are consummate politicians, have little interest in money, and are very very smart. But Hillary takes herself a lot more seriously than Bill does, which makes him a much more appealing character. But maybe it's just that he's already captured the big prize, and she has yet to try. There's a lot more to come. . . .	2004-09-21
US	52744964	R1TBS3CVBYGGXZ	0789483955	652748585	India (Eyewitness Travel Guides)	Books	5	48	49	N	N	What more can I say?	This book is a guidebook only in the broadest sense of the term. In 800 hefty, glossy, photo-filled pages you will find everything you need to know as a Westerner to make a trip to India an amazing experience.History, culture, art, religion, architecture, food--for every region!--are all covered, accompanied by lavish photos,drawings and maps. There's a cursory section in the back listing hotels and restaurants that's already outdated, but there are othere more mundane guides for that sort of thing, not to mention the internet. I wouldn't even consider hauling this book with me on a trip, though--too heavy, and it would be ruined. It's worth it to copy the pages for the areas you'll be visiting, and keep this book on your travel treasures shelf.	2004-09-09
US	52744964	R2D37IMC5WSPBA	0439443377	840065446	Alphabet Mystery	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Beautiful illustrations, plot a bit mystifying	My 3 1/2 year old nephew loves this book. Little \\"x\\" is missing, and his alphabet friends fly off on a pencil to find him. X feels neglected in the real world, and he has found a home playing the xylophone for the \\"M\\" master. X's alphabet friends convince him to come home where he becomes the \\"X\\" kisses on mother's birthday cake. I'm pretty sure that most of this went right over my nephew's head, but he loves the bright colors, knew \\"X\\" was the missing letter, and enjoyed counting the kisses at the end. And and we both loved the illustrations!	2004-08-14
US	52744964	R7J3L6PR3488L	0152018484	96444696	How I Became a Pirate	Books	5	17	18	N	N	A winner!	\\"How I became a Pirate\\" is one of those great kids' books that appeals to a much wider range of ages than the publisher suggests. His parents distracted by grown-up chores, Jeremy takes off with a band of pirates on a fantastic journey that in \\"real time\\" lasts less than a day. Along the way we learn pirates don't brush their teeth or eat vegetables--cool! But they also don't pay attention to the soothing bedtime rituals that this book will quickly become part of in your own home. Jeremy thinks better of his new career and goes home, along the way making sure the pirates return some day. The illustrations in this book are fantastic, with loads of little details and jokes that make it fresh each time--which is a good thing because your kids will demand multiple re-readings. It's well-worth investing in this one!	2004-08-14
US	52744964	R6NGAFPCI1I7Z	1594480001	659516630	The Kite Runner	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A stunning debut	Readers of &quot;The Kite Runner&quot; should consider themselves twice-blessed--to read a wonderful work of fiction is always a treat, but to find your understanding of the world deeper when you're done is a bonus. On the surface, at first the story is a familiar one--two boys from vastly different backgrounds become best friends, bridging the gap in a way sometimes only children can. Hassan will do anything for Amir, the son of his master, and ironically it is Hassan's help in a kite competition which Amir feels he must win to earn the love of his father that leads to a rift between the boys that never heals. Amir betrays his friend in a stunning act of cowardice, failing even to call for help when Hassan is brutally attacked by other boys, and then rejects Hassan because he can't bear to face the evidence of his own betrayal.  <br />  <br /> But soon the personal tragedy is overshadowed by the war with the Soviets and the takeover by the Taliban. This lovely society is destroyed, and Amir and his father escape to the US, where this once proud businessman, having lost everything, takes on menial work and slowly declines. Amir builds a new life for himself, meets a woman, and tries to bury the past, but he's unsuccessful, and must return to Afghanistan. There he learns the true story of Hassan and his father, and tries to redeeem himself. <br />  <br /> Today we tend to think of Afghanistan as a confused, remote barren land, where American soldiers fight a war that's been overshadowed by Iraq. This wonderful book shows us something more--a beautiful land, a thriving culture, real people living real lives that have been destroyed forever. Sometimes we forget that, and this wonderful novel is worth reading so we are reminded.	2004-08-02
US	52744964	R26D4VPSNYT9LS	189298900X	855270221	The Morning Meeting Book (Strategies for Teachers Series)	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Much more than &quot;Morning Meetings&quot;	This excellent book was a great resource for me on a recent trip to China where I taught ESL. As an ex-lawyer with little teaching experience I found it invaluable for many things--the importance of greeting each child by name, making sure the students know each others' names, ideas for quick interactive games to pick up the pace. There's a lot of material I found a little theoretical and not helpful for my specific needs, like the chapter on the &quot;Circle of Power and Respect.&quot; But the appendices are chock full of concrete ideas for the classroom. The many illustrations of charts for the news and other exercises were clear and very helpful in envisioning exactly how to execute an idea. This book was recommended by the sponsor of the ESL program I participated in, and I found it well worth the money.	2004-07-31
US	52744964	R2KWDFTCJOFYPV	0439153913	971147612	ESL Activities and Mini-Books for Every Classroom	Books	5	68	69	N	N	Invaluable resourse	I recently taught ESL in China for a few weeks and found this book incredibly useful. Although marketed as being for grades 1-4, I found this book helpful for even high school students--it depends more on the level of language proficiency than anything else. For example, I used the &quot;parts of the body&quot; page to review what my students already knew, and then they filled in more complicated words such as thigh, shoulder, ankle, etc. The money page has very realistic drawings of the various coins, all of which were new to my students. The food pages were very helpful before moving on to more complicated lessons on ordering in a restaurant. A great book for a modest price!	2004-07-30
US	52744964	RQLJ07AYDG98X	0194351890	258553336	The Oxford Picture Dictionary: English-Chinese	Books	4	45	48	N	N	Good but limited	This is an easy to use picture dictionary organized around themes, such as homes, food, feelings, etc. The illustrations are clear and colorful. There are two big drawbacks, however, the first and biggest being that there is no pinyin used, so a Westerner has no idea whatsoever about how to pronounce the Chinese word, although phonetic spellings for the English words are listed in the index. The second is that the &quot;old style&quot; characters are used, not the simplified versions. This book is definitely for Chinese students learning English but of very limited use for English speakers wanting to learn Chinese. As an ESL teacher in China recently, I found I only used this book as a last resort, when explanations of various words proved impossible, and once when I was teaching a lesson on homes. This book is a useful supplement, but I'm going to try to find something with pinyin when I return to China to teach again.	2004-07-30
US	52744964	RHHBWOBP2YUNL	0835125335	444603662	I Can Read That: A Traveler's Introduction to Chinese Characters (English and Chinese Edition)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Bailed me out of a tight spot!	I recently went to China for a few weeks to teach English, and found that after a little bit of study with this book I could easily recognize the basic characters for such handy words as entrance, man, woman, Beijing, etc. But my work really paid off when a friend and I got lost on top of the Great Wall in a sea of Chinese people, none of whom spoke English (how one gets lost on top of a wall is another story altogether!). Anyway, I knew the characters for exit and after I sketched them out on a piece of paper a helpful man pointed us in the right direction. I really liked being able to interpret the otherwise undecipherable scribbles that are everywhere in China. This book was well worth the modest price.	2004-07-30
US	52744964	R2RVEGK3CIZVA6	0399151613	781983073	The Jane Austen Book Club	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Only for Austen fans	I'm an easy touch for a book club book, being an avid member of two groups, but reading this book is a little like showing up for the meeting unprepared--if you haven't read Austen recently, it's slow going. The book club here is a quirky, diverse group who don't seem to have a lot in common other than a love of Austen, which seems an unlikely interest for some of them. No surprise, the Austen discussions provide the vehicle for a slow revelation of the characters' lives. At the end, the narrator muses how they all began the year as single unattached people, and at the end all were working on a relationship of one sort or another. I'm sure there are lots of singles out there who would love to find a club that promised such results!<br />A much better example of the &quot;book club book&quot; is &quot;Reading Lolita in Teheran.&quot; It suffers from the same problem if you aren't familiar with the books being discussed, but the lives of the characters are far more interesting. And it's a true story. Try that one instead.	2004-06-29
US	52744964	RDY6HJ8OUGW7O	1558686150	886867144	China (Cultureshock China: A Survival Guide to Customs & Etiquette)	Books	2	31	32	N	N	Odd viewpoint for a Westerner	The \\"Culture Shock\\" series is well-established and usually helpful, but the choice of this author to write what must be one of their more popular titles is baffling. Some of the insights are helpful, such as the section on religion, what to expect when traveling, food, etc. But the editing is poor and there is much repetition and unnecessary discussion of how China used to be, not how it is today. I agree with others that there seems an unnecessary emphasis on sexual issues and prostitution, including some of the author's own experiences, and a weird comment to the effect that while he often is approached by women, he prefers to do the choosing himself. <br />Sinclair's personal political views are rather unusual and keep intruding. Sinclair is an unabashed admirer of the system, and he says that for the Chinese, all they have to do is obey the law and they'll be fine. I think in general Westerners are far too judgmental in criticizing other countries and cultures, but Sinclair takes this attitude to an extreme.  Again focusing on prostitution, he tells us that if arrested, pimps are hauled away and summarily executed--and this is perfectly OK with him! He maintains that religion is freely practiced, and when certain practices are suppressed, such as Falun Gong, it's justified based on the problems such cults have caused in the past. <br />There are better books out there, especially for the traveler who isn't taking up residence there. I wouldn't waste a lot of time on this one.	2004-06-29
US	52744964	R1W4T5WVUSM6MD	0316778508	744408823	The Dogs of Babel: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	I loved it!	Parkhurst's debut is a stunner, and I cried all the way on a flight home from Europe as I read it. Yes, the premise is weird--a linguistics professor tries to teach his dog to talk so he can unravel the mystery of his wife's death. Paul is a normal guy who married a lovely, passionate, but ultimately disturbed young woman, and the tale of their marriage and Lexy's struggle with her demons is romantic and painful at the same time. <br />Paul's own descent into isolation and craziness after Lexy's death is scary. His grief is so real, and the scene where he sends Lorelai, the dog, into a frenzy of searching when he cries &quot;Find Lexy&quot; is painful to read. Told from his point of view, Paul's actions seem almost logical, and it is only when Paul gets a rare visit from a friend and we see him through another's eyes do we realize how unbalanced he's become. Things take an unreal turn when Paul gets mixed up with a group of men who seem to be pursuing the same goal Paul is, and dog lovers will cringe at what happens to Lorelai. <br />Ultimately, this is a love story, and a wonderful one. I hope we hear from Parkhurst again soon.	2004-06-29
US	52744964	R2G2RQJ9B362T4	0316346624	226933679	The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Not sure it all hangs together	Gladwell's &quot;Tipping Point&quot; is a highly readable, laymen's explanation of a new theory of social organization. Gladwell starts off strong, with his theory of the three kinds of people who make things happen--the connectors (the ones who know EVERYBODY), the mavens (the friend you call about the newest and greatest electronic gadget) and the salesman (he wants to solve your problem!) We all know a few of these, and I found it interesting to think of friends and acquaintances who fit the bill. These are the people who create fads, who grease the wheels, who embody &quot;word of mouth.&quot; <br />Gladwell moves on to a fascinating discussion of trends, which I sum up for myself as &quot;all is not what it seems.&quot; Bottom line is the most logical solution to a problem--such as fight crime by putting more police on the streets--is not always what works. Gladwell's discussion of the sea change that occurred in NYC in the 90's, the success of Sesame Street and Blue's Clues, the fight against teenage smoking, are all fascinating.<br />BUT--I'm not sure I got a cohesive theiry of social change out of it all. Taken individually, the stories are thought-provoking. Taken as a whole I wonder--what does it all mean? But for a quick, fascinating read, try it.	2004-06-16
US	52744964	R1DT5WBFN1M6YS	0761104844	280019609	1,000 Places to See Before You Die: A Traveler's Life List	Books	4	8	8	N	N	For the passionate traveler on your gift list!	This is a wonderful book for fantasizing---the world is packed with fabulous things to see and do! The less adventuresome will use it as a handy reference to make sure they're not missing anything on a trip, while the seasoned traveler will no doubt go through it methodically and count up the number of places they've already seen. I've given this book twice already as a gift and will no doubt give it again and again. I was a little disappointed that so many fancy restaurants and hotels were listed, as experienced travelers know the true joy of travel is in the unexpected, and money is no guarantee. But that's a small quibble--it's a great book!	2004-05-28
US	52744964	R2PRZMY397502J	0156028778	990216712	The Crimson Petal and the White	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Big, Bold Potboiler!	\\"Cromson Petal\\" is a Victorian sprawl of a book, perfect for the beach, a long plane trip, or a quiet vacation. Richly imagined and carefully researched, it's a real page turner and a lot of fun.<br />Sugar is a 19 year old prostitute in London, famous for being willing to do anything, but she hooks her men as much by personality and brains as with her body. Faber has done an amazing job of recreating the London of the 1870's, from the dirt and grime of the slums, to the madams who run the houses, to the details of handling bed linen. He paints a highly stratified society, where the poor live lives of crime or factory drudgery, and the rich wander from meals to theatres to parties in an aimless search for novelty. Faber's details of dress, manners and accents are wonderful, and place this book several levels above the average period piece. I especially enjoyed the various characters' glimpses of the future--such as one character's feeling that the new \\"telephone\\" he's just read about would come in very handy in a tight spot he happened to be in, his efforts to mechanize his business, and the details of the ultra-modern hot water bath. These are fascinating insights into the period, without ever seeming forced or \\"stuck in\\" to fill a few pages.<br />Sugar hooks up with the son of a rich self-made man, who has yet to \\"find himself.\\" Rackham's desire to possess her drives him to apply himself to the family business, and with his new-found riches he installs her in a lovely suite of apartments. Faber's description of this transition, how odd and unreal it seems to Sugar, is masterful--he has the ability to get inside this woman's head in a realistic way. The arrangement doesn't last very long, and without giving it away, Sugar's growing feeling for Rackham and her suggestion to bring them closer is her undoing.<br />But there's so much more! The subplots involve the medical treatments of the day, debates over religion, the budding womens' movement, the role of charities, childrearing, class, and much more. And it's sexy too!<br />Some reviewers quarrel with the ending, and it is true that the novel doesn't \\"end\\" in a conventional way. We never find out what happens to Rackham's wife. We get tantalizing hints only of what happens to Rackham and his business. And Sugar's future, as she heads off to create a new and very different life at the ripe age of 20, remains a tantalizing mystery. But that shouldn't put you off--this is a highly readable, intelligent novel that I couldn't put down.	2004-05-25
US	52744964	R1S6AT3CVWZGB8	1841484369	142036509	Bear at Home (Bear Series)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Winner!	One of the cute \\"bear\\" series, in a sturdy board book. Perfect for the pre-reading child, we tour bear's brightly colored home, rhyming as we go. The floorplan at the end is cute, and it's fun to watch your child puzzle out which room is which--after all, we're looking at the rooms from above. A great, reasonably priced gift for the pre-reading child.	2004-05-25
US	52744964	R21HRZ50Z939R3	1841482870	318569051	Bear in a Square (A Barefoot Board Book)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Works on several levels	This is a great book for a pre-reader, up to age 4 or so. It teaches rhymes, shapes, colors and numbers, all in a sturdy board book illustrated with funny colorful pictures. Very cute!	2004-05-25
US	52744964	R3QLFFMPOQZMT1	1400030803	418092877	The Good Women of China: Hidden Voices	Books	5	35	38	N	N	&quot;Modern&quot; China	This startling collection of stories offers a remarkable insight into the lives of women in the country that threatens to become the most powerful in the world in the 21st century. Communism promised equality for all in China, but like all political systems it is no match for traditions and customs that have lasted for thousands of years. These stories painfully explore what happens when the modern and the traditional collide, crushing women in the middle.<br />Living in a culture where revealing the most personal aspects of our lives on TV is a daily occurance, it is hard to envision how revolutionary Xinran's radio show &quot;Words on the Night Breeze&quot; was in China. For the first time, women had an anonymous way to tell their stories to the world, and what spilled out was heartbreaking. There were stories of true disaster, like the mothers who suffered through a devastating earthquake and watched their families swallowed up whole. But these things happen in every country. Much more disturbing to me were the stories of arranged marriages by party officials--in this nation of &quot;comrades,&quot; a woman still has no choice but to stay with a husband who is lord and master, and treats her much as her female ancestors must have been treated long ago. Or the story of the young girl who is abused for years by her father--when her mother finds out about it she is told to put up with it to avoid angering him! Stories about the massive cruelties of the Cultural Revolution abound--I never cease being surprised and shocked at the pain this country visited on itself during the rule of Mao in the 1960's.<br />Surely things are changing, one asks. But after reading about the university student I wasn't so sure. Women in university are the cream of the crop. But Xinran is shocked to learn that many choose what sounds like a new twist on an ancient tradition--they become &quot;personal secretaries&quot; to high powered businessmen, some foreigners, who need help navigatingthe Chinese system. They are totally cynical and businesslike, and view these relationships as a way to earn money and security. Woe to the woman who falls in love with her boss, however--she is cut off as cleanly as a concubine might have been abandoned in ancient times. <br />This is a painful, sobering book. Progress and freedom are elusive concepts, and again and again after reading of other parts of the world, I realize how lucky Americans are that we got to &quot;start fresh&quot; a mere 200+ years ago. This is a wonderfully written book, well deserving of 5 stars.	2004-05-20
US	52744964	RS9Z99ZCJKAOW	0743222245	376327637	Living History	Books	4	9	13	N	N	The most controversial American woman of our time. . .	Reviews of \\"Living History\\" are all over the lot, just as people's opinions of this controversial woman. The book itself is a well-written, political autobiography of a woman whose political career is far from over, and therefore you'll find few revelations, and not much candid self-reflection. But there's a reason this was a surprise best-seller--Hillary is a smart, complex woman, who continues to shape American politics in a way her husband no longer does.<br />Hillary had modest, conservative, Midwestern roots, growing up in the Chicago area and starting her political life as a young republican. It seems clear that she was going places long before she met Bill Clinton--she knew Vernon Jordan before she met her future husband, and Wellesley and Yale are hardly run of the mill schools. But Bill clearly provided the platform for her to shine. Bill and Hillary are two totally political animals, and focussed on little else--lost in the publicity surrounding the purchase of the house in New York State after Bill left office was the fact that the Clintons had somehow neglected to acquire a home they could return to, and New York was as good a place as any, even if Hillary had not decided to run for senator. Money and material possessions seem not to hold a lot of atttraction for these two--but power is another story.<br />Hillary's first years in office were painful--she struggled to create a real job where none existed, and what worked in Arkansas didn't work nationwide--thus the health care fiasco. Smarting from that experience, she spent the next few years in a more traditional role, using her position to raise awareness of women's and children's issues. Then the scandals hit. She portrays herself and Bill as remarkably self-possessed throughout, and her analysis of the legalities of Whitewater, Travelgate and the impeachment are excellent--I had forgotten that she worked on the Nixon impeachment as a young lawyer and was something of an expert in the field. And critics--of which there are many--forget that the Clintons were exonerated of all wrongdoing. <br />Is this book something of a whitewash? Of course! Nothing is said of her famous temper, the Clintons' abandonment of friends when they got into hot water, Bill's crazy work habits. And it's easy to weary of her constant references to her prayer group and Eleanor Roosevelt. But this book is an intriguing look at life in the White House, and a glimpse, carefully controlled though it may be, into the mind of a woman we haven't heard the last of.	2004-05-20
US	52744964	RMQ2OJ3QQ1SQG	5553888387	369232061	The Dark Romance of Dian Fossey	Books	4	14	18	N	N	Not a typical scientist. . .	&quot;Dark Romance&quot; is a reporter's account of the life of Dian Fossey, an amazing woman with no scientific background or training, whose troubled early life provided no hint that she would become a ground breaking researcher in Africa. This book is not for those who are interested in the gorillas--Hayes mentions them often enough, but only in relation to Dian, her ties to them, how they drove her behavior towards others. <br />Fossey was mercurial and impossible to work with, in bad health with a serious alcohol problem, close to very few people, and given to fabricating stories about herself. Hayes reports all this dutifully, but I was disappointed that he doesn't offer many insights of his own. Often he'll present multiple versions of a story but not an opinion on which seems most likely to be true. <br />But this doesn't take away from this truly amazing story. This young woman simply decided that studying the gorillas would be her life's work, and gave her life to do just that. It's not surprising that given her rather unstable personality to start with, and after years of working in relative isolation, she became more attached to her subjects than other human beings, and her story ends sadly. Her increasing paranoia about preserving the gorillas in their natural state to the exclusion of all else leads her to acts of brutality and torture towards poachers that are painful to read about. And her own physical and mental deterioration is sad but seems inevitable. It is amazing that she accomplished what she did against such overwhelming odds.<br />Some object to the exposure of the seamier side of life in Africa, but I found it understandable given the conditions, and the struggles in the personal lives of these people make their accomplishments all the more admirable. I haven't read &quot;Gorillas in the Mist&quot; but I suspect when I do it will be even more fascinating for having read Hayes' book.	2004-05-20
US	52744964	R2XPGC5UHY7ZE0	0679441247	539544634	Encore Provence	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Running out of steam. . .	&quot;Encore&quot; is the third of Mayle's Provence books, and he's definitely running out of material. This book is much more a collection of essays than &quot;Toujours,&quot; and indeed Mayle might be better off publishing similar future work this way. I can envision the chapters of this book appearing as articles in The New Yorker, but I found a whole book a little tedious. Some chapters are fascinating still--I particularly liked &quot;How to Be a Nose,&quot; about a school for the blind that trains students to work in the perfume industry, or the chapter on olive oil, &quot;Discovering Oil.&quot; Much less interesting is the chapter on the NY restaurant critic, which turns into a guidebook on special shops to buy gourmet items. Mayle is also quite defensive about the criticism he's received that his books have turned the region into a tourist destination, and his final chapter maintains all is as before &quot;A Year in Provence.&quot; Maybe true, for a wealthy British writer before real estate prices soared!	2004-05-05
US	52744964	R32RKE8VZVFJUZ	0972534806	243350874	The Menopause Survival Guide: Surviving the Change of Life	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A good overview	Rogers' book is a good overview of of many women's health issues, from puberty to old age, with clear explanations of the many physical changes women experience through life. Rogers provides especially good medical explanations for the common menopausal symptoms, such as hot flashes, memory difficulties, and dry skin, as well as warnings about more serious issues like osteoporosis. CAUTION: this book was published in 2002 and is not current on the latest studies on hormone replacement therapy, which have caused many women to forgo HRT. <BR>One thing really bugged me about this book: Rogers has a chapter called the &quot;Weird Words Zone&quot; in which she rails against medical terminology and asks why it can't be simpler. It's as if she feels we women aren't up to the task of dealing with technical medical language. Ironically, her clear explanations (with phonetic pronunciations) of the language is one of the strong points of the book. But give us a little credit--we can master this as well as any male physician can!	2004-05-01
US	52744964	RIA53A4PHCMEU	0152010661	491294998	Time for Bed	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sweet soothing rhymes	A very sweet bedtime book, this story is lavishly illustrated with pictures of mommy and baby animals. Rhymes are particularly good for bedtime, and this text is especially lovely. Even calms a grownup!	2004-04-30
US	52744964	R2XV4MDRLGE6EI	0689707495	525995237	Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs	Books	5	121	121	N	N	Tickles a child's sense of silliness!	This is a funny book with an imaginative concept--the people of the town CHEWANDSWALLOW eats what drops from the sky--orange juice rain, pancakes floating down, hamburgers on a stormy day. The climate goes awry and the people set sail on stale bread boats to move to a world where food is bought in the supermarket. The illustrations are very funny, moving from line drawings in black and white to lovely colored illustrations as the fantasy story begins. This story appeals to a wide range of ages, from 3 to 7 or 8. The text would be challenging for a first grade reader but the concept appeals to pre-schoolers as well as older kids.	2004-04-30
US	52744964	R1ORSBEWNC9FH8	0590316818	184679849	How Do Dinosaurs Say Goodnight?	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Dinosaurs act up at bedtime too!	This imaginative book features a large cast of \\"real\\" dinosaurs acting as naughty as real kids do when it's bedtime. I loved the pictures of exasperated parents as a huge brontosaurus throws covers on the floor or a tyrannasaurus rex runs around the room. My second grade niece, a good reader, handles the text with ease but isn't too old to be tickled by the concept. Younger siblings like this one too. Inside the front cover is a chart with small drawings of the characters and their scientific names--an educational bonus!	2004-04-30
US	52744964	R3P2FBG2FKFWK4	0399235876	774492634	Boom Chicka Rock	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Dancing Mice at Midnight	This new children's book was an instant hit with my three-year-old nephew. A big black cat lies fast asleep as the numbers on the clock turn into little mice, out to find the birthday cake. One by one the numbers climb down and scurry around the sleeping cat. My nephew would look for the cat on every page, sometimes in plain view, sometimes only a hint of tail showing. Midnight strikes, the cat awakes, the mice scurry back to their places. The illustrations are artful and humorous, and I always like rhymes for young children. Good for teaching numbers too.	2004-04-30
US	52744964	R3M4PCVFC1IM4G	0689816987	526206263	Blue Skidoos To The Farm (Blue's Clues)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Challenging and fun	My three year old nephew just got this book and loves it. He examines each page carefully and shouts \\"a clue! a clue!\\" whenever he sees the trademark blue paw print. He also informed me that he likes \\"that guy\\" meaning Steve, the genial young TV host. A cute book with lots of colorful stickers.	2004-04-30
US	52744964	R2XUU052UIMS8A	0307146138	25153286	If You See a Tiger (Lift the Flap Book)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A winner!	My pre-school nephew loves this book, especially the bold illustrations in primary colors and the sturdy flaps covering the animals. The actions that accompany the text are great--\\"if you see a crocodile, smile! if you see a giraffe, laugh!\\" And rhyming books are especially good for bedtime. A winner on all counts!	2004-04-30
US	52744964	R1GW614A4VSF6Z	067187893X	972312117	Chicka Chicka ABC (Chicka Chicka Book, A)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Good for toddlers too	My three and a half year old nephew is just starting to learn his letters and he enjoys the ABCD rhyme of this cute board book. He likes to study the pile of letters after they've all fallen out of the tree and find different ones upside down and scattered. It's short and sweet and the rhyme is soothing--also for weary grownups after a long day with the kids!	2004-04-26
US	52744964	R2B74KIF7GAEKF	0671702262	937767261	Are You My Mommy?	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Good for toddlers too...	My three year old nephew loves this book. He guesses the different animals, repeats the refrain, and loves the pop-ups. Nice and short for bedtime and very sweet.	2004-04-26
US	52744964	R81LK6KCW7MDI	0689811500	116566799	Tanker (Truckin' Board Books)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	For little boys obsessed with trucks	This is a good book for little boys who love trucks, and the  illustrations are clear and colorful. But my three year old nephew is more interested in making up a story about the vacationing family whose car you see on the road than reading the rather technical explanation about the delivery of gasoline. But that's what imagination is for!	2004-04-26
US	52744964	RYEPKS4TNDG8J	1400012201	275941964	Fodor's Exploring Provence, 4th edition (Exploring Guides)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Gorgeous Provence	This glossy guide is an upscale version of the standard Fodor's guides, chock full of beautiful photographs. It's all you need if you're going on an organized tour, where hotels and meals are taken care of, and you really want some flavor for the people, food, history and culture. Scattered throughout are sections called &quot;Focus On&quot; discussing the mistral (both the wind and the poet!), ecology, cuisine, and of course wine. The maps are unusually good too. But the hotel and restaurant lists are cursory at best, and if you're an independent traveler you'll want to supplement this book with more comprehensive information. For this well-traveled part of the world the internet is a great resource. No one guide has it all!	2004-04-26
US	52744964	RQHZWJNXEUR1H	3822859761	81394174	Michelangelo	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Gorgeous!	I bought this book to accompany &quot;Michelangelo and the Pope's Ceiling&quot; by Ross King--which, if you're interested in the subject, is a great laymen's introduction to the glories of the Sistine Chapel. If you've ever had the privilege of seeing the ceiling or &quot;The Last Judgment&quot; you know you don't exactly get up close, and it's easy to be overwhelmed. This beautiful book concentrates on the details--of a face, a hand, eyes. The eroticism of Michelangelo's work is immediately apparent. The book also focuses on the major sculptures, as well as the artist's studies for his masterpieces. Particularly interesting is the discussion of the unfinished sculptures, which presage modern trends. All in all, a great introduction to the artist at a very reasonable price. (The binding seemed OK to me!)	2004-04-26
US	52744964	R4OPB3EG0CPUJ	0140107479	292088234	The Transit of Venus	Books	4	10	15	N	N	Beautifully written but puzzling	Shirley Hazzard's &quot;Transit&quot; is a beautifully written story of the pain of ordinary life. Two orphaned sisters from Australia make their way to London to begin their adult lives, and a chance encounter in a theatre between Grace, the &quot;blond pretty one,&quot; and her future husband irrevocably changes the lives of all of them. Grace and Caro have an innate dignity and intelligence that puzzles and attracts in the staid English society of the time, where they refuse to be pigeonholed into the category of the shabbily genteel. Grace's story is of the ordinary life--an unremarkable husband, children, home--yet her safe world is so easily shattered when she meets a young doctor caring for one of her children. Caro's world is one of passion and pain, as she (rather inexplicably) falls in love with the charismatic Paul Ivory, failing to realize how corrupt he really is.<br />The characters in this novel continue to puzzle me several weeks after I finished the book. Caro's intelligence and poise are at odds with her almost lifelong passion for Paul. This is especially hard to understand when one reaches the end of the novel--when Caro learns several shocking secrets about Paul, she admits she suspected some of them, which makes her love for him even more inexplicable. Hazzard also badly neglects the character of Adam, Caro's eventual husband.<br />On the other hand Hazzard is right on target with Cora, the half-sister who raises Grace and Caro and never gets over the burden she was required to assume. And Hazzard's handling of Christian Thrale, Grace's husband, is masterful--at the beginning he seems a nice enough, unassuming man, but as he becomes more successful in government Hazzard subtly reveals, through a casual remark, a brief thought of Grace's quickly suppressed, what an insufferable, pompous fool he's become. <br />Despite all, this novel threatens to end happily. I admit a happy ending may have been a letdown, but Hazzard's alternative feels like aquick escape. Did she not know how to wrap it up? Nevertheless, I stayed up halfway through the night to finish it. Despite its flaws this novel is worth your time.	2004-04-16
US	52744964	R29JRKJFO6E74C	0399151508	436219445	What Your Doctor Won't (or Can't) Tell You	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Bottom Line: You're Your Own Doctor	This excellent book only underscores what we're all learning the hard way--the days of putting complete trust in your doctor are over. Levine has written a pretty scary book. He starts with what happens in the hospital--the standard procedures to make life easier for an overworked, undertrained staff that can result in deadly infections, the dangers of the emergency room, the perilous journey from your room to your x-ray or a lab. Levine then transitions to your doctor's office, and details the many ways you can be talked into unnecessary tests, medications or procedures. Needless to say the pharmaceutical industry takes a beating, as Levine describes how doctors are pressured into prescribing new drugs when older, cheaper generics are just as good if not better.<br />The bottom line is that each of us is responsible for our own care, and luckily with the internet we have the tools we need to make informed decisions. If I can sum up Levine's advice in one word, it's question, question, question!<br />My only problem with this book really lies with the publisher--it badly needs a good index! The book is chockful of good information especially in the area of cardiology, Levine's specialty, but going back and finding it would be a chore. Maybe in the paperback....	2004-04-12
US	52744964	R4SDDYQ9HXL6C	0871139022	176331113	Deafening: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Language of Love	This is a wonderful first novel about sound, silence, deafness, communication and love. Grania is a young girl who loses her hearing at the age of five. Her guilt-ridden mother refuses to accept that she is deaf and resists adapting to reality; only Grania's loving grandmother saves her from a life of illiteracy and loneliness. Grania is taught to read with &quot;The Sunday Book,&quot; a precious gift from her grandmother that becomes a metaphor for life's struggles and complications as Grania emerges from childhood, attends school, and meets &quot;Chim,&quot; a hearing man who loves her stillness. Just married, Grania must return home to wait while Jim goes to war as a stretcher bearer.<br />Once again, WWI emerges as incredibly pointless and bloody, as men are thrown into the confusion of the European front. Jim experiences the war as a haze of brutal sound. He steels himself to the sight of mutilated men blown apart, but cannot stand the sight of their hands, which of course for him had become the instruments of his personal &quot;language of love&quot; with Grania. Meanwhile at home, a beloved friend from Grania's childhood who became her sister's husband returns home, mute from a horror no one can imagine. Drawing on the foundation of love from her grandmother, the deaf Grania not only coaches him back to speech but heals her sister as well. The end of the novel feels tantalizingly like only the beginning for these wonderful multi-dimensional characters.<br />Itani is a wonderful writer, and manages to convey to those of us who hear what it's like not to be able to--she also shows what we the hearing might be missing! The background on the theories of language and teaching the deaf was fascinating, and Itani must have done some meticulous research. This is a wonderful novel well worth your time.	2004-04-09
US	52744964	RCVXNTX45W2K6	0375501568	81872394	Beyond Belief: The Secret Gospel of Thomas	Books	5	9	9	N	N	&quot;Gnostic Gospels&quot; twenty years later	Other reviewers much more knowledgable than I can debate the fine points of biblical scholarship--but for the lay person Pagels work brings home a few basic points. Building on her own work and that of others in the last twenty years, Pagels once again demonstrates that while the birth and death of Jesus are historical facts, who he was and what his life meant will mystify forever. That any one interpretation can lay claim to being &quot;the truth&quot; seems more unlikely than ever after reading this book. Pagels meticulously details the process by which men came together around a set of common beliefs embodied in the Creed of the 4th century. Certain writings of the early church became the Gospels and others were supressed as the church grew, certain factions gained power, and finally Christianity became the state religion. It was only in the 4th century that the earliest list of books that became the &quot;New Testament&quot; appears.<BR>Pagels raises a lot of tough questions. The modern church--particularly the Roman catholic church--teaches that we know God through faith, not the mind. But early Christian writings suggest another approach. We are taught that a certian set of beliefs is required for salvation--but why? Is not God essentially unknowable? Why is it so dangerous to interpret events like the Last Supper in different ways? Did God truly intend for us to abandon our powers of reason and judgment? Are we not all responsible, as difficult as it is, to engage in the hard work of distinguishing right from wrong, truth from lies? <BR>Some reviewers fault Pagels for being too objective--but isn't that the point? She no more has the answer than anyone else. But she poses the questions.	2004-04-09
US	52744964	R15FHLKZKYB6I4	0156907399	762777669	To the Lighthouse	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Richly Imagined Life of the Mind	\\"Lighthouse\\" is a unique novel which established Virginia Woolf's reputation as a great writer. The story focuses on 2 days in the life of a large middle class family, with a middle interlude where the family's house is the major character. The setting is the family's summer home, filled with house guests. The action, however, is all internal, the chronology hazy and the events--to the extent anything really \\"happens\\" at all--rather mundane. <br />This all made for tough going until it \\"clicked\\" around p. 50. What Woolf does is create in real time not \\"real\\" events but what is going on within--that constant stream of thoughts and emotions that remains hidden from the world. Woolf spends a long time on a simple scene of Mrs. Ramsay reading a story to her 6 year old son. In the space of a few short minutes as she reads aloud Mrs. Ramsay considers whether an engagement she has been encouraging between two of her guests will occur, feels trapped between her son's desire to go to the lighthouse and her husband's cruel squelching of the idea, worries about the bill to repair the greenhouse, and underlying all senses impending doom just beyond the horizon. Another example is Woolf's description of the interior struggle of Lily as she paints in a style that happens not to be in fashion at the time. But Woolf shows us what Lily sees in her mind--a line here, a shadow there, a form.<br />Virginia Woolf has a reputation of being \\"hard to read\\" and I was unsuccessful in trying to persuade my book club to try \\"Lighthouse.\\" But I'm glad I plowed ahead on my own--it's a rich and complex work, and totally unlike anything I've ever read. Try it!	2004-04-04
US	52744964	R39ALKCPF1O39I	0385503857	264457638	Oryx and Crake: A Novel (Atwood, Margaret Eleanor)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A gloomy future indeed!	Atwood's latest is a not-too-distant future portrait of a world on the brink of destruction, not through nuclear holocaust but through bio-engineering run amok. Our hero Jimmy's world is that of a privileged scientific elite working on all sorts of secret projects, behind the walls of compounds sealed off from the \\"plebelands,\\" which overpopulation, food shortages, drugs and sex have turned into a futuristic version of the Wild West. We soon learn the elite are in prisons of their own making, and those within who express doubts about what's going on mysteriously disappear or commit suicide. <br />Jimmy is the odd man out in this world--he loves words and books, which are rapidly disappearing as science becomes the highest and only source of knowledge. He's a misfit who is sidetracked to a college that's a relic of the 20th century--the Martha Graham school, named after the famous dancer and choreographer. But Jimmy's best friend, the brilliant Crake, has risen in the power structure and rescues him by recruiting him to write ad copy for the latest products to transform human beings into perfect immortals. <br />Crake's top-secret project is nothing less than to create a perfect, beautiful, docile species of human, ideally suited to live in a world ravaged by pollution, subject to wild unpredictable storms, missing the ozone layer. But even Jimmy doesn't know what the other half of Crake's plan really is. <br />It took me a long time to get into this book, but I finally managed, intrigued by Atwood's descriptions of an Internet run wild, newly created species of lethal animals, and a world that at once is fantasy but so familiar--a world where once again money and power rule and only the inhuman survive. But the characters are hard to take--Jimmy is most unappealing, and his lover Oryx a cipher. Crake's motives are hard to discern, and the other characters are caricatures of 20th century types. <br />The first science fiction type work of Atwood's that I read was \\"The Handmaid's Tale,\\" which I remember enjoying more than this somewhat similar story. Atwood is obviously intrigued by the genre, but the unremitting sense of doom and wooden characters are hard to take. I liked \\"The Blind Assassin\\" much better--it has a fantasy element that ties into a real story about flesh and blood characters. Try that one instead.	2004-03-14
US	52744964	R1WARRCAFDASUQ	0375421815	987113882	The Crazed: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	China on the eve of Tiananmen	The author of &quot;Waiting&quot; sets his new tale in the same China as his earlier book--the excesses of Mao are past, some political outcasts are being rehabilitated, and the new generation is allowed to be apolitical--up to a point. Jian Wan is a young man whose life as a scholar seems about to fall into place when the father of is fiancee and his professor Mr. Yang suffers a stroke. Jian is assigned to sit in his room every day to care for him. Professor Yang is delerious a good part of the time, and reveals in bits and pieces that his life as a scholar has been very different from the honorable facade Jian knows. Professor Yang reveals the cracks in his marriage, the political intrigue at the university, his affairs with other women, and above all his bitterness over a life in which he's just been a &quot;horse in a harness,&quot; deluded by the dreams of poetry while  ambitious bureaucrats enjoy the benefits of the State. Yang completely shocks Jian by advising him not to become a scholar, and for the first time Jian starts to quesiton his carefully planned out life.<br />Ha Jin demonstrates the same careful attention to the details of life and the spare prose that marked National Book Award winner &quot;Waiting.&quot; The portrait of a deteriorating old man and the painstaking descriptions of Yang's body as it slowly dies are at once painful, touching, sympathetic and depressing. And the author loves food!--right before a particulary brutal episode he takes a full paragraph to tell us that when Jian entered the deli, he saw &quot;twisted rolls and wheaten cakes stuffed with pork and chives&quot;--he buys &quot;radish soup and a plate of noodles fried with slivers of lean pork and mung bean sprouts.&quot; <br />Almost by accident Jian finds himself at Tiananman Square in the midst of the bloodshed of June 1989. The ending is a tour-de-force--those of us in the West who watched the pictures of tanks mowing down a single student in the square had no idea of what was going on in the neighborhoods, and Ha Jin's descriptions are shocking. Although the writing is again superb, I found it almost jarring, as nothing that comes before prepares us for the sight of this naive, apolitical, inexperienced young man alternately displaying flashes of bravery and running for his life.<br />Ha Jin, now living in the US, is an extremely accomplished writer who has been recognized early on. His works give a unique perspective into modern China through the eyes of the middle class, and are well worth your time.	2004-03-14
US	52744964	R2FOFEGYXINIR	1562470752	903927792	Meet Addy: An American Girl (The American Girls Collection Book 1)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Introduction to a painful topic	Addy is the story of a black girl in 1864, as the Civil War was in its ending stages. My second grade niece, an advanced reader, was immediately engrossed in the story. The subject matter may be a bit over her head, though. I suggested she compare Addy's family with her own, asking \\"Today, no one owns your family, do they?\\" The reply I got was \\"Yes, grandma!\\" Another reviewer says this is a third to 6th grade book--probably third or fourth grade is about right. Although paper, the quality is high, with nice illustrations. Kudos to American Girl for giving us an excellent alternative to Barbie!	2004-03-05
US	52744964	R1AFZXQILX23P8	0307101223	971744707	Blue's Friendship Day / What's Blue Building? (Blue's Clues)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A coloring book	I realized when this arrived that it's really just a coloring book. There are two little stories and some educational content, but I think it would bore a child older than 4. It's good for my three year old nephew who is very proud of having just learned his colors, and the task of figuring out what colors the black and white images should be is a challenge for him, but I'm guessing he'll grow beyond it pretty quickly.	2004-03-05
US	52744964	R12BN1K4RFWJYM	0375825207	945897960	CAT IN THE HAT BIG S	Books	5	1	2	N	N	For the just-learning-to-read child	This book was a big hit with my six year old nephew. Anything that encourages a child to read, is fun and imaginative, and not on a video game or TV, deserves five stars. And the stickers are reusable! Dr Seuss lives on in a new generation!	2004-03-05
US	52744964	R2Q237E5I8W5L3	0425174484	499536931	Expecting Adam: A True Story of Birth, Rebirth, and Everyday Magic	Books	4	12	17	N	N	She swears it's all true, but......	I'm puzzled by this book still, several days after putting it down. Can it be true? Is it possible for someone to have the incredible good luck that Martha and John had during Martha's pregnancy? Or is the story the product of a mind half-crazy from dehydration, overwork, stress, and the knowledge that her baby will be born with Down syndrome? It's a credit to Beck's book that we're not quite sure!<br />Martha Beck is a very smart woman married to a very smart guy. They have swallowed the Harvard message that work comes first hook, line and sinker. Nevertheless, Martha and John manage to get into serious trouble through a sort-of-unplanned second pregnancy. Martha has an unspecified auto-immune disease which results in 9 long months of debilitating nausea. Her husband takes on an assignment which requires him to spend 2 weeks of every month in Asia while still trying to finish a thesis. She herself has a punishing schedule, also working on her PhD. They already have an 18 month old daughter to whom not a whole lot of attention is paid. <br />This would be enough to unhinge anyone, but then odd things begin to happen. Martha and John become convinced that they &quot;know&quot; their unborn son; Martha senses there's &quot;something wrong,&quot; and when they discover the baby has Down syndrome, they make the improbable--at least for Harvard--decision to continue the pregnancy. At the same time some very good things happen--a generous friend takes Martha under her wing and probably prevents her from spending most of her pregnancy in the hospital, Martha miraculously gets her child into the toughest child care center around, and she somehow finds a way to communicate with John even when he's half a world away.<br />But some things happen that are hard to believe. Could she have been saved from the burning building by someone unknown? I'm not sure, and I had to wonder why an intelligent, pregnant woman would deliberately start down 10 flights of smoke-filled stairs withan 18 month old child in her arms. Could a life-threatening hemmorage mysteriously stop after Martha passes out form loss of blood? Not sure, and again I had to wonder why with her last ounce of strength Martha didn't call one of the faithful friends she had to bail her out. Can unexpected, wonderful things happen in life? Yes. Do people get saved from life-threatening situations they get into partly through their own fault, again and again? Not so sure.<br />If, however, you can suspend disbelief for awhile the book is very good in parts. I loved Martha's description of her son, and I wondered for the first time about the automatic assumption that every woman over a certain age will have amnio and abort if something is wrong. Surely Adam must have had problems, which Beck doesn't share with us, but the good times are truly lovely. I also thought her description of life at Harvard quite brutal but mostly accurate. I'm not sure that giving birth wouldn't have been a good excuse for late homework even back then, but Beck accurately portrays the way Harvard professors can completely terrify highly intelligent adults--I know from experience. And Beck makes a very convincing case that there's an alternate reality out there, even if you cen't believe everything she tells us.	2004-03-02
US	52744964	R19PERIOZQG6PQ	0449912752	105372426	City of Darkness, City of Light	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Through the eyes of the people	Piercy's fiction/nonfiction account of the French revolution has high ambitions, and she achieves them--partly. Piercy views this momentous event through the eyes of six people, all of whom are historical characters, but the amount of historical information about each varies greatly. She starts at the top with Nicholas, Danton, and Robespierre, representing the enlightened aristocrat, the pragmatic revolutionary, and the extreme radical. Next on her list is Manon Roland, the wife of a mediocre beaurocrat who exercises influence and power through her husband. Last but certainly not least are Claire and Pauline, two women who led the women's revolution, driven to the streets by the lack of the basic necessities of life--bread, wine, meat--and a desire for equality. <br />Piercy excels in describing the everyday details of the lives of these people, and makes Danton and Robespierre human. Her portrayal of the Paris of the time, the teeming streets, the houses of the poor, the entertainments, the struggle for food--is masterful. In the cases of Pauline and Claire, she took the little that is known about them and developed them into strong, powerful women.<br />But Piercy also struggles under the weight of information she tries to incorporate into this &quot;novel,&quot; and the result is often plodding. She is a masterful novelist, and &quot;Gone to Soldiers&quot; is a wonderful example of what she can do with a good story that has a historical background. But here she tries to do way too much--explain the politics, the history and life of the time, and also accurately render historical figures in a fictional way while being faithful to the facts we do know. The first third of the book is a chore, as she tries to set everything up for the characters to come together in Paris. It is no accident that her best characters are Claire and Pauline, about whom little is known, and who come alive under her wonderful novelist's pen.  The three men are rendered more clumsily, especially when she tries to describe their feelings during historical events. And Manon is a failure--I suspect Piercy got bogged down in trying to be faithful to the autobiography this woman left behind. As the revolution picks up steam, the story does too, but I found myself reading along to find out how they all get out of the mess that they've created, rather than out of real feeling for the characters.<br />Having said all that, this book does send you back to brush up on the history, and also sparked a very lively discussion in my book club about why the American Revolution was so different. Was it because the English had a much longer tradition of democracy? Was it that a lot of tradition and custom that hampered change had been left behind in the Old World? Or was it because there was no need to take property away from the rich--there were limitless opportunities available to anyone willing to push west and start out fresh on his own land. Probably all of the above.	2004-02-27
US	52744964	R3AYNA77QWLF8R	158234941X	451664635	What Color Is Love?	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Perfect for preschool	A little elephant roams the jungle asking what color is love, and the brightly colored animals all around him try to answer, but no one can until he returns to his mother. A sweet story, perfect for my just-turned-three nephew, who takes great pride in showing off his new-found knowledge of colors. The illustrations are bold and bright, the story soothing--good for bedtime.	2004-02-27
US	52744964	R1PGCYJNRNWHV	0688149006	460243293	Freight Train Board Book (Caldecott Collection)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A great starter book	My three year old nephew loves \\"Freight Train\\"--it's simple enough that he can \\"read\\" it--he's learned the names of the different cars and it reinforces color recognition. The illustrations are big and bold and colorful. A winner!	2004-02-20
US	52744964	R2WPU3W85OKYT9	0688140246	54663100	A Weekend with Wendell	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Appeals to all ages....	This is a funny little story of two mice (kids) who start off on the wrong foot but end up being best friends over a weekend. The best kids' books make grownups laugh and appeal to a wide range of ages, and this one fits the bill--it's a great bedtime choice for my eight year old niece as well as my six and three year old nephews. Very very cute illustrations too. At (the price), a bargain!	2004-02-20
US	52744964	R34IC7J6LDXYCE	0385512104	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time: A Novel (Alex Awards (Awards))	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A wonderful book!	&quot;Curious Incident&quot; is one of the best novels I've come across in awhile. Mysterious, quirky, painful and revealing, it's a masterful debut by a new writer, hopefully the first of many.<BR> <BR>In this novel Haddon takes on the challenge of viewing the world from the perspective of a 15 year old autistic boy, although being truly faithful to his first person narrative, the word &quot;autism,&quot; and the concept of disability never really appear in the book. Rather, Christopher has been told he has &quot;behavioral problems,&quot; and in his methodical way, relying on his photographic memory, he lists them--one for each letter of the alphabet. I laughed out loud--some of them --&quot;I don't like being touched by strangers&quot;--anyone could relate to!<br />One evening Christopher finds that his neighbor's dog has been killed in a rather gruesome way, and despite being warned off by his neighbors and forbidden to pursue it by his father, Christopher resolves to solve the mystery. <br />Along the way we get a first hand look at Christopher's world, which is terrifying in its variety and chaos, and we see the disorder of it all through his own eyes. Christopher believes that if he sees red cars on the way to school, it will be a good day; if he sees yellow, a bad day. This seems to be his technique for minimizing surprises--he can't deal with the unknown of a new day. Christopher realizes others view this as odd, but he very logically explains that everyone has similar rather illogical ways of starting the day--if it's raining outside many feel it's going to be a bad day, and if it's sunny a good one, even though if you work in an office the weather is fairly irrelevant! Christopher is blessed with a gifted teacher, Siobhan, who guides and encourages him; she has a knack for communicating with him in a very very clear and specific way that he can understand and act on. Has Haddon portrayed someone he knows?--although she has a minor role, the reader can envision her patience and kindness very clearly.<br />Christopher is a mathematical genius, which to the rest of us can be hard to grasp--but he explains the &quot;Monty Hall&quot; problem in a way even English majors can understand. When you come to this part of the book, think about it. Christopher loves the order and logic of math and science; he dreams of being an astronaut, telling us exactly what he would like about it and what the hurdles would be. <br />During the course of solving the mystery of the murder of the dog, Christopher makes an amazing discovery, which leads him to arrempt to go to London on his own, a terrifying journey into the unknown. Christopher minutely plans how to overcome each challenge, from covering his eyes to block out too much visual data, to mentally drawing a line across the train station floor  (in red of course, a good color) and following it to avoid getting confused. Haddon also makes us feel keenly the emotional chaos Christopher's world becomes--his discovery would shatter anyone, and turns upside down the tenuous web of his relationships with the few people he has come to trust.<br />Christopher slowly emerges from the emotional turmoil his life has become, having gained a new measure of confidence from his solo journey to London and his writing of the book about his experiences. I don't know enough about autism to know if people with the disorder can learn and change in this way, but the ending is uplifting nevertheless.<br />I listened to this book on tape (unabridged), and I'd highly recommend it. The reader is a professional, and mimics the lower middle class accent Christopher would have perfectly, as well as convincingly taking on the other characters' parts. It's a great find for a long journey.	2004-02-08
US	52744964	R21UMOURPRDMOJ	0812967623	743193338	The Catholic Church: A Short History (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	4	14	19	N	N	"A History of the Papacy"	Hans Kung's \\"History of the Catholic Church\\" is a broad treatment of a much narrower subject, the history of the papacy. Kung convincingly argues that the history of this institution is much different from the myth, that Christ said \\"Upon this rock I will build my Church,\\" and that there has been an unbroken line of holy men from then until now proclaiming the word of God. Rather, the papacy was a political institution, developed some several hundred years after the death of Christ, in an era where church and state were indistinguishable.<br />Kung takes us through the era of persecution, the adoption of Christianity by the Roman Empire, the invasions and fall of that empire. The pope was a prince like many others, susceptible to being co-opted by warring princes, to being deposed, to gaining and losing territory. <br />Many think of the church as having survived intact through 2,000 years, and use this as a reason to be somewhat complacent about the state of the church today. But Kung reminds us of not only of the Protestant Reformation, the huge split we are familiar with in Western Europe, but also the split with the Eastern Church that occurred much earlier. Is the church headed towards such a split today? Although of course there were many reasons underlying these world-shaking events, Kung places the responsibility for these schisms in large part on the papacy, which in both cases resisted change and insisted on its own primacy and infallibility.<br />Kung also traces the evolution of doctrine along the way. Again, the myth is that doctrine remains unchanged and inviolable down through time, and that the pope is in a sense God's mouthpiece. How then to explain the proclamation of \\"new\\" doctrines such as the bodily assumption of Mary to heaven, as late as 1950? Of course infallibility comes in for much criticism from Kung, as well as the new fashion for canonizing a pope's predecessors, who, if half of what Kung writes is true, are hardly candidates for sainthood.<br />Kung of course has an ax to grind, having been a major force in Vatican II, and subsequently having been removed from teaching by the modern successor to the office of the Inquisition. But it is hard to argue with the proposition that the church is a man-made institution. Which of course all churches are--the problem for Catholics is that belief in the Church as an institution is inextricably intertwined with belief in Christ. Must they be?	2004-02-05
US	52744964	RY2U2BOKVDEDN	0195168852	241859088	In Search of an American Catholicism: A History of Religion and Culture in Tension	Books	4	15	17	N	N	This has happened before....	Jay Dolan's history of the church in America makes one overwhelming point--that the crisis in the church today is part of a long struggle lasting over 200 years by the American church to define itself as part of and in opposition to both Rome and America at the same time. Dolan examines the collision between the traditional, European, immigrant, authoritarian church and the modern, American, democratic society in which it found itself from several perspectives. The issue of local control of churches has been a long-standing one, and indeed the early church in the US experimented with lay trusteeship of parishes. Immigrants coming to the US with a thirst for freedom also struggled to retain local control over the parishes they built and supported. Sometimes these arguments erupted among immigrant groups, sometimes with Rome.<br />Devotional practices for Catholics were also very different from those of their Protestant neighbors, used to more austere practices, who were likely to regard Catholics as superstitious and of the Old World. For a long time, a debate raged over whether one could be both Catholic and American; much anti-Catholic sentiment arose from Catholics' efforts to distinguish themselves from their neighbors. These slowly changed in the 20th century of course in response to Vatican II, but also as Americans moved away from Old World traditions. The emergence of women as important players in American society, at the same time as women argued for equality in England, also put pressures on the church still being felt to this day to an extent much greater than some more traditional Catholic countries.<br />Perhaps the greatest argument is a philosophical one--is the church part of or apart from society; should the church embrace or reject modernity; should the church respond to the times or remain unchanged for all time? These arguments went on at the very beginnings of the US 200 years ago and are still being argued today as the church fights off the biggest crisis in its history in this country. Perhaps these issues are more intense in a country that considers itself among the most democratic, the most open, the most modern in the world.<br />Dolan's work is a bit slow-going at times, and maybe a little too scholarly for the casual reader.  But the points are valid, and caution against expecting an easy, prompt resolution of the current crisis. As ties to Western Europe weaken, and fewer and fewer Americans identify themselves as having two nationalities, obedience to a foreign, Roman hierarchy, which seems not to understand American culture and society, feels more and more alien. How it will be resolved remains to be seen.	2004-02-05
US	52744964	R2N6B5EM1BD5LV	0142001740	378345448	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A wonderful debut	Kidd's book is a lovely story set in the South of the sixties. Lily is a 14 year old girl caught in an unbearable life with an angry abusive father, and burdened with the guilt of having had a role in the death of her mother. T. Ray forces Lily to work on the peach farm, demands that she respond to his every whim, and isolates her from others her age. Her nanny Rosaleen's rash behavior in reaction to taunts by some whites lands Rosaleen and briefly Lily in jail, and Rosaleen's subsequent beating is the straw that breaks Lily's back.Believing that deep inside she is already a doomed criminal, Lily springs Rosaleen from the hospital and they head to Tiberon SC, the town scribbled on the back of one of the few of her mother's possessions Lily still has.<br /><br />Lily and Rosaleen make their way to the home of August, May and June, three black sisters who become the real heroines of the story. They take Lily and Rosaleen in, and August teaches Lily the art of beekeeping; Lily in turn experiences what it's like to be loved for the first time.<br />We know early on that the sisters have some connection to Lily's mother, and the suspense of waiting to find out what it is keeps the story moving. In the meantime we come to know a group of strong, eccentric Southern women, still struggling to escape from their chains a hundred years after the Civil War.<br />Kidd gets inside the heart and mind of Lily and gives us a sensitive, delicate look at a 14 year old girl. We don't find out until the very end whether Lily and Rosaleen will evade the legal troubles they're in, what Lily's role really was in the death of her mother, and what connection the sisters had with Lily's mother. Several times I feared Kidd would veer in a soppy sentimental too-good-to-be-believable direction, but she avoids it. The ending is in some sense &quot;happy,&quot; in some sense only realistic.<br />I listened to the unabridged audio version of the book and I highly recommend it. The reader's voice was soft, girlish, and very definitely Southern, but at the same time she could give believable renditions of what Rosaleen and the others would have sounded like. It's a pleasure to see more and more unabridged readings of good contemporary literature coming to market.soft, girlish, and very definitely Southern, but at the same time she could give believable renditions of what Rosaleen and the others would have sounded like. It's a pleasure to see more and more unabridged readings of good contemporary literature coming to market.	2004-01-24
US	52744964	R2F5HR0R81MDJD	0764553593	742411522	Buddhism For Dummies	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Don't be put off by the title	If you can get past the title, this is an excellent introduction to Buddhism. It's written for Westerners, and lays out in a clear and understandable format the life of Buddha, the basic precepts, the practice of meditation, the sacred sites of Buddhism, the lives of other famous Buddhist teachers, and more.<BR>It's a great book to browse through before a trip to a Buddhist country, and an excellent reference work for anyone interested in eastern religions. Notwithstanding the title, the authors are experts and have done a good job.	2004-01-23
US	52744964	R3PIUD4QOQSAEP	1400030382	321194841	The Piano Tuner	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Lush and Mysterious	Daniel Mason has written a fascinating novel about Burma, a country I, and I suspect most Americans, know very little about. Set in the late 19th century, as the British are solidifying their hold on east Asia, this is the story of a very conventional English man who receives a summons to travel to Burma to tune a fine piano owned by a mysterious and unconventional British officer. Mason has thoroughly researched his subject, and his descriptions of the journey, the territory, the flora and fauna, are beautiful. It is easy to imagine the sense of timelessness and distance that takes over as Edgar Drake moves deeper into the jungle and away from civilization. I found the descriptions of the Han people equally fascinating, and Drake's comment on the mission of the British, to bring civilization to them, very telling. After he hears the stories, watches traditional theatre, and above all hears the music, he realizes that while it may be worthwhile to introduce Western culture to Burma, they already have music, utterly different and amazingly seductive.<BR>My only reservation is that I found the plot a bit cloudy in a few respects--there are hints that Drake accepts the commission for a mysterious reason--that he is looking for something, or trying to escape something--his wife seems to know something about all this, but we never really find out what it's all about. Similarly, we are thrown a curve ball at the end, and are told there's a possibility that Anthony Carroll has set Drake up for his own unsavory purposes. We are left to decide for ourselves--but we are never told why Carroll would have done such a thing, what he would have gained. How would having Drake around helped him? If he was using music to seduce tribal leaders, wouldn't the piano tuner in Rangoon have served the purpose just as well? For an author to do an ending like this effectively, the reader should be startled, should suddenyly realize &quot;Why of course!&quot; Here my reaction was--&quot;Huh?&quot;<BR>But never mind--if you're interested in learning about this strange country, you'll enjoy this novel.	2004-01-06
US	52744964	R377EZ272558HZ	0465092608	256532683	The Courage To Be Catholic: Crisis, Reform, And The Future Of The Church	Books	4	13	27	N	N	You don't have to agree to find this book worthwhile...	George Weigel is a noted author and commentator on the Catholic Church, firmly in the traditionalist camp. This book is a scathing critique of the Church during the recent sexual abuse scandal that few would quarrel with. Although Weigel ascribes no responsibility whatsoever to the Pope, he spreads the blame among the Vatican, the bishops, lawyers, the Papal Nuncio and assorted others. He rightfully debunks the notion that the scandal was a media creation, and rightfully identifies it as a failure of leadership. <br />Many of Weigel's suggested reforms are similarly well-balanced. He suggests that the criteria for selecting bishops are flawed, and makes important suggestions for change. He also shines a spotlight on seminaries and novitiates. If the incidents he cites are true, there are serious problems to be addressed. Is it true that cruising gay bars was an issue in one seminary? Is it true that no inquiry is made into a priest's personal religious beliefs during training? Surely these problems should be corrected. <br />But other of his prescriptions for reform are very troubling. Weigel maintains that the \\"crisis of fidelity\\" began in the 60's--he says that just as Vatican II opened the windows of the Church to change, ill-winds were blowing. Among these were \\"irrationality, self-indulgence, fashionable despair, contempt for authority,\\" and above all the sexual revolution, according to Weigel. But what a bleak view of the second half of the 20th century! Weigel pays no attention to the changed status of women as one of the great achievements of our age. Similarly, I failed to find a reference to the civil rights movement anywhere in the book. And what about the dismemberment of the remains of the European colonial empires and the spread of democracy? Surely he would agree that these were positives in the history of mankind.<br />But these positive factors are the very things the Church is struggling with, and Weigel's call to return to \\"faith\\" fails to take them into account. Take the changing role of women--not only are women not priests, but the positions of power in the Church are almost exclusively male, even in positions where being a priest wouldn't seem to be a mandatory qualification. What is the theological basis for this, other than guys like to work with other guys? Weigel fails to address this issue.<br />Or take the spread of democracy and the modern values of free speech and expression. Weigel attempts to show that the Church is not authoritarian, and he defines an authoritarian as \\"a person who makes someone do something purely as a matter of willfulness...there are no subjects of an authoritarian regime, only objects to be manipulated by the ruler.\\"<br />I'd argue Weigel has described a dictatorship, not an authoritarian institution. The American Heritage Dictionary describes authoritarian as \\"characterized by or favoring absolute obedience...as against individual freedom.\\" Isn't this what Weigel says should be the case in his reformed Church? Weigel says that if the Pope says 2+2 equals 5, the correct public response is \\"Perhaps I have misunderstood His Holiness' meaning,\\" even though privately you may think the Pope is no longer sane. Surely this is a notion many good Catholics would find hard to swallow. And how does Weigel suggest we live in a world where the highest authority maintains that 2+2 equals 5?<br />Weigel also seems uncomfortable with the increasing role of the laity in Church institutions. He fails to take into account that the great success story of the Church in the US in the last 50 years is in health care and education, and that these are institutions largely run and supported by lay persons. Will the laity continue to devote time, energy and above all money without control and accountability, without being equal partners in the Church?<br />Weigel is correct that dumbing down the priesthood and Catholicism is not the way to go. But he fails to consider that the Church changes over time--surely any student of Church history knows this. The Church could certainly go back to the past and reaffirm traditional ways, as many fundamentalist religions have done. But such a Church would be much smaller, as the vast majority of catholics would, I believe, search for a solution that would allow them to live as free and equal beings in the modern world.<br />You don't have to agree with Weigel to find this book an articulate expression of the traditionalist/conservative point of view. Despite the occasional cheap shots and failure to attribute sources, the book is well-written and worthwhile to anyone interested in the future of the Church.	2004-01-06
US	52744964	R31GWY4WCZYHVI	0395779790	519689156	Mommy Doesn't Know My Name	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Sweet Little Book	This engaging story takes its cue from the endearments all parents use with their kids--pumpkin, funny monkey, alligator, etc. Each time Mommy uses one of these cute phrases, Hannah replies \\"I'm not a _____, I'm Hannah!\\" The illustrations are adorable. Substitute your child's name for \\"Hannah\\" when reading it to him or her for a sure winner! Ages 2-4 or 5.	2004-01-01
US	52744964	R1VS1HIKZ9DK0H	0312422156	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Fiction truer than Fact	Jeffrey Eugenides' \\"Middlesex\\" explores the mystery of gender in this sprawling family epic about, yes, a hemaphrodite. Don't be put off by the seeming oddness of the subject matter--this is a beautifully written story of a family and a very sensitive exploration of what it really means to be a man or a woman.<BR>In this novel, the discovery of a grandparent's long-buried secret unlocks the key to the person Cal/Callie is and prompts the writing of the Stephanides story as Cal/Callie imagines it must have been. Eugenides is a fine writer and I knew by the middle of the second page that I was hooked. <BR>The tale spans the 20th century, starting in post WWI Greece and the constant war between the Greeks and Turks. The story of Desdemona and Lefty's escape to the new world is gripping and suspenseful, and the relationship between them is totally believable. Forward to Detroit at the dawn of the age of the motorcar--we think of Ford and his assembly line as a magnificent innovation, but until now I'd never paused to consider the terrible price paid by the workers in the age before labor laws and safety standards, as well as by Detroit itself before anyone even thought about a thing called the \\"environment.\\" As the story of this Greek American family unfolds the author takes us on some interesting detours, as many young novelists seem to do these days, to the world of bootlegging and illegal bars, the Detroit race riots, the Greek Orthodox church, the growth of fast food chains, and the earliest rumblings of Black Power.<BR>It's a credit to the author that Cal/Callie remains the focus of all this, a thoughtful, confused teenager having no idea that anything was wrong but knowing somehow that nothing was right. The relationship between Callie and the \\"Object\\" was as sensitive a picture of teenage sexual exploration as I've read. And the suspense of waiting for Callie to discover her true nature made it hard to put the book down.<BR>This book reminded me of \\"As Nature Made Him,\\" a non-fiction account of a child with very similar gender identity issues, who went through the surgery to make him an anatomically correct girl but still couldn't suppress his true gender. And yet I was struck how \\"Middlesex\\" presented what I think is a much truer picture of the inner thoughts of an adolescent dealing with puberty in this utterly confusing situation. I loved how Eugenides portrayed Cal/Callie as a blend of the feminine and masculine, as we all are--in this case the blend was just so much closer to 50-50. <BR>Physicians specializing in the gender field come in for some tough criticism in both \\"Middlesex\\" and \\"As Nature Made Him.\\" In both cases the thinking of the time on the nature-nuture question gave more weight to the nuture part of the equation than medicine does today. Unfortunately the physicians here seemed to be as interested in validating their theories as in deciding the right path for the child. The theory may have changed, and one certainly hopes the way Callie was treated, as an interesting specimen, isn't the case today either.<BR>\\"Middlesex\\" won a well-deserved Pulitzer. I'm interested in taking a look at Eugenidesa'prior novel, \\"The Virgin Suicides\\" and will eagerly await his next.	2004-01-01
US	52744964	R18O44GN90TQTB	0395927218	25220636	The Namesake: A Novel	Books	4	4	9	N	N	Maybe she's just better at short stories...	\\"The Namesake,\\" by the pulitzer prize winning author of \\"Interpreter of Maladies,\\" is a gorgeously written novel of an Indian family transplanted to America. Lahiri knows her material--she lovingly re-creates Bengali culture, famous for its cuisine and hospitality. She very convincingly portrays the \\"outsider\\" in an alien culture, especially through Ashima, Gogol's mother. And her prose is wonderful.<BR>But....I agree with many that this book is more like a string of stories held together by a common character, rather than an integrated whole. Lahiri creates a time and place with breathtaking detail and draws us in--an example is Ashoke's train ride, where he is saved only because someone notices the soft sound of the pages of his book, fluttering in the breeze. Or take the \\"Maxine\\" section--Lahiri recreates a sort of WASP heaven, from the magnificent townhouse in New York, the cocktails, the conversations over dinner, to the New Hampshire \\"camp\\" deep in the woods with its shabby mismatched decor. But then it just ends--and Gogol moves on, seemingly untouched by the experience. The same with his marriage--we are totally caught up with how this pair meets and falls in love--suddenly we are left puzzled when it ends abruptly out of nowhere.<BR>Lahiri is a wonderful writer and her Pulitzer was well-deserved. The novel falls a little short--but maybe we think so only because the \\"Interpreter\\" stories are so great. This author is certainly worth watching as she develops.	2003-12-29
US	52744964	R2RE49DPNIPOAO	1573229865	234989381	The Dream of Scipio	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Not a beach book for sure!	&quot;Scipio&quot; is one of the best novels I've read in years, and I read a lot! Be forewarned by the few negative reviews here on Amazon--to fully appreciate this book you should be interested in history, philosophy, and above all willing to think about how one discerns the right course of action when presented with a moral dilemma. If you're willing to take on the challenge, you're in for a treat!<BR>Pears presents the story of three men in three different historical periods in Southern France. The paralells are eerie--in each case the world is sliding into chaos--the fall of the Roman Empire, the scourge of the Black Death, and the occupation of France by the Germans in WWII. Each man is presented with the same moral dilemmas--does one fight shoulder to shoulder with one's friends in a cause that is probably hopeless? should one betray a friend to save many others? is following our principles at all important when the world crumbles around us? is saving &quot;civilization&quot; the highest goal--or our our responsibilities less lofty--to our family and friends and those we love?<BR>Each protagonist has a love in his life, a dark haired muse, and Pears weaves three unconventional but utterly believable love stories through the novel. That this is also a literary device to verbalize the moral issues presented doesn't ruin the portraits of these three independent, thoughtful, courageous women. <BR>The role of the Jews in this story is also fascinating--in each case they are the pawns of history, as men of power exploit anti-Semitism for their own purposes, either persecuting or in one case protecting them, never out of moral conviction but rather to further other ends. <BR>Our protagonists meet three different ends, and Pears leaves us to judge for ourselves who followed the right path. One achieves his goals--at great cost--and retires to live out his life. One recognizes he has been on the wrong path all along and dies a terrible death in a last grand gesture toredeem himself. One survives with his love, but also at great cost. <BR>Each reader will reach their own conclusions--but Pears also invites us to look at how history judges these three. In the history books one man is a saint, one a traitor, one disappears without a trace. It's said history is written by the winners--if this is so what can we learn from it, other than how to &quot;win?&quot;<BR>I hope one of my book clubs can be persuaded to read this--one could discuss it for hours!	2003-12-28
US	52744964	R17XOLI4X1JLH9	0886461928	552521001	Rear Window and Three O'Clock	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Old Fashioned Entertaining Mysteries	Sometimes it's fun to go back 50 or 60 years for some good, clean, non-violent fun, and these two stories fit the bill. &quot;Rear Window&quot; was famously adapted for the screen by Alfred Hitchcock--a mark of his genius is that he turned the hero's elderly &quot;houseman&quot; into Grace Kelly for the screen! &quot;Three O'Clock&quot; is a very well done psychological thriller--no matter that the story line is highly improbable.Why doesn't the wife report the burglary? And the answer to the mystery--it just never would have happened that way in real life. But never mind--this is not great literature, just entertaining listening, just the right length for a car journey.	2003-11-22
US	52744964	R35VA84FSWLPHO	0786886994	728258902	Ice Bound: A Doctor's Incredible Battle For Survival at the South Pole	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Like life on another planet	This amazing story of a winter at the South Pole entertains on several levels. Jerri Nielsen was obviously looking for an escape from the real world of a nasty divorce and loss of her children when she accepted the job of physician at a U.S. South Pole station. Her story of discovering cancer and treating herself until she could be lifted out is well-known and interesting, but I found far more compelling the story of how any group of human beings survives a winter of total darkness and outer-space-like cold. Jerri arrives during the &quot;summer,&quot; when it's still safe to go outside with face uncovered and the station is crowded with seasonal visitors. She quickly becomes immersed in the &quot;polie&quot; culture and like the others begins to long for the quiet and solitude of the dark months. Practicing medicine under these conditions was certainly a challenge--adhesive doesn't stick, wounds are covered with crazy glue, a doctor must burrow through 10 layers of clothing to examine the patient. Patients suffer from the effects of high altitude--I never knew that the polar ice is so thick the pole stands at 10,000 feet. <br />As darkness smothers the station, life becomes precarious, hanging by the thread of 4 generators which provide heat and light. The strain of spending long months coccooned with 40 other people takes its toll--some people become &quot;toast&quot;--withdrawing into music or the internet or staring into nothingness for long periods. The polies engage in what seems like an endless round of parties and hijinks to relieve the tedium. Some are rather dangerous, like the century challenge, involving running outside naked in 100 degree below zero weather and returning to run into a 100 degree sauna. Birthdays and  holidays become a very big deal. <br />It's hard to imagine how people survived in the station before the internet--although only available for a few hours a day polies stay in constant touch with families and friends. And medical advice dispensed over the internet and eventually through a live hook-up saves Jerri's life.<br />One wonders what kind of person chooses this life--the same people who sail across the ocean solo, or spend months on submarines, or withdraw to live in a hut on a mountaintop--or who will someday sign on for the first manned flight into deep space. This book gives a hint of what that might be like!<br />I listened to the audio version read by the author. Not a professional reader, the author mangles words occasionally and can get a bit whiny in parts. But she did an adequate job, and the story is interesting enough to hold one's interest on a long drive.	2003-11-22
US	52744964	R3A6X2Z1SW7UIR	0684836637	466629360	A People Adrift : The Crisis of the Roman Catholic Church in America	Books	5	27	36	N	N	Thoughtful and thought-provoking	Long standing New York Times journalist Peter Steinfels has produced in \\"A People Adrift\\" a very nuanced view of modern American Catholicism. As the title implies, Steinfels may be fairly placed in the liberal wing of the church, but his thoughtful analyses of various problems in the church and proposals for reform are as likely to disappoint radicals as they are to anger conservatives. Take his discussion of the sex scandal. While of course condemning the behavior involved, Steinfels casts a critical eye on his own profession, wondering whether the frenzy over the revelations was in part manufactured by the media's blurring of the time periods involved, lumping all of the crimes under the general category of pedophilia, and ignoring that this wasn't really new news but had been reported on 10 years earlier. But the church doesn't escape Steinfels' microscope either, as he details the public relations, legal and moral catastrophe the matter quickly became. <br />As a woman, I found Steinfels' views on women in the church particularly interesting. Although he neatly dismantles all the theological arguments for limiting the priesthood to women, he wonders if the problem isn't as much that decision-making and managerial power goes along with ordination. One wonders why the senior staff in many bishops' offices are all priests in what are often administrative jobs--especially given the priest shortage. He also proposes a dual solution, admitting women as deacons and into positions of authority. Perhaps then the power to say mass would be limited to just that, and seen as limited to men as a matter of tradition. Although this stance is unlikely to appeal to radicals in the church it represents a middle ground less fraught with theological problems.<br />Steinfels' first chapter contains an excellent statistical summary of where the church stands today, and it is immediately obvious the real success stories in terms of growth over the last four decades is in education andhealth care--not coincidentally areas which have transitioned to lay leadership. But he also examines the challenges of this change--exactly what does it mean to be a Catholic college where a substantial percentage of your students aren't Catholic, clerical professors are few and far between and your president is a lay person? Are Catholic hospitals unique in any way other than that they do not offer contraceptive and abortion services?<br />Carefully researched and informed by a decade of reporting, this book is well worth your time whatever political camp you find yourself in.	2003-11-15
US	52744964	R108A7F37293SP	081296683X	177795746	Girls' Poker Night: A Novel of High Stakes	Books	1	3	5	N	N	I've read this book before.....and didn't like it then....	This book felt like \\"Bridget Jones\\" all over again, without the obsessions with weight, alcohol and food. Ruby rather callously leaves her admittedly annoying boyfriend--who happens to want to marry her--and goes to New York, without the courtesy of telling him she's breaking up with him. Rather predictably she falls for her boss, and embarks on a rather odd relationship in which they don't talk much and only sporadically get together. I wondered what Michael--who seems like a good guy--saw in her, given the way she treats him, especially when she writes of a sexual encounter with another man in her column, and dumps him when he confides a secret in his past life without letting him tell the whole story. Of course Ruby has unresolved family issues, especially with her father, which prevent her from opening up to Michael or anyone else. The poker nights seemed weird to me too--the group of friends is a very mixed bunch--a suburban housewife with the perfect life, an abused executive secretary, a foreign model, a woman coming out of the closet--I couldn't figure out what such an unlikely group had in common. They didn't seem all that supportive to each other either. The ending was predictable--the only suspense was figuring out how Ruby was going to get there as I realized we only had a few more pages to go. This is definitely a twenty-thirty something chick book--and not one of the better ones.	2003-11-08
US	52744964	RH79G00V4VNWW	0375758771	197783362	The Glass Palace: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Southeast Asia epic	This lush novel spans a troubled 100 years in the history of Burma and India. Beginning with the overthrow of the last Burmese king as the British move into Burma, this novel tells the story of the Burmese royal family in exile; of Rajkumar, a young Burmese boy who through guts and risk-taking makes a fortune in the teak trade; of Dolly, the exquisitely beautiful maid in the royal household whom Rajkumar pursues and wins as his wife; of Uma, the wife of the British collector and custodian of the royal family. Roll on to pre-WWII India, where the next generation grapples with conflicting loyalties to Burma, India, the British, and other Asian countries, during the disaster of the war. Fast forward again to modern India and Burma, where Jaya, granddaughter of Rajkumar and Dolly, uncovers the story of the survivors of her family.<BR>&quot;The Glass Palace&quot; attempts to do a lot, and does it well. The portrayal of India and the British Empire is colorful and fascinating, particularly as WWII unfolds. The British decision to allow Indians to become officers, a seemingly enlightened move, leads to unexpected consequences, as the men resent reporting to one of their own, and the officers begin to question why India is paying for the defense of the Empire. The deal between England and India regarding WWII, i.e., Independence in return for fighting the war, was in reality extremely complicated, as some Indians align themselves with the Japanese, others remain loyal to the British, and yet others try to stake out independent ground. The random violence and cruelty of war as it destroys the lives of innocent civilians is harshly drawn here, as are the consequences of colonization for India.<BR>Given the scope, it is perhaps inevitable that something suffers, and in this case I found a number of the characters flat; we never know what Dolly really thinks about Rajkumar as he appears so many years after the fall of the Burmese royal family to claim her; several more minor characters, such as Arjun's friend Hardy, appear to be vehicles for presenting a political point of view rather than real people; and the multiple characters in this complex tale are easy to confuse. And the fast-forwarding that occurs in a few spots, most notably to get to modern Burma and Jaya's searching out of the reamining family members, is a bit jarring. <BR>But all in all this ambitious author has done a good job in presenting this complex story, against a backdrop many Westerners are not familiar with, in a highly readable, detailed, and entertaining fashion.	2003-10-25
US	52744964	R3K9NT9V8P6YW0	0316955132	826307525	Marjorie Morningstar	Books	5	15	19	N	N	A big, old-fashioned page turner	This Herman Wouk classic remains new and fresh even on re-reading many years later. It's the story of an exceptionally pretty and confident young Jewish woman during the 30's, solidly middle class, but burdened with just enough imagination to dream of something more than a nice young doctor and a house in the suburbs. The portrayal of the sexual mores of that time is wonderful--young women date madly, rarely form any kind of connection with the men in their lives, and spend a great deal of energy avoiding the fate worse than death--losing one's virginity before marriage. Marjorie's rebellion is relatively brief but intense--she falls in love with the mercurial Noel Airman who has himself rejected his own borgeoise background, pursues an acting career vigorously but unsuccessfully, and even does the forbidden--has sex before marriage. <BR>We're rooting for Marjorie to truly break out and be different, but it doesn't happen. After realizing that Noel isn't the one after all, she meets her man and marries, and adopts the conventional life, but not without paying a price for her youthful flings. Noel too pays a price, of a different sort--the genius is finally unmasked, and ends up in as conventional a situation as Marjorie.<BR>From the perspective of a 21st century professional woman who came of age in the 70's, it's hard to believe how much has changed in just a few decades. Was it really like this? was the double standard really so iron clad? <BR>Wouk was a great writer--this is not serious literature but it's several cuts above the mass market stuff churned out today. Wouk was also extremely versatile--who can forget \\"Winds of War\\" and \\"War and Remembrance.\\" My book club occasionally goes back to read some of these oldies but goodies and we're never disappointed--try it sometime!	2003-10-25
US	52744964	R17NE36X2WE493	0452284449	667500496	The Virgin Blue: A Novel	Books	3	5	5	N	N	&quot;Girl with a Pearl Earring&quot; fans will be disappointed	This first novel by Tracy Chevalier was apparently published only after &quot;Girl with a Pearl Earring&quot; became a best seller, and one can see why. The story of Ella Turner (really &quot;Tournier,&quot; we are told)is set in modern day France and the paralell story of Isabelle is set in the 16th century. Ella moves to France with her very likable husband Rick, and embarks on a search for her ancestors with the help of the local librarian. Ella begins to suffer nightmares that tie into the story of her ancestor Isabelle Tournier, a Catholic turned Huguenot, married to a cruel and abusive husband. As Ella becomes obsessed with the past, she pushes puzzled Rick away and delves into her dreams and uncovers the secrets of her ancestors.<BR>The book fails first and foremost due to the heroine, an extremely emotional, directionless young woman married to a nice, well-meaning guy who can't figure out what's going on. The historical background is quite interesting, but the paralells between Ella's life and that of 16th century Isabelle are fanciful and unrealistic. <BR>I give this book a 3 because it's reasonably well-written and I found the historical setting--the French Huguenots, the violence perpetrated by the Catholics, the flight to Switzerland, the role of superstition--quite fascinating. But don't expect anything on a par with &quot;Pearl Earring.&quot;	2003-10-25
US	52744964	R2F7YDJ4Q8B19H	0449912558	541384114	The Sparrow: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	For science fiction haters--and lovers	If science fiction isn't youir usual genre, don't be put off--this work is several cuts above usual science fiction fare. Radio signals are detected in outer space and the Jesuits--that's right--form an expedition and take off. The idea comes from the history of this Catholic order, who during the age of discovery several hundred years ago were often among the first Europeans to arrive in a foreign land--China, India, you name it. Russell tells a riveting story of a group of extremely talented men and women, who do everything in their power to learn the culture of the beings they meet, not interfere with the eco-system, trade peacefully, and merely report what they find. An innocent, helpful initiative, teaching the Runau how to grow food, leads unwittingly to disaster for all.<BR>The story takes two tracks--one relating the actual experiences of the explorers, the other relating hearings held many years later where the Superior General of the Jesuits tries to get to the bottom of what happened. What makes the story special is the wonderful fully developed characters, the story of the spiritual journey of Emilio Sandoz, the main character, as well as that of the Jesuits on the trip, Sophia Mendes, Jimmy and married couple Anne and George. Also included is a very frank look at the struggles of those who take the vow of celibacy.<BR>If I make this book sound too religious, it's not--if it sounds too science-fictiony, it's not--it's just a great read!	2003-10-07
US	52744964	R6GTFYGHG4X9N	0525946918	480484647	I'm Not Slowing Down: Winning My Battle with Osteoporosis	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Women over 50--a must read	This is an excellent, very current overview of this all too common disease and its treatment. Let's face it--we're all responsible for our own health, few of us use the same physician for our whole adult lives, and education is a must. Most of us are generally aware of this disease, but did you know: that hip fractures are really breaks in the femur neck, the top of the thigh bone? that there are several drugs out there to treat this, not just fosamax? that osteoporosis can result from lack of calcium or exercise during childhood? This book explains what those T-scores from your bone density test really mean. Lots of info here too on exercise and diet. A bit less interesting is the personal discussion from Ann Richards on her own life, but that doesn't mar this extremely useful work.	2003-09-30
US	52744964	R3RWJMV03NM2ZW	0385494327	214937180	Black Dogs: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Another tour de force from McEwan	Ian McEwan, one of my favorite novelists, has an uncanny way of creating a sense of forboding and fear from everyday events, and this book is no exception. In this case, we follow the story of June and Bernard, who marry in the wake of WWII, and are deeply in love. As young people they are idealistic and out to save the world, but quickly realize they are really going down two separate paths--Bernard is rational and political, June deeply intuitive and convinced of the reality of god and the spiritual in everyday life, as the result of a frightening incident that occurs at the very beginning of their marriage. These two sadly cannot live without--or with--each other. McEwan explores these two diametrically points of view, but betrays his own feelings too. McEwan clearly believes in the existence of evil--in everyday life, as portrayed in a terribly cruel incident between a parent and child in a restaurant, and in a mystical way, in the incident of the black dogs. But he also believes in healing and redemption--as June finds peace in her home, as Bernard suddenly realizes and is changed by his realization of the personal pain of war. We do not really know the truth of the incident of the dogs--an exagerration of a real incident, or the reality of overwhelming evil in the world. It doesn't matter--this is a beautifully written, thought-provoking work.	2003-09-30
US	52744964	R8CJHWVOTXLHC	0452283973	838675611	The Impressionist	Books	4	4	5	N	N	There is no Pran Nath...	This interesting debut by Hari Kunzru explores notions of culture, self and identity across a span of three continents--Asia, Western Europe and Africa. Kunzru has somehow managed to develop a riveting story around a most unappealing &quot;hero.&quot; Pran Nath is the obnoxious, spoiled, abusive son of a wealthy Indian who is expelled from his home when his true parentage is discovered--through a revelation by a servant trying to protect her daughter from this 15 year old's raging libido. Although the life into which Pran Nath is thrust is truly scary, it is hard to be sympathetic at first. But our young hero proves himself to be not only beautiful but a clever survivor, and he learns to survive first in a brothel, then as a plaything in the palace of a minor Indian price, then as the &quot;adopted&quot; son of a pair of wacky Scots missionaries. I thought Kunzru admirably captured the terror of Indian city streets, the decadence of the waning days of the Raj, the craziness of missionaries trying to convert people they have no understanding of. <br />Unlike other reviewers I thought Pran's life as Jonathan Bridgeman the most interesting. Kunzru's detailing of the rituals of the upper class English in the 20's was fascinating--the details of dress, speech and facial expression, the ceremony of cricket, the public school system are broadly satirized in an intriguing social commentary. Bridgeman's first love ends in a supremely ironic fashion, driving him to Africa as a research assistant to the father of his lost love. Again, this last part of the book portrays the English in a highly critical fashion--believing themselves to be the source of all civilization, they are arrogant, destructive and cruel. But our hero once again escapes, as the research party meets a grisly end.<br />Some readers feel the end of this book is empty and flat, but I think that's precisely the point. There is no Pran Nath, just as there is no Clive, Robert, Pretty Bobby, or Jonathan Bridgeman. This is a person whose true identity has always been hidden, unwittingly at first, then in order to survive. With all his false selves driven away, there is no true self left--the empty desert in the last scene echoes the emptiness of the person inside.<br />As a postscript, I litened to the unabridged audio version, read by the author. Most people are good writers or readers but rarely both, but this author/reader is an exception. Kunzru's recording of his first novel is excellent listening.	2003-09-27
US	52744964	RC5EC638E59D9	0141439556	363093333	Wuthering Heights (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Quite a different experience for an adult...	I picked this book up again some 35 years after reading it in high school, and what I found was quite different from what I remembered. Our &quot;cultural&quot; memory of this great English novel is that it is a story of romantic, wild passion, and unrequited love. No doubt our preconceptions are heavily influenced by the famous film made many years ago. The reality is quite different. Catherine is a rather vain and willful girl who rejects Heathcliff because of differences in their class and upbringing. Heathcliff is full of hatred and resentment despite the great kindness shown him by his master in adopting him literally off the street. There is nothing romantic about the relationship between these two--they hurt each other constantly despite their almost spiritual bond. After Catherine's death, which occurs only halfway through the book, things turn bleaker still, as Heathcliff wreaks revenge on all around him. The wild, harsh countryside and climate, beautifully evoked by Bronte, echo the violent emotions that drive the lives of the characters. How cruel these people are to each other--how hard is Heathcliff's heart that he hates Catherine's daughter most of all. I confess that I found the unrelieved bleakness hard to take at times, and the redemptive conclusion a bit contrived, but it's a great work of English literature nonetheless--and to imagine this book was written by a young woman with virtually no experience of the world!	2003-09-21
US	52744964	R27YAMX295CHRI	0676902243	88667594	Fodor's India, 4th Edition: The Guide for All Budgets, Completely Updated, with Many Maps and Travel Tips (Travel Guide)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	No one guide has it all...	When you're embarking on any big adventure, and India certainly is, you'd be foolish to rely on one guide, and this one is no exception. (Take a look at my review of Lonely Planet India). Fodor's is always pretty reliable when it comes to restaurants and hotels, especially if you're not a low budget traveller. Prices of course are usually out-of-date pretty quickly, and the exchange rate fluctuates all the time, but their &quot;$$$&quot; system gives a good idea of the relative costs of different places. I also like the &quot;star&quot; system highlighting sites to see--in a country chock-full of palaces, temples, forts, and natural wonders, it helps to prioritize if time is short. The maps of local areas are OK as you plan your trip, but of course no guide book has really good maps--pick one up as you arrive in a major city, and as you plan your itinerary around the country, a country map is critical. Fodors is, however, short on history and culture, and some reading before you go is critical. And remember--things change, particularly in a place like India--local knowledge from your hotel or guide (from a reputable company, not someone you stop on the street) is always the best bet.	2003-09-21
US	52744964	RNF1EWY8PEMXI	0670837024	646484022	India: A Million Mutinies Now	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	A must read for travelers	Nobel prize winner V.S. Naipaul's masterpiece on India is a must-read for any Westerner seeking a deeper understanding of India. Naipaul tells the story of this incredibly complex country person by person, through in-depth interviews of his subjects not on politics, culture or religion but on their personal lives. Naipaul tells the stories of a wide range of characters--a secretary to a prominent businessman, members of the Bombay underworld, a Marxist rebel. He tells the story of Amir, the descendant of the Raja of Mahmudabad, now living in the palace his ancestors had gotten from the British, lost after Partition, and regained after he became a successful Muslim politician in a Hindu area. And the story of Kakusthan, a modern man who returned to tradition and the life of a pure Brahmin, in a ghetto surrounded by a Muslim neighborhood. And the story of Ashok, who rejected an arranged marriage, managed to break into marketing as a career, and now struggled with the decline of the genteel, Anglo business world he had grown up in. Naipaul's great talent is in ferreting out the details of everyday life--what his people ate, wore, above all where they lived--often in tiny 10' by 10' rooms with wife and children. One comes away with a great appreciation of the notion of caste, so embedded in the society and culture for religious and non-religious alike. One also begins to appreciate what a struggle life in India is for everyone, especially those who live in cities. This book is full of stories of struggle--against tradition, to preserve tradition, between castes, between Hindu and Muslim--and of more down to earth struggles--to find a job, to find housing, to choose a career. Unfortunately Naipaul wasn't able to interview women with the ease he interviewed men--not surprising in this traditional society--and women appear only as shadowy wives and mothers in the narrative. But a great book nevertheless.	2003-09-21
US	52744964	R8HHGT206EB0D	076450052X	141753523	Word 97 for Windows for Dummies	Books	4	2	2	N	N	It helps---sometimes	Plenty of us are still using older version of Microsoft software, and if you're one of those this guide is as good as any. You may spend a little time searching for the answer but it's usually hidden somewhere. The book is helpful in steering neophytes away from fancy but overly complicated or even risky features.	2003-09-20
US	52744964	R1Q9WX19K5ON0M	1740594215	760080671	Lonely Planet India	Books	4	8	8	N	N	No one guide has it all....	One should never rely on just one source for a major adventure, as any trip to India is, and this very complete guide is no exception. This guide has excellent information on the history, culture and people of India, and the color section on Sacred India is a nice touch. It has lots of very practical information on what to bring, what you can and can't photograph, what to read before you go, how to avoid \\"cultural misunderstandings.\\" It's helpful for preparing people for the assault Westerners often experience--ask for directions and you have a friend/guide for life, often accompanied by a very aggressive demand for money. The health and safety information is also pretty good--except that they say that tap water in cities is OK to drink--ignore this advice! I find this guide limited in its retaurant and hotel selections, especially if you're not a low-budget or student traveller. Also, information changes constantly--internet cafes spring up and close overnight, new restaurants and hotels open up every day, and the political situation bears watching up until the day you leave. And of course no guide book has really good maps. But why limit yourself--the internet is chock full of information on this wonderful, confusing, fascinating country!	2003-09-20
US	52744964	RHNRJ48WV6HF8	0764502611	693829730	Windows 98 For Dummies	Books	4	3	4	N	N	There's no perfect computer guide.....	For people still using Windows 98 (which in the current worm- infested environment seems a distinct advantage) this book is about the best you can do. Explains basic stuff, has good illustrations, and if the book doesn't EXACTLY answer your question, with some searching you can usually figure it out. The big questions remain 1) why are these products so complicated and 2) why isn't Microsoft publishing the best guide? It's really too bad that the BEST sources of software tips are the Q&amp;A columns in newspapers.	2003-09-19
US	52744964	R33UKSH44CM4J2	0679724532	275081924	The Gnostic Gospels	Books	5	12	16	N	N	A Different Take on Christianity	Elaine Pagels is a highly reputed scholar who has devoted a lifetime to the study of the Nag Hammadi. In this very accessible yet detailed account, Pagels examines four basic principles of Christianity--the Resurrection, the Crucifixion, the notion of the church, and the role of women--and explains the alternative views of these issues presented in these &quot;hidden&quot; writings. Gnosticism was a less-centralized, more mystical approach to Christianity that emphasized the search for truth and knowledge in oneself. For this reason, gnostics disagreed that bishops and priests were the source of truth and that the Church was the path to Salvation. Gnostics were likely to have several different interpretations of an event like the Resurrection, and viewed all of these as legitimate paths to the true meaning. Gnostics also were more likely to recognize the feminine aspects of spirituality and give women a greater role in worship.<br />Many of these beliefs were labeled as heresy by the mainstream church and the gnostics were slowly supplanted by the Orthodox Christians. Pagels speculates at length on why the more mainstream beliefs won out, based upon the culture and politics of the time. These considerations in her view dictated which writings became the New Testament and which were repressed.<br />What is striking about this book is that the view of gnosticism Pagels presents seems very modern--the search for truth as an individual quest, the importance of women and their role, the rejection of hierarchy that has become so problematic in the modern Catholic Church. One wonders what would have happened if the decisions on which texts were correct and which were heresy had come out differently.<br />Pagels nevertheless views the establishment of the hierarchical Church as a positive development, and wonders if Christianity would have survived if the more mystical, less structured, individualized gnostic approach had won out. I'm not so sure--many of the world's greatreligions--Buddhism is a notable example--have survived for thousands of years in just this form. Pagels book is thought-provoking and extremely valuable for any student of Christianity, no matter where your personal views lie.	2003-09-03
US	52744964	R127GOGX9BY3IZ	0375504907	635066654	Reading Lolita in Tehran: A Memoir in Books	Books	5	30	35	N	N	Reading Nabokov, James, Austen, Fitzgerald	Azar Nafisi's memoir once again demonstrates the power of ideas in literature in an oppressive regime (think &quot;Balzac and the Little Chinese Seanstress&quot;). Nafisi is a western educated professor of English literature, who returns to Iran from the US and tries for a long time to live within the confines of the Iranian system. She is persuaded to teach at university and seems to have friends in high places who protect her even as her class explores ideas that aren't orthodox by the standards of the religious government. One senses she grew up in an influential and privileged family, but she doesn't provide much detail on her past. She does tell us of her days as a student activist, though, which she now sees as naively agitating for change without considering what would replace the Shah's government.<BR>Finding the environment too difficult, Nafisi finally stops teaching and forms a private class of favorite students, who meet in her home weekly to discuss what she used to teach publicly. The class quickly becomes much more than that, as the personal and political color all they discuss. The group finds parallels (some rather unlikely I thought) between famous heroines--Daisy Miller, Elizabeth Bennett, Lolita--and their own struggles. Nafisi uses &quot;Gatsby&quot; as a window on American culture, the love of money, the seductive and destructive nature of the &quot;American Dream.&quot; We see the divisions in the group itself, as one member wants to work within the system for her country and another dangerously flaunts traditional ways. The details of dress and behavior are fascinating--under their robes, these women wear jeans and T-shirts, Nike's and big earrings; letting a strand of hair escape from the veil becomes a political statement.<BR>Interspersed throughout is a lot of heavy literary criticism--it made me want ot read some of these classics again, but at the same time I was a bit lost during discussions of books I missed in college.<BR>Nafisi doesn't delve into her religious background and one senses she had a secular upbringing, but she sees the religious government as a tragedy for Islam. Just as Christianity has in the past been hijacked by those seeking political power, an excuse for war, or to cover up wrongdoing, so too is Islam being hijacked by men with a political agenda. This is a worthwhile and very timely book for those seeking a more sophisticated understanding of the Islamic world.	2003-09-02
US	52744964	RWL1C8YBIVFO5	0761119752	79115157	Pajama Time! (Boynton on Board)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Surprisinly good for a range of ages	I bought this book for my 2 1/2 year old nephew and was surprised to find out it is his seven year old sister's current favorite book! She likes to sing the words--try it--it's fun! Boynton is great for a child as soon as he or she \\"gets\\" the concept of being read to--and I'm still waiting to see when they start getting bored!	2003-08-22
US	52744964	R2VGOID7TQKT62	0762726601	220415465	Maritime Provinces Off the Beaten Path, 4th: A Guide to Unique Places (Off the Beaten Path Series)	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Excellent Guide	We used this guide for an individual trip (not a group tour)to Nova Scotia. Don't be misled by the title--it's a great book for mainstream tourists, focusing on the history and culture and sites, giving a lot more background than your standard Frommer's guide for example. At the end of each chapter there's a very limited list of hotels and restaurants, so you'll also want one of the standards--Frommer's for example, as a complement. Also, the Nova Scotia Tourism authority has GREAT free material and maps which are yours for the asking on their website.	2003-08-08
US	52744964	RZZQ0JHANHUI7	0764565982	640084478	Frommer's Nova Scotia, New Brunswick &amp; Prince Edward Island (Frommer's Complete Guides)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Good for basic stuff	This is your standard Frommer's guide, good for hotels and restaurants but short on local color. We found the reviews accurate and the information up-to-date. But to figure out where you'll really want to go and what you'd be interested in, this book won't help you much. We used the guide to the Maritime Provinces from the &quot;Off the Beaten Path&quot; series, which is totally different from the Frommer's--long on local color and history, but very little information on places to stay and eat. But these two guides together, plus the free information you can get from the Nova Scotia Tourism website, are all you'll need.	2003-08-08
US	52744964	R141QNMEPV5ZB5	1864501723	955728078	The Age of Kali: Indian Travels and Encounters	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Challenge Your Preconceptions	Dalrymple has the reputation of being one of the best Western writers today on India, and the reputation is well-deserved. This collection of essays written in the late 90's gives the Western reader a fresh look at this extraordinarily complex country, and pushes the reader into examining Western notions we take for granted. Take for example \\"Sati Mata,\\" an account of a young widow accepting suttee, suicide on her husband's funeral pyre. Surely no woman would choose to do such a thing, surely she was drugged and forced--or maybe not. Dalrymple's sensitive examination of this practice, long officially banned, and his description of the life this woman had ahead of her as a widow, makes us wonder. Or take his chapter on caste wars--he explains how caste bears little relationship to the Western notion of class, how to rise above one's caste not only disrupts society, but breaks the cosmic cycle. Dalrymple paints a painful picture of this often cruel and violent society, especially for women--how impossible it is to prove a charge of rape, how cruelly the widows of the holy city of Vrindavan are exploited. At the same time the portrayals of modern India, of its first rock star and a writer of pulp romances, are clever and funny.<br />This book made me wonder how such a society can ever become truly democratic, a system which relies so heavily on the autonomy of the individual, the equality of all, a fair system of justice. India boasts it is the largest democracy in the world, but the descriptions of politics in these essays cast serious doubt on that statement. At the same time the author reminds us that Hindu civilization is the only of the great ancient civilizations to survive--certain aspects of Hindu life remain unchanged from what they were during greek and Roman times. And ancient Hindu art and literature survive today and are part of daily life and tradition. It is hard for the Western mind--almost impossible for an American mind--to grasp such longevity.  <br/>Particularly troubling to a reader today are the chapters on Pakistan, our ally in the War on Terror. Dalrymple's description is of a completely corrupt, lawless and dangerous society, where strongmen rule and governments are easily toppled. Will Americans once again regret who we considered an ally in a moment of crisis?<br />One Amazon reviewer says this is a book for those who love and those who hate India. You may come away from it feeling both emotions.	2003-08-04
US	52744964	R21ELZE0HRTJOM	1582431434	812672159	Jigsaw: An Unsentimental Education	Books	5	35	35	N	N	An amazing life!	Sybille Bedford, a little known but fabulous 20th century author, has written one of the most searingly-honest semi-autobiographies I've ever read. Bedford's \\"Legacy\\" is the story of her father, written as a novel, about events that occurred long before her birth. \\"Jigsaw\\", which was short-listed for the Booker Prize, continues the tale, with the author as the major character with her mother. Although obviously based on real events, the book is nevertheless written in novelistic style, and her portrayal of life between the wars and those she knew is beautiful and very compelling. Bedford was born of upper class parents, in a milieu where people had money but no jobs, traveled around the continent for extended periods, and settled in other countries on a whim, in the days when passports and identity papers weren't necessary. Her parents divorced, the story opens with Bedford and her father living on the family estate given to her father by her mother as a settlement--surrounded by priceless antiques, but without any cash, they barter for food and the necessities of life. A lonely child, educated only by her father, knowing only adults, Bedford's life changes radically upon her father's death, and she finds herself in Italy, then France, with her beautiful, mercurial mother. Bedford turns a critical, sometimes even harsh, eye on her own behavior, berating herself for running away as a child, for an adolescent crush on another woman, for her guilt when her mother goes away and peace is restored at home. Bedford and her mother are part of the pre-WWII community of artists, writers and free-spirits who roamed Europe in the calm before the great storm of the next war--she inhabits a world where letters are delivered and a response received all in one day, where busses and cars are still a novelty, where servants stay on even without pay because they have nowhere else to go. Sexual experimentation is the norm--this book reminds the reader that \\"free love\\" wasn't discoveredin the 60's. One is keenly aware of the transience of this world, and shudders when Bedford's mother assures her that the lessons of The Great War were so horrible that there will never be another.<br />The tragic character in this book is the mother--one sees quickly that despite her intelligence her whole being is dependent on her ability to charm and attract men--when her second marriage goes awry the consequences are truly disastrous. The book ends abruptly at a crisis point in her mother's marriage when Bedford was 19 or 20--the reader says \\"But what happens next!?\\" I don't think there is any more--Bedford in the introduction says this is her last novel, and indeed she was in her late 80's when \\"Jigsaw\\" was published. Bedford deserves more recognition in the US--she is a premier European talent, and \\"Legacy\\" and \\"Jigsaw\\" are riveting stories.	2003-08-04
US	52744964	R2TOZKFHVI097	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	4	3	8	N	N	Perfect beach Book	This summer's hot bestseller is fast-paced, well-written and fun--just take it all with a grain of salt! Create a rather tweedy American professor, a gorgeous red-headed Italian detective and a bizarre murder, and you have the stuff of hundreds of mysteries--but toss in the current fad for art-related novels (&quot;Girl with the Pearl Earring&quot;) and interest in the seamier side of Catholicism, and you have a winner! The &quot;DaVinci Code&quot; presents a timeless theme, the search for the Holy Grail, as a search to uncover the truth about the sacred feminine in Catholicism, which the male dominated establishment Church has supressed for centuries. Brown's introductory footnote regarding the truth of much of the material in the novel overstates his case--even the most cursory search on the internet suggests that the facts are highly disputed, Brown's interpretations of Leonardo's work hardly mainstream, and even the existence of a group like the Priory of Sion is a lot murkier than the novel suggests. Much has been written about factual inaccuracies in the book--&quot;The Last Supper&quot; is not a fresco for example, and the &quot;Madonna of the Rocks&quot; is painted on wood, not canvas.<br />But never mind--it's a great read. The book will send you to the library to look at some of Leonardo's works again, and I'm sure there's already a big increase in tourists at Rosslyn Chapel in England and St. Sulpice in Paris, not to mention the Lourve. The action incredibly takes place all in 24 hours, and at the end all the villians but one get let off the hook in a rather simplistic conclusion, but don't let that spoil the fun. Brown has hit on a winning formula---one we're sure to see at the movies soon!	2003-08-04
US	52744964	R1BMDYSVYNTBXG	0671042181	960077538	Everything Scrabble	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Best how-to book	Along with the official third edition of the Scrabble dictionary, this is all you'll ever need to become a competent player. It's worth the price just to get the lists of 2-letter, then 3-letter add-on words. Lots of exercises if you're really into it. I play on the computer and have dramatically improved my score with this. As other reviewers have noted, just be sure the words listed are also in the official dictionary--they're not hard to spot and if you make a mistake and get challenged once you'll never forget to avoid them thereafter!	2003-07-29
US	52744964	RXB564XUD6YCR	039480029X	23889865	Hop on Pop  (I Can Read It All By Myself)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A classic!	Children have been reading and loving this book for what seems like forever! It is an abslutely perfect book for the \\"I'm on the verge of reading...\\" child. It's easy to follow and the rhyming format allows the child to sound out a great many words--it's a great confidence builder. The illustrations are silly and fun. Can't go wrong with this one.	2003-06-21
US	52744964	R2RFMN3XDJ1ICP	0027624455	853760870	Three Brave Women	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A bit too silly even for kids	This is a story of a grandmother, mother and daughter who conquer their fears of spiders and crawl under their house to catch one in a jar. The goal is to take the spider to Billy, a little boy who laughed at Caitlin's fears. The text is a little long for the simple plot, which I and my little niece both thought a bit silly. The line drawings are not that interesting. There are a lot of much better books out there for the 5-8 crowd	2003-06-21
US	52744964	R2M9XCSFKKLCI7	0374302995	37716964	And If the Moon Could Talk	Books	5	9	9	N	N	My Favorite Children's Book!	This is a fantastic child's book! It is gorgeously illustrated with mysterious, lush, beautiful night scenes; the text is rhythmic, soothing, subtle poetry of the highest quality. I've been reading this book to my niece for three years and she loves it still! When she was four I'd read it to her and she would get to \\"read\\" the refrain \\"And if the moon could talk\\" each time it appeared. When she was five and six she'd read it with ever-increasing ease as she learned to read; now that she's seven we alternate pages, but she still has her favorite parts she will not allow me to read--she insists on having those pages to herself. We imagine we live in the beautiful town, assigning houses to grandma, uncles, cousins. This is a book to treasure!	2003-06-21
US	52744964	RW2QY9BKZI7BF	0449906205	614534788	Legacies: A Chinese Mosaic	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Painful stories of the Cultural Revolution	Bao Lord's book is a montage of stories about her family and friends in China against first, the backdrop of the Cultural Revolution, and then Tienamen Square in 1989. There have been many books that have come out in the 1990's on the Cultural revolution, an unimaginably painful period of 10 years in China during which Mao Zedong turned the people against one another as a way of deflecting challenges to his own power. The country descended into chaos as the Red Guard, basically a group of millions of teenagers set loose, destroyed everything in its path. Thirty million people died during this period! It is hard to imagine living through what Bao Lord's characters have endured--betrayal by relatives and friends, the death of a child, imprisonment for no reason, torture, the destruction of education, art and culture--it goes on and on. Many of these stories are told in the characters' own words, transcribed from audio tapes sent to her by people who wanted their stories told. The stories of Bao Lord's own family are equally absorbing, especially of her grandmother, who defied tradition and paid the price.<br />I listened to the audio version of this book, read by the author. Generally I find that professional readers do a better job, but this book was an exception--Bao Lord reads with great emotion in a slightly inflected voice but otherwise no acccent. She does an excellent job. <br />Anyone traveling to China is well-advised to read several memoirs of modern China. It is easy to look at China today and see rapid modernization, signs of free enterprise, and a bustling economy. Books like Bao Lord's remind us that China has a long way to go.	2003-06-21
US	52744964	R36G2LDGB4F1YP	0789485222	663313397	My First Babies Bath Book (My First series)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A great way to start	Bath books are a great way to introduce books to kids at a very early age in a playful, fun environment. My two year old nephew \\"reads\\" this one in the bath two or three times and when he gets bored he pretends it's a boat and pushes it around the tub. The book has cute photos of toddlers getting ready for a bath and playing in the tub. Good for developing verbal skills too as he points to the pictures and says the words.	2003-06-21
US	52744964	RC5T3NJO8GNWO	0691020841	626468670	The Camphor Flame: Popular Hinduism and Society in India	Books	5	18	18	N	N	For expert and layman alike	Fuller's excellent work does a good job of making the complexities of Hinduism comprehensible even to a non-expert--not an easy task. The Hindu religion is of course not an institution in the Western sense, but rather a collection of beliefs and practices, ever-changing, in many cases highly local, and bewildering to the Western monotheistic mind with its &quot;330 million&quot; gods. Its complexities both drive and result from the infinite complexities of Indian society itself, and an understanding of Hinduism is crucial for any understanding of the country. I read the book in preparation for my second trip to India, and it made the experience infinitely more enjoyable and understandable. <br />Fuller's explanation of the principle of &quot;hierarchy&quot; as the underpinning for both Hinduism and Indian society as a whole was very enlightening, as one realizes that it is completely antithetical to Western thought which values individual freedom above all else. Particularly good is the description of the structure of Hindu worship, or &quot;puja,&quot; which despite its infinite variations Fuller contends consists of 16 (more or less) steps, of offerings and services to the deity. The description of the caste system, which bears almost no relationship to the Western notion of class, is excellent. Fuller's explanation of the concept of purity, and how it drives the status and treatment of women, is also very good. <br />More casual readers may feel a bit bogged down as later chapters explore more esoteric subjects such as devotionalism and village rituals. From a scholarly point of view, I'd say this book is at the college text level, and like college texts it gets more complex as you work your way through. But this work is more than worth it even if you focus on the first few chapters. Highly recommended!	2003-06-12
US	52744964	R2RKY7YI0GXOH	0670031844	55634223	White Mughals: Love and Betrayal in Eighteenth-Century India	Books	5	61	63	N	N	A different take on the British in India	\\"White Mughals\\" is a fascinating picture of the British in India at the turn of the 19th century, before the British notions of Empire were fully formed. The author focuses on the life of James Kirkpatrick, a representative of the \\"Company,\\" to explore the evolution of the British presence in India. Using the story of Kirkpatrick's marriage to a Mughal aristocrat as a touchstone, Dalrymple explores a different model for colonization. Kirkpatrick was the company's chief representative in Hyderabad, a Mughal kingdom. He admired and appreciated India's culture, customs and ancient learning, and quickly adapted to the Indian way of life. He was a gifted linguist and skilled diplomat, who successfully negotiated many thorny issues on behalf of the British with the rulers of Hyderabad. Kirkpatrick exemplified a European who believed that East and West could work together for the benefit of both, that the rulers at the time and the British could co-exist, that customs and culture could blend together.<br />Dalrymple has assembled a huge amount of information, much of which is primary source material never before examined, to support the fact that this blending of cultures was common at the time. As might be expected, many British had Indian mistresses, but more surprisingly, intermarriage was not uncommon, and for a Muslim woman, marriage to a Non-Muslim could only occur if the man converted to Islam, which some did, including Kirkpatrick. At the time the Indian rulers were Muslim, but they did not attempt the impossible task of converting the Hindu population, and as a result, the same blending of culture that was occuring between east and west occurred to some extent between Hindu and Muslim. The two religions co-existed for the most part peacefully, a situation that changed radically at the time of Indian independence. <br />Inevitably, the Company became ever more profitable and the British presence stronger, while at the same time the Mughal Empire began to crumble. Successive Governor-Generals reversed the trend, mixed race children became the targets of discrimination, and the remaining Mughal princes were forced into unfavorable agreements with the British. By the time of the Indian Mutiny in 1857, the notion of Empire, and a separation between the English and Indians, was largely complete, to last for almost 100 years.<br />Finishing the book, one wonders whether the model exemplified by a Kirkpatrick would have worked. Or is conflict between cultures inevitable?--certainly in our fractured world it seems to be. Dalrymple's work is well-written, well-researched, and very thought-provoking.	2003-06-11
US	52744964	R2OFR6GL735P43	0684826976	646280776	Undaunted Courage:  Meriwether Lewis, Thomas Jefferson, and the Opening of the American West	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Fascinating history	Stephen Ambrose does a fine job in this history of the classic Lewis and Clark expedition. Born of Thomas Jefferson's insatiable curiousity about the world and prophetic vision of the U.S. as a vast and powerful country, Lewis and Clark set out to head upriver on the Missouri and find the Northwest Passage, a dream of explorers for generations. Ambrose details the outfitting of the expedition, the assembling of the team, and key to his success, the recruiting of Clark, a man he did not know all that well. We follow the group up the river and into an area few Americans knew. The many maps are essential here--one can only appreciate the rigors of this trip when you realize how far north the river flows, almost as far as today's border with Canada. Traveling season was short and winter camps located in harsh, cold country. The accounts of Lewis' encounters with the Indians are especially interesting and amusing, great examples of how Americans patronized and underestimated the intelligence of these &quot;savages.&quot;<br />This expedition would have been successful enough if the only object was to reach the west coast. But Jefferson charged Lewis and Clark with forming alliances with the Indians, cataloguing the flora and fauna, and mapping the entire vast region. Although of course the Northwest Passage didn't exist, the scope of what the team did was enormous, and we know so much about it today because of the voluminous journals that were kept.<br />The end of the story is quite sad, however. Publishing the journals proved difficult, and Lewis' life deteriorated after a burst of fame on his return, for reasons not entirely clear. But he accomplished something under conditions that would be unthinkable today, and Ambrose ably conveys the challenges and hardship of this great adventure.	2003-06-01
US	52744964	R28C5D22WC555U	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Riveting!	This fabulous novel certainly deserved the Booker Prize, and is one of the best I've read in awhile, and impossible to put down. Pi is a young teen in the 1970's in India. His family runs a zoo, and early on he acquires an encyclopedic knowledge of animals of all kinds. In his spare time he also becomes a student and practitioner of several diverse religions--India is certainly the place to sample all the great faiths of the world. His family decides to emigrate to Canada, but never make it when their ship sinks, and Pi is the only human survivor--or is he? What follows is an extraordinary tale of courage and survival, of taking the forces of nature and working with them--in the form of a tiger named Richard Parker--rather than against them. Martell's writing, his descriptions of sky and sea and rain and sun, are magical. Pi's religious views do not sustain him in any conventional sense, but he views creation as mystical and powerful. As fabulous as this tale is, Martell forces us to suspend disbelief, as Pi survives a horrific storm, a carnivorous island, and an encounter with another murderous castaway.<BR>Pi is rescued of course, to encounter complete disbelief as the representatives of the shipping company attempt to discover what really happened to the ship. During the interview we are presented with another version of the story which at first blush seems more believable, although in many respects more horrible still. Suddenly the reader is doubtful--was this whole thing real at all? (Keeping in mind of course that this is a novel!) But then one asks--if the second &quot;believable&quot; story were true, would Pi in fact have survived? Think about it.	2003-06-01
US	52744964	R2PLXT0GHS0DR	038549730X	529809863	The Vine of Desire: A Novel	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A disappointing sequel	&quot;Sister of My Heart,&quot; to which &quot;Vine of Desire&quot; is the sequel, was a magical, wonderful story of two cousins set in India. Part mystery, part love story, part family saga, it would have been tough for the sequel to equal it. &quot;Vine of Desire&quot; starts off in the United States; Anju has moved here and Sudha is soon to follow, setting up the love triangle with Anju's husband, Sunil, that dominates the book. The author tries to cram into a few pages enough detail from the first book so it will all make sense, but I can't imagine diving into this one without having read the first--it would be quite difficult to understand the motivations and history of the characters. Southern California, where this story takes place, is far less exotic than the India of the first novel, and rather predictably the situation among the three main characters blows up and separates the sisters of the heart. The 'sisters' reunite rather shakily at the end, as Sudha prepares to go back to India, and the author neatly sets up the situation for yet another sequel. With three men in the picture--Sunil, Ashok and Lalit--and two women, we should get a happier ending next time around.	2003-05-19
US	52744964	RLPJF49VO3QE9	0802713955	139671172	Michelangelo and the Pope's Ceiling	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Fascinating slice of history	Ross King's story of the \\"Pope's ceiling\\" is much more than the history of the painitng of the Sistine Chapel, as fascinating as that is. Spanning only four years, this book is art history, military history, church history and more all in one. Michelangelo was a renowned sculptor, who at the beginning of the 16th century was commissioned by Julius II to create the grandest tomb the world had known. But Julius, the feared and volatile ruler of part of Italy as well as the Pope, changed his mind before Michelangelo started, and directed him to paint the chapel instead. Unskilled in the complicated fresco process, and bitterly disappointed, Michelangelo nevertheless has no choice and begins the project. King details the challenging job of preparing the walls, transferring the design to the plaster, quickly painting before the walls dry. The author debunks many of the stories that have grown up over the years--Michelangelo did not work alone but with a changing crew of assistants; he did not lie on his back but painted in a much more uncomfortable position--standing, looking up. <br />King also offers an intriguing look at the corrupt church of the time, as we recall that the chapel is being painted on the eve of the Protestant reformation. The pope is hardly a spiritual leader, but one prince among many, with the extra power of condemning his enemies to hell or granting forgiveness and absolution for sins. Julius spends more time warring with rival kingdoms than worrying about salvation, and one cannot help thinking of the many lives lost during these useless escapades. Julius fancies himself as the successor not only of the first pope Peter but of Christ himself, and his triumphant entry into conquered cities in a fashion reminiscent of Palm Sunday are colorfully described. The clergy are uneducated, poor and hardly living a life of holiness--the vow of chastity simply means one cannot marry, and as a result Rome is overrun with prostitutes. In a wonderful aside, Kingquotes from the writings of the young Martin Luther--overjoyed at the prospect of visiting Rome's holy shrines, he quickly sees the filth and corruption in the city, which no doubt deeply influenced his subsequent break with Rome. <br />King does a wonderful job describing the fresco itself, explaining the origins of the designs in history, the classics, and earlier art works. We also learn quite a bit about Raphael, a young likeable man about town compared to the grumpy Michelangelo. Raphael was painting the pope's apartments at the same time as Michelangelo was working on the ceiling, and King does a great job explaining the differences between these two great masters. Leonardo da Vinci, the older, acknowledged master, was also working at this time, and King refers to his works throughout. <br />Whatever one might say about Julius and the corruption of the time, the popes did much to nuture the flowering of the Renaissance, and they certainly knew their art! This book is highly recommended--the audio version is also very well done.	2003-05-19
US	52744964	R17WMT4HRQ4LS1	0375413634	70225414	The Emperor of Ocean Park	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Stick with Grisham/Turow	Stephen Carter is a well-known African American legal scholar, and this first novel, a legal mystery, offers an intriguing glimpse of upper middle class black society. It's well-written and gets off to a promising start, but bogs down pretty quickly, as the author tries to unravel the tangle of his father's life, and at the same time deal with an unfaithful and pretty nasty wife, his failures as a professor, impenetrable faculty politics, a crazy family, being frequently followed, and his anger at his own race. Carter's rather astute observations of this segment of American society are overwhelmed by a complex plot and multiple characters, and I was soon skimming through it just to get to the end, which I thought was fairly improbable. I kept thinking some of the plot lines were heading somewhere--that Talcott's self-obsessed, unfaithful wife, would end up being on his side, for example, or hand him the clue, or turn out to have been faithful after all--but no--she's as unlikeable at the end as she is at the beginning. And the mysterious Maxine--a new love interest perhaps? But she drops out as quickly as she dropped into the plot. If you're stuck in the airport you might pick it up, but if there's a Grisham or Turow you haven't read yet, go for that instead.	2003-05-19
US	52744964	R2EPWBRXCO2IVU	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	5	447	481	N	N	Beautiful!	\\"Bel Canto\\" is a beautifully written story of unlikely love and secret desires. Do not be put off by the barebones plot--a group of people at a party taken hostage by South American terrorists. And do not think you are in for a routine \\"put a bunch of strangers in a room and then learn their life stories\\" sort of saga. Patchett gathers together a group that spans nationalities, professions and class and reveals the hidden depths, sometimes in a few short pages, through their interactions with each other.<br />Take the Russian minister of commerce--portrayed as something of a buffoon who has fallen in love with Roxane, the opera singer. He screws up his courage to declare himself--which must be done through Gen, the translator. What he says to her is completely unexpected--a wonderful story of his childhood and an art book. He declares himself a man who appreciates beauty and therefore worthy to love her, and asks nothing in return. Meanwhile we see into the heart of Gen the translator, as he awkwardly acts as intermediary he realizes he has never told anyone that he loves them, not a woman, not family, not his mother--he feels as if his life has been to act as a conduit for the thoughts and feelings of others, that he has never experienced a real life of his own. Then there is the relationship of Mr. Hosokawa and Roxane, who do not share a common language. Is it possible to love a person to whom you cannot speak?<br />I loved the transformation of the characters that occurs--the Vice President of the country dreams of adopting one of the young terrorists and becoming a gardener, another terrorist uncovers his great gift as a singer, a buttoned up Japanese businessman becomes Roxane's accompianist, the young priest becomes a gifted and courageous spiritual counselor. The Generals become human too, worrying about their young soldiers as a close relative might worry about a child, and regretting recruiting them for this operation that has gone terribly wrong.<br />Like the hostages themselves, we get lulled by the harmony and unreality of life within the compound, yet as time passes Patchett delicately conveys a sense of impending doom through the Swiss Red Cross mediator, who himself longs to become a hostage after seeing the community that has been created within the walls of the Vice President's house. Patchett tells us at the beginning of the story what the end will be, and yet creates an aura of suspense as we realize that dreams of the future will never be fulfilled.<br />There is a surprise ending here that I wasn't sure rang true, but the book stands without it--a wonderful novel!he hostages themselves, we get lulled by the harmony and unreality of life within the compound, yet as time passes Patchett delicately conveys a sense of impending doom through the Swiss Red Cross mediator, who himself longs to become a hostage after seeing the community that has been created within the walls of the Vice President's house. Patchett tells us at the beginning of the story what the end will be, and yet creates an aura of suspense as we realize that dreams of the future will never be fulfilled. <BR>There is a surprise ending here that I wasn't sure rang true, but the book stands without it--a wonderful novel!	2003-05-14
US	52744964	R30W6DIB9IPLQR	0385494335	837058873	The Innocent: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A sad love story; a gruesome thriller	Award-winning author Ian McEwan packs a lot into this novel of post-WWII Berlin. An inhibited, proper, sheltered young Englishman, Leonard Markham, expert in low tech electronics, is assigned to a secret project involving tapping Russian phone lines. After hours he meets a German woman five years his senior and in one of the most compelling seduction scenes I've read in a long time, he's initiated into the world of passion. But things go terribly wrong, and Leonard loses his youth and passion as well as his innocence. <br />The title is interesting; unlike many reviewers I don't think Leonard loses his innocence when he arrives in Berlin and starts his work and finds his love, but much later. McEwan's works all explore the hidden depths of evil in men and women, and we see this emerge in Leonard as he begins to let his sexual fantasies overtake the lovely relationship he's found. But more importantly, he allows fear and cowardice to dictate his actions in covering up a murder. In the process he retreats from his lover and destroys the project he's labored on with his countrymen. This is the story of a person who finds love and purpose and throws it away, and that's the real loss of innocence McEwan portrays.	2003-04-28
US	52744964	RVPFZFDYWNO5	0312282990	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Heroes, Comic and Real	This Pulitzer Prize winner is set in pre-WWII New York City, at the dawn of the golden era of comic books. Two Jewish cousins, one a rather lonely schoolboy, the other a refugee from pre-war Prague, form an inspired partnership and create the \\"Escapist\\", a hero who fights Nazis in a time when Americans were struggling not to be drawn into the war while the President was covertly pushing the country into it. As someone not familiar with the comic book genre, I enjoyed the inside look at the business, how the characters were created, how women and sex were introduced into the mix, how community leaders objected to the corrupting influence of comics on youth--ironic given what kids are exposed to today! I found the story of Kavalier's attempts to get his brother out of Prague in advance of the slaughter moving without overwhelming this fascinating, funny, touching story. <br />My only beef is that at 650 pages it is too long, and like many other recent American literary novels, it could have used a good editor. Think \\"Staggering Genius\\" by Eggars, \\"The Corrections\\" by Frazen, \\"Little Friend\\" by Tartt. The best and brightest of our young novelists seem compelled to show off their literary skills with multiple story lines, numerous characters, and loads of intricate background description. Kavalier's war experiences are a case in point--a story set within a story, they are a literary tour de force--incredible, imaginative, and shocking--but completely unrelated to what goes before and after. Whatever happened to the good, clean, 350 page, \\"couldn't put it down\\" novel? Having said that \\"Kavalier and Clay\\" is one of the better ones--you'll enjoy it!	2003-04-05
US	52744964	RAXWW1OKQ2TCK	0375707425	580961678	Embers	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Elegantly Written	This lovely book has been rediscovered after being out of print for many years. The author survived WWII only to have his work suppressed by the Communists in Hungary for many years. The author writes of two men, once best friends, who meet one last time on the eve of WWII after a hiatus of 41 years. The story itself harkens back to an earlier era, the years prior to WWII as the Austro-Hungarian empire fades and the brutal 20th century dawns. The historical background is suggested, not explored in detail, but knowing what is coming gives special poignancy to the discussions of friendship, honor, trust and love which form the novel's core. It's hard to say more without being a spoiler--suffice it to say that this slim beautifully written story proves that one need not churn out 500 pages to create a masterpiece. I give this one 4 stars only because I was uncomfortable with the notion that only men can enjoy the type of relationship that the narrator thought he once had with his friend. But the plot is riveting and you will reflect on the ending for a while. A great find.	2003-04-03
US	52744964	R194HTYT0EX4WC	0385722206	749687762	Balzac and the Little Chinese Seamstress: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Power of Ideas	This lovely book takes place during the Cultural Revolution in China. Some speculate that Mao sent every intellectual he could find to the hinterland to throw the country into chaos and weaken his enemies; others believe he truly idealized the peasants and wanted everyone to return to their &quot;roots.&quot; Whatever his motive, it was a time of tremendous brutality; opposition was crushed, &quot;subversives&quot; were identified on the basis of an accusation by a neighbor or friend, schools were closed, social institutions withered, and teenagers were sent into the countryside to undertake backbreaking, demeaning work for which they were ill-prepared. Famine and complete disintegration of industry followed.<br />The book does not delve into this background, but it is good to know something about it to truly understand the intellectual poverty in which these two young men lived, the power of their discovery of the book, and their feverish pursuit of the rest of the contents of the mysterious suitcase. The author beautifully describes the countryside, the backbreaking labor, the surreal world where the title of a piece of Western music can be changed to include the words &quot;Chairman Mao&quot; and it suddenly becomes acceptable. The body can withstand a lot if the mind stays alive, and although the seamstress escapes and the two young men are left behind, one senses they will survive. This is a lovely, serious, funny and endearing story all at once--highly recommended.	2003-04-03
US	52744964	R18IKJKIRURJ8Y	0679439382	39256491	The Little Friend	Books	3	4	7	N	N	A disappointment	Readers of Tartt's first book, the page-turner &quot;The Secret History,&quot; will be pretty disappointed with this eagerly-awaited second novel. A mystery is set up at the beginning--who killed Harriet's brother some 10 years ago? Tartt then takes us through 500+ pages of lush description of the South, very well written but there's just too much of it. Like many other readers I bogged down after the first 200 pages or so and only picked it up again when my book club date was looming. <br />The second half was better--the long-suffering family housekeeper departs in a painful episode, and we see Harriet struggling with, one the one hand, childish anger and, on the other, very real anguish and regret that she has permanently discarded the most important relationship in her life. During this time she also loses her best friend Hely to the distractions of early adolescence. Tartt paints a very painful picture of a child who becomes increasingly isolated and sinks deeper and deeper into her obsession with the Ratliffs. Probably due to the length of the book, I forgot why she had decided who the &quot;killer&quot; was--it is sad that by the end she has forgotten too.  <br />Like many reviewers, I too thought the author didn't wrap it up in any way. But the book left me thinking about what would happen to Harriet. It is clear that the illness diagnosis we get on the second to last page is going to be the least of Harriet's problems--what this child goes through undoubtedly leaves her scarred for life, and the illness probably will be viewed mistakenly as the root cause of whatever problems follow. But these musings aren't enough pay-off for slogging through this one.	2003-03-13
US	52744964	R3KCU27TLVK354	0670894435	161317772	Virginia Woolf (Penguin Lives)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Memoir, not biography	This book is a personal, quirky memoir by the son of Virginia Woolf's lover Vita Sackville-West. The author does not attempt an objective, complete study of Woolf's life, which is a disappointment if that's what you're looking for. Rather, he draws on his own personal recollections of Woolf during his childhood and those of Woolf's contemporaries. Although interesting, I felt a lot was missing--if you are not very familiar with the Bloomsbury circle you will find the many references to people who moved in and out of that orbit over the years confusing. And the author offers no explanation or insight into the mental illness Woolf strugglesd with her entire life. As a result, her suicide seems to come out of the blue. This book is an interesting look at an interesting woman, but shouldn't be the first thing you read about Woolf.	2003-02-05
US	52744964	R2H6T3302SM9E9	0028621328	223639605	The Official Scrabble Word-Finder	Books	1	27	28	N	N	Not helpful	I found this book to be close to useless--extremely hard to figure out how it's supposed to be organized, close to impossible to find anything.	2003-01-04
US	52744964	R1GDITMPHXUQGK	0671734563	548117368	Scrabble Word Building Book	Books	3	24	25	N	N	Use as a supplement only	I use this book to occasionally jog my memory or generate an idea for an add-on word if I'm stuck. The pages are clearly laid out and well-organized. But purists complain some of the &quot;definitive&quot; lists are out-of-date and incomplete.	2003-01-04
US	52744964	RH0G54WRESOHN	0316084905	2195924	Athenais: The Life of Louis XIV's Mistress, the Real Queen of France	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Fascinating look at life at court	Having enjoyed the recently published &quot;Versailles,&quot; the fictionalized autobiography of Marie-Antoinnette, a friend gave me this for Christmas. But this is a very different book--a very well-researched, scholarly work on the court of Louis XIV. The character of La Montespan is interesting enough, although a little hard to understand fully due to the lack of primary source material--i.e., her letters. Rather, I found this book fascinating for its details of court life. Being the King's mistress was not always easy--it was a confined life, yet one was constantly on public display and the subject of constant intrigue. One always had to preserve the fiction of beauty, youth, and passion. Pregnancy, although frequent, was hidden; after a birth the barely recovered mistress is compelled to appear before the court that very evening in full court dress. Children are whisked away and kept out of sight. Accompanying the King into battle was also part of one's duties, and this meant long, cold, rigorous rides in open carriages without interruption for anything, including meals and the call of nature.<br />The court was ultimately a device for the King to retain a tight grip on power--physical presence was an absolute requirement for access to the privileges of aristocratic rank--for the King to say &quot;I haven't seen him&quot; was a fatal blow. Requiring attendance at all times was a way of keeping unruly nobles under control and within sight. Living at court didn't mean living in luxury--one fought for a clean corner to sleep, causing aristocrats to spend huge sums builing homes near Versailles, not to mention he spending on the necessities to keep up appearances--clothes, jewels, carriages.<br />It is hard to get a grip on what these people were really thinking as they led this unbelievably artificial and uncomfortable life. In an interesting footnote the author explains why surviving letters are often unreliable--they were often written for public or posterity or the King's spies consumption.<br />Read this book for a fascinating glimpse of the era. As other reviewers note, it is uneven in spots, and you can get lost in the tangled relationships, the titles of the aristocracy, and the endless plots. If you're willing to breeze through some of the endless detail, it's a great read.or the King's spies consumption.<br />Read this book for a fascinating glimpse of the era. As other reviewers note, it is uneven in spots, and you can get lost in the tangled relationships, the titles of the aristocracy, and the endless plots. If you're willing to breeze through some of the endless detail, it's a great read.	2003-01-04
US	52744964	R27H8S88JI88OY	0877799156	211621092	The Official Scrabble Players Dictionary (Third Edition)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The one and only	What more is there to say? A must have if you play anything other than the most rudimentary game. We also use this book as the definitive source for Big Boggle (which, by the way, for you word game afficionados, has been reissued after being unavailable for many years).	2003-01-04
US	52744964	R1ZATRD64JE9OF	038548951X	764861011	Sister of My Heart: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	What a pleasure!	This story of two &quot;sisters&quot; growing up in a crumbling, traditional Indian household, sheltered from the modern world around them, is a real page turner. Divakaruni creates a world of 5 women, the three older ones widowed, the two younger about to embark on marriage, in tiny detail--we experience the food they eat, the lushness of the overgrown garden, the delicate saris, the dust of the streets, the giddy passion of first love and strength of real love. The plot, concerning several dark family secrets, is riveting in its many twists and turns. The relationship of the sisters is beautifully drawn. <br />From a cultural standpoint, the picture of a world where women's lives are so totally dictated by their relationship to a man is fascinating. We all know of arranged marriages, but equally important is the power a mother-in-law wields over her new daughter, not to mention her son. No aspect of the newly married couple's lives are beyond her influence, from dress to family visits to travel to childbearing. And even in modern India among middle class people, the weight of tradition in valuing sons over daughters is enough to ruin lives.<br />The plot may be a bit fanciful in spots and one can quarrel with the choices some of the characters make, as well as the feminist sentiments that suddenly start to drive the sisters' actions. But the story is wonderful--the scene where Sudha wakes her sister from the depths of despair and depression with a story, reminiscent of their childhood, moved me to tears. This one is well worth your while!	2002-12-16
US	52744964	RMK2Q8U49P0JV	0618039694	398568910	July, July: A Novel	Books	3	13	15	N	N	What a disappointment!	I've heard a lot of great things about Tim O'Brien and read his stories in \\"The New Yorker,\\" so I was pleased when my book club chose this novel. I have to try another of his books, however, because this can't be a good example of O'Brien's work. I found the premise of this book unrealistic and boring. A group of very different personalities is brought together at a 30th college reunion. They seem interested only in drinking a truly extraordinary amout of alcohol, ... putting long lost romances to bed (literally and figuratively!)and commiserating about their horrible lives. No one seems to have a spouse or kids they care about, fulfilling careers, or any interests whatsoever other than what happened 30 years before. I kept getting the characters confused, no doubt because I found it hard to care about any of them.<br />O'Brien is no doubt a fine writer--I read the chapter \\"Nogales\\" in the New Yorker several years ago and remember it vividly to this day. Same for \\"Too Skinny\\", the story of an obese man who sheds his weight and finds he can't live with the new person he has become. These chapters stand alone as riveting portraits of people whose lives have gone terribly wrong. But the \\"reunion\\" as a device to pull it together is forced, and the weight of so many messed up people in one place at one time is hard to take.	2002-12-16
US	52744964	RA2WQHJKTO6NK	039592720X	658159771	Interpreter of Maladies	Books	5	29	31	N	N	A well-deserved Pulitzer	It's hard to believe that &quot;Interpreter of Maladies&quot; is a first book, it is so beautifully and subtly written. Lahiri reveals the deepest feelings, emotions and motivations of her characters seemingly effortlessly; with a few simple startling details she suddenly reveals all.<br />I loved &quot;Mrs. Sen&quot; for example. An American boy goes to the house of an Indian woman every day after school until his mother returns from work. Nothing seems very remarkable until one day Mrs. Sen looks up and asks if &quot;I began to scream right now at the top of my lungs would someone come?&quot; Suddenly we realize the despair and loneliness of a woman far from home, struggling to adapt, who longs for nothing more than a fresh fish to cook. And immediately after this outburst the young boy thinks of his own home, and Labor Day, and a party he and his mother did not attend. In a few quick sentences we realize that Mrs. Sen and Elliot's mother share similar fates, are equally isolated and alone. But in this sad story neither is redeemed.<br />Even more sad, in a very different way, is &quot;A Real Durwan,&quot; the story of an irritable old woman in Calcutta who nevertheless becomes part of a community by her helpfulness, until a scapegoat is needed and she is expelled. How cruel human beings can be to the weak!<br />I also liked &quot;This Blessed House&quot;, a wonderful story about the bewilderment of a man who has entered into an arranged marriage and starts discovering the woman who is his wife--we read a lot about such marriages from the woman's point of view, but what about the man's? It is only through the eyes of friends at a party that he sees his wife as she is and love begins to grow.<br />There's nothing dramatic about the plots here, no twists and turns and surprises. Just wonderful writing and powerful glimpses into the heart.	2002-12-16
US	52744964	R3JYMO138MC402	0156711427	842807821	A Passage to India	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Before its Time	This classic by E. M. Forster was written in 1924 but could have been written today, for its complexity of viewpoint on the issues of empire, race, cultural divides, and the possibility or impossibility of friendship under those conditions. I found Forster's viewpoint quite modern--there are no good guys or bad guys in this book, just human beings, some hopelessly blind to anything that doesn't fit with their world view, some bumbling along in an effort to break the stereotypes, some honest, some not. <br />Two Englishwomen arrive in India and resolve to experience it without the prejudices their compatriots exhibit. The picture Forster paints of the relationship between the English and the Indians, and how the English change once they arrive, is quite compelling. The English are masters of the subtle put-down, avoidance of eye contact, keeping staff waiting. They smile indulgently at the ladies' desire to meet real Indians and experience the country, knowing they will change quickly. A trip to the Marabar caves turns into a disaster, quite predictable, with everyone accusing Aziz, their escort, of assaulting Miss Questead. No one knows what really happened. <br />Miss Questead changes her story at trial and Aziz goes free. But no one knows how to handle this unexpected turn of events. One would think things would go back to status quo. But the trial has unearthed all the conflicting feelings the races have for each other--the English are convinced of Aziz' guilt based solely on the fact that he's Indian, the Indians are confirmed in their view that the English cannot be trusted. Miss Questead is ostracized for telling the truth, the Indians break off    their small attempts to form friendships with their occupiers. Aziz retreats from all contact with the English and irrationally suspects his only English friend of betrayal. <br />In the end both sides retreat, but ominous signs of a profound conflict to come are all around them. Knowing the history, we see that theeventual ouster of the English is inevitable--what is amazing is that Forster saw it more than 20 years before it happened.	2002-12-08
US	52744964	R388ZMMLZJ5LC9	0060289333	40766083	The Stray Dog: From a True Story by Reiko Sassa	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A winner	This lovely book, a true story, spans several age groups--2 year olds can respond to pictures of the puppy, the family, the picnic, while older kids can relate to missing the dog during the week and the children's successful effort to claim him as their own. The author uses simple enough language for beginning readers without being simplistic, accompanied by excellent color illustrations. The Caldecott prize is well-deserved.	2002-11-20
US	52744964	R1A2ABF18LGVHU	0671493205	118421329	Blue Hat, Green Hat (Boynton on Board)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A great first book!	This very cute book is a perfect \\"first\\"--my 22 month old nephew loves it--the rhythm, the \\"ooops!\\" on every page. Meanwhile the 4 year old can \\"read\\" it to him by looking at the pictures. Great!	2002-11-02
US	52744964	R6OCGX3TJ6XPD	0312421273	647099960	The Corrections: A Novel	Books	3	6	7	N	N	So uneven!	Is the test of a good novel that it excites so many different opinions? If so I suppose this is a great American novel--but I struggled with how to rate this one and in a sense copped out by giving it a 3. Some reviewers have raved that this is the first great American novel of the 21st century--maybe that's so but I predict it will be quickly eclipsed by others with a lot more staying power. The novel vividly creates several not very admirable aspects of contemporary upper middle class America--the greed of the stock market boom, the self-indulgent college professor who self destructs by getting involved with a student far more mature than he is, the craziness of post-Soviet society in the Baltics, sexuality that destroys rather than liberates. But it already feels dated! <br />Remember \\"Bonfire of the Vanities?\\" We loved it--for about a year. But would you read it today? Probably not, except as a remnant of the late 80's culture of Wall Street. <br />But Franzen has the talent to do more. I found his minute examination of family life riveting. As the father slips into dementia, we learn of his earlier life--a cruel man, tortured by a warped view of sexuality--a legacy unknowingly passed on to his son. We get tantalizing glimpses of HIS parents--a father more cruel than he has become. The scene where he forces his little son to sit--and sit--and sit--at the dinner table until he finishes his meal was breathtaking in its commonplace cruelty. At the same time we find out late in the book that he made an enormous sacrifice to save his daughter from the consequences of her own foolishness. <br />There are other examples. Franzen is much better when he stops trying to be clever and sticks to the timeless themes--love, old age, children and parents. He can do it!	2002-11-02
US	52744964	RVKEU5XN0AUG7	0763604143	258739532	Baby Angels: Board Book	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Lovely, sweet ,soothing	A great first book. My 22 month old nephew loves the rhythm, the baby pictures, the \\"uh-oh!\\" as the baby climbs out of the crib. Parents and aunts like it too, which is a good thing as your baby will insist on having it read to him or her a minimum of 5 times in a row each time you pick it up!	2002-11-02
US	52744964	R3Q14XGPVUAJC1	0671646575	772203017	Heat and Dust	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Evocative but contrived	I needn't repeat the story here--very briefly, the author creates two women's lives, one the wife of a British colonial officer in the 1920's, the other his grand niece who returns to India 50 years later to unravel the mystery of Olivia, the officer's wife who ran away with an Indian prince. To understand the historical background, it helps to know that British India was in fact governed in two ways--the British controlled part of the country directly, but at least half of India was still under the rule of Indian princes, who were granted an allowance by the British who expected them to maintain order in their states. The Nawab was one of these princes.<br />From a historical point of view the novel was fascinating in describing the lives of the British as the Empire disintegrated--their kindly arrogance, their isolation from the people, the idleness of their families. No wonder Olivia was lured away! And the Nawab's life was worse--we see him resorting to crime and extortion to maintain his luxurious life-style as ethnic conflict swirls around him. <br />This work won the Booker prize. But from a novelistic point of view it left me unsatisfied. Rather improbably, the two women follow paralell paths, each becoming pregnant as a result of affairs with Indian men. Olivia ends up sequestered in a house maintained for her by the Nawab in the mountains--it seems that she is totally alone, not even having a relationship with him. Douglas' niece also ends up heading toward the mountains, but to a very different kind of life, one that promises spiritual and personal fulfillment. <br />Is she \\"redeeming\\" Olivia's life through her different choices? Has she made peace with India, in contrast to Olivia, who let it destroy her? Perhaps this is the rather clumsy point. I enjoyed this novel, and you will too, for its historical perspective and description of life in India during two very different periods, although separated by only 50 years. The plot is contrived but don't letthat bother you.	2002-11-02
US	52744964	RI2R9II16WKJL	039573097X	824404680	Indira: The Life of Indira Nehru Gandhi	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Riveting!	I found this book to be an absolutely fascinating introduction to 20th century Indian history through the story of an absolutely fascinating woman. Indira's early years as part of the most prominent family in India post-independence were chaotic--her education was haphazard, her health very poor, her sense of security forever damaged by periodic visits to jail by her father and even once by her tubercular mother. Her life goals were confused--she longed for anonymity as those around her pushed her into the limelight. Her marriage was troubled and she had children against the advice of her doctors.<br />Indira's political life began in my opinion with her decision to separate from her husband and live with her father and become his \\"right hand woman,\\" plus the advent of anti-biotics which cured her own TB for good. She became strong and accustomed to power, but never overcame the fear and suspicion of others and fear of disorder which so tragically played itself out in her own political career. <br />This book is over-sympathetic to Indira during her years in power. Taking advantage of certain constitutional provisions which thank god have no equivalent in the US, she systematically dismantled local governments which were the backbone of this country that is fractured by ethnic and religious conflict. She surrounded herself with loyal but not very wise men, and as the older generation of politicians retired from public life, a new generation of leadership failed to emerge in the corrupt, authoritarian atmosphere she created. She allowed her son Sanjay to roam uncontrolled and sat by as he knocked off enemies, took enormous bribes and payoffs, and perpetrated some of the worst injustices of the Emergency. She was voted out of office in 1977 but amazingly voted back in in 1980, in part because her years in power had allowed her to keep the opposition weak, disorganized and divided. <br />In fairness Indira was faced with intractable problems--conflict in Assam, Sri Lanka and Kashmir, war with Pakistan, unimaginable poverty, illiteracy, Muslim-Hindu strife, the caste system and the tragedy of untouchability, drought and famine. Unfortunately her reaction to these was to eliminate opposition and protect her own position, and in later years do nothing as she was overwhelmed by paranoia and a clear sense of her own imminent assasination. <br />And yet the people loved her. On a recent visit to India I visited Gandhi's house and the garden where he was assinated--it was peaceful and uncrowded. Meanwhile long lines awaited those seeking admission to the garden where Indira was killed and her memorial. She styled herself \\"Mother India,\\" and was idolized by the poor. She spoke to their needs but tragically did little to help them. <br />I would highly recommend this book to anyone interested in Indira, or those looking to gain some understanding of the modern history of India.	2002-10-28
US	52744964	R2P95O6VY78IY8	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A compelling read	David McCullough was blessed in his choice of subject. The Adams family's position at the center of the new America spanned a period of over 60 years, and their voluminous, literate and perceptive correspondence makes possible a recreation of a time and place with a level of personal detail that would not be possible today. The richness of detail and candor expressed in the letters throughout is remarkable, and it lead me to reflect on our current practice of considering all politician's papers subject to public scrutiny. In an era where a letter to a close friend or a diary can be suject to subpoena, no one in his or her right mind would write letters as Adams and others of his time did. What a loss for historians of the future!<br />The book presents lots of food for thought; some of the highlights for me were the following:<br />McCullough's description of the founding of the US describes in brilliant detail the almost overwhelming odds against the success of the new country. There was no model in the world at the time for what was ultimately achieved as a form of government. England of course had a representative Parliament but the power of the monarch was still very strong. Adams' and the other founders' deep knowledge of the classic political theorists was critical to developing the Constitution in the form it exists to this day. <br />The founders were a pretty colorful group. The portrait of Franklin was amazing; the myth is of a scientist and dispenser of homespun wisdom; the reality was a man who loved the luxury of the French court, fit brilliantly into the decadent French society of the time; a charmer with less substance than meets the eye. Jefferson was also an extremely complex character. He too loved France, and spent his whole life on the verge of financial ruin due to extravagant purchases of furniture, books and art. Jefferson's personal life was complex--he was apparently devoted to his wife about whom little is known, and who died early. Thereafter the issue of Sally Hemings and others is murky, but one would expect that he did not live as a celibate for the rest of his long life. Portraits of Hamilton, Burr and others are also fascinating. The lives of these men illustrates for me at least that one can separate the personal and the political--these men were brilliant in many ways, and made outstanding contributions to their country, but in this day and age they'd be run out of town due to the issues in their personal lives.<br />Adams personally was blessed with an extraordinary marriage. Abigail was intelligent, perceptive, highly educated, and a woman of strong opinions. Throughout long separations their relationship was kept alive through their remarkable letters. JQAdams was also a remarkable character--it is as if his father was unconsciously preparing him from an early age for the Presidency as well. One is struck by how parochial the Founders were as a group. The Adams, father and son, were a notable exception due to their long service in Europe.<br />The details of everyday life are not ignored by McCullough. Extremely serious illness was a fact of life--malaria, typhus, yellow fever killed off hundreds every year. The Adams' were a pretty hardy group, but even they were often laid low by mysterious illnesses for long periods of time. The elements were a constant challenge--blizzards, heat waves, frigid winters had an impact on life that is hard to imagine today. <br />Although not a focus, the issue of slavery comes up often in the book. From the very beginning it was an intensely divisive issue, and threatened the formation of a \\"united\\" states. Jefferson's views on slavery sharply conflicted with his actions, as did many others. It is easy to see how this problem erupted into civil war. <br />One odd omisssion in the book is the lack of any mention whatsoever of the Bill of Rights, which itself was a contentious issue and as we all know was not part of the original constitution. Jefferson's work on religious freedom in Virginia is mentioned, but the big picture at the federal level ignored. Was Adams a participant in that debate? Hard to imagine that he wasn't unless his assignments in Europe removed him from the scene. Nevertheless, he must have had views on the issue of civil liberties, expressed in his letters, but the book leaves us in the dark on this point.<br />Be prepared to make a commitment of time if you read this book. It is long and dense, but highly readable with many light moments. It's well worth your while.	2002-07-24
US	52744964	R2EDDOLPB9C8HC	1578260817	905751323	Alternatives to Abstinence: A New Look at Alcoholism and the Choices in Treatment	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Well-researched, dispassionate	This relatively recent compilation of treatment methods for alcoholism is a well-researched summary of alternatives to the popular AA-style abstinence method. The book has an agenda, as will any work on this subject--Ogilvie asks why, in a world where medical treatments are increasingly being tailored to fit the individual, treatment methods for alcoholism other than complete abstinence are so controversial. A very useful resource.	2002-07-18
US	52744964	R35RXUN6DPF9X1	1573229105	302777172	Sister India	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Most timely	This novel's tale of Hindu-Muslim violence on the banks of the Ganges is unfortunately all too real. If you are interested in India read this book for its evocation of India, its culture and customs, and an understanding of its current problems, rather than for character development or plot. <br />The tale begins with a murder that occurs when violence erupts between Hindu and Muslim over what was probably a chance encounter--a bumping, a curse in the market, some casual rudeness. As a result several tourists are marooned due to a city-wide curfew in the guesthouse of Madame Natranja, an American who has lived in India for many years. Using a classic literary device, these strangers come to know each other and confront the demons within themselves. I found this device a bit clumsy at times, as the author hints at story lines but doesn't develop them---for example, we never really understand what's going on in TJ's marriage, and Jill's mental problems (obsessive-compulsive disorder most likely) seem totally at odds with her daring sojourns in what is a chaotic and dirty city by any standards. The ending is also a bit contrived--the plot touches on many complex issues which would take a long time to unravel, and Payne tries to neatly tie them up in a redemptive conclusion that really resolves very little.<br />The beauty of this book, however, lies in the picture it paints of the holy city Varanasi. The thought of burning bodies in the open with remains being swept away by the river, and the ritual bathing that occurs in that same river every day at dawn, is one that repels at first, but Payne's descriptions of the prayers, the chanting, the light, the deeply held beliefs, begins to make this slice of India comprehesible to an American. Payne also vividly describes the city itself--the press of human bodies, the claustrophobic alleys, the traffic, the dirt--in most realistic terms. I gather the author is a travel writer and it shows--the creation of a time and place is very well done.	2002-06-19
US	52744964	RW7UWJHID6DO4	1573222089	154712783	Satellite Sisters' UnCommon Senses	Books	2	3	9	N	N	Listen to the show	I'm told the radio show is better, and I believe it. This is the story of the Dolan sisters and their somewhat unbelievable childhood growing up in a family of 10. As the oldest of seven, I can say that I found the story sugar-coated---note that the parents are largely absent, which probably wasn't the case but that's how it feels when you're part of a crowd. The &quot;carry your skis&quot; section certainly rang true, as is the assertion that in a large family one learns one is not the center of the universe. But the book is pretty superficial and a little too cute for my taste.	2002-06-12
US	52744964	R388HZRTG700GI	0679451005	604887058	The Radetzky March (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Disappearing World	This novel is the story of a world that is disappearing fast, and of people desperately clinging to its traditions in an attempt to avoid the chaos fast approaching. The setting is the early 20th century in the last days of the Kaiser's long rule. The destiny of a family of peasants suddenly changes when an ancestor saves the life of the young Kaiser in battle--the legend of the Hero of Solferino follows son and then grandson, making a career in the military almost inevitable despite its being completely wrong from the grandson's point of view. The military in this tale seems a refuge for men much more interested in drinking and gambling than dealing with growing unrest in the Empire. The details of this fast disappearing world are beautifully drawn--the music, the uniforms, the portraits of the Kaiser everywhere, the society of the time--and the reader's knowledge of the devastation of the First World War about to come lends a poignancy to it all that I found almost sad. A terrific historical novel!	2002-05-29
US	52744964	R3BOVYKNXFF371	1582431426	961738170	A Legacy: A Novel	Books	5	31	35	N	N	A Lost World	The story takes place in the waning days of the Kaiser's rule, pre-WWI, in a society that seems to be desperately trying to avoid the instability in central Europe that finally led to the First World War. Two German families linked by an ill-fated marriage live a life that seems unimaginable to us in modern times. One Jewish, one Catholic, both wealthy, insular and largely idle, the characters spend their days moving from place to place--France, Spain, Germany, collecting art and antiques, taking air during daily carriage rides, eating what seem to be endless meals, and expecting the world to go on as it has forever. A relatively minor event--the decison to send a child to a military prep school, results in personal tragedy but also national crisis--which could only have happened in a society about to fall apart. I found this book a compelling look at a world and a society I know little about--and Bedford's prose is wonderful.	2002-05-29
US	52744964	RXGA2U35URGIK	0375706771	930468436	Midwives (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not very enlightening	This novel is a sad story of an experienced, well-meaning, caring midwife and the death of one of her mothers. Did she make a fatal error or is she the victim of the conservative medical profession? The story is told from the point of view of her 14-year-old daughter, and the author does a good job portraying a young girl on the brink of maturity struggling with the terror of losing her mother to jail for a long time. But the author builds up sympathy for the midwife in a way I found somewhat manipulative. Only through testimony late in the case do we discover that an overwhelming percentage of midwives do not handle home births but choose to practice in what seems to be the best of both worlds--in birthing centers made as warm and welcoming as possible but steps away from the latest medical technology. The author also leads the reader to believe he or she has all the facts, and then we are surprised by a double trick ending. And I wondered why the midwife puts her family through this terrible ordeal given the options she is presented with and her ultimate decisions? I don't want to give away the ending other than to say it left me dissatisfied. The approach to the birth process was also somewhat simplistic and sixty-ish--did the author attempt to fix the problem by setting the story in the early '80's?  This is a decent quick read if you're stuck at the airport, but otherwise unremarkable.	2002-05-29
US	52744964	R1PV2UXMXKQI4M	0316360678	44102070	The Dark Side of Camelot	Books	4	40	51	N	N	Dark and Dangerous	This is another tale of our society's ability to become enraptured by someone with star quality and ignore the real picture despite overwhelming evidence. It is easy to see why America was enthralled with the Kennedys. After WWII and a general for President through the prosperous but boring 50's, Jack Kennedy and his beautiful classy wife burst upon the scene and heralded a new generation of leadership--a bit like Clinton did so many years later. But Kennedy's personal life was astoundingly out of kilter--his behavior makes the later antics of a Gary Hart or Bill Clinton look merely foolish. Kennedy ran security risks that are unimaginable, sleeping with a myriad of women unknown to the Secret Service, associating with organized crime figures, using drugs in ways dangerous to his health. On the political front, Hersh portrays Kennedy and his brother as obsessed with Cuba and Castro and constantly plotting to knock off the leaders of various other small nations. According to Hersh, corruption was rampant--cash was routinely paid out to buy votes or hush people up, and cash was routinely paid in for political favors in a way that would land someone in jail today for a very long time.<br />As you can tell, this is not a balanced study of the Kennedy administration, but rather the work of an excellent investigative reporter to put names, dates and facts to the rumors and stories that began to circulate in the years after Kennedy's death. How these things remained secret for so long amazes me--how the standards of the press have changed!--how the pendulum has swung in the other direction to an extreme! The view presented here is very bleak--if one takes this book as the whole story, one would believe that Kennedy was the most despicable sort of politician, with little regard for the law, no moral sense, and no interest in policy, especially domestic policy. Certainly this book is a legitimate contribution to the history of the era, but only one piece of the puzzle.	2002-05-29
US	52744964	R1U5PXLTXCC2S	0743422082	23410205	The Immaculate Deception	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Easy reading, intelligently written	There are times when even the most sophisticated readers need a break and want to read what I call an &quot;airplane&quot; book--&quot;beach&quot; book would also be a good description--at the same time it's hard not to get annoyed with poor writing, unbelievable dialogue and dumb plots. If you've had this problem, try Pears' books.   This is the first of the series I've read, and found a good plot with an interesting smidgen of art history and modern Italian culture woven in. I had the added bonus of reading it during a flight home from a 2-1/2 week sojourn in Tuscany and Umbria! This book bears no resemblance to &quot;Instance of the Fingerpost,&quot; which was a serious literary work; this is for fun!	2002-05-17
US	52744964	R38YHDS0KE2TCX	0385503954	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Mesmerizing!	I have always been an Ian McEwan fan, from early works such as \\"Child in Time\\" and \\"Enduring Love\\" to \\"Amsterdam\\", which I believe won the Booker, but in \\"Atonement\\" he reaches a new level. I devoured this book in a day! McEwan has always been a master of plot, but here he goes beyond plot, recreating an English country summer in 1935 from the point of view of several members of an upper middle class family. The languor and restlessness of summer, the tedium of an empty middle aged life, the confusion and fear of a young girl on the verge of discovering the mystery of sex, are woven together beautifully, all leading up to the \\"crime\\" which nevertheless is a shock. The plot quickly shifts to wartime England, with a riveting telling of the disastrous retreat by the British from France to the beaches of Dunkirk, and the scene at home when the bloodied soldiers return. Fast forward to many years later when the story is finally ready to be told. McEwan is fond of plot twists and little tricks, but the depth and vividness of description  makes this far more than a well-written page turner. I won't say more; to reveal anything of the plot would be unfair. Tastes differ, but I cannot imagine ANYONE being bored by this book. I loved it!	2002-05-17
US	52744964	R34EIH22GR4ZFA	0764174800	845802734	Barron's How to Prepare for the Praxis: Ppst Plt Elementary School Subject Assessments Listening Skills Test Overview of Praxis II Subject Assessments & Specialty Area Tests	Books	4	89	93	N	N	Materials for Praxis few and far between	I am considering teaching as a second career and had to take the Elementary test (0014) for admission to a graduate school. My first piece of advice is to think about the tests in terms of their numerical codes and not the names because the names are totally confusing and all sound the same. If you need to take the PPST (pre-professional skills test, which is the Praxis I and easy to distinguish) this is probably a pretty good book. If you need to take the 0014 this is a very good review book for the math, but nothing else. Although this book says it's a review for the 0014 it has one practice test, nothing else. But that's still better than anything else I could find. I couldn't find anything to review for the science and social studies, but if you are a smart person you should pass. The English part will be easy if you've had any education courses, which I didn't. The Educational Testing service also has a review book for the 0014 but all it is is a daunting list of what you have to know, but no content materials. The ETS book has a practice exam too which was the only useful part of the book. If you have to take the 0014, you're pretty much on your own.	2002-03-22
US	52744964	R1JVSEMHDEPOBV	0151006725	216165989	Slammerkin: A Loose Dress, A Loose Woman	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Aspiring to the unattainable	This extremely compelling plot is set in the 1600's--a story of a young woman educated just enough to aspire to what she cannot have. Mary is 13 or so when the book opens; she finds herself in incredibly poor circumstances, but, as we learn from the detailed historical re-creation Donohue gives us, not the worst. She has been educated in accordance with the wishes of her dead father, but having reached &quot;adulthood&quot; she has no choice other than to be a seamstress like her mother, sewing all day in a dark cellar until her eyes give out. Mary is cursed with a love of pretty things, and innocently loses her &quot;virtue&quot; and becomes pregnant for want of a pretty red ribbon. Thrown out of the house, with no alternative but prostitution, Mary tastes freedom and loves the costumes that are necessary to her trade. Once having known these things, Mary finds it impossible to abandon the prostitute's life, despite two very good chances she is given to do so. Mary is a tragic figure--she is like an alcoholic who falls off the wagon despite the most sincere attempts to stop drinking. The author has done a fine job in recreating London of the 17th century, especially the nuances of class. Little things--the ability to buy candles for extra light, the absence of holes in a dress, regular meals, no matter how meager--all distinguish the poor from one another. And the issue of slavery is presented with a most interesting twist. This is not an intellectually challenging book, but a very vivid page-turner--well worth your while if you're a lover of historical fiction.	2002-03-22
US	52744964	R3OMGGD9S052RE	1565112210	937627939	The Bridge of San Luis Rey	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Beautifully written, beautifully read	This slim little novel employs a fairly typical literary technique--a random event, in this case the collapse of a bridge in Peru--results in the death of five people. The novel explores the lives of the five, which touch each other in subtle ways. The ultimate question asked is whether God \\"planned\\" that this particular five be on the bridge that day to meet their fate. I don't think that question is answered, but a more profound one--whether each person's life is unique and meaningful--is answered with a resounding YES. The unabridged audio version of this book is excellent. Sam Waterston reads clearly and simply, and conveys a tone of respect for each of these diverse lives. Highly recommended.	2002-03-03
US	52744964	RWD4TUFIVORQZ	9626346205	463707544	Vanity Fair (Classic Fiction)	Books	2	2	6	N	N	On the abridged audio version	The abridged audio version of this book boils 800+ pages down to 3 cassettes, which results in a recitation of the plot with little characterization, historical background or social context. The reader was very good however, and if she does the unabridged version I'd opt for that one.	2002-03-03
US	52744964	R1LCQA67QHZMAV	0060936231	429116202	Soul Mountain	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Difficult, Demanding, Rewarding (in part)	This novel by the Nobel prize winner Gao Xingjian is one of the most difficult I've read in a long time. The &quot;plot&quot; is simple; having received a new lease on life after an erroneous cancer diagnosis, the author undertakes a journey to the mythical &quot;Lingshan&quot;, a mountain which may exist in reality, but more probably represents a spiritual goal. Each of the 81 chapters exists in a space all its own--there are beautiful stories of the author's journey, legends of long ago, vignettes of village life in a world that tourists never see. For Western readers, the issue is that it doesn't hang together in a coherent way--the narrator himself is an &quot;I&quot;, a &quot;You&quot;, a &quot;He&quot;, and perhaps even a &quot;She&quot;. Episodes begin but don't conclude. The narrative is never chronological. I was relieved when I got to Chapter 72,  a discussion between the novelist and a reviewer or agent. To paraphrase:<br />&quot;This isn't a novel..a novel must have a complete story...there must be a protagonist..the author says: &quot;It's Eastern.&quot;..The critic says: &quot;Yours is much worse than Eastern! You've slapped together travel notes, moralistic ramblings, feelings, notes, jottings, untheoretical discussions, unfable-like fables, copied out some folk songs, added some legend like nonsense of your own invwention, and are calling it fiction!&quot; <br />The author is confused after this exchange--he writes out of loneliness, not to earn a livelihood. As a reader, I was comforted--the author obviously understands that he has defied the literary conventions and written only for himself.<br />Do I recommend this book? Hard to say. Accept it for what it is--pick it up, and read a few chapters for the exquisite writing; don't worry about who &quot;I&quot; and &quot;You&quot; and &quot;She&quot; and &quot;He&quot; are. Appreciate the simplicity of the life the author portrays. Don't worry about chronology or factual accuracy. Isn't that what the East is all about?	2002-02-07
US	52744964	R1VUYU5LJG0UYF	067976397X	659658614	Corelli's Mandolin: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Compelling	&quot;Corelli's Mandolin&quot; is a wonderfully romantic story set against the terrors of WWII. The story is set on Cephalonia, a rather remote Greek island, during WWII. The beginning of the book focuses on the story of Carlo, an Italian foot soldier battling in the Greek mountains in the winter, in scenes of destruction and personal suffering more reminiscient of books I've read on WWI rather than WWII. Most of the war seems remote to the inhabitants of the island, in large part due to the benevolent Italian occupation force under Captain Corelli. Sadly, it is at the end of the war, when the Italians' German &quot;allies&quot; turn on them, and then when the Greeks turn on their own during the civil war, that the horrors begin.  I loved this book--I thought the characters were beautifully drawn, especially Carlo and the Doctor, and the historical background was fascinating. Like several other reviewers, I thought the ending was &quot;tacked on&quot;, and rather jarring, and the resolution of the love affair between Pelagia and Corelli quite unbelievable. But this wasn't enough of a drawback to withold 5 stars from this one. Highly recommended.	2002-02-06
US	52744964	R1WY743NQ9DYD3	1565114892	43461769	Year of Wonders: 1A Novel of the Plague	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Well-written, beautifully read	This novel is a beautifully written, detailed account of the plague in a small English village in the 1600's. It is hard for us to imagine an illness that spreads so rapidly with such deadly effect; indeed, today a course of antibiotics results in a speedy full recovery. Brooks is a reporter with a great eye for detail and a sensitivity to the devastating emotional, sociological and economic impact such a disease had on this tiny community. I listened to the very lightly abridged CD/Audio version of the book, which I highly recommend; parts of the story moved me to tears. Like other reviewers, however, I was quite bothered by the ending of the novel, which was not in any way anticipated by the rest of the story, and was simply not credible given who the main character was, and the historical setting. Other than that, however, well worth your while.	2002-01-28
US	52744964	R1U1BI2W4QN7AD	0385720408	873683868	Ali and Nino: A Love Story	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Christian/Muslim; East/West	Written in the 30's and out of print for many years, this novel has suddenly become very timely. It's a Romeo and Juliet story set in the midst of political turbulence far more serious than ever existed in Renaissance Italy. Ali is a Muslim from Azerbaijan and Nino a woman from Christian Georgia; both countries are in the Caucasus, a strip of land that straddles Asia and Europe, east and west, and has rarely seen peace. These childhood friends marry and then struggle to overcome differences of culture far more profound than they ever knew. When the lovers are secluded in the wilderness, all is well, but the real world intrudes forcefully. The couple are forced to flee to Persia (Iran) and Nino must adopt the extremely limited lifestyle of a Muslim woman. The descriptions of how profoundly she must change her life, and her frustration and dismay and anger, are vivid and sadly authentic. <br />As we in the west struggle to understand the mystical power of Islam, so strong that young men cheerfully die for the promise of an afterlife, I was drawn back to the book's most powerful scene, in which Ali, a sophisticated educated man, is drawn almost against his will into a wild, fanatical religious celebration.<br />&quot;Suddenly I was overcome by a new and irrestible feeling--the cry gripped my soul with its warning, and I was filled with the desire for utter submission. ....the Mystery of the Unseen, the Gate of Sorrow, that leads to the Grace of the Redeemer...I had become part of the crowd. I walked with the broad-shouldered men, and my fists hammered against my naked breast...Someone put a heavy chain into my hand, and I felt the burning pain on my back...&quot; The dream-like sequence goes on; much later Ali returns home to find that Nino has (somewhat improbably) witnessed part of the events of the night from her parents' window above the street. <br />The story behind this novel is a mystery in itself, written up extensively in the New Yorker a couple of years ago,and for many years no one was sure who really wrote it--Baroness Elfriede Ehrenfels? Essad Bey? Lev Nussimbaum? The one sure thing is that Kurban Said is a pseudonym. Recent scholarship has clarified the issue, but cause one to reflect on why the issue was so secret for so long.	2002-01-10
US	52744964	R3QIW1OHTHBW1U	1883642647	794097154	The Mark of the Angel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Beautiful, painful	A story of forbidden love in post-war Paris between two people damaged in different ways by the Holocaust--you've read it before. But Huston's book is a cut above--beautifully written from multiple perspectives, Huston describes Paris, love, music and above all, anger and shock over infidelity discovered, so strongly and vividly--this one has stayed in my mind for awhile. And the conclusion was a brutal shock! Of particular interest to me was the backdrop of the French--Algerian issues--as England had India, France had Algeria--a painful, shameful episode in the history of a Western democracy that has permanently marred France's conception of itself.	2002-01-10
US	52744964	R7GEM713QN7EW	0385720408	873683868	Ali and Nino: A Love Story	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Christian/Muslim; East/West	Written in the 30's and out of print for many years, this novel has suddenly become very timely. It's a Romeo and Juliet story set in the midst of political turbulence far more serious than ever existed in Renaissance Italy. Ali is a Muslim from Azerbaijan and Nino a woman from Christian Georgia; both countries are in the Caucasus, a strip of land that straddles Asia and Europe, east and west, and has rarely seen peace. These childhood friends marry and then struggle to overcome differences of culture far more profound than they ever knew. When the lovers are secluded in the wilderness, all is well, but the real world intrudes forcefully. The couple are forced to flee to Persia (Iran) and Nino must adopt the extremely limited lifestyle of a Muslim woman. The descriptions of how profoundly she must change her life, and her frustration and dismay and anger, are vivid and sadly authentic. <br />As we in the west struggle to understand the mystical power of Islam, so strong that young men cheerfully die for the promise of an afterlife, I was drawn back to the book's most powerful scene, in which Ali, a sophisticated educated man, is drawn almost against his will into a wild, fanatical religious celebration.<br />&quot;Suddenly I was overcome by a new and irrestible feeling--the cry gripped my soul with its warning, and I was filled with the desire for utter submission. ....the Mystery of the Unseen, the Gate of Sorrow, that leads to the Grace of the Redeemer...I had become part of the crowd. I walked with the broad-shouldered men, and my fists hammered against my naked breast...Someone put a heavy chain into my hand, and I felt the burning pain on my back...&quot; The dream-like sequence goes on; much later Ali returns home to find that Nino has (somewhat improbably) witnessed part of the events of the night from her parents' window above the street. <br />The story behind this novel is a mystery in itself, written up extensively in the New Yorker a couple of years ago,and for many years no one was sure who really wrote it--Baroness Elfriede Ehrenfels? Essad Bey? Lev Nussimbaum? The one sure thing is that Kurban Said is a pseudonym. Recent scholarship has clarified the issue, but cause one to reflect on why the issue was so secret for so long.	2002-01-10
US	52744964	R1IVM3H1QFIG14	0385494149	801233492	Enduring Love: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great writing, page-turner plot	The first chapter of this book, describing a ballooning accident, is one of the best openings I've read in modern fiction in a long time. The chapter was published as a short story on its own in the New Yorker several years ago, and it truly stands on its own in terms of originality, suspense, and fine writing. But this novel goes on in true McEwan style to develop the chance meeting of two bystanders to the accident into a  creepy, frightening tale of obsession. I won't give away more, but if you haven't read McEwan you're in for a treat.	2002-01-10
US	52744964	R20TS2ZVRQDKGC	0156010941	332872233	The Lost Legends of New Jersey	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Is this real?	&quot;Lost Legends&quot; is a tale of real life, painful and confusing, in Northern New Jersey in the late 70's and early 80's. This book could easily have been a typical potboiler about infidelity, broken homes, and teen age sex, except that in this author's hands it is a story of painful complexity. First, the structure--Reiken starts in the middle with Anthony's mom (Anthony is a main character in his mid-teens) throwing rocks through a neighbor's windows. Anthony's dad calls out from the neighbor's house asking her to stop. Why is she doing this? Why is the father not in his own house? We can speculate but the truth is revealed slowly, with bits coming into focus throughout the book. We learn that Anthony's dad used to play the clarinet but one day abruptly stopped--only much later do we find out what really happened on that day.   <br />The story is really about love and making choices--those who find love but don't hold onto it pay dearly.Those who do find it and know it when they see it--no matter when in their life and at what cost--are the only ones who are happy. We almost feel sorry for the most despicable character in the book--Claudia--whose mission in life seems to be to wreck other's lives. In &quot;Joeyland&quot; we see how her own foolish choice has ruined everything for her.<br />Most disturbing is the picture of teen age sex--not because of the general promiscuity of the characters, but because their relationships seem to do nothing but hurt each other, or allow one to control the other. For young people these characters are extraordinarily manipulative--in my book club we debated whether some of the characters were quite believable for their age. <br />The novel's setting in New Jersey is a bonus for those who are familiar with the area, but familiarity is certainly not necessary for enjoyment of this novel. It's a thought-provoking and discussion provoking read.	2002-01-09
US	52744964	R3G3E7A95L5324	0743215052	769417678	The Constant Gardener: A Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Another Cold War	John leCarre of Cold War espionage fame has over the years widened his scope, while still giving us the insider's look into the worlds of diplomats and spies--which turn out not to be so separate at all. I need not rehash the plot, other than to say that this is intelligently written and suspenseful, a great read as most of LeCarre's books are. The author raises many ethical issues that are hard to resolve, but bear considering. The major issue in the book, testing of a drug that is still unsafe on an unsuspecting poor population, and a cover up of the bad results, is clearly abhorrent. But LeCarre raises more subtle issues.What are the developed world's obligations to the third world in the case of pharma companies? How far must we go in protecting their patent rights if the result is denying access to the poor? Is exclusive protection in rich nations sufficient reward, and should we let generics be developed much more quickly where they are needed? LeCarre raises issues about the basic morality and efficacy of a simple issue like food aid--should we continue it if doing so requires making deals with the very governments which pursue a fruitless civil war that causes the famine in the first place? And of course LeCarre brilliantly paints the world of diplomacy and its compromises.<br />If all this profound thinking scares you away, don't let it. LeCarre includes an unprobable, doomed love story, a mystery to unravel, and a few surprises along the way as characters slowly reveal their true selves. This one is an intelligent page turner of high quality.	2002-01-04
US	52744964	R3F193IGRLMDMO	0316769509	595009960	Nine Stories	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Simple, spare storytelling	These nine stories present a variety of characters living a common theme--isolation, a lack of connection to others, maybe even a lack of connection within themselves. From a WWII soldier, a veteran on a vacation, a child prodigy, two young suburban matrons, a law student taking care of a bunch of young boys after school--what is going on in these characters' heads is far more real to them than the world around them. Salinger offers a fairly bleak view of life, but a vivid one.<br />Perhaps my favorite is &quot;For Esme--with love and squalor.&quot; We meet an American soldier based in England, about to go off on a secret mission, which turns out to be D-day. He is part of a company who do not speak with each other--we can clearly see the long grey days of waiting as each man pens letters home but fails to reach out to the guy sitting next to him. A young girl in a tea shop breaks through this isolation briefly but then the soldier leaves; the young girl returns in a surprising way several weeks later and again breaks through a much more profound barrier. Other stories begin in a commonplace sort of way until Salinger shocks us with a turn of plot or ending that is totally unexpected-- &quot;Banana Fish&quot; and &quot;Teddy&quot;.<br />I give this collection a 4 for one or two stories I found less exceptional-- &quot;Uncle Wiggly&quot; was just depressing without more; and &quot;War with the Eskimos&quot; was of the Holden Caulfield genre but much less interesting. All in all, however, a great collection.	2001-12-20
US	52744964	R3R21ZB4VU5Y7X	0786866039	643495278	The Grand Complication: A Novel	Books	1	6	7	N	N	Grand Confusion	It isn't often that a book spawns such a divergence of views as this one does; I am firmly in the camp of the naysayers. The premise is complicated and unbelievable to begin with and gets worse from there. A mid-level librarian is seduced into a friendship with an elderly eccentric on the basis of his ornate handwriting on a call slip. Our elderly gentleman is seemingly trying to get assistance in finding a long lost watch, part of a collection from a curio case, but his real purpose is murky as it appears he knows much of what our hero uncovers already. Meanwhile, our librarian, married to a pop-up book designer, spends much time fending off her amorous advances, for no apparent reason for most of the book. As for the library, our main character spends much of his time avoiding getting fired.  Secondary characters are one-dimensional, idiosyncratic and mostly irrational.  None of the characters made any sense to me. I also missed a lot of the story as I gather one had to read the author's first book to &quot;get&quot; this one. This last point is a problem; a great writer's work is often enriched by knowledge of his or her other books, but each work should also stand alone--Roth, Salinger and Faulkner come to mind. Much is made of the design of the hardcover edition--but the author's good luck in getting hooked up with a quality publisher doesn't do much to help what's printed between the covers. Kurzweil has a long way to go.	2001-12-19
US	52744964	RATTR79L889BK	0694525375	453447781	Touching My Father's Soul: A Sherpa's Journey to the Top of Everest	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great in Audio too	This is one of many books telling the tale of the Spring 1996 season on Everest, during which 12 people died, but the only book written by a Sherpa. The author is the son of Tenzig Norgay who climbed Everest for the first time in 1953 with Edmund Hillary. The author weaves several stories into one--the tale of his own ascent, the story of his father's, and the tale of his personal quest to make peace with his famous father. Contrast this work with the well-known &quot;Into Thin Air&quot; to see the enormous difference between the way Westerners approach the mountain--as a challenge to be conquered--and the way the Sherpas view Everest--with a mixture of fear, awe, respect and love. The story of how this thoroughly modern man, educated in the U.S., comes to grips with the Buddhist faith is also fascinating.<br />A comment on the audio version: the book is read by the author's brother, a fact that made me hesitate at first because I often find non-professional readers to be much harder to listen to. Not the case here--the reader did a great job, and his slightly accented English gave the reading an air of authenticity that a native English reader's work would not have had. Highly recommended!	2001-12-17
US	52744964	R3R53RX1RGUXT6	0385475772	772348994	Nine Parts of Desire: The Hidden World of Islamic Women	Books	5	170	178	N	N	More balanced than most	Books on Islam generate a lot of controversy these days, especially after 9/11. Having read several I found this one fairly balanced. Brooks is a reporter by trade, which at times leads to a bit of superficiality in the treatment of complex topics but on the whole makes this a relatively dispassionate treatment of women and Islam. <br />Of course Brooks brings a Western point of view to her subject, and is intensely critical of a system where women are subject to male family members with few personal rights. She is careful to point out that Islamic law does provide for inheritance by women and allows a type of pre-marriage contract that can protect them from the husband's polygamy, give them the right of divorce, establish that their education will be allowed to continue, etc. But one suspects that these privileges are available only to the wealthy as a practical matter. <br />Brooks is careful to distinguish various Muslim societies from one another, just as one sees huge differences among Christian countries. She along with most authors I've read has little good to say about Saudi Arabia. But interestingly, she identifies Iran as a more progressive society in which women are permitted to work and participate in politics. And Egypt is described as having a lively, sensual culture that she believes will never be snuffed out by fundamentalists.<br />One of the more disturbing chapters of the book deals with education. The number of women in school is unacceptably low,education often ceases as women are wed at a very early age, and much schooling is focused on the study of Islam. Even more disturbing is the increasing control fundamentalists exert over educational institutions, which results in a student body much more conservative than the faculty who were educated in more open-minded times. And academic freedom has no place here. <br />Brooks tries to identify areas of repression that she sees as cultural rather than religious. At the same time, she says that Muslims cannot rely on the improvements to womens' lives that occurred during the time of the Prophet to defend Islam today. It is sadly true that any religion that literally relies on a Sacred Text from hundreds of years earlier--Christianity included--will inevitably fail to respect the notions of individual liberty and equality that are the ideals of the modern world.<br />Brooks' book was written over 6 years ago. The trends she identifies are very disturbing, but except for some vague familiarity with Ayatollah Khomeini, few Americans had any of this on their radar screens before 9/11. A book like this will hopefully lead to some better understanding of this complex subject.	2001-12-11
US	52744964	R2PH7H9GHHUTAO	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Timeless	Hard to believe that this book was written 56 years ago! Also hard to believe that high school kids read it, it's so edgy and scary in a way. I see this book today very differently from the simplistic individual v. society view I held in high school over 30 years ago. Today for me it's an eerie portrait of a young person for whom the sub-text of daily life, the constant stream of petty frustrations that we all experience, has taken over and become reality. Caulfield is hanging on by a thread which frays by the minute as he wanders through NYC. His sensitivity to others, good (the nuns and Phoebe) and bad (Ackley), overwhelms him! The writing is superb, right down to the grammatical errors that so perfectly capture a teenager trying to sound like an adult--&quot;I and Brossard and Ackley got on the bus...&quot; A tip for book clubs: save the light fiction for the beach or airplane, and read classics, even if you've read them before--makes for great meetings!	2001-12-11
US	52744964	R1GOS4DYW0GDRW	1566562392	154286663	Gandhi and India (Interlink Illustrated Histories)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent overview for travellers	I purchased this book for some background information in preparation for a trip to India and it was well worth it. The subject matter is broader than the title suggests. Beginning with a brief overview of the country's geography, climate and origins, the author gives a relatively in-depth description of the colonial period, the struggle for independence, and of course Ghandi's life. The story doesn't stop there, but continues after his assination with Nehru, Indira Ghandi and modern times. The story of Indira is especially interesting--to quell social and political unrest she established herself as dictator in 1975, but unlike a dictator let free elections proceed two years later and lost. The governing coalition fell apart and she was re-elected as Prime Minister, staying in office until her assasination in 1984. Interestingly, when I visited Delhi, the shrine at Gandhi's house and the adjoining garden where he was assasinated were almost empty, while lines of Indian people wound around the block to gain admittance to the Indira Gandhi memorial park. Sprinkled throughout the book are short pieces on topics relevant to modern India such as the caste system, Hindu-Muslim conflict, language, etc., as well as many fascinating historical photos. Highly recommended!	2001-12-11
US	52744964	R1KLXZPE280ASZ	0380715899	47509404	A Soldier of the Great War	Books	3	5	19	N	N	Overlong, overrated	This should have been a book half the length, telling the story of an Italian soldier caught in the horror of WWI. But the author wraps around this tale the story of an old man taking his last long walk, lots of overblown descriptions of scenery, and way too much dime store psychology. Also, if you're looking for a realistic plot, this book is not for you. Read it on the airplane.	2001-12-11
US	52744964	RLCMHA6X81OP1	0694523046	920269539	The Battle For God	Books	4	0	1	N	N	To advance your understanding	This analysis of fundamentalist movements in Christianity, Judaism and Islam is unfortunately very timely. Armstrong has written many works on the monotheistic religions, and is particularly knowledgable about and sympathetic to Islam--sometimes to a fault. Her analysis is quite convincing---her basic premise is that fundamentalism is a response within a religion to an internal threat from others who seek to liberalize and modernize it. Certainly we have seen that one of (the) major issues (of terrorists) is that the US has corrupted the Saudi rulers and caused them and others to stray from pure Islam. Armstrong discusses Egypt, and posits that fundamentalist movements there arose after botched attempts by Egypt's government to modernize without addressing the real needs of the people. In the U.S., she sees the rise of the religious right as a response to the liberalization of our predominantly Christian society in the 60's. Her description of the religious right is quite devastating, in contrast to her rather sympathetic treatment of the Muslim Brotherhood, and was one area where I found her bias particularly evident. Armstrong would certainly agree that there is  no justification for the destruction the Muslim terrorists, as well as other religious extremists, have visited on the world.Works like this are helpful in understanding that there are underlying causes for these events that will not be solved by a war on terrorism.	2001-11-27
US	52744964	R23B6RXCRJL7PJ	0345384563	286200112	A History of God: The 4,000-Year Quest of Judaism, Christianity and Islam	Books	5	27	32	N	N	Eternal Themes	This book takes on an impossible task--to summarize the history of the three monotheistic religions over a 4,000 year time span, and I agree with other reviewers who variously found it tough going at times, somewhat superficial in that the author tried to cover hundreds of theologians and scholars in an average of a couple of pages each, and perhaps very biased in favor of Islam (a theme that runs through many of Armstrong's books). Having said all that, however, my advice is to try to avoid getting bogged down in the details unless this is your textbook for a course, and let certain broad themes emerge. First, all cultures have struggled to give a name, form and substance to what all seem to intuitively believe--that there is a &quot;something else.&quot; Second, concepts of God and religion evolve over time in response to changes in society and the world, and the notion that a Sacred Text contains immutable truths that have been part of a religion for 2,000 years is fanciful. Third, the debate between those who seek to understand God on a rational level vs. those who seek a more intuitive, mystical understanding has been going on since the beginning and will go on forever. Finally, God, in the sense that it is discussed in this book, will never be dead--as we have all learned so painfully in recent months.	2001-11-27
US	52744964	RYDMLUMIK1H1K	156511471X	680620242	The World of Atlas Shrugged: The Essential Companion to Ayn Rand's Masterpiece	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Uncritical companion	I bought this to supplement the novel which I was rereading after 30 years for my book club. This is a good way to tie together what at times is a heavy text--although as I say in my review of the book itself the plot is a real potboiler. I found the tape helpful in understanding Rand's literary technique--in setting up larger than life heroes and impossibly obnoxious villians---a good refresher too if your recollection of the book is hazy. But for a critical analysis of the novel as a work of literature or philosophy, look elsewhere.	2001-11-27
US	52744964	R24YNGNHUO9DI6	0694523046	920269539	The Battle For God	Books	4	10	13	N	N	To advance your understanding	This analysis of fundamentalist movements in Christianity, Judaism and Islam is unfortunately very timely. Armstrong has written many works on the monotheistic religions, and is particularly knowledgable about and sympathetic to Islam--sometimes to a fault. Her analysis is quite convincing---her basic premise is that fundamentalism is a response within a religion to an internal threat from others who seek to liberalize and modernize it. Certainly we have seen that one of  bin Laden's major issues is that the US has corrupted the Saudi rulers and caused them and others to stray from pure Islam. Armstrong discusses Egypt, and posits that fundamentalist movements there arose after botched attempts by Egypt's government to modernize without addressing the real needs of the people. In the U.S., she sees the rise of the religious right as a response to the liberalization of our predominantly Christian society in the 60's. Her description of the religious right is quite devastating, in contrast to her rather sympathetic treatment of the Muslim Brotherhood, and was one area where I found her bias particularly evident. Armstrong would certainly agree that there is  no justification for the destruction the Muslim terrorists, as well as other religious extremists, have visited on the world.Works like this are helpful in understanding that there are underlying causes for these events that will not be solved by a war on terrorism.	2001-11-27
US	52744964	RJ89CMJWAM7TF	0967673747	655450573	Princess: A True Story of Life Behind the Veil in Saudi Arab	Books	4	140	156	N	N	Can this all be true?	This an easy to read absolutely riveting account of the lives of upper class Saudi women, written by a member of the royal family. By way of background, the &quot;Princess&quot; of the title is a direct descendant of the founder of the current Saudi monarchy, and has told her story at great personal risk, according to the author. Even taking into account that there are several hundred princes and princesses who claim to be direct descendants, I found it hard to understand how this book, which is actually the first of three, could have been published without its source being discovered, given the unbelievably tight constraints the society places on the behavior of women. Be that as it may, the lives of these women are lived in gilded cages, which is fine if you can totally suppress your personality and intelligence and observe the rules. The ones who can't suffer consequences that I find hard to believe exist in the modern world.<br />On the surface, life seems pleasant enough--the royal family lives in luxury that is unimaginable  even by American standards--once a young couple is married, the building of several palaces seems a matter of course. When the Princess goes on her honeymoon, her new husband buys all the seats in first class so they can have privacy. Yet life is circumscribed severely--education is often withheld from women; husbands are chosen for a girl at a very young age in order to cement family or business alliances, with no regard for suitability in terms of age or personality. Abuse of women in marriage is common. From childhood, the wishes of men are accomodated in all things--a son can take the possessions of his sister without question. Porsches and Rolexes for male teenagers are common.  <br />The Princess' brother seems to be an especially despicable example of moral decay resulting from having every wish fulfilled--he rapes young girls, uses underage prostitutes, hits women, and is cruel even to loyal servants. Yet a woman who breaks the rules, particularly in regard to sexual matters, pays a hefty price. Two incidents in particular stand out--in one, a father drowns his only and much beloved daughter in the family swimming pool for engaging in some admittedly rather wild sexual behavior with non-Saudi men. In another case, a young woman is locked into solitary confinement for the rest of her life for falling in love while abroad studying. At last report she was alive but insane. <br />Having read this most horrible story I was eager to learn more, as I find it hard to believe any civilized nation would permit the outright murder of women by family members, solely based upon how the head of the family feels about the transgression in question. Interestingly, Amnesty International's latest report on the treatment of women states that it is hard to get direct evidence of events like this due to their inability to talk to Saudi women themselves, and most of the report deals with the mistreatment of non-Saudi workers. <br />This book left me disturbed and uneasy particularly as these &quot;allies&quot; have become very important to the U.S. in recent weeks. I worry that the book is true, and I worry about how inflammatory it and others like it can be in the current environment. Read &quot;A Street in Marrakesh&quot; for a much less dismal look at life in Morocco for poorer women. Read as much as you can, written from different viewpoints. And try to keep an open mind.	2001-11-02
US	52744964	RTXKHWUZQY21W	0864424833	865462255	Lonely Planet Bhutan (1st ed)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	A cut above the rest	If you're thinking of going to Bhutan, be advised there's not a whole lot out there to read in preparation, and of what there is, this guide is one of the best. Tourist  travel in Bhutan is strictly controlled, and your itinerary is usually planned in advance, so lots of info on hotels, etc. isn't all that necessary. This guide focuses on history, culture and the life of the people--food, housing, dress. Along with the Passport/Odyssey guide by Pommerat, it's all you need. Have fun!	2001-08-22
US	52744964	R1PARSBLA8P6SW	0060977418	41320956	In Exile from the Land of Snows: The Definitive Account of the Dalai Lama and Tibet Since the Chinese Conquest	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Riveting and realistic	A must read to truly understand the complex story of Tibet, although it may disuade you from ever going there. This is the story of the destruction of Tibet, told through a narrative of  political history and a few well-chosen personal stories. Internal squabbling contributed to the Tibetan's own downfall, but in the end this small underdeveloped nation could not have withstood the Chinese without significant support from the rest of the world, and that support was shamefully lacking in the 50's. The destruction that followed was unbelievable. I've always thought it would be fascinating to go there, but I now realize that the treasures of Tibet are probably now in China or in the hands of private collectors after the Chinese sold them off, and what's left is part of a carefully constructed show for tourists. I agree with the reviewer who says that Tibetan independence seems a long shot at this point, but the world should keep the pressure on until the Tibetans gain some measure of cultural and religious freedom. My only criticism of this book is that it ends in the mid-80's, and the newer edition that came out in the late 90's contains a rather feeble attempt to update the story through a chronology. Interesting though is the interview with the Dalai Lama.	2001-08-22
US	52744964	RJIXNFUQ0BYVJ	0786868619	719432164	Stolen Lives: Twenty Years in a Desert Jail (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Too narrowly focused	I need not repeat the details of the story line here--but a good editor could have turned this unbelievable story into a great book. What is missing is an introduction that explains the context for this incredible story--what was going on in Morocco at the time? why did the coup attempt occur? what were the issues with the monarchy? The actions of the King are inexcusable, but why did he do what he did? I'd love to know.	2001-08-13
US	52744964	R22OFZ1L1GGNLZ	0881334049	530661399	A Street in Marrakech	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Insightful and realistic	I read this book in preparation for a return trip to Morocco and wish I'd read it the first time. This is a story of what it's REALLY like to move to a foreign country--non-western--and try to live as the people do. For those of us who have read books like &quot;A Year in Provence&quot; and suspect that it all sounds too good to be true, this book is a refreshing change. It's told from a woman's perspective, and focuses on domestic life, the sharp difference between public and home behavior in Islamic societies, the pervasiveness of religion, and male-female roles. I would have liked a bit of a broader perspective--the author's descriptions of public unrest and a strike were tantalizing, and I would have liked to know a bit more about what was going on in the country at the time, but she describes pretty clearly why Europeans or Americans, well-meaning though they may be, wouldn't necessarily be met with open arms.	2001-08-13
US	52744964	R1WCVP6T7IEXO8	0684853000	893214399	Beach Boy: A Novel	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Disappointing	I read this book to get a look at Indian society at the time in Bombay but finished with barely a glimpse. The narrator is intelligent but incredibly precocious for his age--especially sexually--and very focused on films and food to the exclusion of everything else. It's hard to figure out what his parents are up to, other than pursuing the same pleasurable activities as their son. Individual passages shone--the trip to the country, the funeral, the description of the teacher--but I came away without conclusion.	2001-08-13
US	52744964	R1NS4HRIWBVB12	0452011876	604964480	Atlas Shrugged	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A real potboiler	We all read this book when we were 19--and I had great fun re-reading it three decades later. Rand portrays a world gone to wrack and ruin as a result of socialism-- although the word is never used. The plot involves a handful of incredibly handsome, intelligent, passionate, blond and thin industrialists holding out against a bunch of incredibly corrupt, unattractive, not very smart government types with odd names who have somehow taken over the U.S. Having said that, the plot grabs the reader at the outset and doesn't let up for 1100 pages, although I found the ending a bit over the top--picture Jack Welch of GE personally storming a military base. The author was prescient in forseeing 50 years ago the cult of victimhood which seems so prevalent today. At the same time, I find it hard to take her philosophy seriously--Rand is a big fan of cold-blooded capitalism, but in her perfect world there aren't any children, elderly, or ill people. Her view of how industrial society would evolve--her focus on trains, mines, steel mills--seems quaint--especially as the book was written at the beginning of the atomic age. The personal relationships between the sexes are positively Victorian. Most weird to me was the veneration shown to the guy who is the embodiment of Rand's philosophy--almost religious in tone. Modern Library did a survey of readers on the best 100 fiction books of the 20th century and this was #1--it was a good read but I must respectfully disagree with the voters.	2001-08-13
US	52744964	R2XFI20QGZ9ENE	0385475721	850910906	The Blind Assassin	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Great Summer read	Take this one along on vacation, if you're looking for a great read many cuts above the usual Oprah selections. Atwood's latest---winner of the Booker Prize--is several novels within a novel--the story of a rich woman's clandestine affair with a leftist agitator in Canada in the 30's, a science fiction tale, the memories and dreams of an old woman full of longing and regret. Atwood leads the reader down many blind alleys and then almost casually reveals that everything that has gone before really happened in a completely different way. Several times I went back to attempt to discover how she did it--why did I so clearly think &quot;X&quot; was the case when now I see clearly that it was &quot;Y&quot; all along? The reader's experience mirrors that of the characters'--Atwood suggests we all live in our own worlds, focused on our needs, desires, and pain, only dimly perceiving what is really going on. Atwood writes in several different styles in this book, with great skill and a real feel for dialogue. You'll enjoy this one.	2001-07-16
US	52744964	R27C369DUJUNPH	0375726349	301023145	The Human Stain: American Trilogy (3)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A winner!	Here's one to sink your teeth into this summer. Roth's latest works on so many levels--it's as if there are two or three novels rolled into one. The most powerful story line involves &quot;passing&quot;--a man &quot;black&quot; in his birth family remakes his life in the white world--Roth conveys the ripping away from family, the fear of being found out, the superhuman effort to maintain control--all so vividly. In a story within a story, Roth vividly portrays the world of boxing, describing the skill, the mental toughness, the sport in a way that I'd never read before (with all due respect to John Irving). Silk is a character who is too smart to fool himself--his own recognition of why he jettisons his real love and chooses his wife is as shocking to the reader as it is to Silk. The novel is intensely political too--in just the first couple of pages Roth launches a nuclear attack on all those who during the awful impeachment summer suddenly turned into saints and sought to get rid of a duly elected president for a most human failing. The novel also brings back Vietnam in all its horror--the passages inside the veterans' heads are among the scariest I've ever read--and shocking to realize that there are people walking around today suffering as these guys are from the events of over 30 years ago. And having explored all of this, but not yet finished, Roth turns to a minor character at the college, Silk's nemesis, and reveals her to be as vulnerable and confused and uncomfortable with herself as everyone else. Fundamentally, everyone in the novel is an outsider--no one belongs, is at peace, connected, not even Nathan. A great book club choice--you'll discuss this one for hours.	2001-07-08
US	52744964	R3UVNQFJ4QQCSZ	0312119038	999720718	Through the Narrow Gate: A Memoir of Spiritual Discovery	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Thought-provoking and complex	The author is a well-known popular writer on religion (if such a thing exists), but here turns to her own experience in a convent for seven years. At the tender age of 17 Armstrong joined a contemplative order--one not totally cloistered but close enough for the first few years--and attempts to destroy her own ego to allow God to fill her mind and soul. Unfortunately, what happens is what all too often happens in life when one human being is given total authority over another, even with that person's consent--the worst human impulses toward cruelty take over--the desire to inflict on another what has been inflicted on oneself is passed on down the line just as the abused child becomes the abusive parent. In this case the vows of poverty, chastity and obedience translate into senseless restrictions on basic human needs like eating and bathing, ridiculous orders being given in the name of testing obedience, neglect of the health of the young novices, refusal to acknowledge abusive behavior of priests, etc. Despite all this, Armstrong manages to convey the beauty of the religious experience and love of God. I was struck by how similar to eastern religions were the methods used to &quot;seek God&quot;--the denial of bodily needs, the isolation from other human beings, the notion that an individual must let go of the self to find God--all are straight out of Buddhism. Is the concept of the self too highly developed and embedded in the Western man or woman for these methods to work? Does the bodily and mental deprivation do something strange to the self that &quot;creates&quot; the experience of God? Is authentic religious experience only for a select few--because if anyone had a &quot;vocation&quot; as I understood the term back then it was certainly Ms. Armstrong--the intensity of her desire to stay the course was overwhelming. In any event this book is a lot more than a broadside attack on the Catholic church pre-Vatican II. I wish the author had answered a few questions in a post-script--her health problems during these years were certainly real but are unexplained, and she leaves the impression that they were caused by the convent--but I suspect that wasn't totally the case. At the very least she seems to have been lactose intolerant--something the convent didn't cause but unfortunately exacerbated. And it's hard to understand how the order thought it could train her to shut down her mind and question nothing for three years and then send her to Oxford. Readers who can get past feeling angry at the treatment Armstrong received will find much to think about.ns in a post-script--her health problems during these years were certainly real but are unexplained, and she leaves the impression that they were caused by the convent--but I suspect that wasn't totally the case. At the very least she seems to have been lactose intolerant--something the convent didn't cause but unfortunately exacerbated. And it's hard to understand how the order thought it could train her to shut down her mind and question nothing for three years and then send her to Oxford. Readers who can get past feeling angry at the treatment Armstrong received will find much to think about.	2001-07-08
US	52744964	R1I11FGB37CZO1	0060932759	694565872	Daughter of Fortune	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Amusing but not credible	I am a big Isabel Allende fan and eagerly turned to this one. Unfortunately in this book she departs from her South American roots and send her heroine to California during Gold Rush days. She then embarks on a series of very unlikely adventures disguised as a boy in this totally uncivilized time and place, and ends up falling for a most unlikely prospect--I am trying not to give anything away but it is not possible that this relationship could exist in the society of the time. Suspend your disbelief and read this on the beach this summer.	2001-06-20
US	52744964	R2CF8KGT3UCIS2	014118065X	55805723	The Return of the Soldier (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A winner	This relatively unknown work, deceptively short, operates on many different levels and works on all of them. In a brief 87 pages one sees the class divisions in England during World War I, the impact of the Industrial Reolution on the countryside, a conflict between love and duty, family expectations and one's own desires, a frightening picture of amnesia, the pain of unrequited love and the joy of mutual love, a marriage without a soul--I could go on and on. I read it once just because I couldn't wait to see what happened, and then again slowly to enjoy the language, the beautiful descriptions of nature, and to find the hints the author sows from page one on that this beautiful world that these people have created for themselves is not what it appears to be.	2001-06-20
US	52744964	RZB1S5U7L3ID1	0062508865	527800309	Muhammad: A Biography of the Prophet	Books	4	21	32	N	N	Very accessible	This book is a good first introduction to Islam. The author makes a very strong point that the West has demonized Islam, and her treatment of Muhammed is meant to restore the balance. I do agree with some reviewers who say she sometimes goes too far--she tries to explain less than admirable behavior on the part of the Prophet with reference to the times--even so Muhammad does some things, notably with respect to the Jews--that are hard to explain away for a man of God. But she also challenges assumptions that those of us in the Judeo-Christian West take for granted--the separation of Church and State, for example. She makes the point that Islam does not focus on doctrinal debates about the nature of God which are so central to Christian religions--Jesus as God, God becoming man through his Son, the Trinity, etc., but rather the way of life of an individual. &quot;Orthopraxy&quot; rather than &quot;Orthodoxy&quot; is how she explains it--a sensible approach when one considers how much time has been wasted and even blood spilled over things that are essentially onknowable. (For the record, &quot;orthopraxy&quot; does not appear in my Webster's unabridged with anything like the meaning she ascribes to it.) I am sure religious scholars would find much to quarrel with in this book, but for the layman trying to understand the foundation of Islam I would recommend this book.	2001-06-20
US	52744964	R3W40TXMM8WLQT	0060192119	316982155	As Nature Made Him: The Boy Who Was Raised as A Girl	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Disturbing	This is an interesting read for anyone interested in the nature of sexuality. One is always disturbed by tales of medical practices that turn out to be so totally off base--in this case, an overemphsis on the physical organs led doctors to perform sex change operations on young children before their innate sexuality was clearly identified. We would all like to beleive in the good faith and open-mindedness of the medical profession, but sexuality seems to be an area where doctors are especially prone to believe that things are turning out the way they want them to rather than the way they really are. There are always two sides, but the conduct of the physicians in this case--the researchers who hailed this as a landmark case of true change of sex--is hard to explain. Anyone who has experience with young children knows that they begin to exhibit &quot;boy&quot; and &quot;girl&quot; qualities at a very early age. Modern gene research tells us that sexuality is a most complex matter,  hardly as simple as what organ a person has.	2001-06-17
US	52744964	R25JPQ9HGP3652	0399144463	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese?: An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Simplistic	This book is not for anyone who has had any formal management training. The notion of managing for change has been done many times before--the useful tidbit in this book is that doing something is almost always better than doing nothing--a 75% correct solution implemented quickly is much better than a 100% solution implemented in 6 months. I'm not sure why this book has had the success it has--except for the cute parable format.	2001-06-17
US	52744964	R1PJH9CVJN5SZ3	0861710568	863927449	Memoirs of a Political Officer's Wife: in Tibet, Sikkim and Bhutan (Wisdom Tibet Book. Yellow Series)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Lost Kingdoms	I'm researching a trip to Bhutan this fall, and have found that memoirs like this are few and far between. This book describes a world that is far gone--especially Tibet, where all vestiges of the Buddhist culture have been stamped out by the Chinese, except for a few carefully preserved sites for tourists. The book is fascinating for its picture of a culture that was totally accessible to a rather low level British foreign service officer--the Dalai Lama, the Bhutanese Royal Family welcome these well-meaning British into their midst with great ceremony and real friendship. The book itself suffers from a lack of immediacy, which I attribute to the fact that it was written many years later and undoubtedly based almost solely on diaries. I wish there were descriptions of the journeys themselves--the author speaks of crossing 17,000 foot passes as if they were a walk in the park---didn't the pack animals stumble, wasn't she ever out of breath? I would love to have read a description of a small village casually passed--were the children healthy? the people hostile or curious? Having said that, the book presents an interesting picture of a relatively benevolent British Empire reaching out to an independent Tibet--and Bhutan--untouched by the West.	2001-06-07
US	52744964	RTIIA8XJCKWHX	0670891932	767275402	Buddha (Penguin Lives)	Books	4	6	11	N	N	Good starting point	This is a very accessible introduction to the life of the Buddha and Buddhist thought. I found the author's explanations of Buddhist &quot;doctrine&quot; (Gotama would not have used this word) relatively clear. It is striking how similar the Gotama's story is to other prophets-- the stories of miracles, the gathering of disciples, the tempting of Gotama by a being who might be called the Devil in western thought--all very similar to Christian myth. At the same time Buddhism ended up in a very different place--the Buddha constantly  urged followers to test his principles and evaluate them based on the person's own experience--the test for the Buddha seems to be whether people felt better and at peace following his way. For sure this is an introduction only, and as with any religion the most interesting part is to examine what happened after--how does all this play out in the modern world. A thought-provoking little volume.	2001-05-25
US	52744964	R2771IECE6OUAN	055347751X	356056459	Century	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Great Audio	Having listened to a number of audiobooks on various historical subjects, I rate this one pretty highly. Rather than a reading of a text, this is the sound track to the ABC/History Channel show. The inclusion of speeches, interviews and music brings to life what can be pretty dry stuff--especially if you're listening to relieve the tedium of a long drive. The section on pre-WWII was especially compelling--I will not so easily forget the juxtaposition of a Hitler speech with the interview of an elderly German who tried to explain what this man meant to a country that had been crushed by WWI reparations, runaway inflation, and the Depression. No these types of books and tapes are not for college level history courses--but we are a country in which a junior high school student seriously asked a German friend of mine whether Hitler was still the President of Germany! Under the circumstances, I'm all in favor of a little &quot;pop&quot; history!	2001-05-25
US	52744964	R3QHV2E8XD1M3N	0393049698	275964807	The Search for the Panchen Lama	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Excellent treatment of a complex story	This book is a must read for anyone interested in Tibet or the surrounding areas--Nepal and Bhutan. As is often the case, the story of Tibet is much more complex than the &quot;Free Tibet&quot; slogan would suggest. Tibet was never a united country with a central government, but a fuedal society in need of reform, ill-equipped to deal with the great powers that surrounded it--the Soviet Union, China and Britain/India. One learns in this clear and well-written account that the Chinese, who had close and positive historical ties to Tibet, were invited in by the Panchen Lama--a choice he lived to regret. One also learns that for a time the Dalai Lama was leaning in favor of the Soviet Union--also not a good choice. Interestingly, the predecessors to the current Dalai and Panchen lamas had a serious falling out over whether Tibet should have a modern army to defend itself, with the Dalai Lama opposing the idea. In reading this book, one gets an all too clear picture of the devastation China has visited upon this country--in some ways worse than in parts of China itself, and one cannot help being deeply moved by the heroism of the monks, who are a very human and fallible group until their entire lives, culture, and religion come under attack. Perhaps most compelling, this is a story that is just beginning--the whereabouts of the current Panchen Lama is unknown, but the focus of international attention, and as you will learn, his fate bears directly on the issue of who will be the next Dalai Lama. A compelling read!	2001-05-21
US	52744964	RIUXJCFWY70KQ	0393320979	481105340	Beowulf: A New Verse Translation (Bilingual Edition)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Totally accessible	Though not a scholar, I enjoyed this work immensely. The translation is lyrical, clear and immediate in recreating a time and place. The side by side text brings home what a scholarly challenge it must have been to translate this work so beautifully--one fact not mentioned in the introduction is that there are over 200 words in the original poem that appear nowhere else in the fragments of literature that remain from the period. Much later works--Eliot, Gerard Manley Hopkins--echo in these lines--or rather it's the reverse, as I now realize. I hope this is the version that now becomes standard in schools--the author is a poet in his own right, and that sensibility pervades this work.	2001-05-21
US	52744964	R2XXVT8OEOYFDT	0060932902	730202454	Genome: The Autobiography of a Species in 23 Chapters	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Challenging but Fascinating	For someone with no scientific background (me!) this book is a bit more challenging than other reviewers suggest. Be prepared for the eyes to glaze over a bit when the author explains gene sequences and structure, but keep plugging, because the real world explanations of the consequences of these minute structures and tiny differences and variations within them are fascinating. One need not understand the science to quickly realize the enormous popular misconceptions about gene therapy--the identification of gene research and therapy with cloning is most unfortunate, because cloning is hardly the most exciting or interesting thing to come out of this area. Rather, the author helps one clearly understand why medicine so far has been quite unsuccessful in dealing with cancer; the explanations of the origins of disease are riveting; and this reader realized that the entire controversy over genetically altered food is silly when genetic alterations occur every second, every time a living thing reproduces. I also realized that all knowledge in this area before 1980 is pretty much obsolete-- with the advent of technology and the ability to scan billions of data elements to detect patterns and variations, hundreds of &quot;proven&quot; theories have gone out the window. Even if you only understand half of the material in tis book it's a very worthwhile read.	2001-05-05
US	52744964	RVJP40PGBJBD1	0451524985	182408519	Lady Chatterley's Lover (Signet classics)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Not a book for Youngsters	Like many of us, I read this book in my late teens, but on a reread as an adult in my bookclub I realize the first time it probably went right over my head. Not because of the sex, which by today's standards is pretty tame, but for the astute observations on male and female behavior. I found Connie's ambivalence about her affair to be very believable--when with Mellors she's totally caught up in the moment, but away from him--even when pregnant with their child-- the real world intrudes and she feels ashamed. The description of the smart society of the 1920's and the casual sex was eerily modern. This book is about the conflict between nature and the industrial society, between pure sensuality and sex, between the intellectual life and the body. And parts of it are really funny!--the description of the meeting between Mellors and Connie's father is hysterical--the father is a complete buffoon. Lawrence has some odd ideas about sensuality and male power, and the brief, casual anti-Semitic throw away comments were disturbing, but all in all this was a great book.	2001-05-01
US	52744964	RMGZ5RWYBIASD	0880015829	318982614	The Sheltering Sky	Books	3	3	9	N	N	A Dissenting Voice	This Paul Bowles novel is a beautiful, difficult and uneven work. It has all the things the other reviewers suggest--Bowles captures vividly the ultimate strangeness of a culture so different that one might as well be on another planet. The descriptions of the dark streets, the monochromatic beige--grey--white of the desert and cities, the filth and poverty, the sand--all perfectly drawn. The author's picture of a terrible death from the point of view of the person experiencing it was truly frightening--he depicts death as an experience of the mind rather than the body. The section depicting life inside the home of the Arab who takes Kit across the desert was intriguing. But ultimately I was frustrated by the characters--I suspect this all has to do with the postwar existentialist view of the world. I closed this book with far too many unanswered questions--why are these people in North Africa to begin with? Money seems to be no object--why aren't they being driven around in a Mercedes? Port and Kit are estranged but each longs to make a connection with the other, and they subconsciously conspire to dump Tunner sothey can be alone. But we have no idea how they came to be this way--although their inability to reach out to each other is real enough. Who is Tunner anyway? These characters seem to deliberately create a hell for themselves in order to reinforce the view that life is meaningless, we are all alone in the end, etc., etc. This is not a funny book, but after arriving at a hotel strewn with garbage and diseased babies (lying on the garbage pile no less!), finding vermin in the beds, and eating soup laden with weevils and a disgusting stew with pieces of fur floating in it, Kit exclaims &quot;I wish we had gone to Italy!&quot;--I had to laugh!	2001-04-09
US	52744964	R1YIOPHINIDDG7	0375725784	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Indifferent you won't be	A genius? an obsessed ego-maniac? a 26 year old who never grew up? a son who is doomed to repeat the past? a guy who needs to get a life? This a tough book to rate, since as the author himself admits it's a bit uneven.  The book works the best when the author crawls outside of his own head and gives us the story--the death of his parents is so real, so awful, and so faithfully described in every horrible detail. Time and again, he circles back to his childhood and adds layers of detail and meaning, so that I almost felt the way the parents died was inevitable. The dark, wood-paneled house--the escape to bright California--the descent into chaos again--painful to read and true. Anyone who has experienced the shock of the sudden death of someone very close will recognize the recurring feelings that whatever happens to be going on can go &quot;poof&quot; and disappear in a second.    Much less successful were the author's ruminations on society, the motives behind &quot;Might&quot; (does anyone really believe this 70's stuff anymore?), the &quot;lattice&quot;. Eggars redeems himself however, by every once in awile letting one of the characters go &quot;out of character&quot;--most notably the little brother--and tell him to go to hell.    Eggars will be an interesting author to watch. At the moment he's a little too impressed with his own cleverness--after the intro and the 400+ page text, the &quot;corrections&quot; section of the paperback was just TOO much. It's possible that this was his one book. But he could also become a very compelling observer of the US right here and now. Stay tuned.	2001-03-23
US	52744964	R1KA5M2O5CTXZ2	0375406328	449261090	Lying Awake	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The nature of religious experience	This a slim beautifully written book, which in a simple, profound way allows those of us in the uncloistered world to understand the lives and motivations of those who choose another life. Read in an evening, the book prompted a lot of thought about what experiencing the divine might mean to someone.  Sister John is a mystic--or is she just ill? Does it matter? Is her experience of God less real? Is her willingness to give it up for the sake of the community not proof that in fact she found the god she was seeking? Does the experience of god in the way she experiences it lead her away from her community, and does losing it bring her back? For people who puzzle over whether god &quot;exists&quot; in the sense the word is commonly meant, this book will stay with you.	2001-03-06
US	52744964	R2VXJEZNDT1FEW	0374110131	697393202	Being Dead: A Novel	Books	4	22	25	N	N	Complex and disturbing	From a deceptively simple plot line comes this deep and disturbing work. The story is simple. Two people are murdered and we go back and look at their lives. But the author tells four stories simultaneously, one line being the day the two people die, the three others a couple of days 30 years ago, the next the period between the death and the discovery, and finally the story of Syl, the daughter, during this same period between the death and the discovery. <br />I agree wholeheartedly with the reviewer who found this last story line discordant . We know little about Syl and nothing about her relationship with her parents other than she felt they disapproved of her. Given what we see her do---especially her callous behavior toward the &quot;driver&quot; she picks up to chauffeur  her around as she discovers what has happened to her parents---any rational person might disapprove of her as well. The death of her parents is a rebirth for Syl--but we don't know enough for this to seem really meaningful.<br />This book is densely and beautifully written. I would love to SEE Baritone Bay after reading of the wind, the grass, the dunes, the sand. And you will never allow yourself to be fooled by what you see at the undertaker after reading this. (A great case for instant cremation!) Not for the fainthearted, but a great book.	2001-03-03
US	52744964	R1A67OB5D5K3LJ	0486292371	687848767	The Immoralist (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Gorgeous journey	To comment on a few things not mentioned in other reviews--Gide developed a love of nature very young, and his eye for the subtle--light, air--is wonderful. Most see this as a book set in North Africa, but note the descriptions of the Alps--one can almost hear the cold, crisp air. Although his relationship with Marceline takes a back seat to his own inner voyage, I found his struggle to love her, while at the same time being pulled in an entirely different direction, compelling. His urge to continue traveling at the end, knowing deep within himself that it will kill her; knowing but not knowing how ill she was throughout, was frightening. How different a work from explicit, modern novels that hit one over the head like a ton of bricks!	2001-02-25
US	52744964	R28NV1IZ0W4OVU	0394565959	161553456	Little Saint	Books	3	6	14	N	N	&quot;A Year in Provence&quot; with religious spice	This book is first an account of a religious awakening, which occurs when the author, interested in this little traveled part of France and its patron saint, experiences something mystical and mysterious. As a basically non-religious person, however, I found her description quite opaque. (The author also has the annoying habit of writing very, very long sentences.) I thought this book worked a lot better as one of the &quot;Year in Provence/Bella Tuscany&quot; genre--particularly because it is focused much more on the people and culture, and not on a home improvement project. The author's own nationality and culture are very much in the background, and there is not an ounce of condescension in her descriptions. Interestingly, this book was published posthumously: the author died in 1996, and I have a sense that the book, which is set in the late 1970's, may have been written much earlier than others in its more well-known travel genre category. For a much more accessible, beautifully written account of religious experience and community, try a slim, simple novella called &quot;Lying Awake&quot; by Salzman.	2001-02-25
US	52744964	R2P073WJWUXB52	014028009X	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary: A Novel	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Mildly amusing for the first 25 pages at best	After the rave reviews I was looking forward to this one, but was sorely disappointed. The main character is a total stereotype--obsessed with finding a boyfriend, cigarettes, weight and chocolate--maybe in reverse order. Her job fills time she would otherwise spend eating and smoking.  Why is it that no one writes books like this about guys? Portrayals of women like this aren't that funny to begin with, and this one wore thin quickly. Don't waste your time on the sequel--I didn't.	2001-02-17
US	52744964	R3ESNWERS2O7UI	0826211410	966649042	James Madison: The Founding Father	Books	2	8	10	N	N	A guy who peaked early	I picked up this book because I was to attend a conference on Madison and wanted to know something more than the murky recollection I had from school of this less well known &quot;founding father.&quot; I was fascinated to learn how it came to pass that after initially opposing the Bill of Rights Madison was the guy who actually got it through the first Congress. The early years were interesting, but this book rather quickly turned into a rather bewildering discussion of the ins and outs of trade with Europe and the problems that led up to the War of 1812--which sounded like a totally forgettable incident in American history. Madison was by and large an untalented president--his greatest achievements were complete by the time he was 30--the Bill of Rights and, before then, the Federalist Papers. Maybe the book went downhill with the career of its subject, but I thought the writing could have been a lot clearer and a few sentences of background information each time a new subject was introduced would have helped this book alot.	2001-02-15
US	52744964	RY67YFTNCKZ06	014016930X	21744022	Angle of Repose (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Wonderful history	My book club loved this book! I found the picture of the West fascinating, and the main character to be a woman of grit and courage who  married the wrong guy but approached her life with him in as supportive a way as possible, creating a life for herself too. It is hard to imagine the harshness of the years spent along the river, but she later describes them as among her happiest. Without giving anything away, her ultimate fate is a harsh one because of one careless act--I was more sympathetic than some in my group. The title makes you think!	2001-02-06
US	52744964	R13TK31DCJ342J	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Startling myth	I found this book fascinating. The cultural details were wonderful--I found the lack of any clear dividing line between our traditional understanding of early Hebrew peoples and what a religious person might call pagan roots very thought-provoking. My book club rushed to the Bible to see what was said there about these characters. The power and mystery of these women was amazing--it made me think about how much women lost by being in a nuclear family in the Western sense in the last couple of hundred years, rather than part of large extended groups of mothers, cousins, daughters, servants--something only partly regained as women have fought for eqality in the modern age.	2001-02-06
US	52744964	RTQLUE2FCK2WS	0449214206	724495638	The Covenant	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Sympathetic and detailed history	I read this book in preparation for a trip to South Africa. There are of course several things to read to get a better feeling for this complex country, especially Mandela's autobiography--but this one I found particularly helpful in understanding the Afrikaans story. The original Dutch settlers were fierce and courageous people who banded  together against a terrifying wilderness, ultimately cutting themselves off from their European roots altogether. All outsiders--European and African---were suspect. Religious fanaticism also played a role. I was startled to realize that aparteid in its starkest form was only a 1930-1940's development, and that the descendants of the Dutch were still traveling around the countryside in wagons in the 50's. Like a few other of Michener's books I've read, the historical parts are the best, and the modern is more like an historical narrative--but I recommend this book to anyone who wants a relatively painless way to get a deeper sense of the history than any guidebook.	2001-02-06
US	52744964	R3HPDIWVUW6X56	006019541X	351520335	Blue Angel: A Novel	Books	2	2	4	N	N	The humor escaped us!	I hated this book and was bit relieved when my book club gave it a thumbs down. The main character was a despicable human being, basically an ego-centric, second rate writer who lets himself be totally manipulated by a student. The portrait of political correctness on campus was funny indeed--but his totally asinine behavior robbed the &quot;trial&quot; scenes of any impact.   This may sound far-fetched, but this book replicated the beginning of &quot;Disgrace&quot; by Coetzee--but of course that was a book that had something to say, and the academic angle was merely a springboard to a very different story. You can pass on this one.	2001-02-06
US	52744964	RZ2V9CKCNCQ0D	0375501851	363806782	White Teeth	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A bit overrated	I was disappointed in this novel after reading the high praise it received. Smith has written a very ambitious book--touching on religion, race, nationality, the British--Indian dilemma, sex, adolescence, idealism, fanaticism in the name of religion, animal rights, etc.--I'm afraid she tries to do too much. I never got a handle on her older male characters--Samad and Archie--who dominate the first half of the book. She does better with the next generation, and her portrayal of Irie comes alive--but then again, she's a 24 yr. old black woman (or Indian?) who lives in London, and in Irie the author portrays someone she seems to know VERY WELL. Certain set pieces come alive--the hair scene with Irie,the description of her school, and oddly enough given my prior comments, the war scenes--but all in all I found this one hard to plow through.	2001-02-06
US	52744964	R2S6H2U3VT92ML	0140296409	929204920	Disgrace: A Novel	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Profoundly disturbing	This is a story of a society that has fallen apart at the seams--if you have ever visited South Africal (I have) and been impressed by its seeming progress, good roads, Western style hotels, etc., read this book for a very different view. It is hard to understand what motivates the daughter in this book--perhaps in the end it's survival instincts, or atonement. If you're looking for a standard &quot;good read&quot;--this isn't it!	2001-02-06
US	52744964	R2MEW56A3B8W79	0375410546	388721998	When We Were Orphans	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A master of understatement	Although not the masterpiece &quot;Remains of the Day&quot; was, I found this a fascinating study of a man who slowly sinks into delusion--almost without the reader realizing it. The main character's detachment from himself is quite startling. The morning after he agrees to go away with a married woman who has fascinated him for some time, he describes himself as &quot;rather excited&quot;. Or did the conversation with her really take place as he describes it to us? One is never quite sure. And what was REALLY going on at that wedding he attends? His search for his parents in the war zone is a dream--a nightmare--a harrowing description of what war means to a people whose slum is the battleground, being fought over block by block. My book club had mixed reviews for this one--the detachment of the main character from his own reality also distances the reader. But give it a try--you won't be neutral about this one.	2001-02-06
US	52744964	RHS75519Z3NNM	0375406530	663303744	Waiting	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The ties of home in modern China	I found this an engrossing look at life in modern China--it's hard for us in the West to grasp the restrictions--not only political but personal--that these characters lived under. But on a deeper level this book is about home, and tradition--the annual visits home were beautifully described--watch especially for the character's description of the food he eats in the country as opposed to the city. I loved the description of the simple country wife--her shopping list. Her stubborn patience, asking nothing for herself, is something no Western woman could ever understand.	2001-02-06
US	52744964	R12UHP580OSX64	157322118X	16172294	Beyond the Sky and the Earth: A Journey into Bhutan	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Beautiful Travel Writing	I loved this book. A wonderful example of personal travel writing--a very personal memoir. In addition to beautifully describing the countryside, some of her insights were quite interesting--the lack of privacy in the culture, the obedience to authority. Her appreciation of and eventual  conversion to Buddhism helped me really understand in a very different way  the nature of this most un-western form of spirituality.  I too was a  little disappointed in the second half of the book where her falling in  love interferes with the very compelling story of ethnic tensions, and I  did think the ending was a bit of a cop out. Still, having  been to Nepal and seeing just a glimpse of the things she writes about, I think it's a  must read for people visiting that part of the world.	2000-03-04
US	52744964	R2QQVRHD1A8TEW	0312243022	785940945	The Hours: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The Hours	This is a beautiful and subtle work--concentrated in a single day, the author follows the lives of 3 women whose stories are subtly intertwined until the very end--when with a bang they come together. The portrait of  Mrs Brown is at once the most ordinary and the most compelling--a picture  of desperation below a very ordinary surface-- a very ordinary life that  has ramifications beyond anything one would expect. Extraordinary!	2000-02-27
US	52744964	R3NDBLHATBK0WK	055347751X	356056459	Century	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A great listen	I bought the audio version of this because I drive a long way to a summer place every weekend, and have found the tapes riveting. The sections on the two world wars were especially compelling--for the first time I understood  the power of Hitler over a Germany reeling from the double whammy of WWI  and the Depression. The section on WWI was unbelievable--with all that came  after it is easy to forget how cruel and bloody and POINTLESS that conflict  was. Frankly, audio books tend to put me to sleep, but with the voices  of  live participants in the events, the music, the sound clips and the  Jennings naration, this one was a winner.	1999-07-13
US	52744964	R1BTF9NF0MQLG4	0060175400	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A serious great read	A compelling story with fascinating background. I found the mother the most compelling character--a woman completely under the control of a man, wanting to rebel but tied down to obligation, children, a notion of God  perpetrated by her husband. So easy to say &quot;just leave&quot;--but  Kingsolver convinces us of her struggle, even for women readers who find it  hard to imagine being so trapped, 40 years and womens emancipation later.  The book made me want to find out what the real story of the US in the  Congo was.	1999-05-21
