US	52743265	R2Q67E48KC81WZ	1582340692	403731111	3 Minutes or Less: Life Lessons from America's Greatest Writers	Books	5	7	7	N	N	if you're here, this book is certainly for you.	If you are lucky enough to stumble upon this Amazon.com page, you should buy this book immediately. Why on earth would anyone actively seek such a book? Why does the world need another anthology and by the already famous? I found this at a discount chain store, and my one regret was not buying 10 copies when I had the chance. These short forms are little gems on universal themes (growing up, first love, etc). Susan Sontag has a great piece about writing; she observed, as time goes by, writing doesn't become easier; it becomes harder; wow!  I've read about 3/4 of these shorts, and each one gives a different pleasure; try to write a complete story in less than 3 minutes. It ain't easy. The pieces remind me of Dinty Moore's creative nonfiction as well as the pieces you'd find in Brevity literary magazine.<br /><br />I've been recommending this book to teachers for teaching classes. These pieces are short enough that it will keep the interest of students in this instant gratification world.	2005-09-07
US	52743265	R13TED3U0XVSPS	0945575319	660076012	My Life and Dr. Joyce Brothers: A Novel in Stories	Books	4	0	0	N	N	gosh, totally forgot about this book!	Just on a lark, I browsed around and stumbled across this book which I'd read a long time ago. I'd even written a mini-review of it for a literary journal. And yet, I remember next to nothing about this book! I remember it as being light-hearted, unconventional, a breeze to read, and humorous.<br /><br />This is a not a substantial novel/story collection (I suspect you'd have to read her other novel We Can Still Be Friends for something more meaty). Still it's a fun read, probably good chick lit and K.C. is a talented writer.<br /><br />One of the crazy things about amazon is that certain books (perfectly fine ones) just get no feedback at all. Many sell for under a $1, and even if you factor in the shipping and handling, it's still a great deal.	2005-04-13
US	52743265	RX2OI4ME899YU	0156027607	74781857	Solaris	Books	1	33	69	N	N	Lem has condemned the "Kilmartin & Cox" translation -- the 2011 Johnston translation is great	UPDATE: I see that this review has been appearing on the latest<br /><br />First, I have not read this book (but I saw the movie), but recently I came across a few essays by Lem and about Lem on the cyberiad site run by his relatives.<br /><br />He apparently was not thrilled about the film adaptation and really sort of dislikes the book itself. That may be just an author's typical fussiness.<br /><br />But here's something else. Lem himself hates this translation; he has been pestering the publisher (who owns the copyright) for some time  to commission another translation of it. He believes it is seriously flawed.<br /><br />I don't know Polish, so I cannot comment. Other interviews record Lem as being content with English translations of most of his other works, but the bad translation of Solaris really gnaws at him. ALthough the publication date here for the paperback is 2002, in fact the translation (I seem to recall) dates back to the 1950's. And the publishing house that owns the copyright refuses to commission another translation.<br /><br />Maybe this is just authorial fussiness. Maybe the translation isn't that horrible. But I'd be very careful about touching a translation that the author hates.<br /><br />2013 UPDATE: I wrote this review in 2004  about the translation by  Joanna Kilmartin and  Steve Cox. fortunately, there is a better translation published in 2011. The new translation is also ridiculously cheap, so there is no good reason to read the older translations. See [[ASIN:B006JWE0MC Solaris]]	2004-11-07
US	52743265	R1GGSTSAZTOQ40	0945167350	252761823	Portable People	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	buy multiple copies! you won't regret it!	Recently, while poring over a Fernando Pessoa book on amazon, I remembered this delightful book, and alas...I see nobody has yet put in a kind word for it. Paul West is a good European writer of the Dalkey Archives ilk. I'm generally a fan, though sometimes it's hard to get into his deeply cerebral type of writing.  This, however, remains one of his brightest and most accessible works. And really, what a clever idea (and what good packaging!). If I remember correctly, each profile was one or two pages long, and the numerous illustrations made the book a delight to behold.<br /><br />This sort of form uses West's poetic and lyrical strengths while imposing limits on his language before it gets tiresome. Listen, if you landed on this page, chances are, you already are going to like this book (and currently the used price is under $2, a truly remarkable deal). Not only will you be able to enjoy this book, it's a cool Christmas gift to give to friends who wouldn't normally read a Calvino or Baudelaire but would find the celebrities being written about to be fascinating for their own sake.<br /><br />I haven't read much of Paul West, but I remember liking Rat Man of Paris very much. In summary: this is a slight book (and probably not considered one of his major works), but an original idea and definitely one of his most readable pieces. It wouldn't surprise me if this book turns out to have more staying power than his \\"major pieces.\\"	2004-11-02
US	52743265	R1AIS272JPUULR	0810150069	710654314	Arcadio	Books	5	4	5	N	N	a classic of style and boundary-breaking	I'm a Texan who usually avoids reading Texan writers, but Goyen's work is thrilling, amazing, evocative, fast-paced and also very sensual and religious/spiritual.<br /><br />This is one of those reviews I write when I discover to my horror that a great work of literature has received no comments on amazon (I've done this before for Felipe Alfau, Marco Vassi and Nina Berberova).  It's been 10-15 years since I've read this book, and I remember next to nothing about it other than being utterly swept away by it. (I got it as a freebie when subscribing to Triquarterly--editor Reginald Gibbons seems to be a big Goyen fan also; his press also republished House of Breath). It's time to buy another copy!<br /><br />He's unlike any Texas writer I know, esp in terms of imagery and style. Maybe Cormac McCarthy, but without the Wild West claptrap in McCarthy (don't get me wrong--I like it!) and much more accessible.<br /><br />This is first class stuff.	2004-10-22
US	52743265	R3PDDA0JU2XCHF	0299053709	499037380	Traditional Chinese Plays, Vol. 2: Longing for Worldly Pleasures	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Great important play: Longing for Worldly Pleasures	I just love the Longing for Worldy Pleasures play. It's a historic 17th century K'unshan drama with religious/erotic themes. Very modern and dramatically interesting.	2004-10-01
US	52743265	R1RQZHPLZTVG8M	0891100024	978334321	Metasex, mirth & madness: Erotic tales of the absurdly real	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The stories here are excellent	I have never actually seen this book, but I am in the process of gathering material for a critical analysis of Marco Vassi's remarkable work. Although this Metasex book is out of print, a good portion of this book is reprinted in a still-in-print book, The Mammoth Book of Erotica by Maxim Jakubowski (Editor). This book is available for very cheap (and also contains  interesting stories by other writers). Jakubowski took the 90 page &quot;Carcass of Dreams&quot; story cycle (for which Vassi will be eternally famous) from Metasex, Mirth &amp; Madness, performing an admirable service for the literary world.	2004-05-24
US	52743265	R2MCX1Q4KVVCH3	0099149516	366391493	The Tattered Cloak and Other Novels	Books	5	4	4	N	N	subtle chekhovian short stories	Ok, this is one of the shallowest book comments I've ever read. However, I noticed that amazon had no comments about this book, an unforgivable thing. I read this work in the early nineties and was enchanted by the characters and the romance and the emotional resonances (not to mention the writing). Ten years have passed, and I totally forgot about the book and the author. Totally forgot! Just randomly a week ago the name popped into my mind, and I went to amazon, and there is the book (which I have reordered). Apparently Berberova has written quite a bit (not really surprising), and to tell the truth I remember next to nothing about what the stories in the book are about (except it had something to do with Russian expats in Paris--wasn't there a musician somewhere?). The only thing I can convey to you is my utter enthusiasm about getting this book in my hands again.	2004-05-15
US	52743265	R36POJWCG183WQ	0786707879	778386001	The Mammoth Book of Erotica	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A must have erotic anthology! for vassi!	I was shocked to read the other lukewarm reviews of this book. I bought this book about 10 years ago and found the stories compelling, entrancing (not to mention erotic). The book covers the darker side of eroticism--death, SM, but there's a lot of softer stuff. The real reason to buy the book is Marco Vassi's 80 page novella &quot;Carcass of Dreams&quot; (which I would argue is one of the best series of erotic stories ever written). The  stories are more Bataille or Jean de Berg than Kundera, a lot of dark brooding nonsense. Another gem is Robert Silverberg's &quot;Two at Once&quot; one of the most delightful stories I'd read. Surprisingly, the Anne Rice story is one of the weakest of the bunch. Maxim Jakubowski also edited the excellent &quot;Mammoth Book of International Erotica&quot; (although I didn't find it as steamy as this original volume). For those who still prefer reading an intellectually-engaging dirty book once in a while and don't mind morbidity and S/M, this book will be great.	2003-07-15
US	52743265	R1Z0ZETEJL8PGB	0789728338	830257097	Special Edition Using StarOffice 6.0	Books	5	6	6	N	N	a heavy but very useful book!	A first-class user guide on OpenOffice.org/StarOffice has been written, and that book is Michael Koch's Special Edition Using StarOffice 6.0. This book, actually a second edition, covers the new version and gives fuller treatment to StarOffice writer and the HTML editor. Despite the use of &quot;StarOffice&quot; in the title, this book actually covers both StarOffice and OpenOffice.org in depth.<br />An an aside, let me compliment Que editions for the legibility and usability of layout. (Que also produced the excellent Ed Bott's Special Edition Using Microsoft Office XP). Nice readable texts, lots of boxes, tips and cautions. Every chapter finishes with a helpful troubleshooting section.<br />Two immediate reactions: 1) Gosh, I didn't know OpenOffice/StarOffice could do all that! I was pleasantly surprised, for example, to learn the number of graphic capabilities the program has. 2) This book covers functionality in considerable depth, with enough content to satisfy the newbie as well as the advanced user. In addition to documenting the office software, the book also includes reference sections on StarOffice Basic, using data sources, building forms and macros. It also includes a chapter on Adabas, the database that comes as part of the StarOffice package (but not with OpenOffice.org).<br />Koch benefits from the fact that users already start with a good conceptual framework of what MS Office products are supposed to do. The biggest conceptual challenge in moving from MS Office to Star/OpenOffice is getting used to the idea of applying styles to text instead of just clicking on an icon for formatting. MS Office actually has terrific styling capabilities (and a usable interface for managing styles),but Microsoft's friendly GUI discourages users from thinking about document structure. Contrast that to OpenOffice.org, which nudges the user more firmly towards styles. Managing the different layers of styles in OpenOffice.org can be tricky and confusing, so Koch spends a considerable amount of time and space on that. Another chapter on sharing and exchanging information with MS Office users goes into exquisite detail about compatibility and formatting losses when converting documents, as well as the StarOffice XML file format.<br />Generally, the book had the most reliable and in-depth information. That was especially helpful when trying to perform a complex action (like creating a table of contents). But the majority of my inquiries had to do with using the interface, not functionality. Often the sheer size of the book made daunting the simple task of finding a function on a dialog or a keyboard shortcut. This book was perfectly clear most of the time and provided generous explanations (unlike the online help, which generally was inadequate). Still, the kaaredyret and oodocs websites have been growing more helpful.<br />The book is a little behind on what's new in openoffice. Also, it's a bit heavy and sometimes it's hard to find things in the index. For the overwhelming number of users, this will probably be the only book about star/openoffice that you'll ever need.considerable amount of time and space on that. Another chapter on sharing and exchanging information with MS Office users goes into exquisite detail about compatibility and formatting losses when converting documents, as well as the StarOffice XML file format. <br />Generally, the book had the most reliable and in-depth information. That was especially helpful when trying to perform a complex action (like creating a table of contents). But the majority of my inquiries had to do with using the interface, not functionality. Often the sheer size of the book made daunting the simple task of finding a function on a dialog or a keyboard shortcut. This book was perfectly clear most of the time and provided generous explanations (unlike the online help, which generally was inadequate). Still, the kaaredyret and oodocs websites have been growing more helpful. <br />The book is a little behind on what's new in openoffice. Also, it's a bit heavy and sometimes it's hard to find things in the index. For the overwhelming number of users, this will probably be the only book about star/openoffice that you'll ever need.	2003-06-13
US	52743265	R3B8YY28YP2NVD	042516358X	77327345	Disco duck and other adventures in novelty music	Books	5	1	1	N	N	fun delightful critical commentary!	This book gives the backstory for dozens of novelty songs and one hit wonders. The writer tells their stories with a marvelous sense of irony and delight: that the singers of Lions Sleep Tonight used to sing the Zulu lyrics without a clue what the song was about, that Convoy was sung by a classically trained art director, that La Macarena was big in South America in the early 1990's (well before it become big in Europe or the US), or that the Hokey Pokey was the B-Side for the Bunny Hop.<br />Reading this story gives an appreciation for the effort to produce these one-hit wonders and the sheer surprise that was involved in their becoming famous. Interestingly, throughout the book, Collins alludes to dj's and local radio stations that took a chance with one of these songs, something that is difficult to do when clearchannel uses carefully controlled market-driven playlists. This is one of these books with fascinating stories that you will not want to put down.	2003-05-26
US	52743265	R1AFL1MTDVSK01	1565927303	793724039	Managing RAID on Linux: Fast, Scalable, Reliable Data Storage	Books	5	16	18	N	Y	introduces RAID to the masses	The availability of HOW-TOs and newsgroups is supposed to make the sysadmin's job easier, right? Much as I am a proponent of the 'distributed learning model' for Linux, the endless searching for answers on the Web for setting up Linux RAID was getting to be a royal pain. Sure, there was a RAID how-to and an excellent newgroup, but some of the information is out of date, and the tricks suggested by people a year ago may be no longer needed today.<br />A person deciding to go with RAID faces a panoply of options and<br />gotchas. Hardware or software? How many controllers? ATA or CSI (or ataraid)? RAID 1 or RAID 5? Which file system or disstribution? Kernel options? Mdadm or raidtools? /swap or /boot on raid? Hybrid? Left or right symmetric? One poster pointed out that putting two ATA drives on the same controller could impact performance. Yikes! Didn't I do that?<br />Upon discovering that O'Reilly had just published its Managing RAID on Linux book, looking at sample chapter , I bought the book and let my blood pressure return to normal.<br />RAID is one of these subjects that is really not complex; it's just very hard to find all the information in one place. This is precisely the book to solve the problem. Author Derek Vadala, sysadmin and founder of Azurance, an open source/security consulting firm, has gathered a lot of information and even personal anecdotes to go through the decision making process when going over to RAID. He goes<br />step-by-step through that process, educating us about hard drives, controllers, and bottlenecks along the way. This exhaustive book may be the first to bring RAID to the masses.<br />Although parts of the book (RAID types, file system types) may seem already familiar to experienced Linux users, it is helpful nonetheless to have everything in a nifty little book. A section of file systems provided not only a rundown of the merits and drawbacks of each one, but also a guide to their utilities. I learned for example what &quot;file tails&quot; for Reiser are, and why using them causes performance to degrade after reaching 85% capacity. The book compares raidtools with<br />mdadm as well as lovely commands to  email you RAID status reports upon boot).<br />People who use software RAID may skip over the chapter on RAID<br />utilities for the leading RAID controller cards. Still, there was one interesting tidbit: Why, the author asks, do makers of controller cards put all their BIOS utilities on DOS floppies which require us to find a DOS boot disk? Seriously, how many of us carry around DOS boot disks nowadays? The book made me aware for the first time of freedos, an open source solution that solves precisely that problem.<br />The Software RAID stuff was pretty thorough and clarified a lot of things. The book does an excellent job in helping to identify and eliminate bottlenecks and optimizing hard drive performance (using hdparm and various monitoring commands). The anecdotes and case studies definitely clarified which RAID solution is suited for which task.<br />I am less impressed by the book's sections on disaster recovery and troubleshooting. Although these subjects are brought up at several places in the software RAID chapter, the book could have discussed several failure scenarios or used a fault tree (such as the famous Fault Tree in Chapter 9 of the Samba book, a marvel for any tech writer to read). The book doesn't even discuss booting with software RAID until the last 10 page of the book and then gives it only a single paragraph (even though the author acknowledges it as &quot;one of the most frequently asked questions on the linux-raid mailing list.&quot;). Call me old-fashioned, but isn't the ability to boot into your RAID<br />system ... kinda important? As someone who just spent a significant amount of time troubleshooting RAID booting problems in Gentoo, I for one would have liked more insight into the grub/lilo thing. Also, in the next paragraph in the last chapter on page 228,the author casually mentions that &quot;all /boot and / partitions must be on a RAID-1.&quot; Say what? Please pity the poor newbie who religiously follows<br />the instructions in the book but fails to read until the end. I'm not sure what the author meant by this statement, but it required a much more substantial explanation and needed to go into a much earlier chapter.<br />These complaints don't detract very much from this excellent book, a true O'Reilly classic and a model of clarity and helpfulness. This book provides enough knowledge to avoid the dread and uncertainty that comes with trying to tackle Linux RAID. With a book like this, a sysadmin can sleep a little easier.or casually mentions that &quot;all /boot and / partitions must be on a RAID-1.&quot; Say what? Please pity the poor newbie who religiously follows<BR>the instructions in the book but fails to read until the end. I'm not sure what the author meant by this statement, but it required a much more substantial explanation and needed to go into a much earlier chapter.<br />These complaints don't detract very much from this excellent book, a true O'Reilly classic and a model of clarity and helpfulness. This book provides enough knowledge to avoid the dread and uncertainty that comes with trying to tackle Linux RAID. With a book like this, a sysadmin can sleep a little easier.	2003-03-03
US	52743265	R1DHAY5JE6HDPR	0682493031	103229992	Through ferrengi eyes: The diary of a Peace Corps volunteer in Ethiopia, 1974-1976	Books	4	0	0	N	N	This book inspired me to join the Peace Corps!	This is one of those book reviews that is more about the experience of reading it than what the book was actually about. I read this book a year before joining Peace Corps, and found it absolutely fascinating and probably an accurate representation of a Peace Corps volunteer's experience. It made me aware of the problems of distance and communication that were common to PCV's.  It was fairly well written, always interesting, dwelling more on the day-to-day instead of the profound. Let's see--what do I remember: he was a teacher of history (I think? I read this book 10 years ago!), who organized sporting events.<br />PCV's are in an ideal position to observe the culture they are in, plus they write in English. Even travel writers (the Thomas Friedmans of the world) deal with the elite, the well-spoken, the educated. Books like this one, on the other hand, give probably a more accurate and objective account of how ordinary Ethiopians live. In short, this is no masterpiece, but it's a compelling story.	2003-02-20
US	52743265	R24JAF5K2AFNQ9	1886411867	171819960	Linux in the Workplace: How to Use Linux in Your Office	Books	3	3	4	N	N	good introduction to KDE; good for complete newbies	I've always been surprised and even disappointed at my friends' lack of curiosity about Linux. Maybe geeks and slashdotters understand why Linux is so appealing, but many people simply don't have time for it. Even the more open-minded people refuse to consider Linux until it runs a lot of commercial applications (does it support Photoshop? Video games? MS Word? Etc).&quot;<br />Linux has failed to catch on among ordinary users because PC manufacturers have been prevented from offering dual-boot systems. Not only is partitioning and dual booting a little tricky, the OS CD that comes with a new PC is usually just a system restore, making it difficult to configure a dual-boot environment without messing up factory settings and file systems. Learning Linux has become an all-or-nothing proposition; in many cases the new user has to wipe Windows off his system for good or rely on a second machine just to get started.<br />The irony is that Linux has never been more user friendly, and the latest KDE desktop on my gentoo box is slicker, faster and easier to use than XP. It is becoming easier to be productive on Linux, and while university students have already discovered this, corporate IT departments who support a large number of Windows-only commercial applications tend to view open source solutions as a time burden (these are the same IT departments whose days are consumed with applying Windows patches or verifying license compliance).<br />The book Linux in the Workplace shows the ordinary user who has never laid eyes on Linux how to perform everyday office tasks. The book assumes that the user has a machine with Linux already installed and successfully configured. This book (which is more of an introduction to the KDE desktop than Linux itself) is easy and fun to read, and has lots of screenshots. Slashdotters might find this book a bit too basic, but it's the kind of book that a technophobe spouse or child or parent might love (and could very well appear under Christmas trees right beside the new Linux PC).<br />This book devotes a chapter each to talking about Open Office, Gimp, Konqueror, personal information managers, and various KDE office and email applications. Most of them are part of the KDE window manager or installed by default. This book walks a thin line between being too superficial for daily use and dwelling too much on the technical details. There are better books on The GIMP or OpenOffice, for example, but still it is nice to have introductory chapters in a single book. I found a few useful tidbits on controlling file associations, xscanimage, screen capturing and ark archiver. The book is not without a sense of humor. In a useful section on creating a GPG key, the book says \\"your passphrase should be rude or embarrassing ... using a naughty passphrase will remind you not to type it where others can see.\\"<br />This book began with the mission to bring a simplified approach to Linux. By definition, it must exclude certain topics, either by design or because an application was not yet mature when the book was being written. The book scrupulously avoids a discussion of server applications like apache (which makes a certain sense), but it would have been nice to have a section on Evolution or mplayer (yes, a media player is an indispensable application for the bored employee) or ssh, cd burning programs, browser plugins, mozilla, crossover, irc or ftp clients.<br />Surprisingly, the book contains almost nothing about printing or how to install or upgrade applications. Because the book is intended for a newbie user, not a sys admin, it recommends talking to your network administrator about that. Cop out? Perhaps. But even the unskilled non-root user will have to install apps once in a while; the book would have been much better with a section on rpm managers and compiling programs from scratch.<br />From a sys admin's point of view, I would have liked to see a case study of an office that had actually made the switch.What problems did it encounter? How did the switch change business processes? What applications required the most time and energy for support? How did a Linux-only office manage domain authentication or interoperability? What system management tools made administration easier in a heterogenous environment?<br />The book raises an epistemological question about the best way to learn a new technology. Will a user who has never really performed tasks as root be able to leverage the freedom and power offered by open source? Will a user truly be comfortable with an operating system without first having experienced the agony of a bad install or frantically scouring the newsgroups for help ? This book presumes that a learner needs to be able to use normal applications before being ready to handle the admin stuff. The problem with that approach is that it depends on IT staff being near and ready to do some hand-holding. But Linux may emerge in the workplace not as a result of IT's enthusiasm but because of ordinary workers' exasperation with uniform proprietary solutions imposed by these IT departments.<br />In summary: A useful and friendly KDE-centric introduction to Linux for nongeeks. The lack of system administration material makes it probably too basic for slashdotters.switch. What problems did it encounter? How did the switch change business processes? What applications required the most time and energy for support? How did a Linux-only office manage domain authentication or interoperability? What system management tools made administration easier in a heterogenous environment? <br />The book raises an epistemological question about the best way to learn a new technology. Will a user who has never really performed tasks as root be able to leverage the freedom and power offered by open source? Will a user truly be comfortable with an operating system without first having experienced the agony of a bad install or frantically scouring the newsgroups for help ? This book presumes that a learner needs to be able to use normal applications before being ready to handle the admin stuff. The problem with that approach is that it depends on IT staff being near and ready to do some hand-holding. But Linux may emerge in the workplace not as a result of IT's enthusiasm but because of ordinary workers' exasperation with uniform proprietary solutions imposed by these IT departments. <br />In summary: A useful and friendly KDE-centric introduction to Linux for nongeeks. The lack of system administration material makes it probably too basic for slashdotters.	2003-02-19
US	52743265	R180JI39ANJBXK	1861007221	412073725	Professional Apache 2.0	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Excellent, comprehensive Guide to the latest version of Apac	Apache's HTTP server has been by many measures the most popular web server on the web, and perhaps the primary application that drives people to Linux and open source. Three years ago, Wrox published the definitive book on running the Apache server by Peter Wainwright. Excellent though the book was, it badly needed updating. In May 2002, Wrox published another book, Professional Apache 2.0, which covers the new generation of Apache server, as well as older 1.3x versions that are still running production servers around the world.\\"<br />Although Apache changed a great deal in its version 2.0, it is a credit to the Apache folk that the config files and command line options have basically remained the same for sys admins. For this reason, the book seems to include a lot of material (CGI security, building, core modules) from the original book. However, a closer look reveals many changes. Almost every chapter includes a discussion about how features differ in both versions of Apache. The book does a good job of giving an overview of Apache's architectural changes and how the use of multi-processing modules (MPM) allow the admin to choose an optimal implementation of apache. This edition, noticeably bigger than the previous one, contains many more examples of how one can extend apache functionality (configuring for binary distribution, setting up virtual interfaces, load sharing). Many sections have been expanded. The discussion of security and SSL is more detailed, yet more succinct; so is the section on content negotiation, (which is twice as long as the previous book), doing proxy server configurations, rsync and benchmarking performance. The discussion on hardening the server was great and up-to-date, although I wish the book spent more time discussing on patching and upgrading.<br />What is new to the book? We find a longer discussion of graphic administration tools for Windows and Unix, including webmin (which actually I wanted more of). We also have discussions of newer modules such as mod_ruby, mod_python, mod_dav as well as a brief description on how to install tomcat alongside apache. The discussion of mod_dav was especially helpful and interesting to me (and I was especially glad that the author acknowledged the Subversion DAV module, something which is bound to become more important). The php stuff hasn't changed much (although at the time the book was published, 2.0 compatibility with PHP was still an iffy proposition). The book's discussion of mod_perl isn't significantly different, although it does point out migration issues and some additional features.<br />Generally, the book is clearly written and contains enough examples to find any configuration you want. A few parts required rereading (especially the part about proxies and proxypasses), and occasionally I needed a better explanation of what the example code was supposed to do.<br />No book can be everything for everybody, and nobody can accuse the book of not having enough content (it is after all more than 700 pages!). I found myself wishing for other things. The book briefly discussed 2.0's support for ipv6, but I longed for a fuller explanation and a more detailed example (Fortunately, I had seen a good ipv6 tutorial on Linux Journal ). Also, I would have liked more information about other web application servers (like zope that Apache sometimes coexists with, content frameworks (such as cocoon) and other goodies produced by the Apache Foundation. The author might legitimately feel that such subjects lie outside the book's scope, but such topics are becoming more important.<br />In summary: for newbies who are looking for a guide to start with: this is the definitive book to read. It's definitive and a little imposing, but it is well written and logically arranged.<br />For people already familiar with Apache 1.3 but looking for more depth about ipv6, php, content frameworks or Tomcat, it might be better to read books on those specific subjects instead of this one. Indeed, Wrox will soon be coming out with a book specifically on Apache and Tomcat.<br />For experienced system administrators, the material in this book may not be terribly new, but they will still appreciate the variety of configuration examples for managing large numbers of virtual hosts and the convenience of having documentation of the 1.3/2.0 differences at their fingertips.of this one. Indeed, Wrox will soon be coming out with a book specifically on Apache and Tomcat.<br />For experienced system administrators, the material in this book may not be terribly new, but they will still appreciate the variety of configuration examples for managing large numbers of virtual hosts and the convenience of having documentation of the 1.3/2.0 differences at their fingertips.	2002-09-10
US	52743265	R1BH2JVV8CFFHI	0130254932	864965278	The UNIX and Windows 2000 Handbook: Planning, Integration and Administration	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Good at juxtaposing the Windows and Unix way of doing things	This is one of my all time favorite books because it covers an important subject of integrating Windows and UNIX systems on the same network. The picture on the book's cover shows a rock climber straddling two vertical cliffs, a perfectly appropriate metaphor for the daunting task of maintaining interoperability.<br />Three of the four authors either teach or support Georgia Tech's computers, and that may account for the book's tendency to focus on teaching rather than simply providing how-to's. For example, rather than showering a book with screenshots and lists, it contains a chapter on system planning, another on backup methodologies, another on file systems and another on upgrades and change management. This is actually a book that you might actually enjoy bringing to the beach with you; it's something you can read straight through rather than referring to it merely as a reference guide. I have several guides on linux and windows, and can safely say that while this book doesn't always cover a subject in depth, it provides enough to get started. I especially found helpful, for instance, its discussion of amanda, a unix backup solution (which definitely justified the space they spent on it), setting up nfs, setting up wins (with windows or through samba) user administration and dns.<br />The danger of this kind of book is that in attempting to cover all the variants of UNIX and Windows, it instead delivers a shallow treatment of them all. Luckily, that is not the case. Probably 40% of the book was about Windows implementations, and of the remaining 60%, 20% covered Linux, 20% covered Solaris and 20% covered other flavors such as HP-Unix and BSD.<br />Probably the most helpful thing about the book is how it juxtaposes the Windows way of doing things with its Unix counterpart. For me, I had quite a bit of linux knowledge, so I actually was very curious about the Windows way of doing things. Often it helps to see how a task is done in both systems.<br />While I generally love this book, I wanted to mention another excellent book for Windows 2000, the Ultimate Windows 2000 System Administration Guide by Robert Williams and Mark Walla(there are probably several others by now). I also wanted to see other topics: an emphasis on production-ready open source applications rather than on commercial solutions. The email section should have discussed postfix rather than sendmail. Although there are already several excellent guides on samba out there, I would have like to seen a discussion of more complex scenarios here. Also, I would have liked to see a chapter on dual boot systems, windows emulation programs and things like vmware or wine. Apache wasn't covered too much in depth, and neither was IIS, but it was nice to read a short introduction in 10 or so pages. I would have enjoyed a comparison between platforms for performance and security and how they figure into deployment decisions. A future edition should also talk about UNIX web gui's like Webmin.ally love this book, I wanted to mention another excellent book for Windows 2000, the Ultimate Windows 2000 System Administration Guide by Robert Williams and Mark Walla(there are probably several others by now). I also wanted to see other topics: an emphasis on production-ready open source applications rather than on commercial solutions. The email section should have discussed postfix rather than sendmail. Although there are already several excellent guides on samba out there, I would have like to seen a discussion of more complex scenarios here. Also, I would have liked to see a chapter on dual boot systems, windows emulation programs and things like vmware or wine. Apache wasn't covered too much in depth, and neither was IIS, but it was nice to read a short introduction in 10 or so pages. I would have enjoyed a comparison between platforms for performance and security and how they figure into deployment decisions. A future edition should also talk about UNIX web gui's like Webmin.	2002-08-13
US	52743265	R18OIXHS74UNVZ	1861006926	254944213	Beginning Databases with MySQL	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Not exactly for beginners!	Many excellent books have been written about database design, SQL and applications such as Oracle, Mysql and Access. With a few exceptions, I've generally been pleased with the books on the subject, and this book is no exception.<br />First, let me deal with the &quot;beginning&quot; in the title. It refers not to the proficiency of the intended reader but rather the book's tendency to start from square one and explain everything as if the reader knew absolutely nothing about mysql. Most books on this subject approach it in two ways: the systems approach (Chapter 1: Data Types, Chapter 2: Authentication, etc) and the tutorial approach (&quot; First we need to install the program. Then we need to set up users and set up a simple database,&quot; etc). Although &quot;systems&quot; books usually prove more useful in the long run, tutorial books are easier to read and try to present a logical order in which to learn concepts. They generally have better examples and offer better strategies for performing elementary tasks. They also offer fuller explanations of the concepts and the mechanisms underlying an application or programming language. A good book can combine aspects of both types, but most books show a clear emphasis for one type over the other.<br />Beginning Databases with Mysql did an excellent job at explaining what is happening under the hood during certain tasks. After reading the chapter on transactions and locking, I feel for the first time I really understood that very important subject. The book did a great job of explaining various scenarios and how mysql processes them. The book did a good job in pointing out common mistakes that DBA's make when writing queries or updating tables, as well as precautions to observe while loading new data (using a temporary load table for example). The book does a good job in conveying how to accomplish basic tasks and write queries efficiently.<br />Beginning Databases with Mysql does spend time on advanced data selection. In addition to talking about union joins, outer joins and self-joins, as well as subqueries (and alternate ways that DBA's can accomplish these tasks even if Mysql doesn't support subqueries), the book stays abreast of what is changing in Mysql and talks about new developments, such as using Innodb tables for mysql transactions. I would have thought that a book like this would skimp on talking about administration and performance, but after reading the administration chapter, I've concluded that the information presented here is sufficient for my purposes.<br />The book also contains some extra's, such as graphical Mysql GUI's in a Windows environment (which I had never seen before). Significantly, though, the book does NOT discuss myphpadmin, the most common web-based interface, which would have been nice. The book spends a chapter each on the mysql API's for Perl, Php, and C++ . I only skimmed through the chapters on Perl and C++, but the PHP chapter seemed confusing at parts and probably not sufficient for me (idiotprogrammer that I am). The book also includes appendices on database limits, data types, mysql syntax and support for BLOB's. Each appendix was about two or three pages long.<br />The real question for the potential book buyer is whether to buy this book or the printed version of the official MYSQL documentation by Paul Dubois (with a new 2002 edition recently printed by Oreilly). I'm a big fan of the online MYSQL documentation, and I actually have been using the 1999 New Riders version of the same book before picking up this one, but after looking through the Wrox book, I can see the real value of an introductory text like this. Things are easy to find and everything is much more readable. I generally find the answer in the official MYSQL documentation as well, but only after reading 15 pages of comprehensive explanations that distract you from your main question. I don't consider myself an advanced database administrator and can say that this booksuits 90-95% of my needs. For that remaining 5%, I can refer to the online documentation. For those who are already DBA's and have some experience designing new mysql databases, they may prefer the convenience of having the official documentation in book form, even if it is a little difficult to find things.suits 90-95% of my needs. For that remaining 5%, I can refer to the online documentation. For those who are already DBA's and have some experience designing new mysql databases, they may prefer the convenience of having the official documentation in book form, even if it is a little difficult to find things.	2002-08-13
US	52743265	R1854FSW72EKFO	0595100333	709759019	Gnu Emacs Manual	Books	5	4	5	N	N	14th edition has all the indices that you need!	(This is a note about the 14th edition--20.7)<br />One of my favorite technical books from a documentation standpoint is Richard Stallman's superior GNU Emacs Manual. The tool is justly famous and the manual is one of the best written and best organized books I'd ever seen. I've had problems at times figuring out how Emacs works, but when I came across an older edition of this book at a used bookstore, I realized that I simply had to have this book. I've found almost everything I wanted to know from this book and gotten a sense of how everything works. The manual also leaves me with a sense of how wonderfully extensible and versatile the program is. The book contains a glossary, a key index, a command and function index and a concept index. Wow! This is every technical writer's dream! I can generally find the answer to any question within a few seconds when consulting this manual (the help that comes with the program....well, that's another story). Keeping true to the GNU philosophy, Stallman makes the book (as well as a LISP reference guide) available for free at the gnu site.<br />So the good news is that the book is expertly written and organized. What's the bad news? First, the 14th edition (20.7) book doesn't include a discussion of how to use major modes of Emacs (such as PSGML) or the very handy PCL-CVS. Also, because emacs and xemacs have followed different development paths, Stallman's book doesn't cover the NT-based xemacs implementation. Love or hate xemacs, you have to appreciate the attempt at a GUI, especially when it comes to configuring the program. The package update functionality of Xemacs, could use better documentation as well.<br />In summary: a masterpiece of documentation, but the manual is sorely in need of a section discussing major mode and emacs.	2002-07-25
US	52743265	R3NVVBP5XWSFGE	1565927486	382495010	LPI Linux Certification in a Nutshell: Covers General Linux Exams 101 and 102 (In a Nutshell (O'Reilly))	Books	4	32	33	N	N	great study guide--I passed!	The first thing I want to say about reading this book is : I passed! Certification books serve four purposes: first, they serve as a way to prepare for computerized certification exams. Second, they provide a training plan for learning the objectives in the certification. Third, can a book explain system administration concepts while limiting a readers exposure to difficult, elusive topics until later? Fourth, can a book like this still be useful post-certification?<br />Part One (covering the 101 test) contained generous amounts of examples for text-processing commands and a really top notch discussion of permissions, ownership, booting and documentation. Helpfully, need to know boxes are scattered throughout the book to indicate how important a topic is on the test. Frequently, the author will point out that although he explained a certain topic in depth, it wont be covered in depth on the test. I really appreciated that, although I found that the actual test covered certain topics (such as X Windows) in much more depth than Dean leads us to believe. One thing, by the way, to remember, is that often the book gives only the 5 or 6 most popular switches for each command. If you learned about these commands only from this book, you might be overlooking some important switches. I found this especially to be true when Dean discussed user management. I consider usermod g and usermod G to be really important commands, but this book didnt even mention them. On the other hand, Dean gave an explanation of regular expressions which was quite adequate for the purposes of this book. Although omitting some switches proved exasperating at times, the simplified view of the commands can be helpful for linux newbies.<br />Part Two (covering 102 test) covered a lot more ground: Apache, sendmail, nfs, dns, tcp-ip; heck, books have been written on each of those topics. The book covered well these topics in particular: compiling a kernel, troubleshooting tcp-ip and using rpms. I found his discussion of Debian package management to be hard to follow, although that may be because Ive never used it before in real life (but watch out! The test covers this in depth!). The books discussion of network services (nfs, sendmail, apache, samba) was shallow at best, but I doubt anyone would rely on such a book for maintaining a web server, for example. But it provided some of the basics at least. The section on X Window was succinct and helpful. Also, some of the information presented is outdated, at least on Red Hats latest distribution. Red Hat, for example, no longer uses inetd for startup, and some of the directory paths have since changed. These are minor quibbles, and one of the challenge of passing a certification like this is asking yourself: should I be learning things for the exam that are no longer accurate or relevant in current distributions? Certifications test the knowledge available at the time of test creation, when in reality new applications are being added and processes streamlined every day.<br />The book contains lots of sample multiple choice items, review questions and exercises. The multiple choice items didnt really add much to the book, but I frequently referred to the review questions. (Remember, the LPI exam has fill-in-the-blanks questions). Dont overlook the excellent highlighters index at the back of the book.<br />Two minor quibbles. First, the cover is not very strong and is bent, torn and curled over. The other is that the LPI exam objectives are not located at the front or back of the book. Rather, the table of objectives for 101 are in the front, and objectives for 102 are in the middle. I referred to this table constantly to see the amount of weight LPI was giving to a particular topic. Also, because the table of contents follow the LPI learning objectives (probably a smart thing), it is often difficult to find documentation about a certain command. For that I might recommend Linux in a Nutshell , 3rd Edition, which serves as a comprehensive index of commands and system utilities. It is excellent. Also, General Linux I Exam Prep (Exam: 101) by Dee Ann LeBlanc (published in 2000), is an extremely helpful book (and available for significantly reduced price used). Although it was one of the first to market and didnt address the LPI objectives explicitly, the exercises and presentation of material are every bit as good as Deans book. Keep in mind also that LPI Linux Certification is not sufficient in and of itself. You will probably end up referring to other books such as Matt Welshs Running Linux, Olaf Kirchs Linux Network Administrator's Guide or the unbelievably good Rute User's Tutorial and Exposition .ht recommend Linux in a Nutshell , 3rd Edition, which serves as a comprehensive index of commands and system utilities. It is excellent. Also, General Linux I Exam Prep (Exam: 101) by Dee Ann LeBlanc (published in 2000), is an extremely helpful book (and available for significantly reduced price used). Although it was one of the first to market and didnt address the LPI objectives explicitly, the exercises and presentation of material are every bit as good as Deans book. Keep in mind also that LPI Linux Certification is not sufficient in and of itself. You will probably end up referring to other books such as Matt Welshs Running Linux, Olaf Kirchs Linux Network Administrator's Guide or the unbelievably good Rute User's Tutorial and Exposition .	2002-07-25
US	52743265	RJA76PBWYQIOO	047139100X	54186166	Business Data Communications and Networking, 7th Edition	Books	5	12	13	N	N	why others hate this book--and why they're wrong	This book is the ideal book for the novice networking geek wanting a general overview of communications technologies.<br />I just finished reading with some dismay the avalanche of negative complaints about the book.  I haven't read the 7th edition, but I read the 6th edition and have a sense about the book (and by the way, note that amazon many comments are directed to that edition and not the most recent), and I have a pretty good handle on what the book is like.  It looks like a school textbook because that's what it is. It's sort of boring-looking, and it even has exercises and case studies. When reading it, one is tempted to think that information is watered down, or the book is out of date or that it is useless. Because the book doesn't give a step-by-step account of how to do things, one is tempted to think it's not a good book.<br />But initial impressions are deceiving. When I read the 6th edition in 1999, I initially felt  precisely the same way about the value of this book. (I suspect most of the negative comments here came  from people who had it forced on them by a teacher for a class). The book does NOT teach you how to network or how to configure TCP-IP or how to set up your home network. What it does instead is treat pretty thoroughly communications technologies, protocols, packet technology, switches, error-checking, backbone. It discusses everything very simply and in very clear language. Also, it covers the diversity of technologies out there, including many legacy ones (and the reader may initially see this as a sign that the book is out of date--the reverse is true; this legacy information is often hard to find in a single place).<br />I have bought several books on linux networking, home networking, windows networking and computer security, and I can safely say that this book contains lots of stuff you don't find elsewhere.<br />The writing style is rather bland (I'll admit), and some of the cases studies are not that challenging. Also, it's frustrating to read because it doesn't provide any OS-specific info. That is not necessarily a disadvantage. A lot of the OS-specific books become fixated on one particular implementation, and don't do a good job talking about general things like protocols.  But this book does that very thoroughly; it  has great diagrams, a very logical flow and a way of making the  most difficult concepts seem crystal clear.  (I feel I can comment on this; I work as  a technical writer and instructional system designer).<br />One concern I have is that the 7th edition might not contain enough information about wireless or ipv6 (in the 6th edition, they were not covered very well, but hey, it came out in 1998). I suspect the 7th edition will include significantly more information.<br />I'll be the first to admit that reading this book alone won't teach you how to do that home network (for that  I'd recommend  &quot;networking by example&quot; by barry press) The book doesn't give you an immediate payoff; on the other hand, I can safely say that over my two years working at dell, I've been pleasantly surprised how useful the information turned out to be (especially the stuff about error checking and data transfer.<br />So, to the students out there who are griping about this &quot;useless&quot; and overpriced book assigned to them,  watch out; in two or three years you may be singing a different tune.<br />IN SUMMARY: You'll need another book about OS Networking, but this book will give a thorough overview on lots of things.s frustrating to read because it doesn't provide any OS-specific info. That is not necessarily a disadvantage. A lot of the OS-specific books become fixated on one particular implementation, and don't do a good job talking about general things like protocols.  But this book does that very thoroughly; it  has great diagrams, a very logical flow and a way of making the  most difficult concepts seem crystal clear.  (I feel I can comment on this; I work as   a technical writer and instructional system designer). <br />One concern I have is that the 7th edition might not contain enough information about wireless or ipv6 (in the 6th edition, they were not covered very well, but hey, it came out in 1998). I suspect the 7th edition will include significantly more information. <br />I'll be the first to admit that reading this book alone won't teach you how to do that home network (for that  I'd recommend  &quot;networking by example&quot; by barry press) The book doesn't give you an immediate payoff; on the other hand, I can safely say that over my two years working at dell, I've been pleasantly surprised how useful the information turned out to be (especially the stuff about error checking and data transfer. <br />So, to the students out there who are griping about this &quot;useless&quot; and overpriced book assigned to them,  watch out; in two or three years you may be singing a different tune.<br />IN SUMMARY: You'll need another book about OS Networking, but this book will give a thorough overview on lots of things.	2001-10-31
US	52743265	R805OYLLB0R7A	1576104907	157801959	Open Source Development with CVS: Learn How to Work With Open Source Software	Books	4	16	16	N	N	excellent, invaluable, not enough about permissions	Open Source Development with CVS Karl Fogel<br />Here is a chatty discussion of CVS and how to use it. The best thing about the book is that he spends a lot of time discussing his examples. That helps you to understand the output. I also found the troubeshooting section to be more than adequate, and a discussion of pcl-cvs (the plugin to emacs) to be a nice and helpful addition. <br />Fogel wrote some chapters about open source development. Call them filler or distractions, still it gives insight about how version control management contributes to   open source. .  The book has an appendix of descriptions of each command and at times Fogel urges the reader to refer to the Cederqvist manual.  I actually appreciated that because it allowed Fogel to write about the things not already found in the online manual. <br />One quibble was with the organization of the book. To learn how to setup CVS from scratch, you need to start by reading chapter 4 (Admin), and then go back and reread chapter 2 (An overview).  Maybe a briefer overview would have been better and an explanation of the functions in succeeding chapters. <br />The chattiness of the chapters (which is a good thing) often made it hard to find the user commands. Perhaps user input could have been highlighted in some way. Also, the discussion of file permissions was simply inadequate. Indeed, chapter 4 contained an error related to permissions on page 112 (what does &quot;+R&quot; mean? ) and didn't discuss sticky bits for group ownership. This was significant, because I couldn't proceed with learning  CVS until I could figure out those permissions. <br />In short: an excellent, invaluable book, but you should consult the Cederqvist manual for the section of file permissions.	2001-08-20
US	52743265	R6S342G3BAE1J	1576104907	157801959	Open Source Development with CVS: Learn How to Work With Open Source Software	Books	4	0	0	N	N	excellent, invaluable, not enough about permissions	Open Source Development with CVS Karl Fogel<br />Here is a chatty discussion of CVS and how to use it. The best thing about the book is that he spends a lot of time discussing his examples. That helps you to understand the output. I also found the troubeshooting section to be more than adequate, and a discussion of pcl-cvs (the plugin to emacs) to be a nice and helpful addition.<br />Fogel wrote some chapters about open source development. Call them filler or distractions, still it gives insight about how version control management contributes to  open source. .  The book has an appendix of descriptions of each command and at times Fogel urges the reader to refer to the Cederqvist manual.  I actually appreciated that because it allowed Fogel to write about the things not already found in the online manual.<br />One quibble was with the organization of the book. To learn how to setup CVS from scratch, you need to start by reading chapter 4 (Admin), and then go back and reread chapter 2 (An overview).  Maybe a briefer overview would have been better and an explanation of the functions in succeeding chapters.<br />The chattiness of the chapters (which is a good thing) often made it hard to find the user commands. Perhaps user input could have been highlighted in some way. Also, the discussion of file permissions was simply inadequate. Indeed, chapter 4 contained an error related to permissions on page 112 (what does &quot;+R&quot; mean? ) and didn't discuss sticky bits for group ownership. This was significant, because I couldn't proceed with learning  CVS until I could figure out those permissions.<br />In short: an excellent, invaluable book, but you should consult the Cederqvist manual for the section of file permissions.	2001-08-20
US	52743265	R1N03DILA1R8IE	059600060X	209537160	Windows Me Annoyances	Books	4	32	35	N	N	readable, few topics in depth, good insight into GUI	With Windows XP soon upon us, please pity the few hundred thousand ME users who are stuck with a dead-end OS. ME was really only a stopgap solution, a way to implement new features in Win 98 while Microsoft worked on XP. Some of these features included system restore, an image viewer,  better multimedia  and better hardware support. ME inherited a lot of  Win 98 stuff while being new enough to force users to pay for software updates (including Photoshop, Norton Anti-Virus and Home Site).<br />Typically, a first release of a OS is buggy, and after a few years, it really becomes robust and useful. But after XP is released, it is unlikely that consumers will buy ME anymore or  that OEM manufacturers will ship computers with it. It also is unlikely that Microsoft will release a service pack, now that its efforts are focused on XP. That means that the people unfortunate enough to have bought consumer PC's during the intervening year will be using a legacy OS with diminishing support for new hardware and software.<br />This minority will need to solve problems on their own, using books like this one. This excellent book goes over the differences between ME and 98, ME Secrets and ways to tweak the registry for certain things. The first part is interesting from a usability point of view. It covers the user interface in thorough detail, with shortcuts and insights as to why Microsoft chose a particular solution.  ( A good number of these tricks can be found elsewhere, but I found several new ones: such as using Microsoft Family Logon for a security, tweaking the search tool,  removing stubborn icons, disabling autorun for CDROMS and stop Windows from randomly checking your floppy drive).<br />The book contains an excellent appendix on DOS, a fairly thorough guide to what System Restore does and a good troubleshooting guide to hardware installations. It also contains an outstanding discussion of file associations and how to change or preserve them. I also found the section on error messages and general protection faults  to be unusually helpful. Several other chapters (which didn't especially interest me) focused on editing the registry and vb scripts to automate windows tasks.<br />Topics I would have liked to see more coverage on was software installations and plugins. Particularly, removing and reinstalling programs and especially MS Office. Recently I installed and reinstalled Office 2000 and found the error messages from ME and Office very confusing. I realize this is an OS book, not a book on applications, but still it would have been nice to know some procedures for managing software installations. Also, there was not much discussion on Windows Update, which seems to cause a lot of problems.<br />Perhaps it is unfair to point this out, but the best source of information for ME troubleshooting seems to be news groups and the MS site, not books like these. Although this book was published later than the first dozen or so and seems to be more carefully written, no one can expect it to contain info about the latest bugs and fixes.  Newsgroups have informed me about  bugs related to Norton AV, Windows Update and helped me figure out the ME doesn't support RAM over 512 MB.(!!!)  You wouldn't find solutions to these problems from these books.<br />Another book I highly recommend is  Ed Bott's &quot;Special Edition Using Windows Me,&quot; which is a little bigger, a little easier to read, with more  more screenshots and a little more thorough treatment of  the OS.  The Bott book tends to have info about multimedia and extras like msn messenger, while the Oreilly book  is more readable and discusses a few topics in depth.on error messages and general protection faults  to be unusually helpful. Several other chapters (which didn't especially interest me) focused on editing the registry and vb scripts to automate windows tasks. <br />Topics I would have liked to see more coverage on was software installations and plugins. Particularly, removing and reinstalling programs and especially MS Office. Recently I installed and reinstalled Office 2000 and found the error messages from ME and Office very confusing. I realize this is an OS book, not a book on applications, but still it would have been nice to know some procedures for managing software installations. Also, there was not much discussion on Windows Update, which seems to cause a lot of problems. <br />Perhaps it is unfair to point this out, but the best source of information for ME troubleshooting seems to be news groups and the MS site, not books like these. Although this book was published later than the first dozen or so and seems to be more carefully written, no one can expect it to contain info about the latest bugs and fixes.  Newsgroups have informed me about  bugs related to Norton AV, Windows Update and helped me figure out the ME doesn't support RAM over 512 MB.(!!!)  You wouldn't find solutions to these problems from these books. <br />Another book I highly recommend is  Ed Bott's &quot;Special Edition Using Windows Me,&quot; which is a little bigger, a little easier to read, with more  more screenshots and a little more thorough treatment of  the OS.  The Bott book tends to have info about multimedia and extras like msn messenger, while the Oreilly book  is more readable and discusses a few topics in depth.	2001-08-20
US	52743265	R23JU8BQBG5ASU	1864501189	224055931	Lonely Planet Budapest	Books	3	59	60	N	N	good travel information and hints; routine descriptions	In preparing for a trip to Hungary, I examined thoroughly the choices for Budapest.<br />My favorite guidebook series has been Lonely Planet,  and the Budapest Lonely Planet is fairly helpful. Although it doesn't give as thorough a treatment on  accomodations, the book gives a lot of travel hints and secret. I found its facts for the visitors to be the most helpful, and the maps (placed at the very back of the book) to be the  easiest to use. The frommer book, on the other hand, put the maps close to the section of the book referring to it.  The organization of LP makes it easiest to use in the field; they  tend to have the best background, history and cultural information.  LP  was particularly good about including rules, regulations and things like closing times. ON the other  hand, there are not many photos, and they don't plan as many walking tours as the frommer book does. I didn't find the written descriptions that engaging, although the cultural background seemed well done.<br />The Frommer's Budapest book (3rd edition) gave the best information about  finding and choosing accomodations, but the book has no pictures and aside from a nice subway cover on the inside cover, the maps are hard to find and not very  easy to use. Frommer's gives excellent information about prices and shops and restaurants; it's almost a guide to buying things rather than a tour book. I didn't find it  particularly thorough about travel information, customs, or those sorts of details. That is  not entirely fair. They have a nice section in the front a kind of &quot;best of&quot; list for things in budapest. The nice thing about the book is that it recommends things  to do if you have only one day, three days or a week. They also suggested some itineraries for walking tours.<br />  The Fodor's Budapest pocket reference is drab and not full of much information. Don't get it.<br />  The Eyewitness Travel Guide on Budapest by Tadeusz Olszanski is the most eye-catching and the least helpful. It contains lots of graphics and diagrams and maps, and not too much information. The multitude of  pictures are helpful in describing architecture, geography and art. On the other hand, its information on accomodations is very limited. Don't get me wrong; it's a beautiful and interesting book; it just is not  as helpful as the other three. And it is two years old.  I'm not necessarily saying that this book is bad, merely that it may not help you very much on the excursion.<br />  The Budapest:  A Critical Guide by Andras Torok,  4th edition is a less complete and more personal account of things to do in Budapest. The other books were like encyclopedias, but  this book was just a few personal recommendations about things to do and places to stay. Also, the writing for this book seems to be better than the other books. If you already  are a little familiar with Budapest, but just want to learn about new and undiscovered places, this might be an excellent book. It certainly covers most of the bases, but it  just doesn't try to list a huge number of accomodations or restaurants.<br />  I ended up buying the Frommer's and a used copy of the Eyewitness travel guide.ching and the least helpful. It contains lots of graphics and diagrams and maps, and not too much information. The multitude of    pictures are helpful in describing architecture, geography and art. On the other hand, its information on accomodations is very limited. Don't get me wrong; it's a beautiful and interesting book; it just is not    as helpful as the other three. And it is two years old.   I'm not necessarily saying that this book is bad, merely that it may not help you very much on the excursion.<br />   The Budapest:  A Critical Guide by Andras Torok,  4th edition is a less complete and more personal account of things to do in Budapest. The other books were like encyclopedias, but    this book was just a few personal recommendations about things to do and places to stay. Also, the writing for this book seems to be better than the other books. If you already    are a little familiar with Budapest, but just want to learn about new and undiscovered places, this might be an excellent book. It certainly covers most of the bases, but it    just doesn't try to list a huge number of accomodations or restaurants.<br />   I ended up buying the Frommer's and a used copy of the Eyewitness travel guide.	2001-06-05
US	52743265	R2RS6WIWGTFDIG	0028625994	507611839	Frommer's Budapest & the Best of Hungary	Books	4	57	57	N	N	excellent for booking accomodations; not much travel info	In preparing for a trip to Hungary, I examined thoroughly the choices for Budapest. The Frommer's Budapest book (3rd edition) gave the best information about  finding and choosing accomodations, but the book has no pictures and aside from a nice subway cover on the inside cover, the maps are hard to find and not very  easy to use. Frommer's gives excellent information about prices and shops and restaurants; it's almost a guide to buying things rather than a tour book. I didn't find it  particularly thorough about travel information, customs, or those sorts of details. That is  not entirely fair. They have a nice section in the front a kind of &quot;best of&quot; list for things in budapest. The nice thing about the book is that it recommends things  to do if you have only one day, three days or a week. They also suggested some itineraries for walking tours.<br />  The Fodor's Budapest pocket reference is drab and not full of much information. Don't get it.<br />  My favorite guidebook series has been Lonely Planet,  and the Budapest Lonely Planet is fairly helpful. Although it doesn't give as thorough a treatment on  accomodations, the book gives a lot of hints and secret. I found its facts for the visitors to be the most helpful, and the maps (placed at the very back of the book) to be the  easiest to use. The frommer book, on the other hand, put the maps close to the section of the book referring to it.  The organization of LP makes it easiest to use in the field; they  tend to have the best background, history and cultural information.  It was particularly good about including rules, regulations and things like closing times. ON the other  hand, there are not many photos, and they don't plan as many walking tours as the frommer book does.<br />  The Eyewitness Travel Guide on Budapest by Tadeusz Olszanski is the most eye-catching and the least helpful. It contains lots of graphics and diagrams and maps, and not too much information. The multitude of  pictures are helpful in describing architecture, geography and art. On the other hand, its information on accomodations is very limited. Don't get me wrong; it's a beautiful and interesting book; it just is not  as helpful as the other three. And it is two years old.  I'm not necessarily saying that this book is bad, merely that it may not help you very much on the excursion.<br />  The Budapest:  A Critical Guide by Andras Torok,  4th edition is a less complete and more personal account of things to do in Budapest. The other books were like encyclopedias, but  this book was just a few personal recommendations about things to do and places to stay. Also, the writing for this book seems to be better than the other books. If you already  are a little familiar with Budapest, but just want to learn about new and undiscovered places, this might be an excellent book. It certainly covers most of the bases, but it  just doesn't try to list a huge number of accomodations or restaurants.<br />  I ended up buying the Frommer's and a used copy of the Eyewitness travel guide.ltitude of    pictures are helpful in describing architecture, geography and art. On the other hand, its information on accomodations is very limited. Don't get me wrong; it's a beautiful and interesting book; it just is not    as helpful as the other three. And it is two years old.   I'm not necessarily saying that this book is bad, merely that it may not help you very much on the excursion.<br />   The Budapest:  A Critical Guide by Andras Torok,  4th edition is a less complete and more personal account of things to do in Budapest. The other books were like encyclopedias, but    this book was just a few personal recommendations about things to do and places to stay. Also, the writing for this book seems to be better than the other books. If you already    are a little familiar with Budapest, but just want to learn about new and undiscovered places, this might be an excellent book. It certainly covers most of the bases, but it    just doesn't try to list a huge number of accomodations or restaurants.<br />   I ended up buying the Frommer's and a used copy of the Eyewitness travel guide.	2001-06-05
US	52743265	R3I29Y60H5295K	0789441802	99828453	Eyewitness Travel Guide to Budapest	Books	3	45	45	N	N	great street finder index; lots of illustrations	In preparing for a trip to Hungary, I examined thoroughly the choices for Budapest.<br />The Eyewitness Travel Guide on Budapest by Tadeusz Olszanski is the most eye-catching and the least helpful. It contains lots of graphics and diagrams and maps, and not too much information. Still, the most helpful section was the street index--something I hadn't seen in other books. The multitude of  pictures are helpful in describing architecture, geography and art. On the other hand, its information on accomodations is very limited. Don't get me wrong; it's a beautiful and interesting book; it just is not  as helpful as the other three. And it is two years old.  I'm not necessarily saying that this book is bad, merely that it may not help you very much on the excursion.<br />The Frommer's Budapest book (3rd edition) gave the best information about  finding and choosing accomodations, but the book has no pictures and aside from a nice subway cover on the inside cover, the maps are hard to find and not very  easy to use. Frommer's gives excellent information about prices and shops and restaurants; it's almost a guide to buying things rather than a tour book. I didn't find it  particularly thorough about travel information, customs, or those sorts of details. That is  not entirely fair. They have a nice section in the front a kind of &quot;best of&quot; list for things in budapest. The nice thing about the book is that it recommends things  to do if you have only one day, three days or a week. They also suggested some itineraries for walking tours.<br />  The Fodor's Budapest pocket reference is drab and not full of much information. Don't get it.<br />  My favorite guidebook series has been Lonely Planet,  and the Budapest Lonely Planet is fairly helpful. Although it doesn't give as thorough a treatment on  accomodations, the book gives a lot of hints and secret. I found its facts for the visitors to be the most helpful, and the maps (placed at the very back of the book) to be the  easiest to use. The frommer book, on the other hand, put the maps close to the section of the book referring to it.  The organization of LP makes it easiest to use in the field; they  tend to have the best background, history and cultural information.  It was particularly good about including rules, regulations and things like closing times. ON the other  hand, there are not many photos, and they don't plan as many walking tours as the frommer book does.<br /><br />  The Budapest:  A Critical Guide by Andras Torok,  4th edition is a less complete and more personal account of things to do in Budapest. The other books were like encyclopedias, but  this book was just a few personal recommendations about things to do and places to stay. Also, the writing for this book seems to be better than the other books. If you already  are a little familiar with Budapest, but just want to learn about new and undiscovered places, this might be an excellent book. It certainly covers most of the bases, but it  just doesn't try to list a huge number of accomodations or restaurants.<br />  I ended up buying the Frommer's and a used copy of the Eyewitness travel guide.ck of the book) to be the    easiest to use. The frommer book, on the other hand, put the maps close to the section of the book referring to it.  The organization of LP makes it easiest to use in the field; they    tend to have the best background, history and cultural information.   It was particularly good about including rules, regulations and things like closing times. ON the other    hand, there are not many photos, and they don't plan as many walking tours as the frommer book does.<br />   <br />   The Budapest:  A Critical Guide by Andras Torok,  4th edition is a less complete and more personal account of things to do in Budapest. The other books were like encyclopedias, but    this book was just a few personal recommendations about things to do and places to stay. Also, the writing for this book seems to be better than the other books. If you already    are a little familiar with Budapest, but just want to learn about new and undiscovered places, this might be an excellent book. It certainly covers most of the bases, but it    just doesn't try to list a huge number of accomodations or restaurants.<br />   I ended up buying the Frommer's and a used copy of the Eyewitness travel guide.	2001-06-05
US	52743265	RYX44HA7LJ85Y	0789723565	797855608	Networking by Example (By Example)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	book uses &quot;linuxconf&quot; which red hat 7.1 has deprecated	Recently I posted a review of this very excellent book. I wanted to point out one bad thing about the book, which I guess had to do with timing. Red Hat 7.1 no longer includes linuxconf to do most of the linux configuration, so a lot of the examples do little good for those using Red Hat. (The authors used linux-mandrake, which I guess still uses linuxconf).<br />One frustration I have experienced with using this book is that it overlooks a description of the files accessible through the command line. Instead the book relies on linuxconf to illustrate. Of course, it's not the authors' fault that red hat no longer uses linuxconf, but that's the problem with explaining things in terms of a gui interface. It would have been nice to include more samples of config files (and commands to run) and less screenshots. I reluctantly conclude that this book wouldn't give enough information to do linux network configuration, although it gives an excellent overview.	2001-05-04
US	52743265	R3M09YBMYSN6SO	1576104907	157801959	Open Source Development with CVS: Learn How to Work With Open Source Software	Books	5	1	2	N	N	karl fogel is working on a replacement for cvs!!!!	I love this book, and it has helped me to use cvs. I wanted to mention a detail which might interest all of you readers of this book. Karl Fogel is now helping in the creation of a &quot;cvs replacement&quot; which will be built over the webdav protocol.  the name of the product is &quot;subversion&quot;. I'm assuming it's open source, and a beta is already out. A full release will be out later this year, and you can assume that the documentation will be as good as this very excellent book.	2001-04-12
US	52743265	R20EMT2VV8EXXV	0782126308	798563927	Mastering Home Networking	Books	4	5	6	N	N	very book book, but &quot;networking by example&quot;  was better	I looked through this and about 5-10 other books on home networking at a bookstore. This book was my second choice, but I ultimately went for &quot;Networking by Example&quot; by Barry Press (which was especially helpful for people making networks with Linux and Windows in the same network).<br />The Henricks book was easy to follow, clearly explained, and had fairly good diagrams. But once again, I thought the Networking by Example was better.	2001-02-28
US	52743265	RXPCRVT9SAURA	0789723565	797855608	Networking by Example (By Example)	Books	5	37	37	N	N	best home networking book, especially for linux users	A few months ago I compared networking books at a bookstore with a generous collection of computer books. I have a background in PC hardware, introductory networking and an intermediate understanding of Linux, and I needed a book that was not specific to one operating system. Important components of my home network would be linux-based, but I also needed to include some windows 98, ME and 2000 services too.  <br />The problem with many of the networking books out there is that they are geared to the networking specialist with an advanced knowledge of networking already, or they are dumb-ified for the home-user who would be connecting things with Windows 98. So you are faced with a choice between 1000 page tomes which go into more detail about netware, netbui or wiring than anyone would be interested in. Or you can choice a friendly book full of colorful Windows 98 screenshots  (a perfect and actually informative example of that would be &quot;Complete Idiot's Guide to Networking Your Home&quot; by by Mark D. Thompson.).<br />It is surprising to see how few of the home networking books out there seemed to talk about Linux, although perhaps by the summer of 2001 that will have changed. <br />&quot;Networking by Example&quot; is a remarkable book because it gives equivalent functions by operating system, 98, NT, 2000 and Linux. It does not go into great depth into configuring services for Linux and Windows (like web servers, samba, etc), but it provides just enough detail for the reader to make sense of  chapters from another linux book on apache or samba. This book is one of the rare books that covers both OS's and how to integrate them  (the only other  book being Unix and Windows 2000 Handbook: Planning, Integration, and Administration by Lonnie Harvel)<br />One of the most valuable things about the book is the space it devotes to choosing the right hardware and how choice of an operating system might affect your choices. Unfortunately, the book gave a shallow treatment of wireless technologies and somebody looking for wireless information might find better information elsewhere. Sometimes it recommends specific products (which is probably not a good idea, given how quickly models change), but the book gives very practical questions about things to look for when buying a router or cable equipment. The book provides a good number of black and white photographs and illustrations for installing things, and the book contained several chapters near the start that discussed PC-hardware. I skipped through these chapters, but others might find them helpful. <br />The book does a great job of discussing print sharing and file sharing in both Windows and Linux. It also spends a good bit of time talking about setting up DSL and cable modems, as well as advanced firewall and security topics. <br />In short: this book is an excellent introduction for the person setting up home networking. Because it is so clear and describes everything so well, it might even be helpful for the would-be networking administrator before he or she pursues more advanced topics. At the time I bought the book, Networking by Example was the ONLY home networking book that discussed Linux and Windows in the same book. By now there are probably others. It gives great advice on picking hardware and setting up linux services. It's only 430 pages, but I've gotten more out of it than books that are twice that size.	2001-02-22
US	52743265	R3FPUD42KFTYON	0764533991	416964838	Home Networking Bible (Bible (Wiley))	Books	3	11	15	N	N	a decent book, but &quot;Networking by Example&quot; is better	This book looked pretty good, but I wanted to point out another book, &quot;Networking by Example&quot; by Barry Press which is truly outstanding. This Bible  book, as I remember it, contained a lot of information that was specific to Windows 98 and NT as well as protocols and OS's not around anymore.  Also, in general the &quot;bible&quot; books tend to be cluttered with more information you don't really need. The home networking bible was helpful, but Networking by Example was much more succinct.	2001-02-22
US	52743265	R2P3ONJLA55FSD	1580082424	257566027	What Color Is Your Parachute? A Practical Manual for Job-Hunters and Career-Changers (2001 Edition)	Books	5	70	73	N	Y	worth reading and rereading--savvy advice	Richard Bolles has published a new version of this book every year. I read it first in college and used it extensively when I worked as a career counselour. I also used it for career seminars. I can honestly say that every edition seems to be quite different from previous versions, so it is not a waste of money at all to buy a more recent version. (the most recent editions seem to talk about online job search, appropriately enough)As a writer, I can admire his work for its readability, sense of humor and gritty realism. Bolles tells some remarkable stories and while not directly applicable to your career area, they make you aware of how similiar job searching is regardless of your field. Before reading this, you should be aware of what this book is NOT: it does not provide resume advice nor does it provide very much advice about general trends in the job market. This book is a sobering dose of reality, but the interesting thing is that the reader finds this information heartening rather than disappointing because it unmasks many of the treacherous parts of the job search process. As such, this book is a great gift for a loved one who is out of work. It will make them feel good about themselves, and that is good, because a lot of unemployed approach job searches with a chip on their shoulder.<br />I used the exercises in the book with clients to help them analyze what they wanted in an ideal job because clients really had little idea what was important to them. Other readers might find that part helpful. I was a little surprised to find that the 2000 edition was smaller than previous versions. Bolles decided to reduce some of the religious/spiritual stuff and to cut out some of the reference lists (with the internet, a lot of references can be put online).<br />Overall, I was not impressed by how Parachute covers online job searching aside from discussing generalities. People really need to learn more about job boards like monster and how freelancing opportunities are opening up that never before existed.<br />Another thing is that I thought it was unnecessary to deemphasize the spiritual component in the latest version of the book. I'm not superreligious, but his stuff on the spiritual element added a unique perspective to the book and was nondenominational enough not to offend anyone. In summary: this is a milestone of a book. Bolles has spent his entire life making each version of the book better than the last. His effort shows.are opening up that never before existed. <br />Another thing is that I thought it was unnecessary to deemphasize the spiritual component in the latest version of the book. I'm not superreligious, but his stuff on the spiritual element added a unique perspective to the book and was nondenominational enough not to offend anyone. In summary: this is a milestone of a book. Bolles has spent his entire life making each version of the book better than the last. His effort shows.	2001-02-13
US	52743265	RFZUPACYRA8EG	0764534939	999597316	Microsoft? Windows? Me Secrets?	Books	4	62	66	N	N	very good , but Bott's Special Edition book is better	Brian Livingston's book was one of about 10 Windows ME books I browsed through recently during a bookstore visit.  Although I know my way about Windows (and Linux if you must know the truth), I was discovering a lot of situations with Win ME where I needed more detailed information. I didn't necessarily want one of those tomes with lots of information; I really wanted a more detailed overview of how behavior in Windows ME differs from previous versions of Windows OS. I also wanted to extend ME into a home networking environment.<br />One problem with many of the Windows ME books is that they are cluttered with legacy information about ISA cards, making cosmetic changes to the desktop, Outlook Express, and net meeting (none of which interests me). What I wanted to know was about USB ports and hardware detection, managing multiple users, setting up a home network, multiple profiles and dual booting with Linux, the ins and outs of system restore, power management troubleshooting, stuff about partitioning and ME boot disks, basic troubleshooting for Direct X games, new hardware support and switches for custom installing ME.<br />Another problem with many Windows books is that they are stuffed with screenshots and little explanation. Often the bigger books mainly consist of screenshots and a description of the steps, rather than explaining why.<br />Anyway, the book I ended up buying was Special Edition Using Microsoft Windows Millennium Edition (with CD-ROM) by Ed Bott. It was rather large and full of a good bit of extraneous parts, but this book covered all these advanced topics relatively well. Also, each chapter ends with excellent blue troubleshooting pages. The documentation and layout is easy to read and logical and full of &quot;information chunks.&quot; It's clear that the author is not simply recycling information from his Win 95 or 98 book.<br />The next book I almost bought was the extremely readable The Unauthorized Guide to Windows Millennium by Paul McFedries. It was a smaller book than the Special Edition book and extremely readable. They covered many interesting topics about how to extend ME, while not dwelling on technicalities unlikely to interest the current batch of users. I liked the networking section, but was surprised that the book talked mainly about power management as it relates to notebooks and not about desktops.<br />Another very excellent (and big) book was Microsoft Windows Me Millennium Edition Secrets by Brian Livingston and Davis Straub. I think Livingston writes a weekly column on Windows tips, and I found a lot of useful information and tips in this book. The only problem was some of the material seemed dated and from a previous book. And there was an awful lot about Outlook Express, Net Meeting and Internet Explorer, as well as configuring the desktop. The book also contained good information about networking, but I found that the Que Special Edition mentioned above contained less irrelevant material, less screenshots but more useful information. If you want a reference (i.e. a big book), this wouldn't be a bad choice at all. I didn't find the writing for my topics of interest to be particularly helpful or full of depth. Still, a great book.<br />I also considered Alan Simpson's humongous Microsoft Windows Me Bible, which also wasn't a bad book. Still, I thought there was a lot of filler here. I would have preferred that the author remove chapters on less crucial features that relate more to 98 than to ME. Also, I didn't find it that readable.<br />Other books I considered were Windows Millennium: The Missing Manual (published by Oreilley). Of course Oreilley books are tops, but this book didn't seem especially noteworthy, and this book went to the other extreme by including very few screenshots. This book is a smaller book and didn't contain enough topics to help me out.<br />I checked out some more beginner books, including Dan Gookin Teaches Windows Me (The Author Teaches Series)and Mastering Windows Me by Robert Cowart. Not bad, basically a good book for screenshots, but nothing remarkable.<br />So that's what I gathered in an hour of browsing through ME books. None of these books are bad, and most are quite good, and lord only knows if my opinions would have changed had I read more chapters. But I should say that I have kept the Special Edition book at my side and referred to it quite often and been pleased to find almost everything I was looking for and more. The only lament is that it's more of a reference and less of a &quot;start-to-finish&quot; book, but the binding of this big book is pretty strong, so you may get around to bringing it to the beach some day. Some day.Mastering Windows Me by Robert Cowart. Not bad, basically a good book for screenshots, but nothing remarkable. <br />So that's what I gathered in an hour of browsing through ME books. None of these books are bad, and most are quite good, and lord only knows if my opinions would have changed had I read more chapters. But I should say that I have kept the Special Edition book at my side and referred to it quite often and been pleased to find almost everything I was looking for and more. The only lament is that it's more of a reference and less of a &quot;start-to-finish&quot; book, but the binding of this big book is pretty strong, so you may get around to bringing it to the beach some day. Some day.	2001-02-09
US	52743265	R2SZNJ6AO2Q9CL	0789724464	565361305	Special Edition Using Microsoft Windows Millennium	Books	5	79	80	N	N	best ME book there is--great blue troubleshooting sections	Recently I sat down on a barnes and noble bookstore and tried to decide which was the best windows me book to buy. Although I know my way about Windows (and Linux if you must know the truth), I was discovering a lot of situations with Win ME where I needed more detailed information. I didn't necessarily want one of those tomes with lots of information; I really wanted a more detailed overview of how behavior in Windows ME differs from previous versions of Windows OS. I also wanted to extend ME into a home networking environment.<br />One problem with many of the Windows ME books is that they are cluttered with legacy information about ISA cards, making cosmetic changes to the desktop, Outlook Express, and net meeting (none of which interests me). What I wanted to know was about USB ports and hardware detection, managing multiple users, setting up a home network, multiple profiles  and dual booting with Linux, the ins and outs of system restore, power management troubleshooting, stuff about partitioning and ME boot disks, basic troubleshooting for Direct X games, new hardware support and switches for custom installing ME.<br />Another problem with many Windows books is that they are stuffed with screenshots and little explanation. Often the bigger books mainly consist of screenshots and a description of the steps, rather than explaining why.<br />Anyway, the book I ended up buying was Special Edition Using Microsoft Windows Millennium Edition (with CD-ROM)  by Ed Bott. It was rather large and full of a good bit of extraneous parts, but this book covered all these advanced topics relatively well. Also, each chapter ends with excellent blue troubleshooting pages. The documentation and layout is easy to read and logical and full of &quot;information chunks.&quot;  It's clear that the author is not simply recycling information from his Win 95 or 98 book.<br />The next book I almost bought was the extremely readable The Unauthorized Guide to Windows Millennium by Paul McFedries. It was a smaller book than the Special Edition book and extremely readable. They covered many interesting topics about how to extend ME, while not dwelling on technicalities unlikely to interest the current batch of users. I liked the networking section, but was surprised that the book talked mainly about power management as it relates to notebooks and not about desktops.<br />Another very excellent (and big) book was Microsoft Windows Me Millennium Edition Secrets by Brian Livingston and Davis Straub. I think Livingston writes a weekly column on Windows tips, and I found a lot of useful information and tips in this book. The only problem was some of the material seemed dated and from a previous book. And there was an awful lot about Outlook Express, Net Meeting and Internet Explorer, as well as configuring the desktop. The book also contained good information about networking, but I found that the Que Special Edition mentioned above contained less irrelevant material, less screenshots but more useful information. If you want a reference (i.e. a big book), this wouldn't be a bad choice at all. I didn't find the writing for my topics of interest to be particularly helpful or full of depth. Still, a great book.<br />I also considered  Alan Simpson's humongous Microsoft Windows Me Bible, which also wasn't a bad book. Still, I thought there was a lot of filler here. I would have preferred that the author remove chapters on less crucial features that relate more to 98 than to ME. Also, I didn't find it that readable.<br />Other books I considered were Windows Millennium: The Missing Manual  (published by Oreilley). Of course Oreilley books are tops, but this book didn't seem especially noteworthy, and this book went to the other extreme by including very few screenshots. This book is a smaller book and didn't contain enough topics to help me out.<br />I checked out some more beginner books, including Dan Gookin Teaches Windows Me (The Author Teaches Series)and Mastering Windows Me by Robert Cowart. Not bad, basically a good book for screenshots, but nothing remarkable.<br />So that's what I gathered in an hour of browsing through ME books. None of these books are bad, and most are quite good, and lord only knows if my opinions would have changed had I read more chapters. But I should say that I have kept the Special Edition book at my side and referred to it quite often and been pleased to find almost everything I was looking for and more. The only lament is that it's more of a reference and less of a &quot;start-to-finish&quot; book, but the binding of this big book is pretty strong, so you may get around to bringing it to the beach some day. Some day.)and Mastering Windows Me by Robert Cowart. Not bad, basically a good book for screenshots, but nothing remarkable. <br />So that's what I gathered in an hour of browsing through ME books. None of these books are bad, and most are quite good, and lord only knows if my opinions would have changed had I read more chapters. But I should say that I have kept the Special Edition book at my side and referred to it quite often and been pleased to find almost everything I was looking for and more. The only lament is that it's more of a reference and less of a &quot;start-to-finish&quot; book, but the binding of this big book is pretty strong, so you may get around to bringing it to the beach some day. Some day.	2001-02-07
US	52743265	R1VHI6MZNUJI9H	0201895498	630680660	A Practical Guide to Linux	Books	5	8	8	N	N	best linux teaching book there is	I've been working on linux for more than a year, and this was a book assigned for a class. Since then, I've bought four other linux books. But this one is usually the first book I will consult regardless.<br />The problems with the book are: that the book is very old, and that it doesn't discuss newer versions of Netscape and Red Hat and other tools. Linux has gotten a lot more user friendly, and this book won't provide  a lot of help about using the most modern window manager. The book does not discuss apache and possibly not even samba (i don't remember). It doesn't really adequately describe dual booting with windows (which is an important thing to discuss).  On the other hand, it gives a more than adequate explanation of vi, emacs and cvs.<br />Also  this book is unparalleled is discussing how to use the command line interface and explaining the underworkings of the linux/unix OS. The best thing about the book is that it gives an exceptional index to the bash commands and utility commands and it gives two or three pages of explanations and EXAMPLES for each one. At first glance, it may resemble a man page, but it gives much more than that. It gives actual situations, and prompts, user input and results. These examples easily explain the functions and the powers and the niceties of the command switches. Particularly helpful were the discussion of sed, awk, regular expressions and other low level commands. It doesn't discuss networking as much as it should, but its unwavering focus on the command line more than makes up for this deficiency.<br />Other books I would recommend include LINUX, Second Edition: Installation, Configuration, and Use and Oreilley's Running Linux or Network Administrator's Guide. But I still go back to this book more often than all three of these books combined. When this book comes out in a later edition (and I feel sure it will), it will undoubtedly be the best guide for newbies and pro's alike.	2000-12-14
US	52743265	R25NE8OXJZX1Y0	1565922573	868496707	Mastering Regular Expressions: Powerful Techniques for Perl and Other Tools (Nutshell Handbooks)	Books	3	54	88	N	N	Great book with problems	I haven't read the book from cover to cover but have read parts of it. I don't deny that it is informative and occasionally helpful (especially if you come from a perl background). But the book as it stands is not appropriate for someone starting out in regular expressions. Instead it provides a lot of depth as far as how regular expressions are used in specific tools and all the different standards for regular expressions.<br />But a lot of this  information on regular expressions  is not relevant or necessary for composing plain vanilla bash regular expressions. I suspect that the majority of readers will find a few chapters helpful, but will skip over at least a few chapters that have no bearing on their work. To spend so much time in a book talking about the different implementations of regular expressions is to beg the question about whether you should read a general book or instead read a book about the implementation of r.e. specific to your computer language.<br />I have two complaints. First, the book does not try to teach you the art of writing regular expressions (it assumes a certain level of familiarity already). As a learning book, it may not be satisfy your needs. The second complaint is that the book doesn't include an adequate reference section or at least a section you can refer to when trying to write your own regular expressions. I found myself flipping back and forth from pages to try to find the aspect of regular expressions I need. A more methodical reference chapter or appendix is sorely needed.<br />Don't get the impression I am not recommending this book. It is a fine book; only be sure that you thumb through it at a bookstore to make sure that the kind of material it presents is what you are looking for. For me it was not.<br />The best teaching book I've found to explain regular expressions is Practical Guide to Linux by Mark Sobell. It's old, but it explains regular expressions, sed, awk and grep better than any book, including this one. This book presented the clearest examples of any computer book I have encountered.one. This book presented the clearest examples of any computer book I have encountered.	2000-11-21
US	52743265	R25DN15NMGQQE9	1564782042	878597056	Chromos (American Literature (Dalkey Archive))	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A fun exhilirating series of narratives--not hard at all!!!	I'll post a longer review of this work when I have time here. I once wrote  a glowing book review about this book  10 years ago. This is one of these  rare finds by Dalkey Archive press, which (admittedly) publishes esoteric  and hard-to-read fiction. Out of nowhere, it was nominated for the National  Book Award in 1990 or so, propelling this old man to some fame and  notoriety.<br />I remember Proust's metaphor in one of his books about one's  literary works existing as separate creatures from the author, like little  girls dancing around the death bed of a dying author.  I think Alfau was  interviewed as saying something like, I wrote this book decades ago. Why  all of a sudden this attention?<br />I used to give this book as the  answer  to the question of &quot;what is your favorite book&quot;  because no one  has ever heard of it (though I imagine university readers at the writing  program where I taught, Johns Hopkins, would be sympathetic to this  writing). Actually, although parts of it are long-winded, in general the  narrative is conventional and full of old-fashioned storytelling. The  characters engage in multiple philosophical conversations about  time,reality and a lot of other things. I would compare this to Dostoevksy  (in terms of the philosophical plane it travels on, not the plot, which is  rather lackadaisical).  Although there certainly is a tinge of European  postmodern fiction here, unlike the fiction of Barth, there are not  narrative tricks that distract from the story at hand. The end kind of  wanders, but how fun it was getting there. You read for the set pieces, not  for the overall plot.  For variety, check out his short stories in  Locos:  A Comedy of Gestures. They are priceless gems.<br />You have to be in the  right frame of mind for philosophical digressions and plot that advances  mainly through conversation, but if you are, you won't find it difficult to  get into this book at all.<br />To be honest, I've never met another person  who has actually read this book, and it would be interesting to read  responses from others who have read this book.<br />I should point out that I  am writing these impressions about 10 years after reading the book. I  remember almost nothing, and yet I remember how I felt reading it and the  impressions it left on me. Does this count as a legitimate review? It will  be fun knowing that the book is there waiting to be picked up again.son  who has actually read this book, and it would be interesting to read  responses from others who have read this book.<br />I should point out that I  am writing these impressions about 10 years after reading the book. I  remember almost nothing, and yet I remember how I felt reading it and the  impressions it left on me. Does this count as a legitimate review? It will  be fun knowing that the book is there waiting to be picked up again.	2000-08-29
US	52743265	RJL9TXV207HWM	0201696967	245118064	HTML 4 for the World Wide Web: VQS (3rd Edition)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	a slight correction --newer version is not that bad	I made a fairly lengthly comment about Castro's HTML book a few days ago. I didn't realize that the version I had was not in fact the latest version  of her book. (And I looked at this latest version at the bookstore just  yesterday). She seems to have corrected a lot of her examples, and she has  obliquely addressed the coming of XML to the web in the latest edition. But  there are still many places where the examples have tags without their end  tags and Ms. Castro doesn't mention XHTML anywhere, so my original comments  still apply. This book is one of the most helpful books available on HTML,  and this latest edition is much better than previous editions. As long as  you remember that the examples still need end tags, this book will still be  a worthwhile buy.	2000-08-22
US	52743265	RS8JBATHLVDI1	0071353429	342364428	PHP3: Programming Browser-Based Applications with PHP	Books	4	4	4	N	N	not as bad as other reviewers make it sound	This was the first book I bought on php. Medinets explains things very  well, and it's clear he knows a lot of tricks for installing and making  things work. The advantage of this book is its simplicity and attention to  detail. Most of the steps worked in the installation, and he explains why  he does things the way he does.  The stuff on XML and SQL is pretty  cursory, but it's enough to make you aware of how it works and how php  could help with that kind of data.<br />He is clearly geared toward writing a  tutorial and not a reference book. At one point, we're supposed to be  establishing a mysql connection and after going through the steps, he says,  &quot;well, this doesn't work because...&quot; (and then he explains what  was missing). I appreciate this sort of method, but it might be confusing  for some readers.<br />This book is to be a quick breezy read and intended  for people who want to get their feet wet before getting seriously into the  subject. I would mention that Professional PhP is an excellent book, much  more comprehensive than this one and just as readable. Readers might  seriously consider bypassing this book and reading the Wrox Professional  PHp book. The Wrox book has excellent examples and gives switches and api's  when trying to connect to other databases beside mysql.<br />In summary: an  excellent straightforward introduction, but many readers might prefer to  read a more comprehensive book like Professional PHP (by Wrox)	2000-08-22
US	52743265	RBO5CQ4C8FIAB	0195135830	853496261	The Engines of Our Ingenuity: An Engineer Looks at Technology and Culture	Books	5	25	27	N	Y	milestone classic on technology and culture	The first thing I want to say about this book is: about time!!!<br />John  Lienhard is a philosopher who has been using his daily public radio  broadcasts to share his wonderful meditations on art, science and humanity.  He reads with a inspirational tone, and often his meditations wander into  territories unforeseen. I remember one episode where Leinhard starts by  talking about a tabloid column about bigfoot on the north pole, then  shelley's frankenstein and then some scientific topic. I remember also with  fondness Leinhard's paean to the man who invented leaded gasoline and how  significant a technological improvement it was considered at the time (and  how maligned his invention is in the modern day). Leinhard writes with a  keen sense of historical irony and can transition from one discipline into  another with ease.<br />I would compare Leinhard's prose to that of a Francis  Bacon, a Carl Sagan or an Edmund Wilson. His writing is at the top of his  field, and his mastery of the intracies of engineering, physics or any  other scientific field are truly astounding. The 5 minute radio program  form forced them to be concise, and frequently I've been impressed by how  succinctly he can convey an entire  life of a scientist in less than 5  minutes: the tragedies and triumphs.<br />Perhaps in book form these  meditations won't seem as remarkable. (I compare it with Garison Keilor,  whose wonderfully witty spoken prose hangs limp on the book page). However,  I've read many of his essays at his web site at University of Houston, and  there is still the same excitement and vigor in the written prose. My only  complaint is that they are not available for download in audio form.<br />I  am not a scientist, but Lienhard makes me want to be. He has helped me to  see the connections between art and science, life and science, god and  science. I can't tell you how many times I've been driving in a daze and  how Mr. Lienhard's 5 minute meditation suddenly fills my life with clarity.ith clarity.	2000-08-22
US	52743265	R11FZAI2462TQ0	1563052857	385930248	The Lazlo Letters	Books	5	4	9	N	N	defines the genre of satirical letter writing	The thing I like so much about these letters is how Lazlo apes a certain type of person (a bigot, a child, a patriot) and how the companies and  politicians respond to the letters under that assumption. Sometimes the  results of this misunderstanding are the cause of laughter. It is a bit  unfair to poke fun in letters that will be answered by secretaries or pr  underlings. I have reread this book many times and actually thought that  the replies to the letters were most of the time appropriate responses and  appropriately bland. Lazlo is not really engaging in conversation with the  letter writers. He is making monologues and incorporating corporate  incoherence into his monologues. This is not a criticism, but it needs to  be said that most of these letters are thus not very meaningful. They are  purely for comic effect.Light-hearted, fun, zany and off-the-wall, but the  correspondence puts the respondent in an unflattering light.<br />The sequel  to this book is interesting though not as absolutely entertaining as this  volume. Also, the &quot;letter from a nut&quot; promoted by jerry seinfeld  was basically a ripoff of this book, and not really as wonderful. Because  honestly, anyone with a decent humor could write a book like this.  The  letter writer has the power to say anything outrageous and funny, while the  recipient can merely give a polite response. I'm not saying this book isn't  that funny, but keep in mind that it's pretty easy to be funny with these  kinds of letters.<br />This book and his sequel make you release how hard it  must be for corporations to respond to people with unusual concerns or  questions.<br />In this book, my favorite series of letters has to do with  putting jelly on your breakfast sausage at MacDonalds. In the sequel, the  best part was the frozen dinner of famous politicians, and entering the  Rice Krispies recipe contest.	2000-08-16
US	52743265	R1ASNOG287Y3OJ	0201354934	245118064	HTML 4 for the World Wide Web, Fourth Edition	Books	3	19	25	N	N	a very good but seriously flawed book --Close your tags!	I have used this book as a reference source for over two years. Overall, I appreciate the clear way Ms. Castro has explained all of the programming  concepts. The newer edition contains an excellent section on cascading  style sheets, which is very helpful.<br />Unfortunately, this book is  seriously out of date and may not be good for someone starting out. The  newest version of HTML is really XHTML, a stricter form of html that  insists on closing all tags. The W3 standards body is now pushing that and  deprecating the use of html code without the proper end tags. But when Ms.  Castro first wrote the book, it wasn't as important to close all tags, so  all of her examples contain unclosed tags. The html may still work if you  code with Ms. Castro's style in current browsers, but it is no longer the  accepted way of coding. Don't just believe me; read any of the dozens of  sites that talk about xhtml v. html.<br />This standard just changed a year  ago, so Ms. Castro cannot be blamed for this problem. Undoubtedly now, she  knows about the standard,  and the latest edition must have come out before  the examples could be changed. But actually the xhtml standard was  announced in fall, 1999, so it's strange that the publisher did not delay  publication if only to revise the examples.<br />Another problem with the  book is that it really doesn't address browser differences head on.  Nowadays coders have to face a seriously outdated netscape browser and an  IE browser that uses a lot of proprietary tags. Often good coding depends  on understanding how browsers treat things. This book needs a discussion of  what style sheet things are supported in each of the browsers. Given web  trends, it might even make more sense to try learning xml instead of having  to deal with the vagaries of different browsers.<br />In summary: an  excellent book, but her habit of not closing tags in her examples is  seriously wrong and out-of-date.	2000-08-16
US	52743265	RBJHSCHMQF5NK	0380973545	730540102	Letters from a Nut	Books	4	0	0	N	N	what about lazlo letters?	this book is funny enough, but it's a blatent ripoff of the &quot;Lazlo letters&quot; written by the comic who used to play Guido Sarduchi on  saturday night live. You really can't appreciate this book without first  reading the Lazlo letters, which was written in the mid 70's.	2000-08-16
US	52743265	R1SLWYMSB3E9UE	0452269350	766601209	Earth in the Balance: Ecology and the Human Spirit (Plume)	Books	5	21	40	N	N	what seemed radical  before seems pretty mainstream	I have heard this book badmouthed at so many places that I felt<br />compelled to write something in defense. I read the book right when it<br />was published, and it was one of those earth-changing books for<br />me. Everybody knows that ecology is good and corporations are bad, or<br />so we thought. Gore portrays the dilemma of trying to solve<br />environmental problems and possible solutions. It would be unfair to<br />pin the blame on Gore for certain of the proposals mentioned (although<br />things like the ill-fated carbon tax now is beginning to seem more<br />useful as time goes by). Republicans have attacked the book for its<br />draconian solutions, but they conveniently ignore the fact that Gore<br />was an early proponent of free market solutions to environmental<br />problems.<br />But the purpose of this book was not to make certain<br />policy recommendations (although Gore mentions quite a number). The<br />purpose was to change your way of thinking, to help you understand the<br />relationship between a society's action and the obligations it<br />entails. This book is almost a meditation on history and how we can<br />overcome the problems our generation has caused. I remember many<br />anecdotes vividly from the book, but one stands out. Gore talks about<br />newer fuel-efficient lightbulbs and how much energy they would save<br />over a lightbulb's lifespan (a ton of coal! ).  Despite the fact it<br />costs only pennies more than the incandescent lightbulb, old habits<br />and entrenched interests make it unlikely that this lightbulb would<br />dominate the market (although things have been changing).<br />He also<br />points out the moral dilemmas that a person faces when trying to do<br />the right thing. He recounts incidents where he is criticized for<br />driving a car, eating a meat, investing in the wrong companies,<br />etc. Nobody can be perfect, he says, but before humans can make their<br />ecological choices, they must first be aware of the consequences of<br />their actions.  This book provides some of facts, but more importantly<br />analyzes how we can live with our choices.<br />As I reread parts of the<br />book, I am struck by how literary and well-written the prose is. His<br />experience as a journalist and divinity school student shows. Leave<br />aside the fact that this guy might be prez sometime; he writes as a<br />historian or a philosopher would write, and is able to write to a<br />general audience exceedingly well. I am still amazed that he found<br />time away from his time as senator to write such an intelligent and<br />well-researched book.  Perhaps Gore will be the American Churchhill--a<br />politician whose fame will rest in his writing as much as his<br />political involvement. Gore might become the new Mohniyan: lambasted,<br />controversial, but generally right about his prognostications. ...oices. <br />As I reread parts of the book, I am struck by how literary and well-written the prose is. His experience as a journalist and divinity school student shows. Leave aside the fact that this guy might be prez sometime; he writes as a historian or a philosopher would write, and is able to write to a general audience exceedingly well. I am still amazed that he found time away from his time as senator to write such an intelligent and well-researched book.  Perhaps Gore will be the American Churchhill--a politician whose fame will rest in his writing as much as his political involvement. Gore might become the new Mohniyan: lambasted, controversial, but generally right about his prognostications. ...	2000-07-28
US	52743265	R33MW1CBZQMO2	1861002963	984713068	Professional PHP Programming	Books	4	34	37	N	N	excellent learning examples, interesting apps.	Boy, my reviews of Wrox books probably seem a little boring, since there is so little fault to find with them.  The Wrox programming books  are really the best books on the market, and it's interesting that the Oreilly  books haven't yet published a decent book on php or xml stuff.  I liked the  way this PHP book  explained the various  setup options and the amount of  space discussing mysql (which is a major reason why people are using php  anyway).<br />What distinguishes this book from the rest are the examples.  The tutorial part of the book works with two simple projects, an online job  app and an address book, which were easy enough to follow. Actually, I  found this book to be a useful intro to cgi script writing in addition to  php.<br /> Also interesting were 4 case studies about ways to use  php.  Example: did you know that with the qt libraries, php can manipulate images  (such as zooming, and overwriting images with text)? That is amazing!  A  chapter on phorum explains how a discussion software uses php, and another  one explains the use of a shopping cart (I tend to agree with the other  reader who thinks that this is not necessarily the best example to use).  The book also describes other things like using php for file management and  storage,  email configuration,  and network connections.  Some other topics  covered in depth include: xml, security and database integration.<br />The  appendix has many things. First, obviously, it has an alphabetical list of  all the php functions. It also has  a helpful appendix on http headers and  another on browser support of html tags.  This last thing is only somewhat  handy to have, because web developers reading this book are past the point  of needing browser support info re legacy html tags.  Instead developers  should be worrying about xml and xslt. Some technical books increase the  size of their book by stuffing a lot of code throughout it. Wrox seems to  like to increase the size by including large and somewhat irrelevant  appendices.<br /> This book made me  realize many new potential ways in which  php could be used. That is the most valuable thing about the book.  I have  not tried very much of the code, so I can't comment on whether it all  works. But (to summarize) it will really broaden your horizons of what php  is capable of.<br />The only reason I've given it 4 stars is that I haven't  read the whole thing yet.e and somewhat irrelevant  appendices. <br /> This book made me  realize many new potential ways in which  php could be used. That is the most valuable thing about the book.   I have  not tried very much of the code, so I can't comment on whether it all  works. But (to summarize) it will really broaden your horizons of what php  is capable of. <br />The only reason I've given it 4 stars is that I haven't  read the whole thing yet.	2000-07-27
US	52743265	R1Z9SZE7TFWBB7	0789719932	883063078	special edition Using StarOffice	Books	5	9	11	N	N	unbelievably well written book with great organization	I'm a technical writer who writes regular book reviews about computer and programming books. I can say without a doubt that this is one of the nicest, most user-friendly app guides that I've seen. It's a hefty book  with lots of screen shots, and they cover a lot of material here, including  a lot on installation for linux. They present a lot of materials in boxes  and give &quot;tips,&quot; and the great index makes me confident that I  can find anything I want in seconds. Unlike most user guides for office  apps, this book describes pretty thoroughly the limitations in star office  (such as the fact that its database is not relational). I bought this book  in late 1999, and undoubtedly other books have been published on star  office, and more will be published as star office gains mindshare. But it  really is amazing how thoroughly this application has been described by  this book. This is the sort of book you'd expect for an app that is several  years old, not for one new to the market. The group of writers must have  spent forever not only studying the program inside and out, but presenting  it in a form that is interesting and easy to wade through. Recently Star  Office 5.2 has been released, and it's possible that the functionality will  have changed. But this version or later versions of this book will still be  the easiest to understand. It's not glamorous to write a book about office  apps, but it's nice when a publisher has done such an excellent job.	2000-07-26
US	52743265	R3VFKMONDK18FF	0201596288	136356787	LINUX, Second Edition: Installation, Configuration, and Use	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	great stuff on linux apps; ideal for home users&amp;tech writers	I have bought several linux books, and this book is usually the first place I check. It doesn't have answers for a lot of hardware stuff or programming stuff, but it had the best chapter on ppp I'd ever seen. Also,  it was the first book I saw that spent a good bit of time talking about  applications; news readers, emacs, latex, even a good introduction to gimp,  for crying out loud. It had excellent sections on LiLo and other boot  related questions. I wouldn't say it was particularly strong on network  related questions, but actually most of the other linux books I saw had an  opposite problem of talking too much about fancy networking stuff that the  home user. This book doesn't spend too much time talking about command line  stuff (things that you would find in man pages, for example), but lots of  stuff on xwindows, and window managers. nothing on apache or star office.  Overall, a nice compact guide geared to the home user interested more in  applications rather than networking protocols.	2000-07-26
US	52743265	R3493F16QEIKYU	1565927095	35616237	XML Pocket Reference: Extensible Markup Language	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	not bad, but better books exist	I read about 50% of this book and tried to work out the examples. However in the first chapter alone I found three errors. Two were corrected on the website, and I can't remember if the third one was too. This is a first  edition, so watch out. XML development moves really fast, so a lot of  things are no longer the same. The book explains things well and  succinctly. But I would use it only after reading another book with more  thorough treatment. I own several XML books, and quite frankly, I found  that Professional XML (by Wrox) is the best book in the field at the  moment. I confess to referring to this book still, but only after  understanding the only concepts from Professional XML and other books.  Consider buying this as a supplemental reference, but it should not be your  first purchase.	2000-07-25
US	52743265	R44HZH7MXH5D2	156205810X	663559807	Designing Web Usability	Books	4	11	20	N	Y	advice is a little conservative--still an excellent book	This book is an enjoyable and fascinating read. He gives great examples, and the book is easy to read and well-organized. But sometimes his advice leaves me wondering. Nielson encourages web developers to focus on backward  browser compatibility, and on people with the smallest monitors and screen  resolutions. Unfortunately, his recommendations are way too conservative  and unduly limit a web developer's options. About 70% of Americans use IE5  and a large number at work use 17 inch monitors (I can't quantify that).  Now Netscape 4 provides pathetic support for style sheets, and IE 4 isn't  much better. Under Nielson's paradigm, web programmers would end up  spending 80% of their time just making sure that things working perfectly  fine in IE5 would also work passably well in browsers that are not used  very often anymore.  It would mean a race to the bottom, and cause web  programmers not to embrace genuine developments such  as CSS. Nielson's  advice about user interface and web design are excellent and insightful;  But most of his advice about web programming are outdated at best and  amateurish at worst. It's too bad Nielson didn't spend more time talking  about possibilities opened up with XML.  In summary: this book is well  worth reading, but don't pay attention to the user statistics and don't buy  into his idea of writing for old browsers.	2000-07-25
US	52743265	R3GAD0310FFTS5	1580081231	257566027	2000 What Color is Your Parachute	Books	5	41	47	N	Y	worth reading and rereading--savvy advice	Richard Bolles has published a new version of this book every year. I read it first in college and used it extensively when I worked as a career counselour. I also used it for career seminars. I can honestly say that  every edition seems to be quite different from previous versions, so it is  not a waste of money at all to buy a more recent version.  (the most recent  editions seem to talk about online job search, appropriately enough)As a  writer, I  can admire his work for its readability, sense of humor and  gritty realism. Bolles tells some remarkable stories and while not directly  applicable to your career area, they make you aware of how similiar job  searching is regardless of your field. Before reading this, you should be  aware of what this book is NOT: it does not provide resume advice nor does  it provide very much advice about general trends in the job market. This  book is a sobering dose of reality, but the interesting thing is that the  reader finds this information heartening rather than disappointing because  it unmasks many of the treacherous parts of the job search process. As  such, this book is a great gift for a loved one who is out of work. It will  make them feel good about themselves, and that is good, because a lot of  unemployed approach job searches with a chip on their shoulder.<br />I used  the exercises in the book with clients to help them analyze what they  wanted in an ideal job because clients really had little idea what was  important to them. Other readers might find that part helpful. I was a  little surprised to find that the 2000 edition was smaller than previous  versions. Bolles decided to reduce some of the religious/spiritual stuff  and to cut out some of the reference lists (with the internet, a lot of  references can be put online).<br />Overall, I was not impressed by how  Parachute covers online job searching aside from discussing generalities.  People really need to learn more about job boards like monster and how  freelancing opportunities are opening up that never before existed.<br />Another thing is that I thought it was unnecessary to deemphasize the  spiritual component in the latest version of the book. I'm not  superreligious, but his stuff on the spiritual element added a unique  perspective to the book and was nondenominational enough not to offend  anyone. In summary: this is a milestone of a book. Bolles has spent his  entire life making each version of the book better than the last. His  effort shows.freelancing opportunities are opening up that never before existed.  <br />Another thing is that I thought it was unnecessary to deemphasize the  spiritual component in the latest version of the book. I'm not  superreligious, but his stuff on the spiritual element added a unique  perspective to the book and was nondenominational enough not to offend  anyone. In summary: this is a milestone of a book. Bolles has spent his  entire life making each version of the book better than the last. His  effort shows.	2000-07-20
US	52743265	R23MYU3BUDYX2R	1576105679	635451098	General Linux I Exam Prep (Exam: 101)	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	good book for learning, lacks specific test information	I have about 4 books on linux topics, and I bought this exam book for a specific reason--to quiz me over commands and switches and to provide hands-on exercises. The best linux book I go to is LINUX, Second Edition:  Installation, Configuration, and Use,  (on installation, linux apps such as  emacs, news readers and gimp)which is still current. Another book I really  like for detailed examples of all the strange linux/unix commands is: A  Practical Guide to Linux (1997) by Mark G. Sobell. Despite the date, all of  the material is still current For general networking issues I have RH Linux  Unleashed.  It is rather boring, but it contains a lot of answers about  network stuff and some of the RH interfaces (gnome, kde). This book  (GENERAL LINUX I EXAM PREP) is excellent because it answers a lot of  ordinary how-to questions, how to get basic things done that sometimes are  impossible to find in other books without rereading two chapters or so  Example: I was looking for how to change the init level, and while I was  looking for fstab info, I found in this book a command &quot;init 5&quot;  which will also do the job. I've learned some nice tricks from this book.<br />However, the main problem in the book is that it lacks detail on the  certification exams. This is certainly not the author's fault because the  LPI exams were still being developed, and the others have been changing as  well. I'm taking the LPI 1a exam, and this book merely lists the goals of  the tests rather than listing the specific subjects being tested. It would  be nice if the organization of the book follows the organization of a  specific test. I predict that by the end of the summer the market will be  flooded with books about linux certification exams (mostly red hat  certifications) so you'll be able to find books with more specific test  information. (also you can find excellent information at places like  cramsession for more recent information about the test. In summary: an  excellent learning vehicle, with good test questions, but little specific  test information.earning vehicle, with good test questions, but little specific  test information.	2000-07-17
US	52743265	R21RLS8MW4QK9D	1861003021	155480207	Professional Apache	Books	5	9	9	N	N	really outstanding book--highest kudos	I bought this book in january and have been reading snippets here and there. things change rapidly with apache (right now I'm working on webdav--which wasn't even released until a month ago for apache). Still,  98% of the book is up to date and the author organizes the material  extremely well. I found especially helpful the discussions on installing  mod_perl, security and login access. My only complaints are that the book  doesn't easily list respective functions of the standard modules on a  single page, and that it doesn't list some of the apache offshoots, like  apache for java and xml. I know that Oreilley is working on updating their  earlier apache book (which wasn't really worth reading anyway), so there's  bound to be excellent books about apache coming down the pipe. However,  this book has answered every question I have had, and covers things more  thoroughly than a web how-to might. Highest recommendations.	2000-07-14
US	52743265	R1E3GZV41HKIRR	0672315149	322523626	XML Unleashed	Books	3	14	14	N	Y	okay, good topic selections,&quot;professional xml&quot; is better	I have bought several xml books and wanted to mention my opinions. The best book so far seems to be Professional XML by Wrox.  For variety's sake, I also bought, XML Unleashed, a bulky book with not as much  organization, but just a lot of code (unlike the professional xml book,  which really explained almost everything well). XML unleashed is helpful,  because its topics really don't overlap with professional xml. It discusses  SMIL, parsing xml with java  xml tools on the market, using asp with xml  and different subsets of xml (vml, and a variety of other specialized  languages specific to one discipline. Unleashed is good because it contains  discussions (albeit rather brief) of several different languages.  Professional XML sticks to explanations and analysis, a lot of microsoft  stuff (but not asp,) and not too much stuff that linux lovers would want to  reject the book. Finally I want to mention another book which I used as a  first tutorial, Just XML by John Simpson. It's the best written of the  three, although a little bizzare humor sometimes. It was written in late  1998 so some things may not be up-to-date (however simpson does a good job  of emphasizing the things that weren't likely to change). This would be a  good book for people starting, or if the book were bought at a discount. It  would also be good when simpson publishes the second edition (later this  year).	2000-07-14
US	52743265	R1D09XK4JWIYE1	1861003110	489887920	Professional XML	Books	5	43	50	N	Y	unsurpassed xml guide	I have bought several xml books and this one has educated me, taught me and interested me the most. There's no doubt the Wrox technical books are a match to the Oreilley in terms of readability and thoroughness. This book  is a little peculiar in that it is written by several people, each  contributing a separate chapter. As an introduction, it probably wouldn't  be too helpful (although that wouldn't be a problem for someone with a  programming background). The strengths of the book (at least what I've read  so far) is the discussion of sax v. dom, the section on business  applications on edi (really interesting for me), and the great reference  source in the back. Can you believe I have xeroxed the css list of command  options in the back--amazingly useful? The variety of writers give a fresh  perspective, which can be bad and good. With the exception of the first few  chapters, which give a good overview, the rest of the chapters are a  grabbag of subjects, including 4 case studies. These were very useful in  learning xml.  It also discussed WAP, which may or may not be useful,  depending on how much enthusiasm there is for that standard. For variety's  sake, I also bought, XML Unleashed, a bulky book with not as much  organization, but just a lot of code (unlike the professional xml book,  which really explained almost everything well). XML unleashed is helpful,  because its topics really don't overlap with professional xml. It discusses  SMIL, parsing xml with java  xml tools on the market, using asp with xml  and different subsets of xml (vml, and a variety of other specialized  languages specific to one discipline. Unleashed is good because it contains  discussions (albeit rather brief) of several different languages.  Professional XML sticks to explanations and analysis, a lot of microsoft  stuff (but not asp, and not too much stuff that linux lovers would want to  reject the book. Finally I want to mention another book which I used as a  first tutorial, Just XML by John Simpson. It's the best written of the  three, although a little bizzare humor sometimes. It was written in late  1998 so some things may not be up-to-date (however simpson does a good job  of emphasizing the things that weren't likely to change). This would be a  good book for people starting, or if the book were available used. It would  also be good when simpson publishes the second edition (later this year).st XML by John Simpson. It's the best written of the  three, although a little bizzare humor sometimes. It was written in late  1998 so some things may not be up-to-date (however simpson does a good job  of emphasizing the things that weren't likely to change). This would be a  good book for people starting, or if the book were available used. It would  also be good when simpson publishes the second edition (later this year).	2000-07-14
US	52743265	RYTCXPL6JDX21	0394716523	616352773	Roll, Jordan, Roll: The World the Slaves Made	Books	5	25	33	N	N	milestone cultural history book--a fascinating discussion !!	This was one of the most interesting books I have read in history (up  there with Darnton's The Great Cat Massacre). There is the tendency to view  blacks of slavery times as victims and victims only; this book conveys the  richness of the culture and more importantly their humanity; The chapters  on courtship rituals were extremely entertaining and fascinating. I haven't  read widely of the time period, but this ranks as the best of what I've  read so far.	2000-05-13
US	52743265	R3OK7LV8RY8LPH	9994683276	922896071	Men Confront Pornography	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Best analysis of men gender studies/adult films I'd seen	This is one of the most incredible critical anthologies I have read. The essays are sensitively chosen, and the variety of perspectives very refreshing. let me mention another book in that vein called the jaguar and  the anteater. This anthology changed my life	2000-05-12
US	52743265	R1NKCUUPR0VP53	155622673X	464582661	Learn Visio 2000	Books	3	46	47	N	Y	A little too basic for most users	I've just started reading this, so my comments are preliminary. The good parts about this book is that there is a lot of visual aids and a lot of logical steps for doing things. Plus, the author does a very good job of  setting up hands-on activities for for the user to do. However, my  complaint is that too much time spent explaining very basic functions that  most Windows or Office users would already know. How to save? how to change  the font? While not a bad book, potential buyers might consider looking at  the advanced book first or buying both books in combination. Otherwise,  this book is for people who really are starting fresh and might not well  experienced in Office either. Perhaps one of the problems is that visio is  extremely user-friendly (unlike other bloatware products! ), and a writer  is left with explaining the obvious. That is why it might be good to find a  book that explains the  more advanced functions.	2000-04-28
US	52743265	R1U8WSB5WIVNT6	1576104125	920444420	Network+ Exam Prep	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	excellent teaching tool--lots of hands on projects	A lot of the study guides are excellent, but this one is one of the best I've ever seen. As a teaching tool, it is great because it organizes the material very succintly and very clearly follows the comptia subjects on  the test. also, it tries to anticipate networking trends, especially  Windows 2000 (one has to guess that the book was written in very early  1999). The hardest part about this certification is that because it is not  vendor specific, an author is reluctant to get too specific about how to do  things on each individual platform. This book solves this problem by  presenting general information and then assigning &quot;hands-on  projects&quot; at the end of the chapter in the respective NOS. These  projects go over each specific steps for getting something done in a  particular NOS. That is a very good idea even if the reader doesn't have  access to the NOS. Perhaps these projects could be useful after taking the  test when you do encounter a new nos and are too cheap to buy other  books.This book is particularly nice because it gathers a lot of networking  information together in a single book and contrasts their implementation in  different os. Very useful after the test.  A lot of the examples are NT,  but it makes sense to do this from a market-share point of view. (I'm a  Unix/Linux dude, so I am actually interested in the NT-specific stuff). One  quirk that may or may not be good is that the authors put the answers to  the chapter test on CD. That is good because it frees more pages of the  book up to discussion of material. (sometimes these exam prep books seem to  spend 20% of their pages just giving answers). On the other hand, it is a  pain to refer to the answers on the CD. In short, this is a very  well-written and informative book, both from a technical and pedagogical  point of view.	2000-01-04
US	52743265	RNSPZBUUJUDKN	1861003021	155480207	Professional Apache	Books	4	49	50	N	N	so far, an excellent book!	I compared the three Apache books out there, and thought this (Professional apache) was the most up-to-date and easiest to understand. I'm relatively new to programming, so I haven't gotten into the nuts and  bolts of this, but what I've read so far is very helpful. It includes stuff  on PHP and maybe a little XML too. Apache Server Bible was good too, but  this one seemed to cover more material and was much easier to understand.	1999-12-26
US	52743265	R1ASF57VTDZYMN	0764532189	309688557	Apache Server Bible (Bible (Wiley))	Books	3	13	15	N	N	this book is good, but there are better books	I've read about 3/4 of this book and found it easy to understand and helpful. But I wanted to mention another book, Professional Apache (Wrox, September 1999), which for some reason, doesn't show up on any amazon  searches. I'm relatively new to programming, so I'm not able to evaluate  all the details of Professional apache, but it is more up-to-date and (in  my mind) easier to understand. And very comprehensive.	1999-12-26
US	52743265	R1RQJ785D2PDKB	0139434178	924148414	Just Xml	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Very clear rundown of XML written in an unconventional way	I bought this book in July 1999 after comparing it to many others on the market and reading Amazon comments like this one. This book has many virtues and many shortcomings. John Simpson is an entertaining writer, and  one gets the sense he is just as fascinated by the content of his example  XML document (B films) as XML programming itself. The book explains things  extraordinarily well, although from the first 75 pages one might think that  Simpson is perhaps simplifying too much (after all, most of his readers  probably have a good foundation already in HTML to pick up this book). The  other Amazon comments by professional programmers criticize the book for  not being a good reference guide, for not describing enough detail and for  getting sidetracked by miscellaneous non-programming related topics.  These  complaints are valid to an extent, but they miss the point. This is a good  book for an introduction to the basic commands and some of the advanced  ones. It's to be assumed that after reading this kind of book, the reader  could find additional reference material from XML Bible or the W3 website.<br />I thought the main example used throughout the book really explained the  concepts well, and I appreciate how carefully the author tried to discuss  topics that might be subject to revision by future W3 recommendations. I  also appreciate how the author, anticipating possible exasperation with his  film digressions, boxed them in, so they could be easily skipped over in  reading (heck, I might even read them later). I have two major complaints.  First, it's unfortunate that the book is not connected to a supplemental  website with XML updates, corrections, code and tutorials. I am reading,  Joe Burns' &quot;JavaScript Goodies,&quot;.  It contains problems,  exercises and answers from the book. Perhaps future editions might be  encouraged to emphasized the tutorial aspect more so than the reference  guide aspect. Another &quot;complaint&quot; is that the book is shorter  than it is. Although 376 pages, the first 40 or 50 pages were overview,  every chapter had its own glossary, there were several half-blank pages at  ends of chapters and some of the discussions of XML development tools seem  to be outdated by now. (These might be better addressed on an accompanying  web page). So what you're getting in reality is 225-250 of excellent  explanation. Definitely well worth the money.s shorter  than it is. Although 376 pages, the first 40 or 50 pages were overview,  every chapter had its own glossary, there were several half-blank pages at  ends of chapters and some of the discussions of XML development tools seem  to be outdated by now. (These might be better addressed on an accompanying  web page). So what you're getting in reality is 225-250 of excellent  explanation. Definitely well worth the money.	1999-10-13
US	52743265	R22315Y3P0D5ZS	0886823587	485911341	The Alligators (Creative Short Stories)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	unusual and exciting and absorbing John Updike novel	I like this book very much. It helped me to understand the other works and outlook on John Updike. His style of writing is not complicated for foreign readers, and here in Ukraine, this novel is very popular	1998-06-17
