US	52744157	R3BGOOP37V299V	0312199368	459610148	The Next Step in the Dance: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	One-sided Love Story and Adventure	Tim Gautreaux's first novel is a good one.  \\"The Next Step in the Dance\\" is a fairly engaging love story set in Southern Louisiana, Los Angeles, and Southern Louisiana (again).  The writing is first rate and the glimpse into Bayou Country life is entertaining, moving, and informing.  This novel is at times poignant, humorous, and riveting and each phase well-developed.<br />Essentially a story about the love between two lifelong residents of the Bayou--Paul and Colette Thibodeaux--this is a novel of several phases.  The early part of the novel details the nascent marriage of Paul and Colette and its unraveling.  From the beginning, there's an obvious gulf in Paul and Colette's relationship.  Paul is a satisfied, unambitious machinist (and a darn good one) who likes to drink, stay out late dancing, and occasionally fighting with other patrons of the town's many nightspots.  Colette is the town's best looking woman and full of ambition.  She's a driven, hardworking, independent woman, and when Paul is caught at the drive in with another woman, she decides to make a change.  Paul's love for Colette is true and in spite of appearances, he's committed and faithful, although he tends to make some unintelligent decisions.  But that's not enough for Colette.  She wants more stability, more attention, and more things (i.e., money).  And here lies the only real complaint I have with this otherwise terrific novel--Colette's character is either not properly developed or she really is the self-centered, ambitious woman Gautreaux has portrayed (more on this later).  The first phase of the novel ends here with Colette taking a train to California to follow her dream (and ambitions).<br />Colette lands on her feet in California and finds a very good job at a bank (albeit surrounded by a lecherous boss) where she seems somewhat content and rarely thinks about Paul or the life she's left behind.  Eventually Paul follows her to California where he, too, finds a decent job and they live in separate apartments three blocks apart from one another.  One thing leads to another and eventually they both head back to Louisianna (at different times) and find that a poor economy has essentially eliminated all the jobs in town.    Thus begins the final and most entertaining, moving, and adventuresome part of the novel.<br />The author describes the struggles facing the town and Paul and Colette in moving detail and describes the lengths each is willing to go to in order to make ends meet.  Their relationship remains unreconciled, but they do interact and Paul's unrelenting, unconditional, (and to my mind, unwarranted) love for Colette persists.  Each face many challenges through this rapidly paced last part of the novel and their feelings for each other are central to the action--and there's plenty of action, both on the water, in the town, and in the plant where Paul and Colette work for a man Colette dated prior to heading to California.  We continue to learn more about each character and feel sympathy for Paul and his struggles.  However, Colette is very difficult to sympathize with and Paul's obdurate affection for this seemingly self-centered woman does grow old at times.  <br />Nevertheless, the novel is moving and surprisingly fast-paced. And overall, highly recommended.  A good first novel from a great short story writer.  Recommended.	2003-02-24
US	52744157	ROKKD7W1OWHRB	0312268041	16024868	Islands of Silence: A Novel	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Silence Can Be Lovely	Martin Booth's &quot;Islands of Silence&quot; is a very good read and an interesting love story.  This novel tells the story of Alec Marquard, an aged, self-imposed mute and veteran of WWI who's winding down his days in a mental institution.  It's told in first person narrative (with Alec as narrator) with chapters alternating between the present and past.  Booth's writing is vivid and his pace perfect for the story as Alec's condition and the mystery of what caused it are patiently revealed through Alec's memories and thoughts.<br />The story begins in a mental ward where Alec has been a patient for a very long time.  He's in possession of his faculties, but has eschewed speech for many years and as the story progresses the reader begins to understand Alec's motivation for this silence.  We're given glimpses of his childhood and the memory-portion of the story really takes off when Alec puts his archaelogical degree to work investigating brochs off the Scottish coast.  When researching ruins on an island off the coast, he sees a beautiful and mysterious young woman (note: I would not characterize her as otherworldly, she is very much human flesh) who is incapable of speech--although she is able to make sounds.  Alec is mesmerized and eventually is able to meet and spend some time with her in an almost intimate setting.  She allows him to make sketchings of her and there's even some minor physical contact.  In spite of her inability to speak any language, she and Alec communicate during their brief time together and Alec either falls in love with her or becomes infatuated (the reader can be the judge).  I found this part of the novel a bit of a stretch, but Alec is young at the time and the woman is very beautiful, so who knows?  It is about this time that WWI is starting to heat up and pacifist Alec is incarcerated for his refusal to serve in the military (his military step-father is behind the charges) and taken from the coast and his incipient romance.<br />After multiple beatings and several months in prison, Alec is offered a release if he's willing to serve in the miltary with the medical corps.  This section of the book is particularly riveting and revealing.  Booth's depiction of the March 1915 naval assault on Dardennelles, Gallipoli is so well-rendered that the reader is almost transported to the beach (much like the opening scene on Normandy in the film 'Saving Private Ryan') and the horrible scenes and thoughts that follow.  Alec shares his thoughts prior, during, and immediately after the assault and Booth provides the reader little chance to catch his or her breath.  It's gripping stuff and brings the book much closer to its conclusion.<br />All in all, the writing is wonderully vivid and the alternating past/present chapters works very well in the context of the novel.  I found the love story to be central to the story, but also a little difficult to buy into.  I particularly enjoyed the war writing and the present day musings of Alec and how the author tied everything together.  Part mystery, part war-novel, and major part love story, this is a very good read and one that's recommended.er multiple beatings and several months in prison, Alec is offered a release if he's willing to serve in the miltary with the medical corps.  This section of the book is particularly riveting and revealing.  Booth's depiction of the March 1915 naval assault on Dardennelles, Gallipoli is so well-rendered that the reader is almost transported to the beach (much like the opening scene on Normandy in the film 'Saving Private Ryan') and the horrible scenes and thoughts that follow.  Alec shares his thoughts prior, during, and immediately after the assault and Booth provides the reader little chance to catch his or her breath.  It's gripping stuff and brings the book much closer to its conclusion.<br />All in all, the writing is wonderully vivid and the alternating past/present chapters works very well in the context of the novel.  I found the love story to be central to the story, but also a little difficult to buy into.  I particularly enjoyed the war writing and the present day musings of Alec and how the author tied everything together.  Part mystery, part war-novel, and major part love story, this is a very good read and one that's recommended.	2003-02-16
US	52744157	R228UX903LEVRB	0393033996	779227339	The Describer's Dictionary: A Treasury of Terms and Literary Quotations for Readers& Writers	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A Terrific Dictionary and Great Review of Skilled Writing	Gramb's Describer's Dictionary is one of the finest books written about the written word.  It's a dictionary, but it is much more than that.  It's important to note the subtitle of this book (A Treasury of Terms and Literary Quotations for Readers and Writers) because this subtitle gets to the heart of what makes this book so special.<br />To begin, this dictionary/book lists over 2,000 useful words for describing things, animals, and people to include the following subgroups: shapes, patterns, surface and textures, size, position, relation, proportion, emblems, symbols, light, colors, building structures, terrain and landscape, climate, clouds, species adjectives (e.g., bovine and many many more), types, technical terminology, perceived attractiveness, body types, face, heads, hair, eyes, noses, ears, mouths, lips, teeth, skin coloring, hand, fingers, legs, knees, feet, jaws, walk, voices, necks, mannerisms, general appearance, and more.  In other words, this dictionary will help reader, writer, and observer to economically and accurately identify his (or her) surroundings.<BR>Just one look at the pages of this book should be enough to hook those who enjoy the art of description.<br />There are some great words in this book (some common, but many underused useful words are listed as well--even the most well-versed will find hundreds of gems in this book), but what really makes this book essential for those interested in accurately (and beautifully) describing their surroundings is Gramb's inclusion of passages from great literature.  This gives the reader a real sense for how powerful (and beautiful) words are.  Authors on display include Carver, Twain, Cummings, Updike, Baldwin, Percy, Dickens, Melville, Hawthorne, Woolf, Faulkner, Joyce, Orwell, Nabokov, and many more.<br />Those interested in words, description, and great writing will love this book.  I cannot recommend it highly enough.	2002-03-24
US	52744157	R1TQAVEPOVL1PX	0817311246	49258439	It Wasn't All Dancing and Other Stories (Deep South Books)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Eleven Beautiful Stories About Love, Life, and Death	Mary Ward Brown's second collection of stories is a terrific read.  These 11 stories (ten set in Alabama, one in Russia) are heartwarming, thought provoking, and very human (not to mention well written). They run the emotional gamut that can cover a lifetime and in each there's a sense that something more important than life itself is at stake (often this reminder comes in the form of death or thoughts about mortality).<br />The stories in this collection take up 142 pages (the longest is only 18 pages long) and for the most part stand alone (as opposed to being fragments of longer stories).  These are essentially Southern stories told by a great Southern writer and there's not a dud in the mix.<br />\\"It Wasn't All Dancing\\" examines the relationship between an aged Southerner and her black nurse.  As with many of the stories in this collection, the relationship (and its impact on the main characters) is the focus.<br />\\"Once in a Lifetime\\" is a love story on several levels--a mother's love for her young-adult daughter and her newly found love for the former high school hot shot.  <br />\\"A New Life\\" is perhaps the weakest story in the batch and centers on an encounter between a recently widowed woman and a group of well-intentioned Christians who become interested in her fate. <br />\\"No Sound in the Night\\" is a moving story about a learning disabled adult-child and his love for his hardworking female boss.<br />\\"The Birthday Cake\\" is another story about deep friendships, love, choices, and consequences.<br />\\"Swing Low: A Memoir\\", perhaps the best story in this collection, is a moving account of the deep friendship that develops between an aged wealthy woman and one of her family's hired hands.<br />\\"Alone in a Foreign Country\\" is a brief tale about a young woman's overnight adventure/scare in a foreign country.<br />\\"The House the Asa Built\\" recounts how a strong marriage can have problems and how the husband and wife in this short story deal with them.<br />\\"The Parlor Tumblers\\" is about a grandfather's difficulty in getting reacquainted with his grandson after three years apart.  It's also about the grandfather's regrets and his relationship with his son.  And some pretty cool pigeons.<br />\\"A Good Heart\\" details the relationship between two neighbors from different social stratas and the effect of their tentative friendship on each.<br />Lastly, \\"A Meeting on the Road\\" provides a very short glimpse into what it would be like to be a minority in a small town--from both the black and white perspectives.<br />All of these stories are concise and each allows for some personal reflection upon completion.  They're short stories, but they stick with you.  This is a terrific collection of stories.  Very Highly Recommended.	2002-02-21
US	52744157	R20YAFNBRMH7A4	0375701907	635714194	Straight Man: A Novel	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Very Very Funny	Richard Russo's &quot;Straight Man&quot; is one of the most amusing novels I have read.  &quot;Straight Man&quot; tells the story of English Professor (and Department Chair) William Henry &quot;Hank&quot; Devereaux, Jr. and his foray into a midlife crisis.  His surrounding cast (to include his wife, fellow professors, university officials, television reporters, grown daughter, son-in-law, and various women he's half-in-love with) provides more than enough fodder for thought and laughter.<br />The book is told in first person narrative by Hank and the reader is offered quite a glimpse into his mental state as well his thoughts on life in general.  Often comical and plainly human, Hank's experiences over one school year at a Pennsylvania college poignantly deal with issues of marriage, health, employment stress, family problems, relationships (both good and bad), and life in an English department.  By the end of the novel you will know Hank well and very likely have laughed out loud on more than a few occasions.  This is a terrific novel.<BR>Very Highly Recommended.	2002-02-17
US	52744157	R3BGCXO9N4U9UY	0385502176	807837227	Open Secrets: A Spiritual Journey Through a Country Church	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Good Read but More About the Congregation than the Pastor	Richard Lischer's &quot;Open Secrets&quot; is a charming book detailing his three years as a pastor of a small Lutheran church in New Cana, Illinois.  This was Lischer's first assignment as a pastor fresh from divinity school (he's now a teacher at Duke's Divinity School) and contains many candid, poignant looks at his experience.<br />Lischer writes eloquently and honestly about his experiences in divinity school (very little of the book is spent on those experiences, and this is unfortunate because what glimpses we do get are both humorous and insightful) and his time learning how to be an effective pastor at a small church in a rural midwest town.  He's honest in his approach as he portrays his feelings of nervousness, disappointment in his assignment, and his occasionally blunt/occasionally amusing opinions of those who make up this congregation.  He discusses baptisms, visits to hospitals, talks with confused church members, wooing new potential members, funerals, and the interesting interpersonal relationships that develop between a pastor's family and the congregation.<br />Overall this is an enjoyable, quick read, but I feel it could have been far more interesting if the author had spent some more time discussing his ministry (and his approach to it) and less time on the personal stories of those in the congregation.  Nevertheless, a worthwhile read if not a typical glimpse into beginning life as a pastor in a small midwestern town.  Recommended.	2002-02-17
US	52744157	R2EMODZK5IAMYB	0803272200	290185198	The Southpaw	Books	4	20	21	N	Y	A Great Book on Baseball and Life	Mark Harris' first installment in the Henry Wiggen series (there are four books total) is one of the finest baseball novels written.  &quot;The Southpaw&quot; is the story of left-handed pitching phenom Henry Wiggen and his early career as a professional baseball star.<br />The novel is told in the form of Henry Wiggen's diary and the writing does take some getting used to as Henry's prose isn't particularly high caliber.  It is, however, very real and its simplicity adds to the novel's sense of realism.  Henry begins by talking about his father's (also a pitcher) career and then proceeds to discuss (briefly) his own high school career, his brief minor league career, and finally (in much more detail) his first season as a major leaguer.  <br />The novel takes place in the early 1950s and as you read Henry's account you will be transported back in time to when ball players' contracts were in the $1K range and pitchers pitched 16-inning ball games and pitched on two-days rest.  It's a great baseball book in that it gives some insight into the art of pitching and being a ballplayer in general, but it's much more than that.  And those without an extensive knowledge of the wonderful game of baseball won't be lost or confused in reading it (it's not overly technical).  Henry's essentially a young adult (early twenties at the end of the novel) and his growth experiences are listed (by Henry) right alongside his baseball experiences.  &quot;The Southpaw&quot; is a fascinating read and provides a nice glimpse into baseball life (and life in general) in early 1950s America.<br />A great book and highly recommended reading--particularly for fans of baseball.	2002-02-17
US	52744157	R13IDVX3C6NNX0	1569470790	477345741	Death of a Hawker (Amsterdam Cops)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Return to Form	\\"Death of a Hawker\\" is the fourth book in Van de Wetering's Amsterdam Cop Series and is a return to top form after the somewhat disappointing second and third volumes (the first, \\"Outsider in Amsterdam\\" is magnificient, and the proper place to start reading this excellent mystery series).  <br />Amusing, ruminating Amsterdam cops Detective Grijpstra and Sergeant de Gier are as much a part of the story as the mystery itself (this is typical of this series, although the detectives' observations were less a focus of the second and third books).  In this mystery, Amsterdam's market square is beset by protests and riots over government-forced construction.  Meanwhile, a wealthy hawker (an individual who sells items for profit in the market) is murdered in his apartment.  The man's roommate is upstairs and his beautiful sister downstairs (it's a three room flat) and both claim to have heard nothing unusual, nor did they see anyone enter or exit the flat.  Cops outside the flat (for riot protection) noticed nothing unusual either.  Nevertheless, the victim's face has been smashed in by a heavy object.  The question is: who did the smashing, how, and why?<br />Naturally, Grijpstra and de Gier are put in charge of the case and along with the aged Commissaris (their boss) they unravel the mystery.  Along the way, they interview prostitutes, hawkers, importers, bar maids, attend a raucous party, and even fall in love (de Gier).  The dialogue is amusing and insightful and the solution of the mystery is fairly clever (although not too complicated).  This book is more similar to the first book in the series in that suspect interviews are more confrontational and Grijpstra and de Gier spend a lot of time offering their views (and complaints) on life.<br />Overall, a quick read--both humorous and mysterious.  Highly Recommended.	2002-01-29
US	52744157	R2872EHGRKYXRK	0345410246	754283812	Iowa Baseball Confederacy	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Too Fantastic	W.P. Kinsella's &quot;The Iowa Baseball Confederacy&quot; is about a lot of things: obsession, love, time travel, fantasy, and baseball.  As is typical of most of Kinsella's fine stories and novels, baseball is the center piece to the story, but there's much more going on than a baseball game.  And often, a lot of what's going on requires quite an imagination--maybe too much suspension of belief.<br />That's certainly the case with this novel.  The story follows the obsession of Gideon Clarke (a white-haired, blue-eyed wealthy son of a man with the same obsession) in 1978 Iowa.  Gideon is convinced (and obsessed with proving) there was a baseball league in the early 1900s called the Iowa Baseball Confederacy and that this league's all stars played a mammoth game in 1908 against the Chicago Cubs (eventual World Series champions).  This belief was passed to Gideon by his father (who seemed to be instilled with his obsession after being struck by lightning) and there is no record of this game (or the league for that matter) and seemingly no one alive who has any recollection of the game or the league.  Gideon spends years and much effort trying to get to the bottom of this with no success.<br />Along the way, we read about his relationship with his itinerant wife, Sunny as well as his dealings with others in the town of Onamata (formerly Big Inning).  Flowers sing to him, his mother and sister abandon him (not in that order), his father is struck by a line drive, his best friend Stan shares big league dreams, and most people think Gideon is eccentric.  And then, through a &quot;crack in time&quot;, Gideon and Stan are transported to 1908 on the eve of the big game.<br />The story really picks up from this point and becomes more fantastic (er, unrealistic) with each inning played.  There is (was) in fact an Iowa Baseball Confederacy and a game is (was) played against the Chicago Cubs.  And Kinsella takes the reader for a heckuva ride.  The teams play for 40 days and a total of over 2,600 innings (they take breaks for meals and darkness).  Along the way, Gideon meets a 15-foot tall Indian, fly balls soar over the horizon, players leave the field to jump in raging flood waters (most of the game was played in rain, rain which eventually leads to a flood), mascots bat, starting pitchers never tire, Gideon meets (and falls in love with) a farmer's daughter, Stan continues to dream of the big leagues, and many other unbelievable things take place.  All the while, we learn more about Gideon and those around him (both in 1908 and 1978) and ultimately the mystery as to who finally wins the game (and how).<br />This novel is a story of a ridiculously long baseball game, but even more, it's a novel of one man's quest and the resolution he makes regarding life (both past and present).  It's well told, a quick read, and if you can accept the fantastic aspects to the baseball game and the events surrounding it, an enjoyable adventure.  If you're looking for a realistic baseball tale, this is not it.  On the other hand, if you've enjoyed Kinsella's other novels or short stories, you will definitely enjoy this one.  Recommended.	2001-12-24
US	52744157	RCFFOWCJVZ8EJ	0684801469	11530247	A Farewell To Arms	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Boring Dialogue but a Good Story	Hemingway's &quot;A Farewell to Arms&quot; is one of 20th Century literature's most heralded books. Essentially a story about love in the midst of war, this novel tells the story of an American (Lt. Fred Henry) fighting for (and in) Italy in WWI and his romantic relationship with English nurse, Catherine Barkley. Henry meets Catherine through his roommate and the romance begins rather quickly. The story follows this romance and is interspersed with carefully wrought (albeit brief) descriptions of battles, Henry's injury, his hospital stay, return to the front, retreat and desertion, and the standard Hemingway (i.e., miserable) ending.<br />Hemingway's scenic descriptions are as good as they get and the battlefield is vividly brought to life throughout the story. The major failing in this book is the dialogue and character development (this complaint is nothing new to Hemingway's work, but is most evident in this novel). Aside from some physical descriptions, little is known about what is inside the major characters in this novel (and even less about the surrounding cast--but make no mistake, this is a novel about Henry and Catherine). Psychological development is essentially non-existent. In other words, it is tough to figure out what makes these main characters act the way they act. The romance blossoms almost instantly and major decisions are often made with little indication to the thought process that led to them. Henry and Barkley aren't unlikeable, just difficult to get to know.<br />Perhaps more of a complaint rests with the stilted, brief dialogue (almost all conversation is of the one-sentence variety). Clipped conversation rules the day and again, reveals very little about the characters doing the talking. And this takes away from what is a very engaging story.<br />All in all, a good (and fairly quick) read, but not as emotionally powerful as it could have been and somewhat short on interesting dialogue. Recommended reading.	2001-12-20
US	52744157	R2QT8DZHH2GGJH	0375724931	794119090	The Bridegroom: Stories	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fine Stories and Good Insight into Life in Communist China	In this collection of twelve short stories (&quot;The Bridegroom&quot;), Ha Jin manages to portray a deep sense of what life is like in general, and perhaps more interestingly, what life's like in Communist China.  Like his brilliant novel &quot;Waiting&quot;, these stories are set in modern day Muji City, China.  These stories provide more than mere insight into Chinese living, they speak to the human condition.<br />More than a few are about revenge and what leads humans to enact it (the brilliant &quot;Saboteur&quot; about a man who's imprisoned for speaking out against the police, the curious &quot;In the Kindergarten&quot; about a little girl's method of dealing with unfairness, and the closing &quot;After Cowboy Chicken Came to Town&quot; about employees of an Americanized chicken restaurant and their quest for a (misplaced) sense of justice).  Others leave the reader with the sense that the protagonists got what they deserved and mostly deal with relationships (&quot;Flame&quot; tells the story of a longtime flame's promise of revenge and a woman's desire to see him again, &quot;Broken&quot; is a curious tale about an employee's fascination with a former co-worker reassigned for lascivious behavior, and &quot;The Woman from New York&quot; is commentary about what happens when a mother leaves a family and tries to return four years later).  A personal favorite, &quot;An Official Reply&quot; is a well-told commentary on intellectuals and trustworthiness.  All in all, a fine collection of stories that allows the reader to vicariously experience an unfamiliar culture (for those not living in China).  Highly recommended.	2001-12-13
US	52744157	R1EI6QAMS24CGG	0375702687	2416146	Spartina	Books	3	9	19	N	N	Potentially Brilliant, but Falls Short	John Casey's modern novel of the sea is a good read with some interesting characters and situations (including what could have been an exciting tale about survival in the midst of a strong hurricane).  The primary character of focus is Dick Pierce, a struggling fisherman, husband, father of two, and a man attempting to build his dream boat (and hence a means to a better future).  &quot;Spartina&quot; is the story of Dick Pierce, his boat, and the moral dilemmas he finds himself facing while trying to make a better life for himself and his family.<br />Whether he succeeds or not is left for the reader to decide.  Pierce wants his own boat to captain and has been working on a 54-footer in his back yard for several seasons.  He's about $10,000 short of funds to finish his boat and must make some difficult decisions as to how to come up with these funds.  His wife is running out of patience (you can't blame her) and Pierce is struggling just to make a living as a commercial fisherman along the coast of Rhode Island.  As a result, he makes some dubious decisions including poaching crabs and running drugs.  These decisions seem thrust upon Pierce as if he had little say in the matters.  And that's one of the failings in this book--the moral dilemmas are glossed over with an aura of inevitability.  You get the impression Dick Pierce is a good man in bad circumstances, and these circumstances continue to present themselves.<br />Along the way, Dick has an affair with a much younger woman, the scheming and patently unredeeming Elsie.  This affair fills the center of the novel and reveals more about Elsie than Pierce or his relationship with his family.  Naturally, Pierce continues to make misstep after misstep, but ultimately is able to finish his boat after borrowing the necessary cash.  As luck would have it, a strong hurricane approaches the Rhode Island coast just as his boat (the Spartina of the novels title) is christened (and still not yet insured).  In yet another curious decision, Pierce (again seemingly with little control over the decisions he makes) takes the boat out to sea in an effort to get out the hurricane's path.  This scene could have been one of great action, interest, and soul searching (he is, afterall, torn between two women and potentially about to lose his boat/life's savings), but is rather short-lived.  Casey really lost an opportunity to bring some excitement and meaning to this somewhat predictable story by shortchanging the storm at sea portion of the story.  It's a minor quibble, but one that left this reader dissatisfied.  <br />Pierce faces several unresolved problems back on shore and the book concludes fairly rapidly once the Spartina is cast to the sea leaving the reader a little unsure what to make of Pierce's choices or the results of those choices.  Overall, a book with a lot of promise and missed opportunities.  Worth reading, but don't expect to be enthralled or enlightened.	2001-12-11
US	52744157	RYM4Z0IVDRTJ3	0316769495	551899474	Franny and Zooey	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Salinger's Best Book!!!!!!	J.D. Salinger's brilliant &quot;Franny and Zooey&quot; is essentially a novella about a woman's quest for spiritual perfection.  This book, approximately 200 pages in length, contains two sections (more like two fairly long chapters--the second much longer than the first) detailing Franny Glass' efforts to reach a higher spirtual plane, her subsequent breakdown, and her brother Zooey (Zachary) Glass' attempts to pull her out of her swoon.<br />Part one, appropriately titled &quot;Franny&quot; begins with Franny's breakdown in a highscale restaurant with her literary-student boyfriend.  The story unravels slowly (much like Franny) as details of what's causing the change in Franny are revealed.  After reading about an itinerant Russian peasant's quest for ultimate spirituality (in two books from older brother Seymour's library) through incessant repetition of the Jesus Prayer (a reference to 1Th 5:17), Franny sets out to do the same with a concerted effort to continually mutter the prayer herself.  Franny spends the meal railing against the desires and cravings of the well-to-do around her and has by all appearances undergone a drastic change of personality which ultimately results in her breakdown.<br />Part two, titled &quot;Zooey&quot; picks up where part one lets off (for the most part).  Franny returns home to the Glass house where she promptly refuses to eat and spends most of her time sleeping on the living room couch.  This section of the novel (perhaps the most delightful 150 pages I have ever read) deals with Zooey's efforts to bring Franny back to reality.  What makes this such a great book (aside from Salinger's way with words) is the dialogue between the various characters (only Franny, Zooey, and their mother, Bessie Glass make an appearance in part two).  &quot;Zooey&quot; starts out with an amusing scene in Zooey's bathroom with an extremely amusing discussion between Zooey and Bessie regarding Franny's condition.  Bessie urges Zooey to do something about it and ultimately Zooey agrees to talk to her.  And talk to her he does.  The dialogue between Zooey and Franny is equally engaging although instead of humor, it's tinged with an overt spirituality and love.  Powerful and rapidly achieved, the conclusion to this story is simply beautiful.  There's nothing more to say.<br />A terrific book on many levels--a true classic every bit the equal of &quot;Catcher in the Rye&quot; or &quot;Nine Stories&quot;--and not to be missed.  Very highly recommended.	2001-12-07
US	52744157	R3IISPS5H76ET4	0679754059	922717492	The Winshaw Legacy: or, What a Carve Up!	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A Multi-layered Tale About Greed and One Heckuva Mystery	Jonathan Coe's &quot;The Winshaw Legacy&quot; is a multifaceted, occasionally humorous, often touching, and insightful tale about greed and its consequences.  It's also a love story and several mysteries skillfully wrapped into one cohesive novel.  Somewhat farcical and rather black in the humor department, this excellent novel tells the story of three (focusing on the last two) generations of Winshaws--a prominent, wealthy, and well-connected Yorkshire family.<br />Coe divides his novel into two parts (after a brief prologue detailing two tragic events involving the Winshaws (one during WWII and the other in 1961--the novel essentially runs from 1940 to 1990 and is set in Yorkshire and London)).  Part One alternates between the engaging first person narrative of Michael Owen (a novelist who's lost inspiration and stopped communicating with humankind for 2-3 years, one of the intriguing mysteries in this novel) who has been tapped by Tabitha Winshaw (the only putatively insane family member to be committed) to write the Winshaw Memoirs and a third person narration detailing the lives of the third generation Winshaws.<br />Owen's narration is full of mystery and wonder.  Why has he essentially withdrawn from society the last three years?  What exactly does he have to do with the Winshaws?  How is it all going to end?  And what does a movie he saw as a child have to do with the Winshaws (you'll find out)?  As if all this isn't enough, Coe throws in a very touching encounter with one of Owen's neighbors (the well-drawn Fiona) who finally draws Owen out of his torpor.  This is engaging stuff, although not as humorous as expected.  <br />The chapters detailing the lives of third generation Winshaws are equally captivating.  Coe cleverly mixes real world events and personalities (Margaret Thatcher and Saddam Hussein for two) with the greedthristy Winshaws to detail the depraved nature of his powerful antagonists.  Whether it's politics, gossip, bio-agriculture, illegal arms dealing, or shady financial dealing, these six Winshaws are painted (in one instance, literally) in a rather unpleasant shade of greed and amorality.  And all the while hanging over these details is the mystery of the first two tragic events from the prologue (the death of one Winshaw in 1942 and the death of an intruder at Winshaw Towers in 1961).<br />Part Two of Coe's novel is a rollercoaster of a finish and provides the solution to the many mysteries that have evolved throughout the novel as well as a tragic, over-the-top conclusion.  Coe may have overstepped the bounds a little with the ending (there is a lot going on in this novel) as one mystery is unraveled after another and the events leading up to the novel's conclusion occur with headspinning rapidity.  <br />&quot;The Winshaw Legacy&quot; is an entertaining read and contains some terrific writing and commentary on greed and its consequences.  It's not as humorous as I expected and much more touching and trenchant than I would have guessed.  Overall, a worthy read and highly recommended.	2001-11-28
US	52744157	RXZUNTZTHRNW6	0679776532	557008872	Believers: A Novella and Stories	Books	4	1	2	N	N	5 Stars for the Novella, 4 for the Rest	Charles Baxter is a great storyteller and this collection of seven short stories and one novella is no exception.  For the most part, Baxter produces empathic characters and manages to transport the reader into the story with his clear and occasionally insightful prose.<BR>     This collection begins with &quot;Kiss Away&quot;, the story of a young woman looking for love who's granted three wishes by an unlikely genie in a bar (as opposed to a likely genie in a jar).  Not surprisingly, she doubts the barfly's veracity and is somewhat hasty with her wishes.  This is a curious story of love and relationships (past and present), and the reader is left without any real sense of conclusion.  Nevertheless, the story is a good start to this fine collection.<BR>     &quot;Reincarnation&quot; is next, and is the one story that could've been skipped.  It's the story of three annoying couples' incessant banter about death and reincarnation.  Few (if any) insights are proffered and the characters in this story could be reincarnated as mutes as far as this reader was concerned.  Fortunately, the collection redeems itself from this point.<BR>     &quot;The Next Building I Plan to Bomb&quot; is a story with no resolution about an unendearing bank employee's inner turmoil invoked by the discovery of a mysterious piece of paper.  Somewhat disturbing but well-rendered.<BR>     &quot;Time Exposure&quot; is a whirlwind of a story about a drunken confession and a neighbor's obsession and possible retaliation.<BR>     &quot;Saul and Patsy are in Labor&quot; provides a glimpse into a couples' struggle with the change parenthood brings into life and its implications.<BR>     &quot;Flood Show&quot; is a fascinating story of love on several levels and perhaps the best of the short stories in this collection.<BR>     &quot;Cures for Love&quot; documents the thoughts of a young woman recovering from a love gone bad and the role an old copy of Ovid's &quot;Remedia Amoris&quot; plays in her effort to move on with life.  Both humorous and insightful, this was a story that could've made the genesis of an interesting novel.<BR>     Lastly, this collection ends with the brilliant novella and title story, &quot;Believers&quot;.  This is the story of an ex-pastor's childhood, years in the priesthood, and life as a father to the narrator of this insightful story.  Reminiscent of some of the great Russian literature of the last century, this story brings the collection to a worthy conclusion.<BR>A good collection of stories with an excellent novella at the end.  Recommended.	2001-11-21
US	52744157	R2NI1KZI1O9JN8	0871137380	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	5	3	4	N	N	21st Century Ground Warfare -- An Instant Military Classic	Mark Bowden's Battle of Mogadishu narrative is as incisive and entertaining a military novel ever written.  &quot;Black Hawk Down&quot; is the non-fiction account of the U.S. military's protracted ground encounter with Somali soldiers and citizens on October 3, 1993 and is based largely on extensive interviews with participants on both sides as well as a thorough literature and document review (to include available radio transmissions).<br />This 400+ page, detailed account runs systematically and (reads) rapidly through the events of the afternoon of October 3rd and on through the evening's neverending firefight into the next morning.  Bowden begins with the daring daylight raid and abduction of two top-ranking officials of Somali warlord Mohamed Aided in the midst of Sunday's busy Mogadishu market.  Planned as a sixty-minute helicopter drop, grab and return-to-base, this mission (through various misfortunes and unforseen events)  quickly goes sour and Bowden takes the reader right into the action--inside the minds of those on the ground (and those in the helicopters above the city).  The pace quickens as first one, then another Black Hawk is shot from the sky by RPG-slinging Somalis.<br />Bowden manages to carefully detail the soldiers' moves and thoughts as they attempt to rescue their downed compatriots, extract their killed and wounded, and complete the mission.  In spite of the detail and the multiple points of view (the narration is told from the perspective of many of the participants (to include an occasional glimpse into the Somali viewpoint)), the story moves at breakneck speed to its inevitable, somewhat remarkable conclusion and the end of U.S. involvement in Somalia.<br />This story is an emotional, insightful, occasionally graphic (gory), honest, and ultimately thought-provoking tribute to the brave soldiers who fought in this battle.  Mark Bowden's &quot;Black Hawk Down&quot; reads like an enthralling combination of the best war fiction (for example,Michael Shaara's &quot;Killer Angels&quot;) with the greatest military memoirs (e.g., U.S. Grant's &quot;Personal Memoirs&quot;).  &quot;Black Hawk Down&quot; is engaging from start to finish and is one of the most intense books of any genre I have ever read.  Very Highly Recommended.	2001-11-05
US	52744157	R3FZKRURD0JT7S	0316473049	1677156	The Pugilist at Rest: Stories	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Mixed Bag But Worth Reading	Thom Jones' first collection of short stories is a good one.  Eleven stories are included in &quot;The Pugilist at Rest&quot; and they average about 20 pages per story.  The first three stories are brilliant Vietnam War stories (the best being the title story) on par with the best writing of this genre (see Tim O'Brien's &quot;The Things They Carried&quot; or Larry Brown's &quot;Dirty Work&quot; for example).  These stories are engaging and occasionally graphic and the writing of such quality that the reader is pulled into the story.  The remaining eight stories are relationship stories (lovers, friends, family) with the two most moving centered around debilitating illnesses (cancer and alcoholism).  &quot;I Want To Live&quot; is a powerful story about a woman's effort to survive cancer as she contemplates death and beyond(the narrator's agnostic viewpoint makes this story even more painful) and the collection closes with a boxer dealing with his trainer's alcoholism.  Many of these stories involve boxers (both those in the ring and those on leashes), epilepsy, alcohol, and philosophy.  This collection is thought-provoking and well-worth reading.  One of the better short story collections I have read.  Highly Recommended.	2001-10-30
US	52744157	R23B53ZUP4FPDM	0316803480	745099329	The Cliff Walk: A Memoir of a Job Lost and a Life Found	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Reads Like A Novel	Former English Professor Don J. Snyder's account of his dismissal from Colgate University and the somewhat indolent year he spent looking for similar employment take up the first 200 pages of this memoir.  The remaining 60 pages or so deal with his finally dealing with reality--the reality of actually getting on with life, supporting yourself, and supporting your family (Dr. Snyder was married with four children during the time these events took place).  <BR>The story is well-told and moves at a fairly rapid pace in spite of the fact that not a lot is going on.  The reader is provided many personal glimpses into Snyder's thought process, how he handled his dismissal (he was not picked up for tenure after three years and was allowed a final year of employment--during which he could have been more aggressively looking for a job; he was either overconfident, lazy, or in denial), how he finally gained some insights into what's important in life, and how he finally started working again.  This memoir is at times moving, comical, and aggravating.  Snyder is unflinchingly honest in telling his failings and how he dealt with unemployment.  He's very insightful and not afraid to share his feelings on a multitude of issues important to him (his idea of success, what it takes to be a good father and husband, what life is all about).  There's a layer of humor throughout the book (in the same sense that Richard Ford's Bascombe novels are humorous) and many of Snyder's observations about people and life (the section with his son at the golf course is an excellent example) are both on the money and amusing.  Of course, the author spends most of his time talking about how quickly his family is running out of money and how many rejection letters are arriving in the mail.  And this was a little aggravating--Snyder never seems to have a sense of urgency about finding employment (any employment!).  He casts all his hopes on finding another teaching job (I still don't know why he didn'ttry and find a job teaching high school English) and never considers (at least not as told in this memoir) temporary employment while looking for a teaching job.  His family, especially wife Colleen does a remarkable job standing by him and there are few indications of major confrontations.  This is surprising considering the social ladder the Snyders fell from and Don Snyder's inability (refusal) to find employment.  Nevertheless, he finally snaps out of it and is hired on with a crew building a mansion along the Maine coastline--hard work no doubt.  Snyder's story ends as he describes this labor, his future work as a housepainter, and concludes with a few more personal insights as to what is important in life.  Too bad it took him a year of sitting around to find out.<BR>Overall, a very well-told memoir and a quick, worthwhile read.<BR>Recommended.	2001-10-22
US	52744157	RMXKTJTJBQER9	0452278988	225427631	Love Warps the Mind a Little	Books	4	12	12	N	N	This Book is NOT Full of Joy	If you're looking for a book to lift your spirits and set your heart soaring, &quot;Love Warps the Mind A Little&quot; is not the book you're looking for.  Dufresne's novel tells the story of Laf Proulx, a man who has quit his regular job (he is an aspiring writer) and left his wife (or more accurately been thrown out for his indescretions with another woman).  More accurately, perhaps, this novel tells the moving story of the other woman -- Judi Dubey.  Not long after Laf moves in with Judi, she discovers she has Term IV cancer and the majority of the novel deals with the wrenching, painful reality of her disease and poignently describes how she (and to a lesser extent those around her) deals with the disease.<BR>This is a powerful novel with some lightness early on as Laf tries to figure out what to do with his life and whether or not he loves Judi or the wife he left (the only sure thing is his love for his dog Spot).  Once Judi's cancer is diagnosed the novel moves quickly and despondently toward its conclusion.  Judi's suffering through chemotherapy and desire to live are documented in such a way that the reader actually feels involved (albeit miserable) with the characters in this story (most of whom are fairly quirky).  There's some talk of life after death, reincarnation (Judi believes she's led several lives), hope for an afterlife and salvation, but the narrator (Laf is apparently an agnostic) offers little encouragement for these ideas thus adding to the weight of dread ensconcing the reader as this book lunges toward its end.  <BR>Overall, this is more a well told story of a woman's bout with cancer and those who surround her than a story about love and its trials.  It's not uplifting, but it is thought provoking and poignent.  Recommended.	2001-10-01
US	52744157	R2R9A5SFSGFYF	0385335555	718492514	Tell No One	Books	4	0	0	N	N	More Twists than a Box of Pretzels!!!	Harlan Coben's &quot;Tell No One&quot; is a terrific mystery-thriller--it's the story of a pediatrician for the indigent, Dr. David Beck, who's still trying to get on with his life after the apparent murder of his wife eight years ago. Beck and his wife had been best friends since they were seven years old and eventually (after going to separate colleges) get married. Eight short months after (and several important events occur in these eight short months...events the author reveals as the story progresses) they're wed, Beck is hit over the head with a bat, and his wife is taken and believed to be murdered by a notorious serial killer. If this all sounds far-fetched, it doesn't come off that way in the text. The novel moves rapidly as it is revealed (the author skips eight years) or made clear that perhaps Beck's wife is still alive. The reader is treated to many twists and turns and a slew of suspects and suspicious behavior as Beck attempts to make sense out of what happened eight years ago (and in the months prior) and whether or not he will be reunited with his wife, or tried for her murder.<BR>The only real complaint is the switching (and subsequent alternation) of the narrator about midway through the book. Initially told in the first person voice of Dr. Beck, for some reason (likely convenience as it doesn't really enhance the story at all) the author resorts to a third person narrator in order to reveal the actions of some of the other major characters in this mystery. The book would have been more powerful if the entire mystery and its solution had been told through Beck's character.<BR>Nevertheless: a rapid read (easy to finish in a weekend) and a heckuva thriller/mystery. Highly recommended.	2001-09-17
US	52744157	RZ94JEU9T3XGN	0385486804	674569455	Into the Wild	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Searching for Some Answers to the Big Question	Chris McCandless was a well-read, intelligent, sentient young man with a lot going for him. So why did he travel from Atlanta to Alaska with little more than rice and paperback? Mountaineer and journalist Jon Krakauer tries to answer this question in this book of little more than 200 pages of terse text buoyed by the author's personal opinions and somewhat supported by those whose path Alex (once taking flight Chris assumed the name Alex Supertramp -- the Alex apparently taken from a Tolstoy work and the Supertramp never explained) crossed.<br />The story is very compelling: Chris, clearly an individual who thinks (some would say) too much, sets off on his great adventure upon college graduation without much more than a word to his parents and sister (in fact, he never contacts his parents again). In an effort to remove the shackles of materialism, he gives all his savings (close to $25,000) to charity (ironically, a charity to prevent hunger) and heads west in his old yellow Datsun. He manages fairly well (and he had been prone to solo sojourns in the past) and eventually loses his car out west. He burns the rest of his money and relies on his feet and the kindness of strangers for travel. Almost two years of travelling and vagabond living later (he did maintain some employment including a brief stint at a fast food restaurant and farm work in South Dakota), Chris heads into the Alaskan Wilderness with his paperbacks, a rifle, a .22, some ammunition, a book on poisonous plants/berries, and some rice. An idealist searching for the meaning of life (and not the lack thereof), Chris was an avid reader of the ascetic Tolstoy, Jack London, Boris Pasternak, and Thoreau. Clearly, these thinkers influenced McCandless's thinking, fed his adventurous spirit and probably added more questions than answers to his desire to decipher what this life is all about. Unfortunately, we will never know what Chris' conclusions after four months in the wilderness were, although there are some clues in his brief, but poignent journal entries.<br />Krakauer does a decent job in the telling of the story, although the writing is somewhat clipped, tenses occasionally confusing, and the feel throughout is more that of a newspaper article than a literary work--and this for me is the major weakness in this book. Additionally, the author spends two chapters telling about his adventures (and several others talking about other seekers/adventurers) in an effort to elucidate some of McCandless's motivations. This wasted space could have been better served giving more details of Chris' background. Little is said about his childhood or teenage years. Krakauer includes some of Chris' writings and shares some of the highlighted passages in the many books Chris read, but I somehow feel there could have been a lot more--high school or college papers, more interviews with friends and family. The major failing in the telling of this fascinating story is there is too much conjecture and not enough fact. Admittedly, some of this could likely not be helped considering the solitary nature of McCandless, but I still feel there was/is more to be told.<BR>Nevertheless, I would recommend this book for the story itself. It is moving, heartbreaking, in some ways uplifting (see Chris' comments alongside Pasternak's prose from Zhivago toward the end of the book to see what I mean), and definitely worth the telling.	2001-09-11
US	52744157	R10N8VRS6ARY3Z	1569470189	493472848	Tumbleweed (Amsterdam Cops)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Grijpstra &amp; DeGier Series Book 2	Van de Wetering's Amsterdam detectives return in the second book of this terrific mystery series. An exotically beautiful hooker involved in witchcraft is killed with the literal knife in the back on her expensive houseboat. Grijpstra and DeGier are tasked with solving the murder.<BR>There are (of course) a multiple of high profile suspects (was it espionage, jealousy, rage, revenge?) most of whom have alibis. In this book (214 pages) we get to learn more about G &amp; D's boss, the commissaris who is an interesting character in his own right (although not nearly as cerebral or amusing as the detectives). He travels to Curacao (the birthplace of the dead prostitute) as well as a small northern island (Schiermonnikoog) where he meets up with an ill Grijpstra and DeGier as they try to solve this intriguing mystery.<BR>This novel is fast-paced like its predecessor (the terrific, &quot;Outsider in Amsterdam&quot;), but the dialogue is not as entertaining or thought provoking--perhaps because the reader gets to spend less time with Grijpstra and DeGier. Nevertheless, the characters are interesting, the mystery a good one, and the solution reached in good form. All in all, a very good read from one of the best mystery writers (and series) on the market. Recommended.	2001-09-05
US	52744157	RX2SYUI88YHNP	0375724427	253343732	The Stories of John Cheever	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Great Collection from One of the Masters of the Form	Sixty one stories are collected in these nearly 700 pages of short story brilliance. The majority of these stories average around ten pages and all reach some sort of conclusion--in other words, these tales don't appear to be part of some bigger story where the reader is left hanging. Each story stands well on its own.<BR>These well-told vignettes often end badly (for the characters, not the reader) but they give a timeless and perceptive glimpse into humanity. Particularly revealing (these stories were written between the late 1940s and early 1970s) under Cheever's trenchent pen are the lifestyles of Northeast America's affluent. Troubled relationships (parent-child, sibling, spousal, lovers, friends, etc.) are the focus of the majority of these tales and each sheds light on the behavior of mankind and the effect of choices made (both right and wrong). Most of these stories are set in wealthy suburbs or overseas where the characters are usually stocked with cash and often boozed to the hilt. As you might imagine, not all ends well.<BR>In short, these are some of the best short stories ever written, each revealing in its own way and told with beauty and grace by one of America's greatest writers. Highly Recommended.	2001-08-30
US	52744157	R258POY5YVW4QA	0684193833	418692542	Booked to Die:  A Mystery Introducing Cliff Janeway	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Great Mystery and Not Just for Bibliophiles	This mystery introduces Cliff Janeway, police detective turned antiquarian bookdealer.  Janeway is a likeable protagonist and a fairly good sleuth as well.  The book reads rather quickly, introduces believable characters, and contains quite a bit of biblio trivia.  Those interested in book collecting will find this book engaging for its discussion of the business as well as the storyline.  Others may also be interested in the discussion of the used book business (and book collecting in general), but anyone who reads this will enjoy the mystery and its solution.  Highly Recommended.	2001-08-21
US	52744157	R12GRECF3Y8BYF	0375752285	315326841	Personal Memoirs: Ulysses S. Grant (Modern Library War)	Books	5	83	86	N	N	Powerful and Moving	A must read for all Civil War buffs and those even remotely interested in history. The 600+ pages in this book (both volume I and II are included together) articulately spell out the military career of one of the United States' greatest generals. Grant's Memoirs are well-written, thoughtful, insightful, and offer more than a glimpse into the mind of U.S. Grant.<br />Volume I opens with a heartfelt preface where Grant explains how his diminishing health pushed him to complete this work and &quot;asking no favor but hoping (his remarks) will meet the approval of the reader.&quot; They most definitely do. Following the preface, the reader is given a (very) short review of his early childhood, life at West Point, and early Army life. The next one hundred pages are dedicated to the Mexican War followed by his resignation from the military and civilian life in Illinois. The remainder of Volume I and all of Volume II extensively deal with the War Between the States.<br />I found Volume I (written before Grant realized he was critically ill) to be rich in detail of the various military campaigns (perhaps too detailed) and his ascension through the military ranks, but it is somewhat lacking in personal observations and insights. It even drags at times--but stick with it. The patient reader will not be dissapointed. Volume II hurls the reader into the conflict, reads rapidly, and is rife with Grant's personal observations and insights.<br />This second volume picks up where the first left off--following Vicksburg to the campaigns in Tennessee to the Battle of the Wilderness to Sherman's March to the Sea to the Battle of Franklin right up to Appomattox and all the events of April and May 1865. These campaigns are told from the commanding general's perspective with great overview and detail. However, what really makes Volume II (and this volume is much more fast paced than the first) special are all the personal observations and insightful (rarely negative and always humble) comments about those Grant served with and against. Grant is thoughtful and displays much about himself as this great book draws to a close. An eloquently written, detailed, first-person account of the Civil War that offers much to those who read it.<br />I cannot recommend this book highly enough.	2001-08-11
US	52744157	RVPRWMOF3LOTP	0380727617	186128193	Who in Hell Is Wanda Fuca?	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Somewhat Disappointing	This novel introduces the occasionally amusing Seattle detective Leo Waterman and his posse of down-and-out assistants.  The book is a fairly quick read and the mystery is mildly engaging, but the characters are not all that believable and the dialogue is neither interesting nor (for the most part) amusing.  Those expecting an amusing mystery novel (see Hiassen instead) will likely be disappointed.  This book rarely elicited a chuckle and is often outright boring.  Not on par with John D. MacDonald's Travis McGee novels in either story or style, but similar in the overall feel as far as mystery novels go.  This book can be recommended if you're looking for a quick, easy read.  Otherwise, track down MacDonald, Hiassen, or van de Wetering.	2001-07-24
US	52744157	R1GJZFL9TUD8EM	1569470170	183959132	Outsider in Amsterdam (Grijpstra & de Gier Mysteries)	Books	5	41	43	N	N	A Great Start to a Great Series	A thoroughly engaging and well-written mystery.  The first in a series of mysteries pairing Amsterdam detectives Grijpstra &amp; DeGier, this novel enchants and hooks the reader from the very beginning.  The story is first class and will be enjoyed by lovers of the genre, but it's the interaction and dialogue between the two protagonists that makes this book such a gem.  At times philosophers and often humorous, these characters are a welcome addition to the readers' life and the good news is: there's more where this comes from.  Check it (them) out and you won't be disappointed.  Highly Recommended for those who enjoy mysteries and top-quality literature in general.	2001-07-24
