US	52748904	R1I2GX3DGBP50	0486605094	671161955	The History of the Calculus and Its Conceptual Development (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	3	39	53	N	Y	Fascinating material, questionable presentation	The first thing I noticed about this book is that it is written with an intellectually arrogant, indecipherable style which (I hope) would today prevent its being published at all.  Here is a paragraph, verbatim, from the introduction:<br />&quot;At this point it may not be undesirable to discuss these ideas, with reference both to the intuitions and speculations from which they were derived and to their final rigorous formulation.  This may serve to bring vividly to mind the precise character of the contemporary conceptions of the derivative and the integral, and thus to make unambiguously clear the &lt;I&gt;terminus ad quem&lt;/I&gt; of the whole development.&quot;<br />I admit that back in 1939, when this book was originally written, it was common for academics to express themselves in that sort of haughty, impenetrable prose.  But that doesn't make it any easier to read today, and it doesn't really provide those people with an excuse for having written that way.  Didn't it occur to them that their writing might be read by real human beings?  There are plenty of mathematical writers today who can write in real English without sacrificing rigor or depth.<br />Secondly, I recommend that everyone read the review by the reader from Phoenix (February 7, 2001).  In particular, I agree with the criticism that this book takes a backwards approach to the history of Calculus, interpreting each historical idea and contribution in terms of the way we think of those ideas today.  As Boyer certainly should have known, the proper way to relate the history of ideas is to place each idea in the context of its own time.  Instead, he writes this book as if each ancient mathematician had tried and failed to reach the level of understanding which we superior moderns are now gifted with.  I think it is important for a reader to read this book with this defect clearly in mind.<br />Having got those two criticisms off my chest, however, I have to admit that there is a wealth of interesting material in this book, and I don't know of any other place where it is all gathered together in one volume.  If you want a detailed, in-depth account of how mathematicians and philosophers (they used to be the same people!) eventually evolved the ideas and methods of calculus, then this book is probably the best place to find it.<br />(I just wish the publisher would hire someone to translate it into real English!)ing material in this book, and I don't know of any other place where it is all gathered together in one volume.  If you want a detailed, in-depth account of how mathematicians and philosophers (they used to be the same people!) eventually evolved the ideas and methods of calculus, then this book is probably the best place to find it.<br />(I just wish the publisher would hire someone to translate it into real English!)	2004-07-09
US	52748904	R30LBCR2H3TUJH	0380726289	380093282	Darkness, Take My Hand: A Novel (Patrick Kenzie/Angela Gennaro Novels)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Superb writing, disconcertingly violent	This is the third of Dennis Lehane's private eye books that I've read, and I continue to be blown away by the razor-sharp, uncompromising quality of his writing.  I usually prefer the &quot;cozy&quot;, non-violent whodunits over the &quot;hard boiled&quot; genre that Lehane has chosen, but when a writer can describe scenes and characters as well as Lehane does, that overrides any personal preferences of that sort.<br />The plot has been well-described by other reviews here on Amazon:  Patrick Kenzie and Angie Gennaro get involved with a case that begins with what seem to be only vague threats against a woman and her son, but which steadily escalates into a terrifying picture of violence, hatred, and revenge extending back in time for decades.<br />Among many other things that Lehane does better than other writers is that he sets up a truly plausible relationship between his private eye hero Kenzie and the police.  In most other private eye novels, the reader is always left wondering, &quot;Why doesn't the client go to the police?  Why is Joe Shmoe having to solve this mystery on his own?&quot;  But not with Lehane.<br />The only thing NOT plausible about the plot of this novel is the extreme degree of hate and violence.  And eventually I found the unrelieved viciousness a little bit hard to stomach.  Regular readers of hard-boiled crime novels may not bat an eyelash at all this violence and gratuitous cruelty, but be forewarned: this book could keep you awake at night.	2004-01-31
US	52748904	R1IFWKFXRHN33S	0440224047	597135386	Purple Cane Road (Dave Robicheaux)	Books	2	7	22	N	Y	Not competitive with the best	I don't know where all the laudatory reviews are coming from.  This book isn't particularly well written. Burke's writing is unmemorable, his similes and descriptions frequently lame.<br />The book isn't particularly well plotted.  The plot is fairly complex, but implausible.    The protagonist, Dave Robicheaux, is a homicide cop in a Louisiana parish outside New Orleans.  He does much of his work in the company of a thug private investigator named Clete.  Clete is just a transparent device invented by Burke to allow Robicheaux to engage in flagrantly illegal activities and violations of the rights of private citizens.  It is obvious that this situation wouldn't be tolerated by any law enforcement agency, regardless how corrupt or how good-ol-boy Southern.  Louisiana may have more than its share of a history of political corruption, but the percentage of outright crooks in both the police departments and the elected officials in this book defies credulity.  It is similarly implausible that an ordinary cop from outside New Orleans would be such good buddies with the governor and that his wife would be an old friend of the Attorney General.  <br />The book isn't particularly well characterized.  Robicheaux is a recovering alcoholic (a remarkably imaginative and original touch, isn't it?).  Very few of the characters come to life.  One who does is Robicheaux's buddy Clete - but it's not hard to create a character who's nothing but a bully and a thug.  The other is Johnny Remeta, a hired hit man with an unusual combination of psychoses.<br />Considering how many other writers of hard-boiled detective novels there are out there, I see no reason to read Burke.  Read this, and then read anything by Dennis Lehane (for example), and the difference is dramatic.	2004-01-10
US	52748904	R34XXQY4IODU6D	0878915540	875071991	Vector Analysis Problem Solver (Problem Solvers Solution Guides)	Books	2	28	37	N	Y	They worked hard at it, but it's unacceptable	This book apparently has two primary goals: to cover a large amount of material and to do so at as low a price as possible.  Those two goals are astonishingly well achieved, but the deficiencies are so severe that they render the book unacceptable.<br />First, the printing is substandard: unadorned Courier or something similar, not right-justified, and is so primitive that the publishers cannot use much of the usual notation.  Since vector analysis uses mathematical symbolism heavily, this is a major disadvantage. The same on-the-cheap approach applies to the diagrams.  There is no color, and the diagrams are composed almost entirely of compass-and-ruler constructions and notation in the same typeface as the text.<br />Second, the index is inadequate.  This book is likely to be used as a reference rather than read sequentially, so the index is important.  This index doesn?t include some of the most fundamental terms or topics, such as \\"component\\" or \\"dimension\\".  There are scores (if not hundreds) of references to derivatives in the book, and yet the index includes only five references to derivatives.<br />There is not a single reader exercise in the book (unless I missed something).  The book is intended to be a demonstration of how Vector Analysis is done, so all the problems are worked out by the authors.  If the readers have their own textbooks, this is not necessarily a big disadvantage.  But this book, in the introduction, actually criticizes other texts for requiring the students to do exercises, and goes on to make the following stunning statement: \\"The staff of REA considers vector analysis a subject that is best learned by allowing students to view the methods of analysis and solution techniques themselves.\\"<br />I can't overemphasize what an incredible statement that is.  There are not two schools of thought on this issue.  The idea that a student can learn Vector Analysis (or any mathematical topic) by watching someone else do it, makes as much sense as recommending that someone learn to play the guitar by listening to Eric Clapton.  That one point of educational philosophy alone demonstrates conclusively that the book is incompetent.<br />The Problem Solver series is apparently produced with another eccentric belief, and one that is annoying for anyone accustomed to reading traditional math books.  The publishers apparently believe (according to their own words in the introduction) that one of the shortcomings of other books is that they present material without first explicitly stating what the goal of each paragraph or section is.  (In my experience, this criticism is sometimes valid, but usually not.)  Their solution to this is to make every word in the text, part of the statement or solution to a \\"Problem\\".  However, these are not problems in the usual sense.  For example, the second \\"problem\\" in the book asks for the dimensions of five vectors which are presented in component form.  At that point in the book (page 3), the word \\"component\\" has not been defined, no vectors have yet been presented in component form, and the equality between dimension and the number of components has not yet been mentioned.  So this is not a \\"problem\\" that anyone would be able to solve if his knowledge were limited to what has been presented in the book up to that point.  The book usually presents those necessary definitions in the course of \\"solving\\" the problem (although in this case, they don't define the word component, and as far as I can see they NEVER define that word.  As I mentioned earlier, \\"component\\" and \\"dimension\\" are both missing from the index.)  This entire quirky approach reminds me of that TV game where the contestants are required to respond with a question instead of an answer.  It requires a pointlessly awkward presentation just to cram the material into their ideological system.  The definitions and formulas are not designated separately, as in other books, but imbedded in the problem \\"solutions\\".<br />Mostimportant, the book is full of mathematical errors.  Page 22 refers to \\"vectors of the same magnitude\\" when they mean \\"vectors of the same dimension\\".  Page 23 has a problem involving vector addition and subtraction, in which they present a1, b1, c1, a2, b2, and c2 as components of vectors (using subscripts), and proceed to use a1c1 as the DIFFERENCE between those two components (or the distance between the terminal points of the horizontal projections of vectors a and c, which is the same thing).  Of course, they should have used c1 - a1.  This is not just non-standard notation; it is simply mathematically wrong.  And I believe they repeat that same error in other problems later on.<br />In proving an important theorem (the equivalence of the algebraic and geometric/trigonometric definitions of dot products), they suddenly pull out a formula from analytic geometry that very few calculus students in the US will ever have seen.  Since the use of that formula renders the rest of the proof entirely trivial, the student will learn nothing at all about how to prove theorems from reading that proof.  The same sort of thing happens in Problem 3-6, where they use a formula for finding the components of a projection - a formula which has never been mentioned before, and which they neither derive nor explain.<br />The book constantly rounds off intermediate results.  This should never be done in these days of 12-digit calculators, and ESPECIALLY when the calculated number is to be used as input into an inverse trigonometric or exponential function.  In fact, they don't even really round those numbers off - they just truncate them!  This causes their final answers to be wrong in many cases, such as in Problem 3-11, where the answer should be the vector (0.279, 0.885, -0.373).  This is amateurish.  If the authors don't know better than that then they shouldn't be writing math books.<br />After reading \\"Problem\\" 3-16 on pages 81-82, I finally gave up entirely on this book.  The problem statement asks for the cross product of two vectors, while sort of half-defining the cross product within the problem statement itself.  Then, in the \\"solution\\", they don't find the cross-product at all!  They find only the magnitude!  They simply forgot to finish the problem!<br />This book was never competently proofread, peer-reviewed, or edited.  Presumably that would have been too expensive.  But this amateurish production is unusable for learning Vector Calculus.  Not recommended.important, the book is full of mathematical errors.  Page 22 refers to \\"vectors of the same magnitude\\" when they mean \\"vectors of the same dimension\\".  Page 23 has a problem involving vector addition and subtraction, in which they present a1, b1, c1, a2, b2, and c2 as components of vectors (using subscripts), and proceed to use a1c1 as the DIFFERENCE between those two components (or the distance between the terminal points of the horizontal projections of vectors a and c, which is the same thing).  Of course, they should have used c1 - a1.  This is not just non-standard notation; it is simply mathematically wrong.  And I believe they repeat that same error in other problems later on.<br />In proving an important theorem (the equivalence of the algebraic and geometric/trigonometric definitions of dot products), they suddenly pull out a formula from analytic geometry that very few calculus students in the US will ever have seen.  Since the use of that formula renders the rest of the proof entirely trivial, the student will learn nothing at all about how to prove theorems from reading that proof.  The same sort of thing happens in Problem 3-6, where they use a formula for finding the components of a projection - a formula which has never been mentioned before, and which they neither derive nor explain.<br />The book constantly rounds off intermediate results.  This should never be done in these days of 12-digit calculators, and ESPECIALLY when the calculated number is to be used as input into an inverse trigonometric or exponential function.  In fact, they don't even really round those numbers off - they just truncate them!  This causes their final answers to be wrong in many cases, such as in Problem 3-11, where the answer should be the vector (0.279, 0.885, -0.373).  This is amateurish.  If the authors don't know better than that then they shouldn't be writing math books.<br />After reading \\"Problem\\" 3-16 on pages 81-82, I finally gave up entirely on this book.  Theproblem statement asks for the cross product of two vectors, while sort of half-defining the cross product within the problem statement itself.  Then, in the \\"solution\\", they don't find the cross-product at all!  They find only the magnitude!  They simply forgot to finish the problem!<br />This book was never competently proofread, peer-reviewed, or edited.  Presumably that would have been too expensive.  But this amateurish production is unusable for learning Vector Calculus.  Not recommended.	2003-08-29
US	52748904	R3MI5ME39J9C3H	0696211084	510919052	Straight Talk on Decorating from Lynette Jennings	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Why can't other designers teach the way she can?	<BR>I am an almost pathologically non-visual person who simply can't think outside the box when it comes to shapes, colors, or design or decorating of any kind. It didn't take me long to find that among all the home decorating and craft shows on TV, Lynette Jennings produced by far the most helpful and instructive show for brain-dead people like me.<BR><BR>What DID take me awhile to realize, however, is WHY she is so much better than the others. She approaches each topic just as if she were an instructor in a real-life classroom, albeit with the benefit of being physically placed in beautiful homes and rooms that she can display to the viewer. As a teacher myself, I looked at her with a sort of professional eye, and realized that she was in fact a superbly talented teacher and communicator.<BR><BR>Her book is more of the same outstanding material you get on her show, but this time organized according to various themes, such as how to use color, how to decorate in small spaces, etc. The book is gorgeously illustrated, and includes concrete ideas that can be understood by those of us who lack her instinctive talent for the subjects of decorating and design. Highly recommended!	2003-05-05
US	52748904	R5EP6NRETVHFN	0449222276	113738092	Belgrave Square	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Perry is one of the very best	For those unfamiliar with this series, Inspector Pitt is a police detective in Victorian England, in the period shortly after the professional police force was first established.  Policemen were respected to a degree, but apparently had about the same social status as a skilled laborer.  Pitt's wife, Charlotte, on the other hand, is from a much wealthier and higher-status family.  Indeed, Charlotte's sister is married to a wealthy and well-connected man who is being considered for a vacancy in Parliament.  That connection enables Charlotte to participate discreetly in Pitt's investigations when they require a peek into the activities of society's upper crust.<br />The story: a sleazy loan shark is found shot to death in an unusually gruesome manner.  Almost everyone who knew the man had good reason to want him dead.  Even Inspector Pitt, who is assigned to investigate the case, can't avoid the feeling that the murderer did the rest of society a favor.  But murder is illegal, and so the investigation goes on.<br />It quickly develops that the victim was not only a loan shark, but a blackmailer as well, with several socially prominent people on his list of victims.  Hence the investigation must proceed delicately.  And that's where (as usual) Pitt's wife, Charlotte, lends a hand.<br />If you are already familiar with Anne Perry's Inspector Pitt series, you know that she's one of the very best mystery writers around.  Personally, I think Elizabeth George and possibly P. D. James are her only superiors in the field.  It's hard to rank one book in the series against the others, but this one certainly upholds the high standards of the entire series.  The characterizations are vivid and believable, the plot is complex and captivating, and the ending is logical and satisfying.  My only complaint about the book (and it applies to all the Inspector Pitt books) is the constant obsession with differences in social class.  Those differences existed in Victorian England, of course, but I find it hard to believe they were such a preoccupation in everyone's mind, minute by minute, day after day, as Perry makes them out to be.  The class distinctions were more likely taken for granted, like the weather.<br />If you're a mystery fan and you haven't read any of Perry's work, then this is as good an introduction to the series as any.  You're in for a treat.	2002-10-19
US	52748904	R1CF4MY0C9JX0F	0553582364	337342267	A Traitor to Memory	Books	4	2	4	N	Y	Elizabeth George for Ruth Rendell fans	Summary:  A woman is killed by a hit-and-run driver, but it doesn't take the police long to discover that she was deliberately murdered.  Lynley, Havers, and Nkata are called in on the case, primarily because Lynley can be relied upon to discreet.  We soon discover why the discretion is necessary, since the victim is a woman with whom Lynley's immediate supervisor had an affair years ago.<br />The victim is also the mother of a murdered Down's syndrome baby who had been killed twenty years before.  The investigation, and the plot of the book, quickly focus on those events from twenty years before.  The murdered baby had a brother who was a violin prodigy, and who has now (at the age of 28) suddenly lost his ability to play.  About a third of the book is told through his eyes, as he tried to uncover his memories with the help of a psychiatrist.<br />As with all Elizabeth George novels, this one is richly populated with thought-provoking events and characters.  The mystery is complex and fascinating.  The writing is superb.  But this time there is more of a pervasive sense of gloom, with characters that are almost all unhappy or emotionally disturbed in some way.  There is, to me, a strong echo of Ruth Rendell in this book, although Elizabeth George is a much better writer than Rendell.  If you LIKE the Rendell approach to mysteries (which I don't), then you will probably like this one better than any of the previous ten Lynley/Havers novels.  But I am one of those superficial people who like happy endings and happy characters, even if I realize that in reality, murders don't produce much happiness.  So, I didn't finish this novel with the same sense of deep satisfaction that I feel at the end of most other Elizabeth George books.	2002-10-15
US	52748904	R1Z7XLS45G3284	0895261901	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	4	4	10	N	Y	Undebatably true, but not a literary masterpiece	People's opinions of \\"Bias\\" seem to depend on whether or not they agree with Goldberg's basic thesis.  But his thesis is hardly a \\"thesis\\" at all, since the liberal slant of major network news is obvious to any honest person who (like me) has been paying attention at all for the last 30-plus years.<br />The unarguable truth of the author's basic point, however, doesn't necessarily make this a good book.  In this case, the question is:  Who will benefit from reading this book?  Certainly, the chic Hollywood liberals and the self-important academic liberals will get nothing from it.  Both groups are emotionally unable to accept the proposition that intelligent and non-bigoted people could have views different from their own.  The honest liberals, as I noted above, are already fully aware that the major network news is slanted leftward.  They're just happy about it!<br />I think the people who will learn the most from this book are the cultural conservatives, especially the religious right.  Far too many of those people truly believe that the liberal bias of the Washington - New York journalistic axis stems from a deliberate desire on the part of journalists to undercut traditional American values.  And I fear that many of those people might read this book and see a validation of their conspiracy theories.<br />But the book gives no support to those theories.  Goldberg argues, correctly in my opinion and experience, that the major network journalists live in a closed world, in which everyone they know supports abortion on demand, gun control, and racially discriminatory policies (dubbed \\"affirmative action\\" by those who want to hide the true nature of those policies).  Virtually no one of their acquaintance goes to church regularly or sends their children to a parochial school (although vast numbers of them have children in expensive, secular private schools).  These people don't consciously slant the news in an effort to influence viewers toward their point of view.They sincerely regard the liberal side of almost all social controversies as the mainstream, reasonable side.  People who differ with those views are out of the mainstream, anti-civil-rights, and extremists.<br />Actually, it is not only liberals who suffer from this narrow vision of the world.  Conservatives who spend virtually all their time with other people who (for example) consider the first day of hunting season to be a major holiday, and who spend almost all their social time with other people who believe every word of the Bible to be infallibly true, tend to be just as confused as Dan Rather is when someone suggests that another set of values and beliefs might be as valid as their own.  The only difference is that Dan Rather has the power to broadcast his beliefs to millions of people every night.<br />Goldberg's book, although slim (only 214 pages plus appendices), does a good job of examining a few issues in which responsible investigative journalism would have given us all a far more accurate picture of what was really going on in the country: the AIDS crisis, homelessness, and the uncritical heroine-worship of most broadcasters when it comes to \\"feminist\\" issues.  But he would have had room for the examination of several other issues as well if he hadn't decided to make his book a score-settling exercise.  It was useful to see the penalty exacted by the network news organizations when anyone tells the truth about their narrow vision, but I found myself a bit uncomfortable with the lengths to which Goldberg goes to let us know just how bad the \\"bad guys\\" are.<br />Otherwise, an easy read, and a book that should have been written at least twenty years ago.  The fact that it wasn't, just reinforces the author's point.	2002-10-15
US	52748904	R38HSHZ95ZA9VB	0380703475	863704491	Chiefs	Books	5	80	82	N	Y	A good crime novel plus a lot more	&quot;Chiefs&quot; is the story of three police chiefs in a small Georgia town: one was the town's very first Chief of Police in the 1920's, the second in the 1940's, and the third in the 1960's.  The common thread among the three is a series of disappearances of teenage boys who were traveling through the vicinity of the town when they disappeared.<br />The book isn't really a mystery, since the reader knows the solution to the crime fairly early in the book.  What sets the book apart is the well-drawn characters and the unerring and evocative portrayal of the evolution of a small Georgia town from the 1920's up to the middle of the Civil Rights movement of the 1960's.<br />Woods has perfect pitch when it comes to dialogue.  Every conversation, every confrontation, every characterization rings vividly true.  Politics, on a local, state, and national level, is a sub-theme of the book, and the author has obviously done his homework on those topics as well.  But the book's most noticeable strength is in its ability to transport the reader almost physically into a sultry Georgia town.  Even if you read this during a winter in North Dakota, you'll feel the heat, the tension, the passion, and the fears of a sleepy Georgia town during the mid-20th century for as long as you're reading &quot;Chiefs&quot;.	2002-09-29
US	52748904	R2FK4YOBBN78UI	0060194995	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	All superlatives seem inadequate	I'm not sure how much point there is to another review of \\"To Kill a Mockingbird\\", since it's already well established as an American classic.  But here's my own take on it.<br />The quick plot summary is that a Black man, Tom Robinson, has been falsely accused of raping a white woman in Alabama in the 1930's.  Atticus (and like most people, I can think of Atticus only as Gregory Peck) is a lawyer who has been appointed by the court to represent the defendant.  The story revolves around how Atticus, his family, and his friends deal with the racial hatreds and other social conflicts that result from his participation in the case.<br />It's hard to imagine how a book can be any more perfect than this one.  On every basis - plot, setting, characterizations - it is a smashing success.  But I suppose if there is one thing that stands out over everything else in the book, it is the wonderful (and not so wonderful) people who populate its pages.<br />The story is told through the eyes of Atticus's little daughter, Jean Louise (nicknamed \\"Scout\\"), who is probably the most realistically appealing child in any novel I have ever read.  Lee doesn't over-romanticize the wisdom of a child, as many authors do.  Any parent, or anyone who has experience with children, knows that children are NOT unspoiled creatures, free from the prejudices and selfishness that have to be taught by adults.  Scout and her older brother Jem are completely natural characters, recognizable to all of us who remember our own childhoods.  But because of the circumstances into which they are thrown, the two of them emerge as nothing short of heroic figures.<br />But there are so many other memorable characters that it seems impossible that this novel could be only 323 pages long.  There is Scout and Jem's annual summertime friend, Dill.  There is the family maid and de facto female head of household, Calpurnia.  There is the painfully naive and judgmental Miss Caroline, a recent graduate from ed school whois assigned to teach Scout's first-grade class.  There is Boo Radley, the town's mysterious recluse.  There is the \\"white trash\\" family that started all the trouble with their accusation of rape.  Above all, there is Atticus himself, a figure of towering integrity, love, and loyalty.<br />As wonderful as the book is all the way through, I must call special attention to Chapter 15, where the eight-year-old Scout, with simple love and unconscious courage, tames a gang of thugs who have assembled at the local jail to lynch Tom Robinson.  (Classical music lovers who read this book might think of the chapter as a literary equivalent of the famous second movement of Beethoven's Fourth Piano Concerto.)  In my entire reading life, which covers more than fifty years and thousands of books, I have never read a more moving passage than this one.<br />It is inconceivable that a writer who could create so many memorable characters in so few pages would have confined herself to this one novel as her lifetime output.  But she did.<br />So how good is this book?  I used to have three all-time favorite novels (Tom Jones, And Ladies of the Club, and Lonesome Dove).  Now I have four.	2002-09-29
US	52748904	R37WNGG8VKZG04	0140143505	43936206	84, Charing Cross Road	Books	5	96	101	N	Y	Beautiful, with a heart-rending and tragic moral	This is the story of an American writer (the author of the book) who strikes up a friendship by mail with a bookseller in England.  The entire book is a series of unedited and un-commented-on letters exchanged between Hanff and the Marks & Co. booksellers at 84 Charing Cross Road.  Her primary pen pal is a man named Frank Doel, with whom she shares a love of old books.  [Perhaps this is the point where I should say that I flatly disagree, without reservation, with the previous reviewers who believe there was a potential romantic attachment between the two of them.]<br /> The correspondence runs from 1949 until 1969, during which time Helene and the people at 84 Charing Cross Road exchange Christmas gifts and news of their families, but never meet.  At least in the early years of the correspondence, almost every year Ms. Hanff states her intention to come over to visit England, but something always comes up to prevent the trip.<br /> In 1969, one of Hanff's letters to Frank Doel is answered by another member of the firm, informing her that Frank Doel has died.<br /> This is a beautiful book, which can be read in 45 minutes.  I suppose every reader will take his or her own lessons from the book, but here is mine:  If there is something you really want to do in your life, then DO IT when the opportunity arises.  Time is finite.  If you keep saying, \\"Maybe next year,\\" there will eventually come a time when there IS no next year.  It is a painful tragedy that Helene Hanff never got to England to meet Frank Doer and the other people at Marks & Company, and that poignant sadness is what stayed with me after I had closed the book.	2002-09-14
US	52748904	RNI8B07X66NGH	0380797399	49390421	Faded Coat of Blue (Abel Jones Mysteries)	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	This one has everything.	Anthony Fowler is a young man from a wealthy upper-class Philadelphia family.  He has become nationally known and admired for his passionate campaign against slavery.  When the Civil War begins, he is of course among the first to join the Union army.  But one night he is found mysteriously shot dead on the edge of a military campground.<br /> Captain Abel Jones, the main character of this novel, is appointed (much to his surprise) by General McClellan to solve the mystery of Fowler's murder.  It doesn't take long for Jones to discover that Fowler's death was no random military casualty.  He was murdered elsewhere and the body dumped where it was found.<br /> Jones, a rigidly patriotic, religious, and somewhat self-righteous character, begins to uncover the facts, layer by layer.  Each layer moves the guilt another step higher in political and social circles, and soon Jones is treading on dangerous ground indeed.<br /> By the description above, this could be an ordinary mystery.  But at the same time that he is giving us a captivating mystery, Parry provides a vivid and convincing portrait of Washington and Philadelphia of the Civil War era.  The book includes an afterword by the author, discussing his research and the few minor cases in which his story deviates from strict historical accuracy.  He also recommends several references for those who are interested in more background material.<br /> The book succeeds on every level.  Jones and his supporting cast are well-drawn characters with whom the reader is happy to spend time.  The history is enriching, and the mystery itself is solidly crafted.  Everybody should like this one.	2002-09-08
US	52748904	R3H3RCTY7LTM21	1573225517	138260184	High Fidelity	Books	4	1	3	N	Y	A good story about an annoying whiner	This is the story of a 35-year-old owner of a used record store, told in the first person and in the present tense.  The main focus of his musings is his unsuccessful relationships with women, and the feelings of pain, rejection, and inadequacy that those relationships have produced.  <br />The first 25% of the book is wonderful.  No one I know has described with such painful accuracy the feelings of rejection and inadequacy that a MAN feels when a romantic affair breaks up.  There seem to be thousands of such books for women, but maybe men are too macho to publicly admit that it hurts.<br />The book is very well written, and it held my interest throughout.  Partly that was because Rob's main interest in life (besides sulking about his unfulfilled life) is rock 'n roll music, which has always been one of my main interests as well.  The characters are believable and well drawn, even if none of them are entirely pleasant.<br />But after describing the breakups of his previous relationships, Rob (the narrator and main character) begins to degenerate into an embittered, whining, older version of Holden Caulfield - which in my opinion is a stinging criticism.  He's rude, selfish, and inconsiderate, and blames his miserable conduct on how badly his love affairs have turned out.  I don't want to give everything away, but I think that at the end Rob is one of the most undeservedly lucky guys I've ever read about.<br />I expect men will like the book better than women will, but I could be wrong.  And in fact, women will probably learn more from it than men will.  I certainly found it worth my time, despite my annoyance at the self-indulgent main character, and it's an easy read. <br />Note: I haven't seen the movie which was based on this book, so my comments above are based entirely on the book itself.	2002-09-01
US	52748904	R1J00U0E9L0ZJN	0425136221	113839442	The Inspector and Mrs. Jeffries (Victorian Mystery)	Books	4	41	41	N	Y	Fluff, but what delightful fluff!	Emily Brightwell has written a series of Victorian mysteries starring Scotland Yard detective Witherspoon and his housekeeper Mrs. Jeffries.  Inspector Witherspoon is not exactly the brightest candle in the cupboard, but he is an exceptionally nice man and a wonderful employer.  Mrs. Jeffries, who IS one of the brightest candles in the cupboard, realizes that he might have difficulty solving cases on his own, and so she and the rest of the household staff resolve to help him along with any complicated case that may come up.  At the same time, they want to make him think that he really solved the case all by himself.<br />The mystery in this book is the murder of a thoroughly despicable and not-very-competent local doctor, who has made himself wealthy by blackmailing everyone he can find to blackmail.  The original assumption is that the doctor was poisoned with mushrooms, but as always in murder mysteries, there's more to the story than meets the first glance.<br />This is not a deep and complex mystery, but it isn't built on thin air, either.  Brightwell's real accomplishment is in the very well drawn characterizations of the inspector, the servants (there are four including Mrs. Jeffries), and the suspects.  The reader will quickly feel a fond affection for all of those people, and will enjoy following their thoughts and activities as the mystery is unraveled.<br />I usually find mystery novels as insubstantial as this one to be frustrating and feel that they're not worth my time.  But I find the prospect of spending an afternoon with Mrs. Jeffries to be irresistible, and I plan to read every book in the series (according to the list at the front of my paperback copy, there are at least thirteen of them).<br />Enjoy!	2002-08-25
US	52748904	R22BBTY18BPV8C	0451166892	193551147	The Pillars of the Earth: A Novel (Kingsbridge)	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Almost a thousand pages of absorbing reading	This is a rich and ambitious novel by an author who's already one of the best in the business at writing novels of suspense and international intrigue.  This book shows that Follett can produce excellent work on a broader canvas as well.<br />The continuous thread running through the book is the construction of a cathedral in Kingsbridge, England.  But Follett just uses that story as sort of a \\"home base\\" for a vivid portrayal of 12th century England.  That period was one of the bloodiest in the history of England, as King Stephen tried to hold on to power against constantly shifting alliances of opponents.  The main characters get caught up in the conflicts, if only peripherally, and usually unwillingly.<br />The book ends with the famous conflict between Henry, Stephen's successor, and Archbishop Thomas Becket.  But that is a comparatively short part of the book, and seems almost an afterthought.<br />The book is long (some 980 pages in paperback), with a large cast of characters.  I was struck, however, by how few of the characters were truly admirable according to 21st-century morality.  I suppose many readers found Philip, the prior of Kingsbridge, to be an admirable character.  But I regarded him as often self-righteously dictatorial.  The only character that could be admired without reservation was Tom Builder, the original master builder and designer of the cathedral.  But he dies midway through the book.<br />There is one primary villain, William of Hamleigh, who is as vicious as any character I have encountered in a novel.  But I was startled at how freely almost everyone in that place and time was willing to kill, steal, lie, and betray in order to achieve selfish or political ends.  Most of these people quite seriously believed in religion and the damnation of sinners, but they also believed that all their sins could be forgiven if they could find a priest who was lenient or corrupt enough to grant them absolution.  Responsibility to one's own consciencedidn't seem to be a factor at all.<br />But perhaps I dwell too long on that one aspect of the book.  The fact is that Follett does a brilliant job of portraying the culture, the architecture and technology, and the politics of 12th-century England.  We learn about the lives of rural peasants and city-dwellers, the clergy and the nobility.  We learn what they ate, where they lived, what they wore, and how they fought.  And it's all fascinating.  This one should be on your reading list.	2002-08-04
US	52748904	R2C1ZY9U10MLE0	0140263640	800946158	The Devil in Music (Julian Kestrel Mystery)	Books	4	15	15	N	Y	Unusually deep and rich for a mystery	An Italian nobleman is murdered in 1821, but the authorities announce the death as a heart attack, fearing political unrest if the truth were known.  It takes four more years before the true cause of death is revealed, even to the deceased's wife.<br />Julian Kestrel, an English \\"dandy\\" (and apparently in those days the word was not a disparagement), is traveling on the continent, and decides to try his hand at solving the murder.  He is apparently experienced at such things, having been the hero of three (?) previous books by Ms. Ross, which I haven't read.  So he travels to Italy, along with his somewhat curmudgeonly friend Dr. MacGregor, inveigles his way into the inner circle of the widow, and begins to detect.<br />Ross does a fine job of portraying the post-Napoleonic period in northern Italy, as its political intrigues run rampant even while the rich and famous are enjoying their operas, their villas, and other perquisites of their status.  The murder plot is one of the most complex I have ever encountered in a mystery (and I have read hundreds of them).  In fact, once the murder is solved and all the \\"good guys\\" rescued from danger, it still requires another 40 pages to explain all the events in the story.  Those last 40 pages strike me as very slightly clumsy, as Julian goes from person to person, interviewing them all until every t has been crossed and every i dotted.  Perhaps Ross didn't realize until she got to that point in the story, that there were dozens of loose ends to be tied up.  <br />But the writing is excellent, the characters well drawn, and the motivations plausible.  And again, the portrayal of the Italian society in that time period is particularly vivid and enjoyable.  I second the grief of the previous reviewer who expressed disappointment upon learning of the death of the author, who apparently died while still in her early 40's.  This book definitely made me want to go back and read the other Julian Kestrel novels, and I'm sorry that there won't be any more of them.	2002-08-04
US	52748904	R3KAG1MEURA4D3	0553576089	541516971	In the Presence of the Enemy	Books	5	11	12	N	N	&quot;Not her best&quot; is still better than anyone else's best	Elizabeth George is the best living writer of mysteries in the English-speaking world, period.  And this book, like all the others in the Lynley-Havers series, establishes her status at the top of the rankings once again.<br />Thumbnail plot sketch:  A child is kidnapped.  The child was the result of a week-long tryst years before, and the two parents have since both risen to prominence, but in very different ways.  The mother (with whom the child lives) is a prominent and ambitious Tory politician.  The father is the editor of a scandal sheet. The mother wants nothing to do with the father, and his paternity has never been publicly acknowledged.<br />When the child is kidnapped, the kidnapper insists that the father acknowledge the child or else the child will be murdered.  The father is entirely willing to agree to the demand, but the mother is not - and believes that in fact the father himself is behind the kidnapping.<br />To relate much more of the plot would be to spoil it for the reader.  But Lynley and Havers eventually get involved in the case, and there is the usual wonderful writing, complex plot, and rich characterizations that we always get in Elizabeth George's books.<br />I actually think this book is slightly weaker than some of George's other work, because to me the fundamental premises don't ring true.  The mother's reasons for not wanting the father to acknowledge his paternity are unconvincing (to me, anyway), and the ultimate explanation for the crime has an implausible motive.  Furthermore, as a frequent reader of crime novels I get very tired of the constant portrayal of all conservative politicians as hypocritical scoundrels.  Some real life conservative politicians may well BE hypocritical scoundrels.  But it has gotten to the point where you know immediately upon being introduced to the character, that (s)he will turn out to be a contemptible example of humanity.<br />That sounds like an awful lot of complaints for a five-star book, but George is just too talented, her writing too beautiful and too intelligent, to rate this anything but five stars.  And please make sure you read it all the way to the end.  If you can get through the last two paragraphs without tears, then you are heartless.	2002-07-07
US	52748904	R2NYZOMCK6JD2F	0345404769	597970270	Silent Witness	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	They don't get any better	Tony Lord is a successful criminal defense attorney in San Francisco, married to an Oscar-winning actress and living the life of the rich and famous.  But thirty years ago, as a high school senior in a small Ohio town, he was a suspect in the murder of his girlfriend.  He was never formally charged, but many townspeople, including the dead girl's parents, were convinced of his guilt.  He soon went away to college and never returned.<br />But now he has no choice.  His old best friend Sam, the teammate who caught Tony's pass in the end zone in the final ten seconds of the biggest game of their high school careers, has been charged with murder.  So Tony returns to his old home town to defend his friend. <br />Inevitably, Tony is forced to confront the prejudices and nightmares he thought he had escaped decades ago.  His dead girlfriend's parents are still there, and still convinced of his guilt.  Sam's wife Sue is another issue.  She was Sam's girlfriend back in high school, but she and Tony slept together one night toward the very end of their senior year, and Sam has always been suspicious of the relationship between Tony and his wife.<br />By setting up the plot framework as he did, Patterson gave himself the opportunity for a richly textured exploration of some of humanity's most powerful emotions: love, jealousy, loyalty, and guilt.  And he delivers the goods.  The mystery element in this novel - although superb - is almost lost in the wonderfully evocative description of Tony Lord's struggle with his memories, loyalties, and relationships.<br />I have never read a Richard North Patterson novel before.  But this work is so outstanding that he has immediately jumped to the top rank of my favorite mystery writers - a group that includes Elizabeth George, P D James, and Dennis Lehane.<br />This one is absolutely terrific.	2002-06-16
US	52748904	R2LL6KJO1NNT4F	0345401123	454724918	Your Blues Ain't Like Mine: A Novel	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A very good novel that should have been great	\\"Your Blues Ain't Like Mine\\" is an ambitious novel.  It begins with the murder of an African-American teenager in rural Mississippi in the 1950's.  It then follows the boy's family, the family of the murderers, and other citizens of that small Mississippi town, for the next 40 years or so.  Many of the Blacks in the story move north to Chicago during this period.  So the story describes not only the social and political changes in the deep South during those years, but also the experience of those who exchanged the seething racism of Mississippi for the northern big-city ghettos.<br />In choosing to portray such a vast - and critically important - period of American history, the author set herself a daunting task.  There is a tremendous amount of material to cover in a novel like this.  And the job can't be done thoroughly in 460 paperback pages.  The author often condenses a major change in a character's lifestyle or philosophy into a single paragraph or even a single sentence.<br />The characters are well chosen and sympathetic (except the characters who weren't intended to be sympathetic), and the book is well written and well plotted.  But for myself, I found myself wanting much more than Ms. Campbell was giving me.  I suppose that a 1200-page novel wouldn't have sold nearly as well as this shorter one.  But a 1200-page novel, on the same subject and by the same author, might have been a historically great achievement.	2002-06-15
US	52748904	RIIAHTSQCUSIP	0374525641	65032227	The Spirit Catches You and You Fall down: A Hmong Child, Her American Doctors, and the Collision of Two Cultures	Books	5	68	92	N	N	Thought-provoking, fascinating, ... just plain GOOD	\\"The Spirit Catches You And You Fall\\" is the story of a Hmong family in Merced, California and the cultural clash that ensues when they bring their epileptic infant into the county hospital for treatment.  The constant stream of immigration into America from all over the world insures that we have all read many stories about culture clashes.  But this one is so extreme that one wonders whether Americans and the Hmongs should ever have been placed on the same planet.  It is not only a language barrier that causes problems, but also the very most fundamental assumptions that go into even the most casual conversations.  The problems are exacerbated by the Hmongs' belief that the United States promised them significant cash subsidies in exchange for fighting on the Western, or royalist side, against the communists in the Laotian war (which was more or less simultaneous with the Viet Nam war).  Needless to say, those cash subsidies were not forthcoming except in the form of the usual benefits available for new immigrants, along with the standard welfare payments.<br />It has become a common complaint (sometimes valid, sometimes not, in my opinion) that immigrants 100 years ago wanted to become assimilated into the American culture as quickly as possible, whereas now they demand that the existing American culture adapt to them.  But if you are unhappy with Mexicans or Pakistanis on those grounds, wait till you read about the Hmong!  It is really not so much that they demand that Americans adapt to them, but that they cling to their own culture with a ferocity, a stubbornness, and a relentlessness, that is hard to believe.  That culture includes animal sacrifices, a highly structured clan system, complex folk tales and hierarchies of spiritual beings, early marriage, and an eye-popping birth rate.<br />The primary focus of the book is how that culture clash made it nearly impossible for the epileptic child to be treated effectively either from the standpoint of Western medicine or in they eyes of the Hmong family who loved her.  Fadiman goes into the history of the Hmongs in Asia and how their experiences have hardened them into the people they are now.  It is very easy for the American layperson to lump them together with all other Asians, but that would be a huge mistake.  Even to refer to them as \\"Laotians\\" - as I did before reading this book - would be a serious dismissal of their uniqueness.  The Hmong have suffered hardships almost inconceivable in the eyes of modern Americans.<br />The book has no happy endings, and not an awful lot in the way of lessons.  Fadiman provides some suggestions for what the American doctors and social workers should have done differently.  (It's noteworthy that, like most multiculturalists, she says very little about what the HMONG should have done differently - even though Western medicine is demonstrably far more effective than the Hmong procedures of animal sacrifices and religious ceremonies.)  Those suggestions, at the end of the day, would not have changed the outcome - at least not in my opinion.  Those suggestions might have avoided some hurt feelings, and that in turn might have given the Hmong community a greater confidence in the doctors in Merced and Fresno.  In that respect, things might have been better over the long term than they are now.<br />But the primary lesson I came away with was that there is an almost impenetrable barrier between the two cultures, and that it certainly would have been far better if the Hmong had never been forced to come here.  And underlying THAT lesson is the realization of the incredible cruelty that is visited upon otherwise peaceful people when the \\"Great Powers\\" make pawns of them in a global conflict.  The only reason the Hmong are in Merced is that Southeast Asia was a battleground between the United States and the communist countries, and that each side was willing to use any means to win - even at the cost of the complete destruction of people thelike Hmong.<br />I have no hesitation in stating that I think communism was evil, and that we were right to fight it.  But did anyone ask the Hmong, and other people like them, whether THEY were willing to pay the price for the victory of democracy?  And did we have the right to decide for them?  This book will have you thinking about those questions and more, long after you close the last page.  And you are unlikely to find easy answers.	2002-02-16
US	52748904	R3D52EU401405O	0380724766	904425686	Murder Among Us	Books	4	8	8	N	N	For fans of English village mysteries	Chief Inspector Markby lives in the quiet little English village of Bamford, into which \\"progress\\" is intruding in the form of a new resort hotel, built on the shell of an old Victorian mansion.  Predictably, not everyone in town is pleased about the new resort.  During the grand opening festivities, a woman is fatally knifed in the wine cellar.  The victim, who was attractive and financially comfortable, was also unusually secretive about her history and her private life.<br />And so the hunt for the killer begins, in the typical style of an English-village mystery.  Granger is a thoroughly professional and accomplished mystery writer, and she delivers the goods that readers expect from an English village mystery: a variety of suspects and motives, a well-paced narrative, and a non-obvious resolution.  There is enough substance here to prevent the book from falling into the category of pure and empty fluff (a virtue which cannot be taken for granted with all English village mysteries).  I didn't find the characterizations particularly compelling, and the relationship between Markby and his girlfriend Meredith Mitchell could have been more vividly portrayed.  Still, the book is successful at being exactly what it is supposed to be: bedside reading for those who enjoy a comfortable whodunit.	2002-02-03
US	52748904	R3QTRLSZCY2L7N	006092988X	892654736	A Tree Grows in Brooklyn	Books	4	2	2	N	N	It rings true even for a middle-aged male	\\"A Tree Grows in Brooklyn\\" is an America classic, so you probably already know the plot outline.  The book is the story of Francie, a poor young girl growing up in Brooklyn in the early years of the 20th century.  Francie is an intelligent girl who aspires to be a writer, but she has to overcome the predictable obstacles associated with poverty and absence of connections.<br /> But the author doesn't over-romanticize the story by inventing a too-good-to-be-true character who is single-mindedly ambitious.  Francie has the same concerns as any young girl in the poor section of Brooklyn would have had during those years.  She is no more honest, no more selfless, no more generally virtuous, than any other girl.  That typical-ness, I believe, is the key to the book's popularity.<br /> The book has been more popular with women than men, I believe, because the book evokes powerful memories of what a girl's childhood is like.  And the female readers whom I have talked to all say, \\"Yes.  That's just what it was like.\\"  And it's probably not a bad idea for men - especially men with daughters - to have that vicarious experience by reading the book, either.<br /> Heartwarming, genuine, and well worth your time.	2002-01-17
US	52748904	R1SLLZL6EOY3LS	0877957975	110701387	Murder in Georgetown	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Top-notch American cozy	I'm a big fan of armchair-type mysteries, as well as novels about political intrigue.  And this one is about as good as it gets.  Margaret Truman was the daughter of a President, so of course she has a firm grasp of the culture of Washington's movers and shakers.  And she can spin a captivating and well-constructed yarn with the best of them.  The main character here is a newspaper reporter who has had the bad luck (or bad judgment) to cross some of Washington's most powerful people.  Now his efforts to unravel the murder of the young daughter of another Washington figure threaten to make him even more unpopular with the Establishment.  Truman plays fair with the reader all the way, never tipping her hand, and the mystery comes to a completely satisfying ending (although, as in all mysteries, the killer is never the guy you WANT it to be!).  Fans of cozy mysteries or political intrigue novels can't do better than this one.	2002-01-17
US	52748904	R7AH8WU00Z71P	0060953322	206325255	Other Powers: the Age of Suffrage, Spiritualism, and the Scandalous Victoria Woodhull	Books	4	16	17	N	N	A Treasure Chest of Fascinating, Little-Known History	Goldsmith has done a real service with this book.  It is more or less the history of the 19th-century women's suffrage movement, with special emphasis on the influence of Spiritualism and on the life of Victoria Woodhull (of whom I had never before heard, even though I regard myself as fairly well-versed in American history).<br />The book is full of fascinating characters and events, most of which are given unconscionably short shrift in our educational system.  Goldsmith fleshes out the stories and personalities of many people who were previously just vague images in my mind, such as Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Henry Ward Beecher.  It seems from this book that female suffrage could have occurred as much as 50 years earlier than it did, if it hadn't been for a couple of missteps on the part of the supporters of suffrage.  For one thing, there was a bitter division among the suffragettes about whether the female right to vote should be part of the movement for enfranchising the recently freed slaves.  Sadly, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, despite her many wonderful and even heroic contributions to the movement, comes across as an out-and-out racist on this issue, and probably damaged the very cause to which she devoted her life.  Secondly, some of the foremost spokespeople for female suffrage got caught up in unrelated, controversial issues, and even in personal sexual scandals.<br />If you have an interest in American history, you may very well have the same reaction I did while reading this book.  Almost every other page, I found myself exclaiming, \\"Hey, I didn't know that!  How come that's not in any of the history books?\\"<br />The only reason I gave this book four stars instead of five is that I think the organization and focus could be a little better.  The book isn't organized strictly chronologically, and it jumps from one character to another without apparent reason.<br />But there's just too much really good stuff here to give anything less than four stars, and I have no quarrel with those who have given it five.  You won't often pick up a book written for a general audience and learn so many interesting facts that you probably didn't know.	2002-01-17
US	52748904	R1ONZ4VWWFRK1J	0674190017	532510257	The Damnation of Theron Ware (The John Harvard Library)	Books	5	43	44	N	N	A wonderful and shamefully neglected American novel	IMHO, this novel can and should be included with the other American novels that we cram down the throats of high-schoolers: Moby Dick, Scarlet Letter, Huckleberry Finn, etc.  This is the almost painfully realistic story of a preacher who discovers that there is another world outside his previously sheltered existence.  For many of us, this sort of discovery is a happy and broadening experience.  But in Ware's case, his new discoveries cause him to reject all the good things about his old life, and to build fantasy castles in the air of his imagination.  In his increasingly desperate attempt to escape into a fantasy life, he leaves behind many of his values and ethical standards - not least his responsibilities to those he loves.<br />This book will hit a nerve for many readers - it did for me.  It is easy for the reader to identify with Ware and realize only too late, as Ware did, that he is embarking on an illusory and self-destructive quest.  Frederick constructed both the plot and the character of Ware perfectly, and this novel is worth everyone's time to read.  You will keep thinking about it long after you have closed the book for the last time.	2001-10-28
US	52748904	RXXCWBTB89LNC	0380802449	237229061	Anything Goes (Grace and Favor Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Just what fans of American &quot;cozies&quot; are looking for	Lily and Robert Brewster (sister and brother) are formerly upper-middle-class young adults who have been thrown into poverty by the Depression.  Suddenly they find themselves the owners of an upstate New York mansion, bequeathed to them by an almost-forgotten, rich, great uncle.  The bequest comes along with the requirement that they live in the mansion for 10 years.<br />When they arrive at the mansion, they find the area populated by the usual &quot;cast of strange characters&quot; that comes along with most whodunits: people with various reasons for hostility toward each other - or, more importantly, hostility toward the recently deceased great uncle.  It soon becomes clear that there was something not quite convincing about the official explanation of the great uncle's death (surprise, surprise) and Lily and Robert begin to investigate.<br />So, the plot outline is standard stuff for mysteries of this kind.  Therefore the quality of the book depends on the characterizations, the atmosphere, and the plausibility of the plot.  I'm happy to report that Churchill handles all three of those things wonderfully.  Lily is the no-nonsense, responsible member of the pair of sleuths, and Robert is the carefree, slightly irresponsible, fun-loving one (and he's delightful).  The atmosphere of the depression is vivid and rings true, but on the other hand it doesn't weigh the book down with gloom.  The plot is completely believable, and I wasn't able to guess the guilty party until almost at the very end.  (Not that I tried very hard; I read these books for the atmosphere and the satisfaction of a conclusive ending, rather than as a puzzle to be figured out before the end of the book.)<br />At any rate, if you're a fan of the cozy Agatha Christie type of mystery, then this should be on your list.  This is the first Jill Churchill book I have read, and I look forward to the others.	2001-09-27
US	52748904	R1RFBJNIDV7G1C	0688153321	165181769	Gone, Baby, Gone: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Terrific from first page to last	I don't like \\"hard-boiled\\" mysteries, and this is a hard-boiled mystery.  I don't give 5 stars to simple genre books, no matter how good they are.  So obviously, this one floored me.<br />The story is set in Boston, and tells of a missing four-year-old girl who is abducted from an unlocked apartment while her irresponsible mother is hanging out at a bar with a friend.  Two detectives are hired by the child's aunt and uncle, and the detectives then work along with the police to find the child and apprehend the kidnappers.<br />Everything about this book is superb.  First, there is the scintillating quality of the writing.  Just when I thought all the good metaphors and similes had already been taken, Lehane describes something as \\"smooth as the edge of a nickel\\", or describes a state trooper giving a presentation in the following words:<br />\\"...those hands were the only softness in him.  The rest of him was constructed of shale, his slim frame so hard and stripped of body fat that if he fell from the podium I was sure he'd break apart in chips.\\"<br />Lehane has a razor-sharp eye for detail and he often translates his vision into dazzling English.<br />Secondly, the plot is tightly woven and completely convincing.  There are no clumsily invented characters who are present only to make an otherwise-illogical event seem plausible.<br />Thirdly, the final resolution of the case is powerfully thought-provoking.  No thoughtful person can read through this novel and come away with any certainty about who was right and who was wrong in this story.  You'll be thinking of the issues raised in this book long after you have closed the last page.<br />In short, this one is terrific!  If you actually LIKE hard-boiled detective novels, as I usually don't, you'll be enthralled.	2001-09-06
US	52748904	R3E82NV6YZTIKF	0613026993	994627826	The Golden Compass (His Dark Materials, Book 1)	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Wonderful and captivating, with an unsatisfactory ending	I don't like fantasies. They usually have a smug, Robin-Williams-esque undertone which keeps saying &quot;the real world sucks, but if somebody had given me the opportunity to show everyone how to do it RIGHT, then here's how it would be&quot;. So this book must have been great, because I loved it!<br />The heroine is Lyra, a young girl of indeterminate age (she's apparently about 13 or 14). The centerpiece of Pullman's vision is the &quot;daemon&quot; - an intimate companion in animal form with which every human in Pullman's world comes equipped. Each person's daemon is bound to him or her with a love and intimacy stronger than anything experienced between two people, and if the human dies then so does the daemon. The existence of daemons is bound up with both theological and scientific mysteries, and the attempts to unravel those mysteries has created a titanic struggle among the people who are interested in solving them. Pullman never explains the full solution to the mysteries (an omission which is obviously deliberate), but there are those who are willing to inflict great damage and cruelty on their fellow beings while trying to discover all the secrets of the universe for their own benefit. Two of these people are Lyra's own father and mother, although she doesn't know them to be her parents until well into the story.<br />Lyra has a special destiny to save the world from the ravages of this desperate race to unlock the secrets. While following her quest, she comes in contact with gypsies, armored bears, and semi-immortal witches, some of them good and some bad.<br />Pullman has a sparkling imagination and is a solid writer, so the book kept me happily and gently within its grasp for as long as I was reading it. However, the ending was disappointing. It is almost as if Pullman came to page 396, realized he had to end it by page 400, and thought, &quot;Well let's see I've got to end this thing and leave the reader hanging so he'll want to read the other two volumes in the planned trilogy....&quot; and so he wraps things up with an ending which contradicts almost the entire story up to that point. No explanation is given for the sudden change in viewpoint, other than a quick and muddled conversation between Lyra and her daemon. The two of them then resolve to follow a path almost completely unrelated to what they have been doing for the previous 400 pages. In addition, Pullman informs us at that point that they (Lyra and her daemon) will follow this new quest without any of the characters we have grown to know and love during this first book. Nor does he tell us what happens to all of those friends who helped Lyra on her way.<br />Of course, I haven't read any of the second book in the trilogy (The Subtle Knife), and I don't know whether the third volume has even been published yet. But it seems that the second volume of the &quot;trilogy&quot; is likely to have very little to do with the first.<br />As lousy as the ending is (and I really think it stinks), I can't deduct more than one star for that. The other 396 pages are just too entertaining and imaginative to be that negative about the entire book.	2001-08-27
US	52748904	RVASLWVWRPK9C	0375502025	190088526	The Greatest Generation	Books	5	152	171	N	N	An Impressive and Moving Story	This very moving book teaches more lessons than I can include in one review.   By now most readers probably already know the basic theme - it's the story of a number of representatives of the generation that lived through the depression, fought World War II, and built post-war America.  Many of the stories will bring tears to your eyes and make you recognize how far we have fallen from the standard of sacrifice and non-whining patriotism that these people took for granted as standards to live by.<br /> But perhaps I can point out an additional, less-commented-on lesson from the book:  Despite the consistent themes of responsibility and duty which underlie almost every account, these people were far more diverse than we today have given them credit for.  They were not monolithically conservative, worshipers of the Establishment, traditionally religious, obsessed with making money, conformist gray-flannel people with 2.6 kids and a stay-at-home mom in each family.   For example, when the Viet Nam war and the associated 60s protests arrived, the reactions and tolerance levels of these people varied widely.  Their values and lifestyles were about as diverse as those we find in our new century.<br /> The one clear difference between that generation and subsequent ones can be summed up in two words: no whining.  In the entire book, I don't recall a single individual even mentioning the word \\"rights\\" as they applied to himself or herself.  No one believed that he or she was entitled to special privileges or to live at the expense of anyone else.  No one expected the world to be fair.  They took the world as they found it, and made the best of it.<br /> The only failure that the Greatest Generation can be charged with is that they were so successful in building a society where everything came easily.  That in turn gave rise to the generations of adult brats who gave this book negative reviews because they couldn't believe some of the UNsolved problems could have been so hard to solve.  The life of ease bequeathed to us by the Greatest Generation has obscured the natural hardships of life that made loyalty and hard work a necessary trait for survival.  People now have the luxury of sitting back and leisurely lecturing their forebears on how THEY would have done everything better.  When we hear (or read) such nonsense, I don't know whether the proper reaction is to laugh condescendingly or to throw up.	2001-08-20
US	52748904	R4PSKU8L82NB1	0805054960	967687707	Rough Treatment (Charlie Resnick)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Diverting, but not the best of its kind	This is a &quot;police procedural&quot;, somewhat reminiscent of McBain's 87th Precinct books with a British flavor (or should I say flavour?).  Unusually for a crime novel, there is no murder.  The crimes are burglary and drug dealing.  One of the burglars is a strikingly unusual crook who enjoys bird watching, seduces (maybe even falls for) one of his female victims, and saves the life of another of his victims who suffers a heart attack when he discovers the burglars in his home.<br />There is no real &quot;mystery&quot; here, since the activities of the criminals are described side-by-side along with the attempts of the police to find and arrest them.  There are the usual side issues involving the personal lives of the police officers on the squad, and Harvey does a good job with that.<br />The one thing I found annoying about this novel is Harvey's penchant for giving us a conversation in which the participants speak indirectly and the reader can't figure out what they're talking about.  Harvey isn't the only writer who does this, of course, but I have always found the practice to be smug and aggravating.  There is an undertone of &quot;If you were really paying attention, pal, you'd know exactly what they're talking about.&quot;  I can do without the attitude, Mr. Harvey.<br />Otherwise the book is a completely professionally produced crime novel: pleasant for those who enjoy the genre, but unmemorable.	2001-08-10
US	52748904	R2ID3O4HB36ZFQ	0140265686	396807558	Out to Canaan (Book 4 of the Mitford Years)	Books	1	14	48	N	N	Shockingly superficial and naive	I'm gonna get flamed for this review; I might even lose my status as a &quot;Top 1000&quot; reviewer. But somebody has to tell the truth about this book.<br />This is apparently a continuation of a series of books about the little town of Mitford, North Carolina. Mitford supposedly has a population of only a thousand, although there are many more businesses and churches than a town of that size would realistically have.<br />The main character is the longtime rector of the Episcopal Church in Mitford, who is valiantly trying to solve the problems of at least a dozen people. Those attempts are complicated by his own personal and family problems, as well as some political divisions within the town.<br />Without exception, every attempt to solve every problem is successful. The rector confidently places his trust in the Lord, and remarkable coincidences save the day in every case.<br />The naivet&eacute; of this book is breathtaking. Karon seems to believe that good intentions will always be rewarded, whether you are trying to reform an alcoholic, raise hundreds of thousands of dollars for your church, teach a teenager how to drive, or build a marriage between two people who remained single well into their fifties. Has Karon's life really been like that, or has she been sleepwalking since birth? The rector doesn't even have to break a sweat to solve every problem and rescue every soul in town. No one ever resents his attempts to intrude into their lives. He never has to deal with the often-agonizing issue of where to draw the line between supporting people and teaching them to support themselves.<br />The religious aspect of the book is not heavy-handed, but the preposterous naivet&eacute; of the author's viewpoint applies to religion as well. At one point the rector assures one of his church members that the Lord would not allow a cholera relief project to fail since it's too righteous and important a cause. Now, if relieving cholera is so important to the Lord that He will intervene in human affairs to assure the success of the project, one might wonder why He didn't intervene to prevent the epidemic in the first place. But neither our good rector nor the author Karon seem to have allowed such faithless ideas to enter their heads. Again and again, ridiculously unlikely coincidences, attributed to divine intervention, occur at the very last minute to save the day. In Karon's theology, God seems to spend all His time cleaning up after His own oversights.<br />In order to inject some &quot;realism&quot; into the story, Karon provides a squabble between the rector and his wife - a squabble so minor that no real live married couple would even remember it the next day - and inflates it into a titanic crisis.<br />The characters in the book are consistently and uniformly superficial and one-dimensional. No one ever deeply questions his/her own values, no one feels unloved or unappreciated. No one looks back on his/her life and wonders whether it was truly worth it. There are two teenagers in the book, and neither encounters the emotional crises or shattered self-esteem that are a virtually universal part of everyone's adolescence. There are two &quot;bad guys&quot;, but they are kept permanently in the background, and, I believe, neither ever speaks a word. And needless to say, their inner motivations are never explored - presumably because Karon is unaware that human beings ever HAVE inner motivations.<br />A previous reviewer mentioned that there is a good mystery story in this book. Here's the mystery: a little girl is missing, having been taken somewhere, previously, by a cousin. The rector's secretary looks up the cousin's name on the Internet, and discovers that he is living in Florida. The rector and his wife drive down and get the little girl and the cousin (who is nearly dead from gangrene - and the rector saves the day again). That's the &quot;mystery&quot;. The whole thing.<br />There is nothing wrong with idealism. We canall aspire to create our own little Mitfords in our lives, and to devote as much time as possible to helping others. The reason this book is so astoundingly bad is not because it is idealistic. It is bad because anyone who tries to live a life like the ones portrayed in this book, and expects to have anything remotely approaching the results this rector achieves, will experience bitter disillusionment, followed by terminal cynicism.<br />The book, very simply, is a lie.aspire to create our own little Mitfords in our lives, and to devote as much time as possible to helping others. The reason this book is so astoundingly bad is not because it is idealistic. It is bad because anyone who tries to live a life like the ones portrayed in this book, and expects to have anything remotely approaching the results this rector achieves, will experience bitter disillusionment, followed by terminal cynicism. <br />The book, very simply, is a lie.	2001-08-08
US	52748904	R109SNHONX65M1	0345376579	872767129	The End of the Pier	Books	3	7	7	N	N	A pleasant non-masterpiece	This is a standard mystery/suspense novel with one or two diverting ideas.  Maude, the heroine, has some quirky thoughts which she tries to share with sheriff Sam.  But Sam is a standard linear-thinking male who finds Maude's ideas perplexing.  Their conversations toward the begininning of the book were for me the most interesting part of the novel.  Unfortunately, once the action starts, Grimes pretty much drops the conversational sparring between Maude and Sam.  This is just one example if the disjointedness mentioned by a previous reviewer.  Many pages of the novel seem mostly unrelated to the mystery itself.  So it is not a well-constructed mystery, but it is pleasant enough, with no obvious giveaway of the ultimate solution.  It ends with one of those annoying long speeches by the guilty party, explaining to the intended final victim just how all the previous murders had been committed, and speaking just long enough for the cavalry to arrive.  But this one has a slightly different twist to it.  If you're a Grimes fan or just looking for a lazy way to pass some time, this is worth reading.	2001-07-28
US	52748904	R2ZTW8IRQIES3V	0465069592	114985244	T.R.: The Last Romantic	Books	4	9	14	N	N	Clear and well-researched, but not too inspiring	I read this simply because I felt I didn't know as much about Teddy Roosevelt as I wanted to, and this book appeared to be the best choice for remedying the situation.  In that sense, this book was a definite success.<br /> Brands writes clearly and objectively, although he doesn't have the writing style to create a memorable phrase or an evocative sentence.  If he has one overriding thesis concerning Roosevelt, it is that he (TR) was a throwback to the era of romantic heroes, and became popular and effective at exactly the time when America was looking for such a hero.  It's a plausible thesis, but it is somehow insufficient to make the book catch fire.<br /> The book is a biography as opposed to a political history.  If the purpose had been a close examination of Roosevelt's presidency or his accomplishments as a public official, it would have been very different.  The time he spent as president is just one 7-year period in his life, and it is treated that way.  So those of us who read the book for an in-depth treatment of the Roosevelt era in terms of governmental policies and decisions are likely to be disappointed.<br /> Did I come away with a greater appreciation of Theodore Roosevelt after reading this book?  Definitely not.  Roosevelt comes across to me as one of those politicians (Al Gore is another) who regard the lives of millions of American citizens as nothing more than the clay from which they will fashion their artistic masterpieces. It is the obligation of those millions of citizens to subordinate their own interests to the overriding purpose of creating a noble and heroic nation - \\"noble\\" and \\"heroic\\" to be defined, of course (in this case), by Teddy Roosevelt.  I am appalled that he would have been considered to be the fourth person on Mount Rushmore in the company of Washington, Lincoln, and Jefferson.  (By the way, it is noteworthy and not surprising that Roosevelt despised Jefferson.)<br /> But I don't believe that Brands intended his readers tocome away with the same opinion that I developed.  He presents the facts as he sees them, and presents them evenhandedly.  I think other readers with a more \\"progressive\\" political slant than mine will read this book and think TR was a wonderful guy.<br />I haven't read any other books on Roosevelt, so I can't compare this one to anything else.  But as a straightforward and unbiased account of his life, this book does a solid and satisfying job.	2001-07-28
US	52748904	R24826F1OTJJ2A	0140284621	459357354	Uncle Fred in the Springtime (A Blandings Story)	Books	5	28	31	N	N	There is only one Wodehouse!	If you have ever read &quot;Elements of Style&quot; by Strunk and White (and if you haven't, then you should be legally prohibited from writing even so much as a thank-you note), then this book, like all Wodehouse books, is a perfect example of how to violate almost every rule in the book.<br />Consider the following: &quot;The ninth Earl of Emsworth was a man who in times of stress always tended to resemble the Aged Parent in an old-fashioned melodrama when informed that the villain intended to foreclose the mortgage. He wore now a disintegrated air, as if somebody had removed most of his interior organs. You see the same sort of thing in stuffed parrots when the sawdust has leaked out of them.&quot;<br />How's that for failing to &quot;omit needless words&quot;? And how's that for vividly portraying the feeble-minded Lord Emsworth, one of Wodehouse's most memorable of his many memorable and hilarious characters?<br />The plot here is typical Wodehouse: a few love-stricken young people see their dreams of eternal wedded bliss threatened by either misunderstandings or lack of cash or both, and a young ne'er-do-well has run up some gambling debts, a circumstance which puts him in danger of some painful bone-crushing. Enter Uncle Fred, an aging playboy with a manipulative mind and a sense of adventure. He orchestrates a plan involving a visit to Blandings Castle (the Emsworth estate) which results in everyone living happily ever after.<br />But, of course, that plot outline is pretty much the plot outline of every Wodehouse novel. What makes it (and every Wodehouse production) a 5-star novel is the delicious phraseology, the preposterous and yet believable characterizations, and the continuous twinkle in the author's eye. You either &quot;get&quot; Wodehouse or you don't. If you don't, then go to a doctor and get it fixed immediately!	2001-07-28
US	52748904	R1JIQCKWDHIYO6	046508995X	469991966	The Vision of the Anointed: Self-Congratulation as a Basis for Social Policy	Books	5	326	372	N	N	Won't be read by those who need it most	Ever wonder why liberals are so emotionally in favor of gun control even though it's a conclusive fact that gun control doesn't reduce gun violence?  Or why they support the bilingual education programs that do so much damage to immigrant children?  Or why they favor rent controls that make housing unavailable to the poor people for whom they supposedly have so much sympathy?  Or why they want to make it illegal for a person to be employed if (s)he lacks the skills to do more than $7 worth of work every hour?<br />If the motives of liberals were truly what they say they are, then these positions would never gather the support that they now enjoy from the liberal community.  Liberals are not uninformed; they read the same books, newspapers and academic journals as conservatives or libertarians.  So why do they so consistently advocate policies whose results are demonstrably contrary to the results they claim to want?<br />Sowell explains the answer in this wonderful book.  The reason, he says, is that the real motives of liberals have nothing to do with the welfare of other people.  Instead, they have two related goals: first, to establish themselves as morally and intellectually superior to the rather distasteful population of common people, and second, to gather as much power as possible to tell those distasteful common people how they must live their lives.  If a policy moves them closer to those two goals, they will find a reason to advocate it, regardless of how harmful the consequences of that policy may be.<br />Once you read this book, the dishonest posturing of liberals becomes far more understandable.  They engage in a preposterous circular argument:  They are wiser and more moral than others because they &quot;understand&quot; the need for the policies they advocate.  In turn, those policies are the correct policies because they are advocated by the wiser and more moral members of society!<br />Many of Sowell's conclusions have become clear to me from personal experience.  I recall attending a town meeting with a congressman in the early 80's, at which a pompous ass stood up and delivered a long diatribe on American policy in Nicaragua, ending with a rhetorical question about what &quot;people of conscience&quot; were going to do about those terrible policies.  &quot;People of conscience&quot;, by his definition, were the people who agreed with his beliefs regarding Nicaraguan policy.  (Apparently the Nicaraguans themselves had no conscience, since at the first available opportunity they threw out the Sandinista government that he so fervently supported.)<br />When participating in a debate about gun control, the self-anointed liberals will assume without question that it is only the people who agree with their positions who care about children or violence.  They assume without question that only narrow-minded chauvinists oppose bilingual education.  They assume without question that only racists oppose racial discrimination (which they have renamed &quot;affirmative action&quot;).  They assume without question that the people who feed and clothe them, who build their homes and cure their diseases, are engaged in a process of greed and exploitation - but that people who make their living by telling others what to do, and who get paid for doing so with money confiscated forcibly from those who earned it, are engaged in &quot;public service&quot;.<br />Few liberals will read Sowell's book, because almost all liberals lack the moral and intellectual courage to confront their own motivations.  But those few who read it by mistake will find themselves deeply pierced.  Liberals are so accustomed to being able to bully their opponents with name-calling and preemption of the entire vocabulary of debate, that they scream with fury when their pretenses are stripped away.<br />Having said all that, I have to admit that a couple of previous reviewers are right when they accuse Sowell of ignoring the propensity of conservatives to sometimes engage in the same kind of sloppy thinking and self-serving prejudice which he attributes only to liberals.  That criticism is fair; Sowell is a conscious partisan.  It is only Libertarians (like me, of course!  :-)   ) who consistently stick to principle.	2001-07-13
US	52748904	RA0WALRUWRVPL	046508995X	469991966	The Vision of the Anointed: Self-Congratulation as a Basis for Social Policy	Books	5	12	18	N	N	Won't be read by those who need it most	(...)If the motives of liberals were truly what they say they are, then these positions would never gather the support that they now enjoy from the liberal community. Liberals are not uninformed; they read the same books, newspapers and academic journals as conservatives or libertarians. So why do they so consistently advocate policies whose results are demonstrably contrary to the results they claim to want? <br />Sowell explains the answer in this wonderful book. The reason, he says, is that the real motives of liberals have nothing to do with the welfare of other people. Instead, they have two related goals: first, to establish themselves as morally and intellectually superior to the rather distasteful population of common people, and second, to gather as much power as possible to tell those distasteful common people how they must live their lives. If a policy moves them closer to those two goals, they will find a reason to advocate it, regardless of how harmful the consequences of that policy may be.<br />Once you read this book, the dishonest posturing of liberals becomes far more understandable. They engage in a preposterous circular argument: They are wiser and more righteous than others because they \\"understand\\" the need for the policies they advocate. In turn, those policies are the correct policies because they are advocated by the wiser and more righteous members of society!<br />Many of Sowell's conclusions have become clear to me from personal experience. (...)Few liberals will read Sowell's book, because almost all liberals lack the moral and intellectual courage to confront their own motivations. But those few who read it by mistake will find themselves deeply pierced. Liberals are so accustomed to being able to bully their opponents with name-calling and preemption of the entire vocabulary of debate, that they scream with fury when their pretenses are stripped away.  (...)<br />Having said all that, I have to admit that a couple of previous reviewersare right when they accuse Sowell of ignoring the propensity of conservatives to sometimes engage in the same kind of sloppy thinking and self-serving prejudice which he attributes only to liberals. That criticism is fair; Sowell is a conscious partisan. It is only Libertarians (like me, of course! :-) ) who consistently stick to principle.	2001-07-10
US	52748904	R2WTTLR9XFAEDA	080411188X	190830964	Defend and Betray: An Inspector William Monk Novel	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Considerably below her usual standard	The plot outline is this:  A well-respected army general is murdered during a dinner party at the home of a friend.  Soon his wife confesses to the crime, giving jealousy as her motive.  Edith, the younger sister of the deceased general, is skeptical of the confession, and approaches her friend Hester for some help.  Hester, in turn, enlists the famed attorney Oliver Rathbone and former Inspector William Monk to work on the case.<br />The first 250 pages are so boring and so empty that one wonders why Perry wrote the book at all.  All three of the above-mentioned investigators go out to gather information and interview the witnesses and acquaintances of the principal parties.  They find absolutely nothing.  It soon becomes clear that the wife is lying about her motive, but everyone is mystified as to what the real motive is.  So for 250 pages we get almost nothing except conversations among the three people, exchanging no information because there is no information to exchange, and becoming increasingly pessimistic about their chances to save the wife from being hanged.<br />A modern reader, on the other hand, has no trouble figuring out the wife's motive long before the people in the book do.  So that element of suspense is missing.  The only open question in the reader's mind is exactly how are the characters in the book going to find out the motive.<br />Not only are the first 250 pages excruciatingly boring, but also the book is poorly edited.  There are several threads in the story which are confusing, and several times people do things, or omit doing things, for which the motivation is either nonexistent or poorly explained.<br />One of the subplots is Monk's emotional longing to reconstruct a case which this one reminds him of, but which he can't remember because of a head injury which impaired his memory.  That previous case might have been in one of the prior Monk novels that I haven't read, but the entire subplot is just an annoyance and seems out of placein this novel.<br />So what's good about this novel?  The last 100 pages.  Once we get to the courtroom, Perry's writing suddenly becomes far more powerful and surehanded.  The drama builds, and even though the reader knows all the facts by now, it is highly uncertain how the whole thing will play out during the trial.  Rathbone (and therefore Perry) does a masterful job of sequencing the witnesses, the questions, and the testimony.  The final ending is moving and satisfying.<br />Is the truly fine ending worth wading through the 250 pages of dross that precede it?  Probably not.  This is my fourth Anne Perry novel, and I know she can do much better than this.  Read the others.	2001-06-04
US	52748904	R1BBFBRUPZ45VH	067168390X	34918879	Lonesome Dove	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of the truly great novels	OK you already know the outline.  Augustus McCrae and Woodrow Call are two aging ex-Texas Rangers who decide to experience one last adventure before they get too old for such things.  They gather up a herd of cattle, hire some help, and head for Montana, where they aim to become that state's first cattle ranchers.  They start out from their sleepy south Texas town of Lonesome Dove, hence the book's title.<br />This book is so rich and long, with so many characters and subthemes, that a quick review can't do it justice.  One of the earliest clues to the quality of the book came on page 112 (out of 945), with the phrase, &quot;The Hat Creek outfit, seven strong, crossed the river...&quot;  At that point I realized that in a span of only 112 pages, McMurtry had established seven diverse and vividly recognizable characters.  By that time, almost any sentence uttered by any of those seven people would have been sufficient for me to identify which character said it.  <br />Moreover, within the first ten pages the book had thrown me almost bodily into the South Texas of the 19th century.  So not only does the book create characters that seem like real people whom you know personally, it also places the reader temporarily into a different world.  For the next 900 pages, I lived with McCrae, Call, and company 24/7, even when I wasn't reading the book.<br />Almost every person and every event in this long novel is thought-provoking.  The book has a wealth of unforgettable people as well as a wealth of unforgettable lessons to teach.  One noteworthy theme is that the two most practical and least romantic characters in the book are women (one of them Gus's old sweetheart Clara, the other a farmer woman whom deputy Roscoe encounters in his wanderings).  One of the most memorable &quot;characters&quot; is the prairie itself: endless and uncaring, and a bitter challenge to even the bravest and strongest.<br />But the continuous thread running through the book is the unspoken camaraderie between Augustus McCrae and Woodrow Call.  The two men love each other with an intensity, loyalty, and depth rarely found between lovers or married couples.  Toward the very end, Clara delivers a denunciation of that relationship, and her words are indeed thought-provoking.  But I have a hard time believing that Clara was speaking for the author.  The two men, and I suspect McMurtry himself, were of the type who believed that there was more to life than the practicalities of establishing a home.  They went for the gusto with all their hearts.  Regardless of what McMurtry may have written in any sequels, I can't believe that either of them ever regretted it.	2001-05-27
US	52748904	R2P6HWKY4LLB3K	0425141977	813189523	A Share in Death	Books	4	35	35	N	N	Pleasant and professional	This is exactly what most readers of &quot;cozy&quot; mysteries want when they sit down to read a new book.  Scotland Yard detective Duncan Kincaid is on holiday at a time-sharing resort in Yorkshire when the assistant manager of the resort is electrocuted in the swimming pool.  The local police official, who is both obnoxious and incompetent, is predictably unhappy with Kincaid's presence, and Kincaid compounds the situation with his inability to restrain his curiosity.  A second murder soon follows, and a third seems imminent.<br />There are ample suspects, some of them likeable and some downright nasty.  Every character seems to have at least a minor skeleton in his or her closet, and Crombie keeps the reader asking why Mr. X did that, or why Ms. Y was where she was at such-and-such a time - all the elements you're supposed to have when reading a mystery.<br />In short, nothing spectacularly memorable here, but a debut for Ms. Crombie which certainly makes me want to read the rest of her books.	2001-04-24
US	52748904	R1VZXKUUEMSA9M	0385493622	603019861	Fermat's Enigma: The Epic Quest to Solve the World's Greatest Mathematical Problem	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A delight for mathematicians and non-mathematicians alike	Singh's account of the conquest of Fermat's Last Theorem goes far beyond just the history of Andrew Wiles's sucessful proof.  The story begins all the way back in the time of Pythagoras, and Singh tells it in an informative and entertaining style.<br />You need very little knowledge of math to understand this book.  What little you do need, Singh tells you lucidly and without patronizing his readers.  The book is full of human-interest stories from the history of mathematics (and yes, there are many!), so the book is certainly not for mathematicians only.<br />It's remarkable that Singh can discuss the activities of research-level mathematicians in such an easily-readable book, but he has done it.  Highly recommended!	2001-04-24
US	52748904	R1E95WZ3OWI3LY	0440235596	870989999	Tara Road (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The usual Binchy themes, developed by a true virtuoso	This is a richer, more ambitious novel than the other three Binchy books I've read (Circle of Friends, Glass Lake, and The Copper Beech).  In other respects it is typical Binchy.  She creates a powerful empathy between her characters and the reader.  If you're like me, you will hope, fear, love, and despair moment by moment along with her people.<br />The main character in this one is Ria (short for &quot;Maria&quot;), a true and decent Dublin woman.  As a young woman, she lands (much to her own amazement) the best-looking and most ambitious man in her office.  Danny is an up-and-coming real estate agent.  His charm and ambition soon earn them a gracious home and a very upper-middle-class lifestyle, well beyond anything Ria had expected for herself.  Life progresses so smoothly and happily in the first half of the novel that you know it isn't going to last.<br />It doesn't.  Ria discovers that Danny has been cheating on her, has impregnated a much younger woman, and wants to leave her.  So she now has to confront the questions we all have to face eventually:  who is she, what does she really want from life, and how can she get it.<br />There are many other characters in this book, all of them vividly portrayed.  As in her other novels, Binchy has an obvious sympathy with every one of them (with one exception - and he ends up dead anyway).  And again, as it always does with Binchy, the novel ends with hope - a hope that is grounded in open-eyed realism instead of the earlier nave romanticism.<br />Binchy plays this theme as well as any writer around.  If she has really stopped writing novels, I mourn for the unborn characters she will no longer create, and whom I will be unable to love.  I am just one of many to whom she has given truly gratifying reading experiences.	2001-04-16
US	52748904	RPFQ2RVXB34H3	0553569082	928323293	After Dark	Books	4	36	38	N	N	Hard to improve on	This one combines the best elements of the &quot;cozy&quot; and &quot;suspense&quot; styles of mystery-writing.  The protagonist is Tracy Cavanaugh, a recent law school graduate who clerks for a justice of the Oregon Supreme Court.<br /> During her last days at the Oregon Supreme Court, one of Tracy's clerk colleagues is murdered.  That murder is followed shortly by the murder of the justice who employed the murdered clerk.  The murdered justice's estranged wife, herself a brilliant prosecutor, soon becomes the prime suspect.  At the same time, Tracy's year of clerking is up, and she goes to work for renowned defense attorney Matthew Reynolds, who is defending the accused wife.<br /> This is definitely a better novel than &quot;Undertaker's Widow&quot;, which was the first Phillip Margolin mystery I read.  Most of the primary characters are well-drawn and memorable.  The plot is unpredictable but doesn't stretch credulity.  The last 75 pages give the plot several twists before the ultimate solution is revealed.  The book is captivating and well-written throughout.<br /> This book provides one more example of the foolishness... several years ago, to change the rating system from a 10-star maximum to a 5-star maximum.  This book is a cut above Hazel Holt's &quot;Mrs. Malory, Detective in Residence&quot;, to which I gave 4 stars.  It is also a definite cut below Elizabeth George's novels, all of which deserve 5 stars.  I will stick with my contention that only real literature deserves 5 stars, and this isn't real literature.  But it's about as good as genre mysteries ever get.	2001-04-15
US	52748904	R24EI5XFGDWE4G	0525939032	864730025	Mrs. Malory: Detective in Residence	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A good choice for its intended audience	The Booklist review above has it right:  nothing outstanding, but pleasant reading.  This one delivers exactly what people read cozy mysteries for: good plotting, a sense of time and place, a logical series of clues, a sufficient collection of suspects, a likeable amateur detective.  I have two criticisms:  First, some of the characters could have been drawn more vividly.  I found myself several times leafing backwards through the book so I could remember just who John Smith or Mary Jones was, when they appear on the scene for the first time in 75 pages.  Secondly, the final solution of the mystery depends on facts that are unknown to either the reader or the sleuth until the last 10 pages or so.  That is generally considered unfair in mystery-writing, but I must say it doesn't seem at all egregious here.  It is not one of those irritating cases in which the hero notices a paper clip on the floor of the library, uses it as the decisive clue, and reveals the presence of the paper clip only on the last page when he is triumphantly announcing the solution.  In this book, the decisive information is revealed to us at the same time as it is to the heroine.<br />So we come back to my original conclusion.  If you like cozy mysteries in general, you almost certainly will like this one.  If you don't like them, you probably aren't reading this review in the first place!	2001-04-02
US	52748904	R1SIB9W7JGSARP	0201021153	417382030	The Feynman Lectures on Physics (3 Volume Set)	Books	5	265	278	N	N	Memory of a Lifetime	When I took my sophomore-level physics class in college in the mid-60's, my professor put these Feynman books on reserve in the library.  Eventually, looking for anything that could help me with a difficult course, I went into the library to see what Mr. Feynman (of whom I had never heard) had to say.<br />I was spellbound.  It was unimaginable to me that a subject so full of technical detail, formulas and equations, could be brought to life so brilliantly and vividly.<br />I soon changed my major to math, and I never heard or thought of Richard Feynman again until the Challenger disaster about 20 years later.  When President Reagan appointed Feynman to the investigating panel, I said, &quot;Hey!  That's the guy who wrote those wonderful Physics books!&quot;<br />Since then I have learned a lot more about Richard Feynman, and I guess I could say that if I have a hero, he's it.  I have also gone back to look at these incomparable physics books again, and they are at least as magnificent as I thought they were in 1966.  After decades of reading math and science books, I still believe this set of three books is head and shoulders above ANY textbook that I have seen in ANY subject.  (Although, as others have said, it isn't really a textbook.  On the other hand, after reading these books, you are likely to ask, &quot;Who the hell needs a texbook?&quot;)<br />Feynman manages to cover the technical and mechanical details of his subject while at the same time conveying a deep and philosophical understanding of the way the physical world works.  He shines a dazzling and penetrating floodlight on a subject which is murky to all but the most talented among us.<br />No praise is too high or too exaggerated for this work.  It is one of the great achievements in the history of scientific writing.	2001-04-01
US	52748904	R1OB3X36KZFN7H	0425140989	953095843	Thyme of Death (China Bayles 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A tightly-written small town American whodunit	China Bayles is a former lawyer who burned out on both the stress and the questionable ethics of big city corporate law and decided to open an herb shop in a small town in central Texas (yeah, right - but you have to suspend your cynicism to enjoy almost any mystery, including this one!).  When her terminally ill best friend dies of an apparent suicide, the circumstances smell fishy to more than one observer.  The suspects all gather for the funeral, the local police chief is unmoved in his belief that this was a simple suicide, and the predictable complications ensue.  One noticeable divergence from the norm is that every major character except the police chief and Bayles's lover is a woman.<br />Based on the bare outlines of the story, this is just a standard run-of-the-mill mystery novel.  But the plot has just the right degree of plausible complexity, with just the right number of plausible suspects; the characters are believable, vivid, and appealing, and the writing is very good.  The only annoyance was that every time a character enters the scene, Albert feels called upon to describe every item of her clothing in excruciating detail.<br />I liked this book just as well as those who gave it five stars, but I think 5 stars should be reserved for books of much greater depth and artistic quality than a 245-page genre novel.<br />Thyme of Death was, I believe, the first book in Albert's China Bayles series.  It established plenty of atmosphere and personality on which to base more books, and I look forward to reading those.	2001-03-04
US	52748904	R1C9JP9NBRZH0A	0684847264	718410558	Zachary's Wings: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Warm, tender and enlightening.	This book is well written and thought-provoking, without being deep.  It is a warm and enjoyable story of an African-American love triangle.  <br />Korie, from an aristocratic Jamaican family, is an educated and successful woman.  In college, she is charmed by Sam, an intelligent but unambitious schoolmate.  They marry, but eventually drift apart.<br />When Korie meets Zachary, it's magic.  But soon Sam becomes gravely ill and needs Korie's constant care.  Zachary quickly recognizes Sam's illness as AIDS, but Korie is afraid to confront the implications of that diagnosis, and neither of the men wants to disillusion her.  In any case, Zachary soon becomes Sam's primary caretaker.  Meanwhile, the stress of handling relations with two lovers, and also trying to live up to her family's expectations, drives Korie deeper and deeper into drug addiction and despair.<br />After Sam's death, Korie's despair and drug addiction grow worse, and Zachary returns to Philadelphia.  But with her family's help, Korie eventually straightens herself and understands what a treasure she had in Zachary.<br />In Zachary, Robotham has created a saintly character without making him too good to be true - and that's no easy task.  I go back to the single criterion I use to decide how well I like a novel:  Did I care about these characters?  And the answer is a resounding YES.  The fact is I loved all three of them for as long as they lived in my imagination while reading this book.<br />In addition, the book did something for me which I'm not sure Robotham had in mind.  It gave me a glimmer of insight into why African-Americans need the companionship of other African-Americans, and will never be completely comfortable as 12% of a White culture.  She (Robotham) communicates this without screaming at the reader about the desperate conditions in the ghetto, or by any anti-White diatribes.  It is just the cadences of the conversations, the assumptions and routines of daily life, which made me understand why there is nothing necessarily sinister or racist in the tendency of (for example) Black high school students to hang out together.<br />To accomplish this in less than 300 pages, along with telling a splendid love story, is an impressive accomplishment.  Well done, Ms. Robotham!	2001-03-04
US	52748904	R3GDTEQPUBDFDF	039307448X	604008127	Present at the Creation: My Years in the State Department	Books	5	92	94	N	N	Fascinating - and will teach you how much you don't know	A brief objective description of the book:  Dean Acheson was Harry Truman's Secretary of State.  In that role, he was instrumental in setting the tone and direction of our foreign policy, especially toward the Communist bloc, at the very beginning of the post World War II era [hence the title of the book].  This book is his memoir of the years he spent in the State Department.  He discusses how decisions were reached and how the policies were implemented.  Acheson was an articulate and engaging writer, but only people interested in the subject of cold war foreign policy are likely to enjoy reading all the way through this book.  If you are such a person, I expect you'll find the book captivating and brilliant.<br />But here's how the book affected me personally:  Like most people interested in politics, I always held fiercely to my opinions about what we should have done or shouldn't have done in our cold war foreign policy.  I listened to or read political speeches by George McGovern, Jesse Helms, Henry Wallace, Joe McCarthy, and everyone in between.  But it was only when I read this book [and then followed it by reading &quot;Diplomacy&quot; by Henry Kissinger - another excellent book] that I realized that for decades I had been spewing forth opinions without knowing what I was talking about.  Acheson does a wonderful job at describing the considerations that had to be taken into account before coming to conclusions on the many critical issues that faced the U.S. in those years, and he really opened my eyes.<br />It wasn't that Acheson's book taught me that I was wrong about any one particular issue.  I didn't come away feeling that I had been too &quot;hawkish&quot; or too &quot;dovish&quot; about anything.  I simply realized that every foreign policy decision is far more intricate, with many more variables and many more potential consequences to every decision, than I had ever understood before.  <br />Acheson's book may be grist for debates among cold war ideologues.  They may argue till kingdom come that if Acheson hadn't done this or said that, then such-and-such would never have happened.  Some people will say that if Acheson had been nicer to poor old Joe Stalin, then Stalin would have been nicer to us.  Some will say that if Acheson hadn't been so accommodating and naive, we could have destroyed the communist conspiracy before it ever got off the ground.  My own feeling is that both groups are wrong, but that's beside the point.  The important point is that those endless public debates between the hawks and the doves are almost criminally superficial.  Almost never do we hear a speech or read an article that comes close to describing the full range of options in any major decision, along with a description of all the possible ramifications of one alternative or another.<br />The main thing I learned from reading this book was the extent of my own ignorance.  And perhaps that's the beginning of wisdom.	2001-02-17
US	52748904	RLDJG7Z4Q7STB	0553575104	762287509	In Pursuit of the Proper Sinner	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Perhaps her best - but aren't they all?	I find it aggravating when I discover that an Elizabeth George novel is awarded four stars by the readers, and then find that some forgettable, superficial 210-page mystery by someone else is classified as a five-star work.  It shows that the &quot;star&quot; system has some deficiencies, because those formulaic genre mysteries (and I enjoy them as much as anyone) can't be mentioned in the same breath as George's work.<br />If you haven't read an Elizabeth George novel before, then this isn't the one to start with.  At the very least, you need to read &quot;Deception On His Mind&quot; first.  (I really believe that everybody should start with her first Lynley/Havers novel, &quot;A Great Deliverance&quot;, and read them all in sequence, but I have to accept that some people may not be that ambitious or as fervent an admirer of Ms. George as I am!)<br />The long-simmering conflict between Havers and Lynley takes center stage in this novel.  In order to accentuate the conflict, George has Lynley acting even more rigidly than usual, while Havers becomes even more impulsive.  Masterful writer that she is, George uses the conflict between the two of them to make the mystery itself even more complex and interesting than usual.<br />The bare outlines of the story are that two murders are committed one night in an isolated area of a moor.  One victim is the daughter of a retired Scotland Yard detective of Lynley's acquaintance; the other is a young man who aspired to be an artist but actually made his living distributing the business cards of prostitutes to phone booths and other public places.  At the beginning the two victims seem to have no connection to each other, but we soon learn that the daughter had been living a double life, and was a highly paid dominatrix in London.  There is, of course, an ample supply of suspects and motives.  George handles both the mystery and the relationship between Havers and Lynley masterfully.  And George has not forgotten the relationship between Havers and her Pakistani neighbor family that was so central to &quot;Deception on his Mind&quot;.  Although that relationship occupies only a few pages of this book, it is still perhaps the most emotionally moving part of the story.<br />In sum, this is another memorably wonderful Elizabeth George novel.  I hope she never, never stops writing them.	2001-02-16
US	52748904	R3CZR6269SNL2F	1569562199	477041087	Cultural Literacy: What Every American Needs to Know	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Parents already know this - teachers need to wake up!	A couple of the previous reviews demonstrate why this book is still needed more than a decade after its publication. Our schools are still dominated by people who don't think you have to know anything in order to be educated. They think a teacher can train a brain to be an empty vessel in which interchangeable knowledge can be accurately processed. They are wrong.<br /> The &quot;content vs. process&quot; debate has been at the heart of educational controversy for a long time. In the schools of education at universities, the &quot;process&quot; theory has dominated for well over half a century, despite the efforts of the educationists to portray process as the &quot;innovative&quot; approach and content as &quot;traditional&quot;. The objectively demonstrable decline in educational achievement in the United States correlates almost perfectly with the acceptance of the &quot;process&quot; approach. <br />Hirsch believes in content. He describes persuasively and articulately why content is in fact prerequisite to learning &quot;how to think&quot;. Perhaps more importantly, he argues that a good part of the achievement gap between children from rich and/or white families and poor and/or minority families can be attributed to the greater fund of concrete facts with which the more privileged children arrive in school. <br />Most learning is done largely by comparing and contrasting new ideas with things we already know, or by describing a new concept by use of an example that we already know. The concrete facts and names that the student recognizes constitute her learning vocabulary. A smaller vocabulary means a smaller number of learning resources. <br />Hirsch includes in the book a preliminary list (which he expanded in a subsequent book) of terms and names with which any educated person should be familiar. A previous reviewer complained that Babe Ruth was included and Hank Aaron wasn't. Obviously, she missed the point. Her complaint points up the difference between education as education, and education as propaganda. People - yes, both black and white - communicate ideas and images by using Babe Ruth as an example or as a metaphor; they don't do that with Hank Aaron. At the peak of his popularity, Babe Ruth was probably the most famous person in America, not even excepting the President of the United States. Hank Aaron never was, whether he deserved to be or not. (It is also easily demonstrated that Babe Ruth was a better baseball player than Hank Aaron, but that misses the point.) <br />You can argue that soccer and chess are better games than baseball, but we don't communicate ideas and knowledge by using any particular soccer players or chess players as examples. Almost all young people today know who Elvis Presley was, but a shameful number of them can't identify Chuck Berry. Be that as it may, knowing the name of Elvis Presley is more important in communicating knowledge and ideas in our culture than knowing the name of Chuck Berry. <br />And OF COURSE the book is elitist! My word, how could ANYONE who is not an elitist EVER be allowed to have ANY influence over educational policy??? Elitism means a respect for excellence, a respect for standards, and a respect for achievement. Elitism means that knowing is better than not knowing, and that success is better than failure. Elitism is exactly what education is all about. Hirsch hasn't forgotten that; unfortunately many teachers and some reviewers have.	2001-02-11
US	52748904	R1DELGPALV84YW	0375708111	458870497	The Elegant Universe: Superstrings, Hidden Dimensions, and the Quest for the Ultimate Theory	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Spectacularly successful!	It's hard to believe that anyone could have written a book about contemporary theoretical physics and make it as interesting and accessible as Greene has done here.  The central topic of the book is something called &quot;Superstring Theory&quot;, which is physicists' latest attempt at a &quot;Theory of Everything&quot;.  By a &quot;Theory of Everything&quot; we mean a description of the physical world at its most fundamental level.  If literally everything - matter, energy, and all the curious little in-between objects like photons - is made up of superstrings, then to understand superstrings completely will be to understand EVERYTHING completely.<br />How &quot;accessible&quot; is the book?  Well, you don't need an advanced degree in theoretical physics in order to understand it.  But a reader with no knowledge of college-level physics or mathematics will probably find it rough going.  You probably should at least have an idea of what the subject of quantum mechanics is, as well as some notion of relativity - although Greene describes both of those subjects for the neophyte.  You should know enough mathematics that the idea of nine or eleven-dimensional space doesn't blow you away completely.  If the suggestions in this paragraph intimidate you, then I suggest reading the incomparable &quot;One Two Three....Infinity&quot; by George Gamow before reading this book.  Despite being more than 40 years old (Gamow certainly had never heard of superstrings), that book will do a wonderful job of opening your mind to the point where you can accept the notions of &quot;The Elegant Universe&quot; more easily.<br />My only reservation about the book is that it seems premature.  According to Greene's account, there is remarkably little direct physical evidence to support superstring theory.  That is not to say that there is physical evidence CONTRADICTING string theory, either - there isn't.  But when many of the best brains in the human race are devoting their lives to studying string theory, one might ask whether they are jumping the gun by giving so much effort to an unproven theory.  There seem to be at least a couple of answers to that objection.<br />First, there are good reasons for the absence of physical evidence for string theory. One is that the physical events predicted by string theory can be experimentally discovered only under extremely high-energy or physically tiny conditions - conditions which we lack the technology to create and examine.  Another reason is that string theory addresses such tiny, precise quantities that the usual &quot;approximate&quot; mathematics we use in everyday life is inapplicable.  For example, a doctor wouldn't think twice about prescribing the same dosage of medication for a 150-lb. patient and a 155-lb. patient.  Those weights are approximate anyway, and nothing would be gained by making a distinction.  However, the quantities dealt with by string theory are so small and precise that the string theorists have not been able to confidently predict the outcomes of the experiments which would be performed to test string theory!   A second answer is that there is a sort of &quot;philosophy of science&quot; which goes back centuries.  That philosophy carries several assumptions, two of which are symmetry and economy.  Symmetry means essentially that the laws of physics are the same everywhere and at every point in time.  It means that no observer is special; that no person (and no galaxy!) can regard himself as the center of the universe, or the only object in the universe that is at rest.  There is no proof of this principle, nor can there be, but using it as an assumption has led to many scientific and intellectual breakthroughs, including Einstein's theory of relativity. The &quot;economy&quot; principle means more or less that the universe contains nothing except those things necessary to make the universe work.  Scientists have discovered 16 different varieties of basic matter particles and 4 &quot;force&quot; particles.  But physicists are extremely reluctant to accept the idea that all 20 of those particles came into existence by themselves, for 20 independent reasons.  Historically, science has made progress because scientists have explicitly rejected the notion that &quot;things are as they are because they are that way&quot;.<br />String theory dominates theoretical physics because right now it's the &quot;only game in town&quot; which maintains economy and symmetry.  It's the only theory we know of which gives hope of unifying what we know into one mathematically and logically consistent theory.  <br />The book really belongs to the world of mathematics rather than physics.  Rather than performing physical experiments and finding a pattern in the results, string theorists start from highly theoretical assumptions and then work out the theory of what would happen if those assumptions turned out to be true.  This is what mathematicians do!  Indeed, Greene relates one example of a physicist solving some complex mathematical problem by attacking it from a string theory point of view, when at the same time a mathematician was working on the same problem by employing much more difficult techniques.  The mathematician and the physicist came up with very different answers, and to Greene's obvious satisfaction the physicist turned out to be right.<br />Rather than writing a physics textbook here, Greene has taken a contemporary-history approach.  He covers the major discoveries chronologically, setting the stage for each new advance by lucidly describing the uncertainties and obstacles that were resolved by the next breakthrough.  This approach gives the book more human interest than a textbook, and places each idea in an understandable context.<br />By the way, we can confidently dismiss the criticisms of a couple of reviewers below who claim that the book is scientifically false or unsound.  Greene is a Rhodes scholar, a world-class researcher, and a professor at Cornell and Columbia.  He knows what he's talking about.<br />But I must return to what really makes this a five-star book, which is the clarity of the writing and explaining.  As a math teacher myself, I was deeply impressed by Greene's ability to communicate such advanced ideas to an audience of educated laypersons.  I'll bet he is a great, great teacher.	2001-02-05
US	52748904	R3IE554UUL81QS	0375405224	680723399	Master and Commander (Aubrey-Maturin)	Books	2	5	17	N	N	Disappointing	Patrick O'Brian's seafaring tales have received so much acclaim that I was prepared to be captivated by this, the first novel in his series.  But, alas, it left me shrugging &quot;Is this all there is to it?&quot;<br />The book is just a series of several battles, which all seem indistinguishable from each other.  There is very little character development, and very little scene-setting detail which might have made me feel temporarily as if I myself were a British seaman a couple of centuries ago.<br />It is important to note, however, that I listened to an abridged audio tape version of this novel.  The abridgement seemed choppy, with many events seemingly cut off in the middle before jumping to the beginning of the next chapter.  It is possible that I would have found some of the missing detail and character development in the book itself, and that I would have been more satisfied with it in that case.  Since this was my first exposure to O'Brian's books, I have no idea whether the shortcomings I have mentioned were inherent in his writing, or were a product of the abridgement.  All I can say was that I was disappointed, and probably won't read any more of these books.	2001-01-09
US	52748904	R8BL9BY7QLWYP	0375403469	181150905	Ship of Gold in the Deep Blue Sea	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A wonderful story wonderfully told	This book has something for everyone.  You learn something about the history of 19th century sea travel, something about modern technology, something about the financing of risk-taking entrepreneurs, something about maritime law.  In addition, you get a semi-biography of Tommy Thompson, an oceanographic engineer / treasure hunter with a vision both of doing something no one else has been able to do, and of making scads of bucks at the same time.  Kinder puts it all together and makes it a great story.  I listened to the audio version while driving from Fresno to Las Vegas, usually an insufferably boring stretch of ugly highway.  But this book captured my attention and made the drive seem half as long as usual.<br />The story begins during the California gold rush, when the ship Central America, carrying millions of dollars worth of California gold, goes down in the Atlantic off the southeast coast of the U.S.  As he does throughout the book, Kinder combines the human interest side of the story with history and seafaring lore, so almost anyone will be interested in at least part of it.  Then the story flashes forward by more than a century as we follow Tommy Thompson's development as an oceanographic engineer and his dream of recovering the treasure on the Central America.  Again, the story is told from multiple viewpoints: technological, personal, legal, financial.<br />Perhaps the most interesting phase of the endeavor was the effort to locate the wreck in the first place.  This was no easy matter.  A large part of the process involved mathematics: geometry, probability, and matrix theory.  Being a mathematician, I took particular interest in this part of the tale, but I think it will interest almost everyone else too.<br />A bare outline of the story, however, won't do justice to this book.  One hallmark of a well-written book is that the author can make you interested in topics you previously had no interest in, simply by virtue of good writing.  Kinder does thatto a fare-thee-well.  If you enjoy stories well told, just for their own sakes, you can't help but enjoy this book.	2001-01-09
US	52748904	R1ROD39X875J5S	0553345893	624658181	The Glory and the Dream: A Narrative History of America, 1932-1972	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Simply wonderful	This book is exactly what its title says: a history of American from 1932 through 1972.  The book is thorough and long, and yet fluently readable.  You certainly won't be aware that you're reading a book of more than a thousand pages.  Manchester strikes a good balance between the major political events and the lives of ordinary Americans.  <br />Most impressive is Manchester's political even-handedness.  He regards no one as a villain or a hero (well, FDR comes close, but almost everyone who lived through those years considered FDR a hero).  <br />Having been written in 1973, the book does show some effects of the Viet Name debacle; there is a tendency to assume a moral equivalence between the communist countries and the democracies.  Nowadays only the most mindless America-haters believe that any such equivalence ever existed, but remember that in the aftermath of Viet Nam, such feelings were easy to adopt.  But Manchester never loses his objectivity or his ability to take the long view.  In examining the Red Scare - McCarthy era, for example, he manages to treat each individual case on its own merits, something very few writers have been able or willing to do.  <br />Manchester's choice of topics is invariably apt: the things which seemed important at the time are the things which he treats as important.  The only event which struck me as deserving of more attention than he gave it, was the Hungarian uprising of 1956.  <br />Manchester doesn't completely understand the music of the 60's but no one over 35 (at the time) did!  The book was written at a time when faith in big government solutions to all social and economic problems was taken for granted.  Also, Watergate had not yet played itself out when the book was written, although he gives it plenty of attention.  <br />But all of my reservations are minor.  I don't know of any single book which is so effective in telling the reader what it was like to live in America during those 40 years, and also so effective in describing America's role and behavior in the international community during those same years, as this one.  The next time you're tempted to read a self-help book by the latest anointed guru whose insights might justify a short magazine article, read this book instead.  You'll walk away with a much better understanding of the world you live in, and how it got that way.	2001-01-06
US	52748904	R2AVO2JRPPRJ87	0375704892	660396765	No More Dying Then: An Inspector Wexford Mystery	Books	4	4	11	N	N	Excellent writing, and gloomy, gloomy, gloomy	This is a typical Ruth Rendell product.  If you have read her books before  and liked them then you will like this one.  'No More Dying Then' deals  with the disappearance of a small boy. Six months earlier, a  twelve-year-old girl disappeared in the same vicinity, and was never found.   So the two events terrify the community and galvanize Chief Wexford and  his deputy Burden into action.  At the same time, Burden is having a very  hard time dealing with the loss of his wife to cancer about nine months  earlier.  In fact, the secondary plot of Burden's emotional struggles  almost overshadows the mystery itself.  Rendell handles both sides of her  story with smooth professional polish.  The plotting is believable and  skillful, the writing is excellent, the characterizations are  insightful.<br />So why four stars and not five?  Well, because almost no  200-page mystery novel can explore personalities or ideas to the depth that  would be required for 5 stars, IMHO.  Secondly, is Ruth Rendell herself as  unhappy as her characters always seem to be?  Whether they are cops,  criminals, or innocent bystanders, even the happiest of Rendell's  characters seem to look at life with a world-weary resignation.  Sheer joy  is close to unheard of in her work, and this book is no exception.<br />In a  mystery magazine article I read a few years ago, someone took Rendell to  task for criticizing Agatha Christie (whom Rendell could never begin to  approach, IMHO).  The writer said, &quot;Whom would you prefer to have  dinner with: Hercule Poirot or Inspector Wexford?&quot;  The answer is  obvious.  After a dinner with Wexford, you would wonder what's the point in  going on with life.<br />I'm probably spending too much time on the negatives  here, because this is a fine book.  But I don't believe that Rendell is at  the very top level of living literary mystery writers - a level which is  reserved for P D James and Elizabeth George.  Then comes Anne Perry, and  then Rendell.  However, that still puts Rendell above an awful lot of  writers!	2000-09-15
US	52748904	R2XHLEBUH1Z3OJ	0679429220	523621984	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Entertaining, but it won't change your life	Captivated by Savannah, the writer John Berendt decides to make the city  his second home. He spends the first part of the book telling us about some  local traditions, history, and characters. Some of those characters are so  eccentric and uproarious that I have to suspect they were at least a little  bit embellished - but who cares? Those characters are what makes the book  worth reading. Then about halfway through the book, one of the main  characters, a prominent socialite, kills another. Much of the remainder of  the book is devoted to the four(!) trials which result from the killing.<br />If you prefer books with a well-defined, focused theme, you might find  this one a bit disorienting. The book is a portrait of Savannah, an account  of the lives and personalities of some delightfully colorful characters,  and a murder mystery (which, by the way, is never confidently solved). It's  hard to say which of those three is the primary goal of the book. But for  me, as well as many other reviewers here, it is the zany personalities of  the the oddball characters which makes the book most memorable. In  particular, you will never forget Chablis!	2000-09-14
US	52748904	R10OAGA4PCADCC	0393090027	38387600	Anton Chekhov's Short Stories (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	81	84	N	N	One of the peaks of literary history	In over 35 years of reading adult literature, these are my all-time  favorite works.  Chekhov has an uncanny and incomparable ability: virtually  nothing happens in many of his stories, yet as you close the book you are  aware that something deep and wonderful about human character has been  revealed.  Chekhov has often been described as being unsurpassed in  describing the RUSSIAN character, but I find his descriptions of people,  their insecurities and their relationships, to be universal.<br />If you read  books for the action, the color, or the conflict, you will find little of  it here.  All you will find is quiet and penetrating insight into what it  means to be a human being living with other human beings.	2000-08-11
US	52748904	RMF2RXG4PQMGC	0812504267	851220829	Billy Budd (Tor Classics)	Books	5	57	62	N	N	Power and magnificence overcomes difficult writing	This novella is difficult to read, with long and complex sentences and perhaps unnecessary diversions.  But its power and depth reward the effort  it takes to read it.<br />&quot;Billy Budd&quot; is an allegory of a young  seaman who strikes and kills a superior officer when the officer's cruelty  and treachery become unbearable.  The focus of the story is the debate over  whether to execute the seaman (Billy Budd) for his crime.  With passionate  and terrifying logic, Melville (through the voice of Captain Vere)  demonstrates that human perfection is impossible - not because we humans  are weak, but because perfection simply does not and cannot exist in this  world.  To make decisions based on our notion of &quot;divine justice&quot;  is not only impractical and foolhardy, according to Melville, but even  immoral.<br />If you like to think of yourself as an idealist, then reading  this book will leave some unanswered questions in your mind, possibly for  the rest of your life.  I first read this story more than thirty years ago,  and it still affects the way I think about almost everything to this day.	2000-08-11
US	52748904	R2KPMU3ZPRYXL7	0399506217	271354388	Human Scale	Books	5	24	25	N	N	A life-changing book	I've been a voracious reader ever since I learned to read almost 50 years ago, so that adds up to at least several thousand books.  Out of all of those, there were perhaps half a dozen which permanently changed my life,  and this is one of them.  (If you really care to know what the others were,  then e-mail me and I'll tell you, LOL.)  Sale begins with the simplest  possible premise: that all human efforts should be measured and evaluated  in terms of how they increase human happiness, comfort and convenience.   That idea seems too obvious to require discussion, and yet Sale  demonstrates that in almost every aspect of our culture, we have ignored  that principle.  He then describes what would have to be done in order to  bring our homes, furniture, neighborhoods, etc. into conformance with the  greatest comfort and happiness for human beings.  It's one of the most  fascinatingly thoughtful books I have ever read, and I hope it comes back  into print soon.	2000-08-01
US	52748904	R2IX8M5PWPG80X	0486256642	507528488	One Two Three . . . Infinity: Facts and Speculations of Science (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	5	226	230	N	Y	You want your 10-year-old to win a Nobel prize some day?	Then give her this book!  It seems that almost all the reviewers had the same experience: we read this book at an early age, and it was so fascinating, so inspiring, and so magical that it directed us into math and  science for the rest of our lives.  In my case the book was loaned to me  when I was about 12, by my best friend's father.  As a result, when I wrote  MY first math book (which cannot begin to compare with Gamow's!)  thirty-five years later, I dedicated it to my friend's father in gratitude.  The book explains how mathematics and science really works, in language  which a young person with an eighth grade education can understand.  Everyone thinks it takes a genius to understand relativity, but there are  lots of fifteen-year-olds walking around with a decent understanding of  Special Relativity simply because they read this book.<br />But don't be  misled into thinking this book is just for young people.  It's for anyone  who thirsts for knowledge and understanding, anyone who realizes that it  doesn't require an alien life form to understand physics and math.  Gamow  discusses some of the great unsolved problems in mathematics (at least two  of which - the four-color problem and Fermat's Last Theorem - have been  solved since the book was written), the theory of relativity, the  usefulness of imaginary numbers (square roots of negatives), geometry of  more than three dimensions, and many other topics which most people think  are accessible only to those anointed with stratospheric IQ's.  But Gamow's  writing is so clear and entertaining that you'll come away wondering why  EVERYBODY doesn't understand those topics.<br />A particularly vivid memory I  have of the book is Gamow's demonstration that there are different sizes of  infinity.  He didn't originate the idea, of course; it was first thought of  by a mathematician named Georg Cantor.  But once again Gamow makes the  mathematics so clear and accessible that I was enthralled.  You will be  too.	2000-08-01
US	52748904	R3R65DGS5RQ9LW	0553580884	482330793	The Undertaker's Widow	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Gripping and interesting, but some major flaws	This is an exciting and well written mystery, with a couple of flaws.  The story is of a judge who presides over a murder case with political ramifications.  His marriage is shaky as the book begins, and there is a  plot by some people with interests in the case to capitalize on his marital  problems by setting him up and blackmailing him.  The plot is complex and  interesting enough to maintain the interest of most mystery fans, but there  are a couple of problems.  Probably the main problem is that I knew the  guilty party almost immediately, purely on the basis of the political  philosophies of the characters [and I'm being deliberately vague here to  avoid giving things away].  When a book is as predictably politically  correct as that, it is a major drawback.  Secondly, as many other reviewers  have mentioned, the plot to blackmail the judge was so transparent that it  is inconceivable that anyone smart enough to be a judge would not have seen  through it.<br />Neither of those problems prevented me from enjoying the  book.  They just caused me to feel some annoyance when the book was  finished.  As is so often the case, I want more flexibility in Amazon's  rating system, and would have given it three and a half stars if that were  allowed.  So read this book, but don't expect a masterpiece.	2000-07-28
US	52748904	R3E17B8M3ZGWOX	0679759336	150404094	The Fermata	Books	3	9	12	N	N	A tour-de-force of writing, but tiresome	The main character, Arno, has a marvelous ability to stop time for everyone but himself.  This ability enables him to get away with a lot, but he chooses to use it mainly to undress women, fondle them, rearrange their  clothes, go back to where he was, and start time back up again.  If he  decides he's really interested in a woman, he follows her home, then stops  time while she has her door open, slips into her home, hides, and watches  her undress, bathe, etc.<br />Baker's writing is dazzling.  The book is  replete with literary, musical, scientific, and historical references,  which are always aptly chosen and frequently striking.  He delights in  constructing amusing new words to deal with the context of  Arno's  fixations on time and sex.  The problem is that his character's  single-minded obsession with sex and pornography grows deadeningly tiresome  after awhile.  One of the things Arno likes to do is to write pornographic  stories and then plant them in places where a woman he's interested in will  see (or hear) them.  Baker does us the great &quot;favor&quot; of including  those stories verbatim in the book.  Arno is a much less accomplished  writer than Baker, so there is less to appreciate in his writing than in  the novel itself.  Just to make this review as accurate and informative as  possible, I will acknowledge that I myself am a regular reader of hard-core  pornography.  However, even my own interest in the subject did not prevent  me from screaming, &quot;Enough already!&quot; when one of Arno's stories  goes on to its tenth tedious page.<br />The basic idea of the book is  captivating, and Baker's writing is brilliant.  Arno could have done so  much more with his ability to stop time, especially with Baker's vivid  imagination animating him.  Sadly, the book turns out to be much less than  it could have been.	2000-07-27
US	52748904	R1I8IKH7L188CR	0449908445	135165942	Ashworth Hall (Charlotte & Thomas Pitt Novels)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Another solid whodunit along with historical atmosphere	This is the third Anne Perry novel I have read.  They are all well crafted, intelligent cozy mysteries, along with an interesting portrayal of the culture and politics of Victorian England.  This particular book  revolves around a peace conference for Ireland which is being held at  Ashworth Hall, hence the title.  Ashworth Hall happens to be the home of  the sister-in-law of Inspector (now Superintendent) Pitt, who is the hero  of this series of Perry's novels.  Moreover, the politician presiding over  the conference has been the subject of death threats in the recent past.   So Pitt is asked to attend the conference, without revealing his identity,  as a security measure to prevent foul play.<br />Unfortunately, Pitt fails.   Two murders are committed despite his efforts, terrifying both the guests  and the sizable contingent of servants.  We then have the usual collection  of suspects and motives, and Pitt eventually sorts through all of the  information to solve the mystery - with considerable help from his wife  Charlotte and their maid Gracie.<br />It's a tightly written mystery, along  with a convincing portrayal of Victorian mores and the unending hatreds in  Ireland.  It doesn't quite rise to the level of true literature, as  Elizabeth George's and P. D. James's books often do, but it's a solid,  high-quality production.	2000-07-25
US	52748904	R3J42GWN9TKYHZ	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Don't take it for more than it is	This is a wonderful book.  Morrie Schwartz, the subject of the book, is a warm and endearing character.  His courage and thoughtfulness as he observes his own approaching death is inspiring.  It wouldn't be a bad idea  for all of us to read this book about once a year (it takes only about an  hour and a half to read) just to keep our lives in perspective.  The book  reminds us of things which we already know, but to which we give little  attention in our everyday lives.  On the other hand, Morrie Schwartz was  not the source of all the wisdom of the ages.  His observations are often  trite and his recommendations impractical.  To make him into a guru, or the  touchstone by which success in life is to be measured, would be to read far  more into this book than is actually there.  Appreciate it, and him, for  the treasurable personality which comes across vividly in Albom's writing.   Be grateful for the Morrie Schwartzes in your life.  Then go out and build  your own life, on your own values, your own observations, and your own  experience.	2000-07-04
US	52748904	R2J033G4D8E247	1562011146	905285688	Ironwood IV	Books	5	13	13	N	N	5 stars, but it's pornography.  Don't expect anything else.	This is another installment in the &quot;Ironwood&quot; series, a book about an institution where young women are sent to learn to be accomplished sex slaves.  It is well written and wonderfully arousing if you're into BDSM. (And if you don't know what BDSM is, then you're not into it!)   Winslow - whoever he is, since it's almost certainly a pseudonym - has an  active and fertile imagination, and balances physical pain with psychic  humiliation well enough to satisfy the connoisseurs of either.  On the  other hand, if you have no interest in the subject of erotic domination and  submission, then you will be offended - indeed, probably disgusted - by  this book.  Don't read it!  (And by the way, to answer the previous  reviewer:  I think we can be confident that the story of this being a  recently discovered manuscript from somebody's basement in Denmark, or  wherever, is silly fiction. Even Winslow himself may not exist - he's  probably a committee.)	2000-07-02
US	52748904	RRNDFK7FJ37ND	0131816292	2544429	Topology (2nd Edition)	Books	5	146	150	N	N	Excellent for either reference or self-teaching	When I was in a topology course in graduate school, I constantly returned to the Munkres book to get clearer explanations of concepts than any of the graduate-level books could provide.  What is noteworthy is that the ease of  understanding did NOT come at the price of shallower coverage or lack of  mathematical rigor.  Although this is an undergraduate text, it covers  almost everything you would get in a first-year graduate course in point  set topology.  If you want to learn that material for the first time  without an instructor, then this is the book to use.  And, if you are  working in another area of mathematics, and come across words like  &quot;compact&quot;, &quot;metric space&quot;, or &quot;connected&quot;,  and have forgotten what they mean, go straight to Munkres.  He always talks  to you like a real human being.	2000-07-02
US	52748904	RJU8VGBRR9LM2	0883850761	241958935	Library Recommendations for Undergraduate Mathematics (Maa Reports, No 4)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Indispensable for anyone in mathematics	This book is a list of about 3000 recommended math books, mostly at the undergraduate or early graduate level.  The list is divided up into 26 major categories (such as &quot;Calculus and Precalculus&quot;) and  subcategories (for the Calculus category, the subcategories are School  Mathematics, Precalculus, Elementary Calculus, Advanced Calculus, and  Supplementary resources).  One of the benefits of this books is simply the  classification scheme, which gives the reader a good idea of the different  topics on which large numbers of books have been published.  The major  categories are not limited to topics in which there are traditional math  courses.  For example, some of the categories are &quot;Recreational  Mathematics&quot;, &quot;Education&quot;, &quot;Applications to Life  Sciences&quot;, etc. The contents of the lists were decided by a committee  of active and knowledgeable mathematicians.  Books which are considered  &quot;essential&quot; are given one, two, or three stars based on their  importance for inclusion in an undergraduate library.  It should be noted  that the list was not intended to be recommendations for textbooks.  The  books were chosen primarily for their content, not for how easy they are to  learn from, or how appropriate the exercises were.  But if you're looking  for a college-level math book on almost any subject within mathematics,  this book is the place to start.	2000-06-28
US	52748904	R2DKDOQ5B3XUEJ	0553102346	888852995	Deception on His Mind	Books	5	48	51	N	N	Excellent, like all of its predecessors	I consider Elizabeth George to be the best living writer of mysteries, by a wide margin.  In this book, Barbara Havers goes more or less &quot;solo&quot; by getting involved in a case outside of London where she  is supposed to be on vacation.  In addition to being a superb mystery, this  book examines the racial friction generated by the influx of Pakistani  immigrants into a seaside resort town in England.  I can't speak for the  accuracy of her analysis, but her portrayals of the cultural  misunderstandings between the police and the immigrant community ring true  to my ears.  I don't recommend this book as your introduction to Elizabeth  George's mysteries.  The previous books introduce both of the main  characters, Havers and her boss, Inspector Lynley.  This book makes several  references to the things she learned from Lynley, and to their partnership.   The reader will understand those references much better if (s)he has read  at least one of the previous books.  However, I want to vehemently disagree  with a couple of previous reviewers who downgraded this book on the grounds  that Havers is a less interesting character than the absent Lynley.  I  think Havers is a MUCH more interesting character than the pampered and  superficial Lynley.  I didn't miss him at all in this book.  As always,  George's writing, characterizations, and plotting put her in a class of her  own among mystery writers.  This is not a little paperback for an  afternoon; it's a real novel.  If you love mysteries or if you simply love  well-written, thought-provoking fiction, you should read every one of  Elizabeth George's books.	2000-06-09
US	52748904	R2WDNCNZ59U6BA	0345351371	16404674	The Eight	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Terrific if you accept the premise	This story involves a search for an ancient chess set which purportedly holds some sort of secret which will provide the key to wealth and power for whoever discovers it. There are both good guys and bad guys looking for  the set, whose pieces are scattered widely across the face of the earth.   The basic idea is implausible of course, but variations on this plot have  stood the test of time, producing many best-sellers.  And this book is just  about the very best of its kind.  It should get four and a half stars  because of the unrealistic premise, but it's just too good to make it four  instead of five.  (I don't know why Amazon switched from a ten-star to a  five-star format a few years ago.  It doesn't give enough flexibility.)   Anyway, the quest for the chess set and its associated secret extends back  at least as far as the 18th century, and the part of the book which takes  place back then includes cameos by Voltaire, Bach, Euler, Rousseau,  Robespierre, Catherine the Great, Napolean, Benedict Arnold, and some  others whom I've forgotten at the moment.  The modern-day quest stars a  woman who is apparently partly modeled on the author herself: a computer  expert who travels to Algeria on business.  Neville writes well, plots  well, and held my interest throughout.  In most books of this type, the  ending is a letdown, simply because the eventual discovery can't live up to  the advance billing.  But this book is an exception - the ending is  wonderful and completely satisfying. This is just about the best  adventure-quest-conspiracy book I've ever read.  If you actually LIKED  &quot;The Celestine Prophecy&quot; (pure drivel in my opinion) or &quot;The  Matarese Circle&quot; (confusing and sloppily plotted), then read &quot;The  Eight&quot; and see what a truly competent writer can do with similar  material.	2000-06-09
US	52748904	R2U4Y8R116I0AM	0691027951	160496387	An Imaginary Tale: The Story of [the square root of minus one]	Books	5	33	33	N	N	This gives you what's usually left out of textbooks	If all math textbooks included the kind of material and discussions in this book, students would learn better and be more interested in math.  The standard math book is a continuous list of definitions and theorems,  interspersed with examples of how to do certain kinds of problems.  Never  does anyone explain how and why people came up with the ideas in the first  place, or why such and such a theorem is important, or what kinds of  problems triggered the research and investigations which have been done.   &quot;Shut up and learn it!&quot; seems to be the universal slogan.   Nahin's book can't really be used as a textbook, but it provides an  all-important context for the material found in various courses all the way  from Intermediate Algebra to Complex Analysis.  In fact, I think the  primary beneficiaries of a book like this are math teachers (like me!).   The material in this book will enable me to flesh out and personalize some  ideas which are found in a variety of courses which I teach.  When someone  asks me why anyone ever thought of having a square root of negative one, or  what kinds of problems it's good for, this book will enable me to give some  interesting answers.  And, of course, I'll pretend that I came up with  those answers all by myself!	2000-05-25
US	52748904	R2AZ6GAS07LSDT	0534359493	372607869	Calculus	Books	5	225	255	N	N	The best there is - and I'm familiar with the others	I was one of the pre-publication reviewers for the second edition of this book.  I have not been shy about telling a publisher that their book stinks if that's my opinion.  But the Stewart book was then, and remains now,  IMHO, the best introductory calculus text available.  Please note that the  majority of negative reviews came from people who have seen exactly one  calculus book, and they clearly don't like calculus!  But I have taught  from three of the most popular books, and I've read most of the others.  There may be other books which take a radically entertaining,  non-traditional, and more superficial approach to the subject, and those  books may meet with approval from people who really don't want to learn  calculus.  But of those (many) books which cover the traditional topics in  an introductory calculus course, no other author has written a text as  learnable as Stewart's.  On every topic, Stewart is clearly conscious of  the fact that his reader doesn't already know the subject, and he has given  some thought to exactly what has to be explained in order for the student  to learn successfully.  Remember, most textbooks are not written for  students: they are written for the professors who are going to choose the  books.  Professors are not generally impressed with a book which spends a  half page clearly describing the meaning of a theorem which can be written  with a one-line equation.  But students will appreciate the effort Stewart  has exerted to help them learn.  Stewart does not sugar-coat or resort to  gimmicks or superficiality in order to make the material learnable. All the  material is there, it's just presented with an awareness that the reader is  trying to learn calculus for the first time.  If you are taking a calculus  course with any other book, try to get a cheap used copy of the Stewart to  use as a supplement.  It will help!	2000-05-13
US	52748904	R35IXGYYJ2ESJM	1891620916	299684156	President Reagan: The Role Of A Lifetime	Books	4	80	92	N	N	Solid and unbiased	The first thing to say is that this book is not a biography.  Almost nothing of Reagan's life prior to 1980 is discussed, and the assassination attempt and the cancer surgery are barely mentioned.  This is, instead, an  account of the Reagan presidency: how the decisions were made and how  policy was executed.  Reagan is a difficult man to write a balanced book  about, but Cannon has succeeded.  He examines Reagan's style, his strengths  and weaknesses, his successes and failures, without assuming that Reagan  was either a hero or a scoundrel.  Cannon's explanations are invariably  thoughtful, intelligent, and well researched.  My only criticism is that  the book seems to focus excessively heavily on just a couple of cases:  namely the bombing of the Marines in Lebanon and the Iran-contra affair.   Many equally important events get much less attention.  Despite that, the  book is probably the best account of the Reagan presidency which we have,  and I would have given it 4 1/2 stars if Amazon allowed that.	2000-04-16
US	52748904	R34CQMF5Z4JGD4	037540256X	832554018	A Patchwork Planet	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Typical Anne Tyler: Thought-provoking and entertaining	I agree with the previous reviewer that neither Tyler or almost any other  novelist today is competing with the likes of Tolstoy or Dickens.  But  within the limits of Tyler's own ambition, her characterizations are  pointed and deadly accurate.  I have heard it said that Tyler's characters  are &quot;almost&quot; normal or just slightly &quot;off&quot;, but I find  them to be not off at all and 100% normal.  Each of her main characters has  quirks, as virtually all of us do.  Barnaby, who is the main character in  this novel, is astoundingly real.  Like all of us, he finds a way to  accommodate his own idiosyncracies along with the idiosyncracies of others  and with the fundamental and usually-minor unfairnesses of everyday life.   For Tyler to construct a such a worthwhile novel out of those mundane  materials is no small feat.  In most cases, I judge a novel by how  effectively it causes me to care about the characters.  Tyler succeeded in  making me care about Barnaby, as well as his girlfriend and most of the  other characters.  I was disappointed to come to the end of the novel and  realize I wouldn't be living their lives with them any longer.	2000-04-16
US	52748904	R2RU94ST1YRPG1	0671769774	788295289	Bloodstream	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A good, solidly written American whodunit	Carlson is a consistently interesting writer, and this book is another worthwhile effort.  Two children are murdered in a rural area of southern Indiana, while real estate speculation and controversy over a historical renovation project provide motives for several potential suspects.  The  female deputy sheriff, who is the star of the show, is also grappling with  her own personal and family problems.  All the threads are well integrated  into a mostly believable story.  The actual solution to the mystery depends  on a somewhat less believable premise, but the writing and plotting is good  enough to make the book enjoyable in spite of that.	2000-04-03
US	52748904	R1J52EBEKKR2VU	055329220X	37354132	Fascinating Womanhood: The Updated Edition of the Classic Bestseller That Shows You How to Strengthen Your Marriage and Enrich Your Life	Books	1	46	84	N	N	The most sickening book I have ever read	I read this book when it was first published, in the 60's.  I was then a student at Brigham Young University, espousing the religion which Andelin claims as her inspiration.  The fundamental theme underlying the entire  book is contempt:  contempt for men, contempt for women, contempt for  marriage.  To Andelin, men are so selfish and insecure that they have to be  manipulated by preposterous and insincere displays of not just affection,  but outright worship.  Women are completely worthless except as support for  men.  And God is a Creator who supposedly designed these contemptible,  vacuous creatures, and commands that they remain contemptible.  One wonders  why Andelin or anyone else would worship God at all, if He produced a race  of such despicable beings and then demanded gratitude and worship for doing  so.  If you have any self-respect, if you have any respect for others, if  you have any respect for marriage, then read this book only as a joke, or  as an example of how sick and twisted a human's brain can become.	2000-03-12
US	52748904	R2Q3636VIYSE2C	0312140649	306572964	A Vow of Fidelity (Sister Joan Mystery)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Pleasant, but unmemorable	This is a fair-to-middlin' cozy mystery about a reunion of the art class students from the school Sister Joan had attended twenty years previously.  There's not much to separate it from your average British cozy mystery, and  therein lies the problem.  The first couple of Sister Joan books by Ms.  Black were striking and memorable, with their description of Sister Joan's  internal struggle to maintain a balance between her spiritual obligations  and her worldly curiosity.  That issue has been given short shrift in the  last couple of books, including this one.  I fear this series is running  out of steam.  I would have given it 3.5 stars if that were allowed; Amazon  needs to provide more flexibility in its rating system.	2000-02-16
US	52748904	R2ZEP41YECX4RE	0684832925	269259420	Roxanna Slade	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Unexceptional	I did not like this book as well as most of the other reviewers did.  They have more or less accurately described the plot - the book is the reminiscing of a 90-plus year old woman who has lived her entire life in  North Carolina.  The problem with the book, for me, is that for the first  60% of the book, she has little to say, and very little interesting happens  to her.  I did not find any noteworthy insights coming from her statements  or observations, just a dry recitation of not-very-interesting facts and  events.  The last 40% is better; I finally got to feel as though I was  listening to a flesh-and-blood person and hearing some of her more intimate  and perceptive ideas.   But considering how many outstanding books there  are out there in the world that I haven't read yet, I don't think this one  was the best use of my reading time.	2000-02-09
US	52748904	RXNTUU3USAII6	0881030104	949556910	Brave New World (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	For prescience, this is THE book of the 20th century	Although the number of reviews here show that Brave New World still has a sizeable readership, this book has to some extent been unfairly overshadowed by Orwell's &quot;1984&quot;.  Whereas Orwell's vision of the  future has proven to be wrong in almost every respect, Huxley's could be  rewritten almost word for word today and still be an accurate portrayal of  the direction we're moving in.  For trivia buffs, there is a sad footnote  to Huxley's comparative obscurity:  Do you know when he died?  November 22,  1963.  Even in death, he was overshadowed by a more glamorous but vastly  less talented person.	2000-02-07
US	52748904	R3C8F2WDDWCVOU	0030207916	574851920	Firefox	Books	5	7	7	N	N	One of the best of its genre	I read this book almost 20 years ago, if I remember correctly, and it's one of the few books which I literally couldn't put down until it was finished.  I think I finally turned out the light at about 3AM, even though  I had to go to work early the next morning.  It is gripping, believable,  and well written in every respect.  If you like international spy  techno-thrillers at all, this is one of the best ever written.  PS - the  Clint Eastwood movie based on this book was one of Eastwood's most mediocre  efforts.  If you saw it and were disappointed, don't let that stop you from  reading the book.  The book is FAR superior!	1999-09-21
US	52748904	R37C23662G3HCX	0451175735	765818352	Best Evidence (Signet)	Books	1	13	55	N	N	Dishonest, and simply false	I read &quot;Best Evidence&quot; when it first came out, and I too was impressed.  Since that time, however, Lifton'e entire thesis has been completely demolished, and he lacks the integrity to acknowledge it.  The  total basis for his theory is that the the appearance of Kennedy's body in  Washington DC, after the trip from Dallas, conflicted with the descriptions  written by the Dallas doctors who had seen the body originally.  CBS News  (I believe it was them), years later, tested his thesis by showing the  pictures of Kennedy's body, taken in Washington, to the Dallas doctors who  had seen it originally.  Without exception, every one of the doctors  confirmed that the appearance of the body in the Washington pictures  coincided with what they had seen in Dallas.  As a result, the Lifton  theory has completely collapsed.<br />The most important lesson to be learned  from the series of events I just described, however, is not the  baselessness of Lifton's own theory.  Rather, it tells us how dishonest and  impervious to facts the conspiracy theorists are.  They are emotionally  wedded to their insistence that Kennedy was killed by a conspiracy, and  their emotional faith is much stronger than their personal integrity or  their ability to reason.  Lifton is just one of them, but you will never  find a single believer in the &quot;a conspiracy killed JFK&quot; nonsense  who is willing to confront ALL the evidence.  In every case, when one of  these paranoid rabble-rousers is confronted with ALL the facts, you will  find that he evades, lies, or hysterically insists that the facts which he  doesn't like are just the product of the same conspiracy whose existence he  has been unable to demonstrate.<br />The damage done by people like Lifton  goes beyond the issue of &quot;Who killed JFK?&quot; - a question which was  answered conclusively 35 years ago.  The acceptance of nonsense like  Lifton's has encouraged those who believe that truth is subjective, and  that emotion, resentment and wishful thinking are as legitimate as a path  to truth as facts and logic.  Sorry, but there is no substitute for  concrete factual knowledge and sound, objective thinking.  You won't find  those things in this book.	1999-09-18
US	52748904	R1FDGM7IDD8BTT	0553258990	107272816	The Matarese Circle: A Novel	Books	2	4	14	N	N	illogical, poorly plotted, and silly	Ludlum's popularity mystifies me.  Are people just impressed by anyone who can write a long book about an international conspiracy, regardless of how thin the characterizations or implausible the plot?  The plot of this book  was probably composed in its entirety in about 15 minutes of  &quot;thought&quot; while Ludlum was watching a TV sitcom.  Compare this  self-indulgent book, with its reliance on laughably unlikely coincidences,  with the wonderfully plotted books by Robert Goddard or the massively  researched Tom Clancy novels.  Doesn't it embarrass Ludlum to be competing  with those writers?	1999-08-26
US	52748904	R3K7KF73QJNY3U	0449908704	357701822	The Best and the Brightest	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The best of its genre, EVER	I am a political history junkie.  I read everything I can get my hands on that deals with that subject.  And Halberstam's book is, IMHO, simply the best book ever written in that category.  He analyzes our involvement in  Viet Nam by analyzing the personalities, motivations, and fears of the  individuals who made the decisions.  This results in a far more human  approach to the subject than is usually found in books of this kind - and  in my opinion leads to a more accurate depiction of what happened.<br />And  the writing - Oh, the writing!  I read this book 25 years ago, and I can  still remember full paragraphs almost word for word.  In one page of well  chosen anecdotes, he can brilliantly bring to life a Lyndon Johnson or a  Robert MacNamara, and make the reader feel as if he knew those public  figures personally.<br />Even if you're not as interested in the Viet Nam war  or political history as I am, this book should be on your reading list.   The word &quot;great&quot; is properly reserved for a very small number of  works, but &quot;The Best and the Brightest&quot; belongs in that category.	1999-07-25
US	52748904	R1N45EAZVPMGP7	0312106572	5402146	The World's Most Famous Math Problem: The Proof of Fermat's Last Theorem and Other Mathematical Mysteries	Books	1	32	36	N	N	Drivel by someone who doesn't know what she's talking about	The main lesson to be learned from this book is that there is no correlation between IQ and personal character.  According to the Mathematical Association of America, their president wrote to Ms. Savant  shortly after her public proclamation that the proof was incorrect, and  explained to her that no competent mathematician would have ever made the  error which she attributed to Wile.  He received a short and  &quot;ungracious&quot; response. (I might add that I am slightly acquainted  with the man who was the president of the MAA at the time, and he is an  uncommonly courteous and gracious gentleman himself.  So Ms. vos Savant's  reaction can have been triggered only by her own ignorance and  defensiveness.)<br />Needless to say, Savant's argument is too silly to waste  your time with, but I really do need to address the preposterous claim made  in the previous review.  The fact that Wile's proof was found to have a  flaw, does absolutely NOTHING, in even the most miniscule degree, to  justify vos Savant's foolishness.  It wasn't as if there was a flaw hidden  somewhere, and she saw it but just slightly mis-located it.  Her entire  thesis demonstrated that she didn't know the first thing about the theorem,  the proof, or the mathematics which surround it.  She was simply writing  about a subject of which she had no knowledge, and was arrogant enough to  believe that her IQ and her personal fame would compensate for her  ignorance.	1999-07-04
US	52748904	R2K0WYAZTDINIS	0201489392	544313852	A Year In The Maine Woods	Books	2	8	28	N	N	A self-congratulatory ego trip	Heinrich obviously wants us to think of him as the modern Thoreau, but his thoughts are far shallower and less interesting.  Furthermore Thoreau saw no need to ostentatiously parade his specialized knowledge before his  readers, as Heinrich does.  The specifying of 6 different kinds of warbler  calls heard on a particular morning does not add to the atmosphere or  enjoyment for almost anyone - but it DOES impress you with how much  Heinrich knows about bird calls.  Much of the book is in the same vein -  paragraph after paragraph written not to instruct or entertain, but to  impress.  There are better choices out there by writers who are more  impressed with their surroundings and less impressed with themselves.	1999-02-19
US	52748904	R3HRMQDXS2TGXP	0449221490	810470150	L Is for Lawless (Kinsey Millhone Mysteries)	Books	2	2	10	N	N	derivative and uninteresting	I read this book because Sue Grafton is, apparently, all the rage in the mystery field.  I wanted to find out why she's so highly regarded, and I still haven't found out.  Her main character is so forgettable I still don't think I remember her name right (Kinsey Millhone, or something like that).  She is indistinguishable from every other tough-guy private eye except that she uses the women's rest room.  That difference isn't enough to carry a story!  Furthermore there was nothing in the plot that surprised me or made me wonder what was going to happen next.  <br />I'm an avid mystery reader, and I don't think Grafton stacks up with the really accomplished mystery/suspense writers: Margaret Maron, Marcia Muller, P D James, Elizabeth George, Mary Higgins Clark, Sharyn McCrumb, Anne Perry, Carolyn Hart, to name several.  <br />BO - RINNGGG.	1998-06-29
US	52748904	R137WGUQSMZA5R	0316769533	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	2	87	111	N	N	If this is adolescence, I'm glad I missed it.	I am a college teacher (math), and every term I give my new students a questionnaire.  Among the questions I often ask is &quot;Name one book, movie, TV show, or piece of music as your all time favorite, and explain why.&quot;  &quot;Catcher in the Rye&quot; has been cited more often than any other book, and I finally decided to find out why.  I'm STILL trying to find out why.  If my students relate to this book, then they are more bitter and loutish than they appear to be in my classes and out-of-class conversations.  I regret that those who attack the book have often done so on the grounds of its vulgarity.  That just devalues their argument.  The fact is that the book is lousy because it portrays as a hero a teenage kid who is nothing but a bitter, maladjusted punk.  He interprets courtesy as phoniness, and in fact assumes that anyone who doesn't immediately give him whatever he feels like having must be cruel, or a phony, or just generally subhuman.  This kid is supposed to be teaching us something about life?  About adolescence?  He's learning about himself?  He has no interest in any of that - he's interested only in what other people can do for him.  He is sensitive to nothing but his own feelings.  If you liked the movie &quot;Five Easy Pieces&quot; - another portrayal of an &quot;alienated&quot; and oh-so-sensitive lout which caused the critics to cream their jeans - then you'd probably like &quot;Catcher in the Rye&quot;.    The world is full of bitterly unhappy people who confuse cynicism and hostility toward the world with artistic sensitivity.  Many of them write reviews of books and movies, as they have done here.  But avoid such people.  They live lives of misery, and spread the misery around so they don't have to be alone in their hatred of the world.  And &quot;Catcher in the Rye&quot; is their favorite book.	1997-11-21
US	52748904	R1PW85Q0MQJCMV	0899193099	535864352	Cold Sassy Tree	Books	5	3	3	N	N	wonderful, imaginative, deeply enlightening	Other reviewers have already provided some of the flavor of this book.  However, I differ with the view that the main character is the boy, Will.  The fact is, Will is only the narrator.  The book is actually the story of the last few years of the unforgettable Rucker Blakeslee, a cantankerous old general-store owner who marries a woman 30 years younger than himself, only days after the death of first wife, and thereby scandalizes an entire town.  Blakeslee's ornery but deeply considered philosophy of life will remain in your heart and mind longer after you close this book.  When you finish the book, don't throw it away!  Make sure everyone you truly care about has the privilege of experiencing Rucker Blekeslee	1997-06-18
US	52748904	R35736L7IMUD18	0449219143	87812206	Bethlehem Road: A Charlotte and Thomas Pitt Novel	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A feminist mystery, and not a book-length diatribe	I reserve 9's and 10's for more substantive works than mysteries - but this is about as good as mysteries get.  I have had the misfortune to read attempts to combine a mystery story with feminist preaching by, among others, Dorothy Simpson and Nancy Pickard.  All were lame, transparent attempts to cloak a political harangue with a poorly constructed story.  Anne Perry shows us how it really should be done.  This is an excellent story, as are all of Perry's Inspector Pitt books.  The underlying theme is the shockingly discriminatory treatment of women by the legal and political system of Victorian England.  But that theme is never allowed to interfere with the logical unfolding of the mystery.  Therefore, Perry succeeds on both the philosophical and entertainment levels, where other authors have failed.  Good work, Ms. Perry	1997-04-30
US	52748904	R11JWR1Y68Q24I	0385307756	176496173	The Copper Beech	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Binchy loves her characters and so will you	If I had to specify one criterion which I use to decide whether I will like a piece of fiction, it is this:  It must have characters that I care about.  The best books have characters that I actually love, at least as long as I'm reading the book.  Binchy, more than any writer of my acquaintance, LOVES her characters.  Even those who are a bit irresponsible, even those who are weak, are portrayed with sympathy and understanding.  &quot;The Copper Beech&quot; is vintage Binchy, populated with characters who are smart and not-so-smart, weak and strong, rigidly ethical and on the make.  But we come to accept all of them as part of our cozy and deeply satisfying world.  Besides being a terrific read, &quot;The Copper Beech&quot; will cause you to be a bit less judgmental of your fellow man, at least for awhile.  Stan (wonteach@cei.net)	1997-04-05
US	52748904	R3NFYIX5441A09	0425102432	122209005	And Ladies of the Club	Books	5	137	142	N	N	Still deeply satisfying and worth the effort	This book was all the rage back in the early 80's when Book-of-the-Month Club made it a main selection.  It was written by a comparatively unknown, elderly resident of a nursing home (who, I believe, died fairly shortly after the book's publication).  For a short time everybody was talking about &quot;...And Ladies of the Club&quot;.  Fourteen years later, not many people remember the hoopla.         But if a book is any good, it's still good even after the glitter fades.  And this one is GOOD.           I finally got around to reading it this year, partly because my wife read it and loved it.  It is long (1100+ pages) but NOT difficult.  I found the book hard to get &quot;into&quot; for the first one or two hundred pages, because there were many characters, and there hadn't been time to flesh out the personalities and relationships.  But I am VERY glad that I stuck it out.  Eventually the characters become vividly defined: lovable, hateable, and recognizable.  The book is the story of a fictional medium-sized town in southern Ohio, from just after the Civil War to the beginning of the Depression.  The story is told primarily through the eyes of a women's book club, and focuses particularly on two of the club's members and their families.             All the important themes of life are explored: love, race, jealousy, religion, war, politics, business, literature, education, family relationships, and death.  If you read this book, you will be both moved to tears and richly educated in American history.  How much more can you ask of one book?	1997-01-25
US	52748904	R13Q2P1A578IHP	0465043623	721618988	A Mathematician Reads The Newspaper	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Not just for math people	If you hate math, don't get scared by the title!  You need very little mathematical knowledge to understand the book.  Furthermore, much of the book deals simply with interpreting the news intelligently, whether there is a mathematical component or not.  Paulos makes a lot of important points that should be understood by everyone who wants to intelligently appreciate the news	1997-01-03
US	52748904	R1F2IGEGT8M6T4	0553346687	33679552	Surely You're Joking Mr. Feynman	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Absolutely delightful!	I was checking on this book because I just recommended it as an acquisition for the library at the community colllege where I teach.  The book describes the life of a brilliant Nobel Prize-winning physicist, and shows him as a completely accessible human being.  He gives a marvelously entertaining account of some of the experiments he conducted while a college undergraduate - all of them completely understandable to a layperson.  But the book continues through his adult life: his attempts to learn Japanese, his experiences as a patron and legal defender of a local strip club, his encounters with military stuffed shirts during WWII, and dozens of other adventures.  If you want to convince yourself or someone else that it's possible to be a brilliant scientist and a real human being simultaneously, then this is the book.  Both as entertainment and as information, it's a smashing success	1996-09-19
US	52748904	R1RFS0QCME04AY	0553572512	228304751	Playing for the Ashes	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The best mystery novel I have ever read	I have been a mystery reader for decades, and have probably read close to a thousand mystery novels.  This is probably the best of them.  George manages to delve into relationships between husbands and wives, parents and children, professional colleagues, and various other combinations, with a penetrating and sympathetic insight.  The mystery itself is not the most complex or difficult case that I have ever read about, but it is more than enough to keep the reader guessing and interested.  The sheer beauty of George's writing is incomparable in the mystery field, but then anyone who has read one of her novels already knows that.  It has become a cliche to praise a mystery novel by saying that it could stand on its own as a wonderful novel even without the mystery element, but this time the cliche is absolutely true	1996-08-17
US	52748904	R1BEAX0DRIVOIK	044651862X	58848637	The Celestine Prophecy: An Adventure	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Drivel	The one-line summary really says it all.  Redfield claims to have discovered nine - or ten - &quot;insights&quot;; all of which are either simply false or were so obvious that any child of seven has &quot;perceived&quot; them long ago.  The story revolves around a search for pieces of a manuscript which contains these so-called &quot;insights&quot;.  Since the &quot;insights&quot; themselves lack any real imagination or impact, Redfield spices up the story by claiming that governments and church officials are desperate to suppress these &quot;subversive&quot; ideas.  Any reasonable reader will find him (or her) - self constantly asking why a government or church would get so excited about such meaningless banality.  The best thing about the book is that it is written at about a 5th-grade level, so you'll only waste about an hour and a half on it, even if you are hung over and got just two hours' sleep last night.  A further thought is that there is no more devastating indictment of the &quot;dumbing down&quot; of our society than the presence of this vacuous nonsense on the best-seller list for over a year	1996-06-25
