US	52748989	R1YFGO7KY2ZAIX	0743264312	135673946	Kremlin Rising: Vladimir Putin's Russia and the End of Revolution	Books	2	39	58	N	N	Whacking Vladimir	This book stands out in many recent books by English-speakers about Russia as a particularly gloomy, shrill, and even mildly paranoid account. Writing while working in Russia for the Washington Post, this husband-and-wife team is expressing suspicion and dislike of the Russian President Vladimir Putin as \\"a political cipher who came into office speaking of democracy while preparing to dismantle democratic institutions.\\" The same goes to his policies.<br /><br />The idea of Putin as Russian Benito Mussolini has been advanced by Zbignew Brzezinski and reflects a growing frustration by Washington of Putin, but also indirectly of Bush. The book is a shot in the policy wars between current Republicans who thinks they can deal with Putin using tempered approach and the Democrats (and, ironically, more hawkish neo-cons) who thinks the current administration is wrong vis-&agrave;-vis Putin. The book is probably an attempt to galvanize the anti-Putin crusade and demonstrate that Bush is mistaken in his complacency of Putin. Hence this book, which is basically an indictment of Putin who is shown as a head of vast and sinister conspiracy by the KGB to orchestrate and cover-up terrorists attacks, undo Russian democratic institutions, and even to restore the Soviet Union.<br /><br />Although, indubitably satisfying for most die-hard Russophobes and Putin-bashers, the book is wrong and highly exaggerated. The majority of Russians think of Putin (and I suspect Putin thinks of himself) not as Mussolini, but rather as Charles De Gaulle. As De Gaulle before him, Putin thinks that the national state should play a leading role in country's economic development. As the Frenchman before him, he came to realize that the laissez-faire capitalism is detrimental to his country, causing social dislocation and strife.  As De Gaulle, he thinks the mildly authoritarian means are justified to achieve democratic ends. Finally, he believes that nationalism is crucial in restoring national consciousness, institutions, and a degree of autonomy from Washington. Incidentally, there is nothing inherently harmful for the United States in these ideas. For the majority of Russians Putin and his policies came to epitomize re-emerging of Russia as a nation, but for the authors of this book and those behind them - a misfeasance.ness, institutions, and a degree of autonomy from Washington. Incidentally, there is nothing inherently harmful for the United States in these ideas. For the majority of Russians Putin and his policies came to epitomize re-emerging of Russia as a nation, but for the authors of this book and those behind them - a misfeasance.	2005-09-04
US	52748989	R15VMH31EFCYOW	0812932153	277188955	Sale of the Century: Russia's Wild Ride from Communism to Capitalism	Books	2	43	47	N	N	Caveat Emptor	The book is somewhat entertaining, but its style is a bit too sardonic and her attitude vis-&agrave;-vis Russians is patronizing. Even Russians who, admittedly, are not my favorites characters, I feel like defending. She calls Alexander Korzhakov, an influential former head of Yeltsin's Security Service, a Russian illustration of the Peter Principal', because he `climbed to a position of power that far outstripped his intellectual resources'. Granted, Korzhakov is no Socrates, but his college degree in jurisprudence and current post of the deputy chairman of the Duma's (Russian Parliament) Defense Committee is a confirmation that perhaps behind a façade of a simpleton is hidden a smart individual. Even notorious (and wanted by the Russian government) Boris Berezovsky, whom the author calls `a jumped-up car salesman', is much more than that - a highbrow Russian `enfant terrible' with a Ph.D. in mathematics for starters.<br /><br />However, the most important thing is that the book appears, as the French say, engag&eacute;. I believe this book's real purpose is to divert attention from the individuals and institutions, which are really responsible for the debacle of the Russian privatization. For one thing, she mentioned the name of Gregory Yavlinsky only once in her 360-page long book about Russian capitalist revolution and only at the end of the book. Yet, Yavlinsky, who is household name in Russia and twice-also-ran-presidential-candidate, was one of the midwives of Russian privatization. His `500 days' program was written in the late 1980s with Mikhail Gorbachev's blessing. It was supposed to transform Soviet centralized economy into a market economy by the end of 1993. Yavlinsky resigned form the government after Gorbachev rejected the program in 1990. Neither this is mentioned in the book, nor the fact the Harvard University fellows, like Graham Allison, were promoting ideas and giving intellectual impetus to Yavlinsky and Shatalin (another Russian co-author of the program).<br /><br />In the late 80s and early 90s Boris Yeltsin was competing with Gorbachev for power. He decided that the road to power lies through economic radicalism. Yeltsin assembled a competing set of pet economic advisers - most famous among them were Gaidar and Chubais. These two well-educated English-speaking Russians had even more far-reaching ideas than Yavlinsky. Eventually Yeltsin prevailed over Communists, and Gaidar and Chubais moved into the government. They had their own set of Harvard intellectuals to assist and advise them, among them was the Harvard professor Jeffrey Sachs. Sachs is a very interesting figure, whose liberalism and market fundamentalism are fused into one. Freeland mentioned Sachs only once in passing (on page 75), but his personality and ideas were of paramount importance. He was the real intellectual father of Russian `shock therapy'. All in all, the Harvard advisors look to me like sort of collective `&eacute;minence grise' to the Russian privatizers of both camps (Gorbachev's and Yeltsin's). What interesting to me is the fact that the author doesn't mention Harvard in the book, except mentioning in `Acknowledgments' that the Harvard University provided her with nonresident fellowship and `stimulating environment to complete the book'.<br /><br />As I see it, `shock therapy' came from the West, more precisely from the U.S., and specifically from the group of radical Harvard professors, most notably Andrei Shleifer and Jeffrey Sachs, who both were directly advising the Russian government in 1992-1993. These were the years Russia plunged into abyss. And yet, there is nothing of this in the book. There is also nothing to explain how Yegor Gaidar managed to stumble into `shock therapy' idea. He was, according to Freeland, a big fan of Samuelson's textbook `Economics', which `became his bible'. But there is nothing the textbook about `shock therapy'. Indeed I doubt that Samuelson would have approved such an outrageous idea.<br /><br />Freeland's conclusion is a master stroke. She likes ideas of Richard Pipes, who was her professor at Harvard (d&eacute;j&agrave; vu). These ideas in a nutshell - the tsarist, communist or re-born capitalist Russia represents hypostases of same imperialist, semi-barbaric, Asiatic despotism, which is driven by the eternal messianic zeal.<br />For Freeland, the free-market-through-minimum-government regime is the best economic system that Russia could have established, but the neo-Bolshevist zeal of `young reformers' spoiled the whole thing up.<br /><br />With a straight face she is saying `The problem was not that the young reformers were too radical, but that they were too fanatical'. Or `I am convinced that the central failure of Russia's capitalist revolution was that it did not go far enough' (page 344).  It is a folly. Shock tactics of Gaidar and his western advisers didn't work and couldn't have worked in Russia, regardless how far they would go. They caused nothing but pain and social strife. Withdrawing price control and unleashing unregulated free markets had caused a continuous 25% monthly inflation and falling industrial production of 25% per quarter (faster than during the Great Depression in America). The hyper-inflation wiped out most of people's life savings, which in combination with general decline of living standards and crumbling infrastructure, caused millions premature adult deaths in Russia through the 1990s. During this hurried transition to market democracy, Russia became a society with Third world mortality rates and First World birth rates. This should have been mentioned in the book as the real price of Russian privatization. All in all, the book feels to me like a Disney version of events, nothing more than an attempt to divert attention or may be even reassign the blame to vaguely defined by the author `Russian messianic tendencies'./><br />Freeland's conclusion is a master stroke. She likes ideas of Richard Pipes, who was her professor at Harvard (d&eacute;j&agrave; vu). These ideas in a nutshell - the tsarist, communist or re-born capitalist Russia represents hypostases of same imperialist, semi-barbaric, Asiatic despotism, which is driven by the eternal messianic zeal.<br />For Freeland, the free-market-through-minimum-government regime is the best economic system that Russia could have established, but the neo-Bolshevist zeal of `young reformers' spoiled the whole thing up.<br /><br />With a straight face she is saying `The problem was not that the young reformers were too radical, but that they were too fanatical'. Or `I am convinced that the central failure of Russia's capitalist revolution was that it did not go far enough' (page 344).  It is a folly. Shock tactics of Gaidar and his western advisers didn't work and couldn't have worked in Russia, regardless how far they would go. They caused nothing but pain and social strife. Withdrawing price control and unleashing unregulated free markets had caused a continuous 25% monthly inflation and falling industrial production of 25% per quarter (faster than during the Great Depression in America). The hyper-inflation wiped out most of people's life savings, which in combination with general decline of living standards and crumbling infrastructure, caused millions premature adult deaths in Russia through the 1990s. During this hurried transition to market democracy, Russia became a society with Third world mortality rates and First World birth rates. This should have been mentioned in the book as the real price of Russian privatization. All in all, the book feels to me like a Disney version of events, nothing more than an attempt to divert attention or may be even reassign the blame to vaguely defined by the author `Russian messianic tendencies'.	2005-03-11
US	52748989	R3BXOWNUYFLESE	0195177975	247380752	Inside Putin's Russia: Can There Be Reform without Democracy?	Books	3	14	19	N	N	Detail rich, but substance poor	Andrew Jack is Moscow bureau chief of the Financial Times, which is a pro-Big business UK paper. The paper hasn't been particularly focused or interested in Russia, except occasion critical outbursts of FT columnist Quentin Peel. The author is one of the whole crew of young Anglo-American correspondents who felt compelled to write a book after several years in Russia. The sweep of the book is broad - it is the Russia's business elite, GULAG, transitional economy, KGB, communism, city of Moscow, Russian political system, and Chechnya. It is impressive for anyone to cover all these topics in one swift stroke, but inevitably questions arise about a depth of such a book and its usefulness in predicting the Russia's future. The book didn't impress me very much on either of these counts. The author, who is essentially an investigative reporter, has undeniable strengths, which are in his knowledge of details: a date, a name, an event, some important personal detail. But a solid big picture unfortunately is not among them. The book is filled with little nuggets of information about Russia, Russian `oligarchs', and politicians, but I don't think it has a real depth, nor I am convinced that the book offers an objective portrait of `Putin's Russia'. In the book Russia is portrayed essentially as an imperfect, if not unsuccessful, disciple of laissez-faire capitalism practiced by US and UK. Also, the author does not appear to be as peeved as Marquise De Custine, but comes close sometimes.<br /><br />Jack writes in crisp, short sentences. He is obviously familiar with Russian language and throws lots of names around, but his anglicizing of Russian names is annoying. For example, on page 37 he mentioned `Old' Square in Moscow. In Russian language it is `Staraya' Square. With the same success one could call the Kremlin `the Tower'.<br />Many pages are filled with author's personal `disappointments' in Russia from his description of unsuccessful attempts to buy fresh lattice to his accounts of agonizing encounters with Russian traffic police - the feared GAI.  A lot of it appears to be a natural frustration of a foreigner, who is just trying to figure out what makes the Russians tick.<br /><br />The most important weakness of this book is its failure to examine Russia on its own terms, not to try to fit it into `the bed of Procrustes' of Anglo-American model, code of behavior, and virtues of US-style market democracy. Of course, Jack is right then saying that Putin's priority is modernization of Russia, not building a `democracy that bears more than a superficial resemblance to the variance recognizable in the west.'<br />But the author's attitude, as shown in his choice of words, is quite wrong. Looking at the examples of countries like Japan and Singapore, how could one say that the Anglo-Saxon way of market democracy is the only way to achieve prosperity and modernization? Why, if fact, it should be desirable in Russia?<br /><br />The massage of the book is pedestrian `Russia in 2008 is likely to be a country in better shape than some now fear, but not as impressive as it might have been had Putin used his potential to the full' (page 339).<br />The tone of patronizing superiority notwithstanding, one doesn't have to go through 350 pages to figure that out. I was impressed with his exercise in semantics when he called Russia a country, which `is shifting from anarchic liberalism towards liberal authoritarianism', but it really explains nothing. `Liberal' means different things to different people. In Russia `Young liberals' is a contemptuous name (even a swearing word)  for a group of reformers who carried out `the shock therapy' of the early nineties. Incidentally, these `young liberals' have had little to do with liberalism, but were adherents of rightist Thatcherism, standing for massive privatization, withdrawal of price control, trickle-down economics, and general free-market fundamentalism.<br /><br />What is particularly puzzling isJack's failure to notice a most striking feature of Kremlin's policies. It is not Putin's connection to KGB, which makes him noteworthy, but his Russian version of Gaullism. Like De Gaulle, Putin is a nationalistic, populist leader, insistent on a strong presidency, and determent to actively encourage a `multi-polar' world, in order to check US dominance.  All these have clear earmarks of French Gaullism a la Russe, and, incidentally, and not surprisingly France has been the closest Russian ally in the world. Mr. Jack who was stationed in Paris before Moscow didn't seem to bother to make a connection.Jack's failure to notice a most striking feature of Kremlin's policies. It is not Putin's connection to KGB, which makes him noteworthy, but his Russian version of Gaullism. Like De Gaulle, Putin is a nationalistic, populist leader, insistent on a strong presidency, and determent to actively encourage a `multi-polar' world, in order to check US dominance.  All these have clear earmarks of French Gaullism a la Russe, and, incidentally, and not surprisingly France has been the closest Russian ally in the world. Mr. Jack who was stationed in Paris before Moscow didn't seem to bother to make a connection.	2005-02-13
US	52748989	R303JQ2MSIBEYH	0674011740	747409495	Surprise, Security, and the American Experience	Books	3	24	47	N	N	Too optimistic	In his book Professor Gaddis tried to convince a reader that current US course of preemption, unilateralism, and hegemony is legitimate and even feasible and realistic. He found legitimacy in the past US experiences - during John Quincy Adams administration. I agree with author up to a point. But it was never a doctrine but a set of practical tools, and hegemony was applied to the American land and sea, not Okinawa, Riga or Tashkent. I also agree that security is a raison d'etre of the governments everywhere. But Gaddis hyperbolically pictures preemption, unilateralism, and hegemony as a coherent doctrine, which ought to dominate US foreign policy, while John Quincy Adams applied as it as a set of tools to be used for the practical necessity of protecting American lands from intruders. In reality, it's not a coherent doctrine, but a hotchpotch of ideas developed in various times by various nations. Thus preemption was first developed and applied by Bismarck and Moltke. The Germans successfully used against the French in 1870. But since then in proved to be a double-edge sword and, in wrong hands, brought a disaster back to the Germans -- for example, Hitler's invasion in Russia in 1941.  Hegemony is a Greek concept, where hegemon means a Chieftain. How realistically US can be a chieftain in this post-modern world, where every state insists to be a sovereign of its own land, remains an open question. Unilateralism is a less controversial concept, but the US seems to me unilateralist by nature (except a brief period of World War II). It seems to be self-referring and self-sufficient. American exceptionalism is a strong undercurrent and unilateralism is a manifestation of this idea.  Although Gaddis is more subtle than most neocons, his book inadvertently helps to justify neo-conservatives' rejection of diplomacy in dealing with other states under the banner of unilateralism.<br />But I have the other criticism - It is interesting to me that Gaddis mentioned Adam Smith at the end of the book. In 1991 the Soviet Union collapsed - in effect burying the idea of possibility of Western-style modernization in Russia. Thus the Marxian doctrine of rapid progress and modernization based on coercive and hegemonic power of proletariat appears to be dismissed. However Marx's ideas were based on the ideas of European Enlightenment thinkers, Kant (via Hegel) and, most notably, Adam Smith. Smith was the most influential economist of his time and he was in effect a creator of idea of leissez faire or unfettered capitalism. Smith's ideas were based on one central premise of Homo Economicus. Re-emergence after the end of the Cold war of religion, ethnicity and rivalry to territory and resourses makes a mockery of the idea of rational, economical man - the bedrock of the Western civilization, or better said the Enlightenment civilization, which strongest (and perhaps last standing) outpost is the US. Gaddis dismisses that as he dismisses Mujaheddin as 'pirates, marauders, and agents of predatory empires' (page 110). But fundamentalism is a post-modern phenomenon, not a 'blast from the past'. It is a thought-provoking book, but Gaddis seems to me a little too optimistic.at the end of the book. In 1991 the Soviet Union collapsed - in effect burying the idea of possibility of Western-style modernization in Russia. Thus the Marxian doctrine of rapid progress and modernization based on coercive and hegemonic power of proletariat appears to be dismissed. However Marx's ideas were based on the ideas of European Enlightenment thinkers, Kant (via Hegel) and, most notably, Adam Smith. Smith was the most influential economist of his time and he was in effect a creator of idea of leissez faire or unfettered capitalism. Smith's ideas were based on one central premise of Homo Economicus. Re-emergence after the end of the Cold war of religion, ethnicity and rivalry to territory and resourses makes a mockery of the idea of rational, economical man - the bedrock of the Western civilization, or better said the Enlightenment civilization, which strongest (and perhaps last standing) outpost is the US. Gaddis dismisses that as he dismisses Mujaheddin as 'pirates, marauders, and agents of predatory empires' (page 110). But fundamentalism is a post-modern phenomenon, not a 'blast from the past'. It is a thought-provoking book, but Gaddis seems to me a little too optimistic.	2005-01-06
US	52748989	R2A9A1OT1KLYGH	0805073132	947438665	Blood and Oil: The Dangers and Consequences of America's Growing Dependency on Imported Petroleum (American Empire Project)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Great Game Redux	This book is a valuable contribution. The book asserts that competition for petroleum has replaced ideology as a major source for international conflict. The book evokes a feeling that Thomas Malthus, who was a pessimistic philosopher and writer on population in Victorian England, is a more reliable guide to present times than Karl Marx, Von Hayek or Francis Fukuyama. I am sure you will have the same feeling than you put down this book. The Great Game is back with the vengeance. The world stage has been set for Malthusian wars of scarcity. But the scarce resource is no longer food, but fossil fuel, commonly known as oil.<br />The book surpasses in insight numerable writings by so-called geo-politicians in explaining the present conflict. As a Russia's casual observer, I can tell you that it is a better guide for understanding interaction between Russia and US than writings of Zbignew Brzezinski, who writes from an outdated ideological point of view, thus clouding the issues. To my view, the era of ideology ended with Soviet Union voluntarily dismantling its empire in 1991. Many other authors try to introduce a crude racial point of view. `Expansionism is in the Russian DNA' (George Will, a US commentator). This is, of course, nonsense. The key aspects of this new Great Game are 1) control and access to world oil routs, and 2) which power will dominate the Caspian basin region, the new oil Mecca. Even before the celebrated Cheney energy report was published in May 2001, underscoring the importance of the Caspian as an alternative to Persian Gulf, the Clinton administration blessed in 1999 plans for creation of BTC pipeline, going from Baku to Tbilisi to Ceyhan, thus surpassing Russia. Although Russians immediately realized that they are being elbowed out, it took a few years to cement the Russian point of view that the US is trying to supplant Russia as a dominant power in the Caspian basin, Russia's historic domain. The consequent events in Georgia, from Russian point of view, confirmed it. The US has established an unofficial military base there. The new Georgian leader, a Columbia-educated lawyer, came to power (as the Russians see it) with American help and lavish monetary contribution. The only difference in what some see as unavoidable US expansion in the region is ambitions of the new power - China. China's growing thirst for petroleum makes the American position difficult, almost untenable. More, China and Russia are uniting to counteract US presence, particularly in the Caspian basin by courting Kazakhstan. Current US involvement in Ukraine will, in my view, push Russia further into China's embrace. The Chinese leaders understand that most of the world flow of oil is now guaranteed not by OPEC or 'world market' but by US military. That, in addition to growing presence of US bases in Central Asia, makes the Chinese very uneasy.<br />China and Russia are now also indirectly challenging US in Persian Gulf (which has become virtually an American protectorate) by selling advanced arms and technologies to Iran.<br />But the US is up a creek there even without China-Russia alliance. The author alludes that Cheney report is a key to understand the US invasion of Iraq. This report basically said that US future demand for foreign oil will be huge and getting it won't be easy. Unless the US takes drastic measures now, it can miss the boat. The scope of US dependence of foreign petroleum is truly staggering. More, to compensate falling domestic extraction and growing demand for oil, US will need to export 18.5 million barrels per day in 2020 - the number equivalent of current consumption by India and China combined. The fact that Indian and Chinese consumption of petroleum is growing even faster probably means that we will see even more ferocious struggle for oil in the coming years. We will probably look back at the twentieth century as a time of peace. This book is truly a food for thought.nt of view, confirmed it. The US has established an unofficial military base there. The new Georgian leader, a Columbia-educated lawyer, came to power (as the Russians see it) with American help and lavish monetary contribution. The only difference in what some see as unavoidable US expansion in the region is ambitions of the new power - China. China's growing thirst for petroleum makes the American position difficult, almost untenable. More, China and Russia are uniting to counteract US presence, particularly in the Caspian basin by courting Kazakhstan. Current US involvement in Ukraine will, in my view, push Russia further into China's embrace. The Chinese leaders understand that most of the world flow of oil is now guaranteed not by OPEC or 'world market' but by US military. That, in addition to growing presence of US bases in Central Asia, makes the Chinese very uneasy.<br />China and Russia are now also indirectly challenging US in Persian Gulf (which has become virtually an American protectorate) by selling advanced arms and technologies to Iran.<br />But the US is up a creek there even without China-Russia alliance. The author alludes that Cheney report is a key to understand the US invasion of Iraq. This report basically said that US future demand for foreign oil will be huge and getting it won't be easy. Unless the US takes drastic measures now, it can miss the boat. The scope of US dependence of foreign petroleum is truly staggering. More, to compensate falling domestic extraction and growing demand for oil, US will need to export 18.5 million barrels per day in 2020 - the number equivalent of current consumption by India and China combined. The fact that Indian and Chinese consumption of petroleum is growing even faster probably means that we will see even more ferocious struggle for oil in the coming years. We will probably look back at the twentieth century as a time of peace. This book is truly a food for thought.	2004-12-07
US	52748989	R3GPRNXCIRKW9T	1862075123	781416342	Straw Dogs: Thoughts on Humans and Other Animals	Books	2	9	16	N	Y	Just showing off his gray matter	I was really disappointed, perhaps because of my high expectations. I really enjoyed Gray's previous books. As Carl Jung (whom the author called a Gnostic in passing) would have surely said about this book - it is too cerebral. I would call it clever. Actually I am convinced that should John Gray have carefully read Jung, he would be more careful in labeling him. Jung, like Gray himself, was a devotee of the philosophy of Arthur Schopenhauer. Clearly Gray's book is founded on Schopenhauer philosophical outlook and follows his gloomy view of humanity. But unlike Schopenhauer and his follower Gray, Jung was not a pessimist. His whole point was that unlike the human kind in general, an individual human soul does have a chance. I respect John Gray, although I think he is wrong in this book. Still, he has many interesting insights. He is a fearless critic of enlightenment and ferocious opponent of ideologies based on the blind faith in progress. His earlier book on the philosophy of Isaiah Berlin was pretty good. His other book about crisis of global capitalism 'False Dawn' was fantastic. He is best then writhing about economics. Alas, 'Straw Dogs' can't really hold a candle to his previous works - it is really a regression. It was all in all a big disappointment for me...	2003-07-24
US	52748989	R3W0IHQ3AS2PDF	0805063005	638112257	Isaiah Berlin: A Life	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	'British spy' who loved Akhmatova	In this interesting book we learn that it was Stalin who called Mr. Berlin a 'British spy'. He did it after he had learned that Isaiah Berlin privately visited the exiled poet Anna Akhmatova during Berlin's visit to Leningrad in November 1945, against Soviet government's wishes. Incidentally, it turned out that Stalin was correct. Sir Isaiah Berlin was in fact a former British intelligence officer. At least, this you can find in the recently published Stephen Dorril's monumental volume called 'MI6 'Inside the covert world of Her Majesty's Secret Intelligence Service'. Michael Ignatieff, who wrote this interesting book about Sir Isaiah Berlin, for whatever reason omitted this fact. Perhaps he didn't know about this side of Berlin's past, but more likely explanation would be his desire not to turn the book into a spy thriller, which is reasonable. I'd find it hard to believe, that Ignatieff was unaware of Berlin's ties to the British Intelligence, particularly in light of history of Ignatieff's own grandfather, beautifully described in Ignatieff's other book 'The Russian Album'. Berlin's life was long, interesting, and fortunate for a Russian born in 1909. After spending few years in Petrograd (where he witnessed and never forgot the 1917 Russian Revolution) his family was able to move with some difficulty to England, thanks to his father being a timber merchant with some connections and means. Ignatieff had been meeting with Berlin for ten years in London in order to write a biography, which, according to Berlin's condition couldn't be published while he was still alive. The book, apart from fascinating and packed with events life of Berlin, was interesting to me due to the fact that both Ignatieff and Berlin were closely linked to Russia, although at the different ends. Berlin - a Russian Jew from Riga, a fluent Russian speaker, steeped in middle class values, turned British Intelligence officer, later a renowned British philosopher, and a historian of ideas.  Ignatieff is a descendent of high Russian aristocracy with links to the Tsars, who became a Harvard professor and a writer. I feel like he is almost redeeming the Ignatieff name in this book, since according 'Russian Album', his great-grandfather count Nicolas Ignatieff (Minister of Interior of Russia), was known for his anti-Semitism. It's interesting that Berlin's favorite writers were mostly Russian; particularly he admired Herzen and Tougrenev. He used to say that Herzen (who was also a Russian &eacute;migr&eacute; living England in 19th century) influenced him most.  Ignatieff's father had to go to exile (first to England and then Canada) after 1917 Russian revolution almost at the same age as Berlin. There was clearly a deep, almost farther-son connection, uniting these too men and I suspect their meeting was not accidental. Although Berlin thought all his life about idea of liberty (Two concepts of Liberty), he wasn't a liberal in the American contemporary meaning of the word. He has first formulated the simple but wonderful idea of value pluralism and put it ahead of the democracy, which he said could be intolerant and oppressive. He was a true free thinker, who refused to subscribe to any ideology. In short, Berlin was of his own class. Unique thing about him was, although he was a British subject, he combined a trinity of identities ' i.e. British, Jewish, and Russian and managed to tap from them his creativity, intelligence, and insight. This is a well-written and insightful book. I recommend it for anyone interested in Belin's life, history of ideas, and modern Russian history.ieff is a descendent of high Russian aristocracy with links to the Tsars, who became a Harvard professor and a writer. I feel like he is almost redeeming the Ignatieff name in this book, since according 'Russian Album', his great-grandfather count Nicolas Ignatieff (Minister of Interior of Russia), was known for his anti-Semitism. It's interesting that Berlin's favorite writers were mostly Russian; particularly he admired Herzen and Tougrenev. He used to say that Herzen (who was also a Russian &eacute;migr&eacute; living England in 19th century) influenced him most.  Ignatieff's father had to go to exile (first to England and then Canada) after 1917 Russian revolution almost at the same age as Berlin. There was clearly a deep, almost farther-son connection, uniting these too men and I suspect their meeting was not accidental. Although Berlin thought all his life about idea of liberty (Two concepts of Liberty), he wasn't a liberal in the American contemporary meaning of the word. He has first formulated the simple but wonderful idea of value pluralism and put it ahead of the democracy, which he said could be intolerant and oppressive. He was a true free thinker, who refused to subscribe to any ideology. In short, Berlin was of his own class. Unique thing about him was, although he was a British subject, he combined a trinity of identities ' i.e. British, Jewish, and Russian and managed to tap from them his creativity, intelligence, and insight. This is a well-written and insightful book. I recommend it for anyone interested in Belin's life, history of ideas, and modern Russian history.	2003-05-24
US	52748989	R1UUTFNBAVLK9J	0389044512	13544147	The history of the Mongol conquests	Books	4	17	31	N	N	Chingis Khan unmasked	The History of the Mongol Conquests is a respectable book  solid scholarship, persuasive analysis, and interesting read. I actually have learned enormous amount not just about the Mongols, but also about the Chinese from this book. I have only couple critical remarks. The author seems confused about origins of the ethos, which become associated (at least in the Russian mind) forever with the Mongols. This question is simple - who are the Tatars, where they came from? Saunders writes on page 158 new race of Tartars emerged out of a fusion of Mongols, Turks, Slavs, and Finns.  OK, I agree with that. But he goes further distinguishing Tatars from Tartars, speaking about Tatars as one Mongol-speaking tribe. Actually on the map on page 30 Tatars are placed in the Northern China. This doesnt make any sense for me. Tartars and Tatars are the same, except Tartars is Western European and Tatars is Russian name. And yet he confuses the things further by sometimes using the word Tatars as interchangeable with Turks.<br /><br />Another passage I have a suspicious feeling about is on page 170. He goes -Defeat of Christianity in the area where its prospects seemed favorable is perhaps attributable toinferiority of the Russians to the Persians and Chinese in the scale of civilization. I disagree with this approach. First of all, what is this scale? I think while the Persians had to accept Islam - the religion of nomadic Arab tribes invading Persia in 7th century from the Arabian peninsular, Russia had avoided Shamanism - religion of the invading Mongols. Later Moscovy held up as a Christian state and avoided Islam  a semi-official religion of the The Golden Horde. To my view Russian civilization was not inferior, but purhaps less glamorous than Persian/Iranic. This turned out to be ultimately a blessing in disguise for the Russians. The Mongols didnt want to go deeper to these forests and swamps; they preferred much more the open steppe. And while Kiev was destroyed, this inferior civilization did survived 265 years of Mongol domination. The Russian civilization was preserved in monasteries among those marshes and forests of the North, hidden away from the Mongols and other foreigners. Anyway, despite several slippery passages, I would recommend this one to anyone interested in the subject  the book is well written and fascinating (it least it was for me).hile Kiev was destroyed, this inferior civilization did survived 265 years of Mongol domination. The Russian civilization was preserved in monasteries among those marshes and forests of the North, hidden away from the Mongols and other foreigners. Anyway, despite several slippery passages, I would recommend this one to anyone interested in the subject  the book is well written and fascinating (it least it was for me).	2003-01-06
US	52748989	RBLQTPPOF4PMN	0814731325	447965003	Chechnya: Calamity in the Caucasus	Books	1	19	36	N	N	Something stinks in Danish Kingdom.	It is funny how the public opinion of many small European countries is reluctant to recognize necessity of a burden, which large states -USA, China, India or Russia must carry. This burden is opposing terrorism (regardless of it's origin). These small countries it seems to me are enjoying being an impediment. For example, Danish authorities have refused to extradite Akhmed Zakayev to Russia. Russia wanted him, because allegedly this spokesman of the Chechen guerillas was involved in the terrorist activities. The Danes disagreed and let him freely leave the country. The Belgian embassy in London issued him a European Visa several months before. Some Dutchmen unfortunately are no better. The Netherlands is home country of the publisher of `Moscow Times' and the authors of `Chechnya' - who were also correspondents of this paper in 1997. I think the paper is alright, and both Gall and de Waal obviously have some strong journalistic qualities. But I think they have totally failed to give a balanced account on Chechnya, to the point where some pages sound to me like a mouthpiece for the Chechen rebels.<br />Coming back to my point, these small countries are enjoying being on the sidelines, comfortably placed in the Northern fringes of Europe. And all they do is criticizing countries, which stuck with unpleasant role. Why? May be these two authors of `Chechnya' are seeking in Chechens the qualities that they don't have, or their home countries don't possess? They don't have high mountains, deserts or the Islamic Shariah Law, for sure. May be the bored European intellectuals are tired the liberal democracy and seek truths in Islam or, perhaps, Whirling Dervishes? May be some of them are like this kid from the West Coast family of means - John Walker Lindh - who joined Taliban in Afghanistan.  I do not know, may be Vanessa Redgrave knows. But it is strange to read a book, in which none other than Shamil Basayev is called `a gifted commander', or `witty' and `personable'. Although the authors know perfectly well that in Russia this person is like Osama bin Laden for the United States. Enemy number one.<br />The Chechen warlord Shamil Basayev started out with high-jacking of a Russian plane to Turkey in 1991. Then he personally headed the devastating raid to the Russian town of Budyonnovsk in 1995 when the biggest ever number of hostages was taken - more than 1,000 people. Many people were killed during this incursion. Basayev personally ordered execution of some of the hostages, as it is described in the book. Nevertheless, Gall and de Waal took the position, which is not uncommon in the European intellectual circles. This position boils down to the following: the Chechens have the noble intentions; this is the Russians who force them to do bad things. And the Russians deserve it anyway.<br />At least this is a position. Sure, the Russian army didn't manage the Chechen war well from the humanitarian point of view. The war was messy and brutal as sometimes war is. Often they acted heavy-handedly, not only because they faced the fiercest resistance from the Chechens, but also they were not ready. The Russians were unprepared for the war, since the country was in economic and political turmoil after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. Many were avoiding the draft. Russian army was demoralized and wasn't even trained for this kind of mountain guerilla war, where would be no fixed front line and where wouldn't be possible to tell enemy from the friend. The internal armed insurgency led by the group of tough thugs fanatically devoted to their cause was something new to the Russians, and they were not ready to deal with it. It turned out Russians couldn't just coax the Chechens with compromises - they had to fight, if they wanted to keep the Russian federation alive. But it also turned out that the way the Russians started to fight was wrong.<br />But was it there an alternative to fighting? The authors are silent. The danger was furtherdisintegration of Russia, as others would be looking to chip away like Chechnya. Chechnya was not Afghanistan. Not only it was a member of Russian Federation, it is also had 250,000 -strong Russian community. Also the huge difference with Afghanistan was the fact that the Chechen Mujaheddin, unlike the Afghani Mujaheddin, could speak Russian, look like Russians, act like Russians.  That made them a very dangerous enemy.<br />I think this book, which was written in 1997, didn't pass the test of time. Unfortunately, it has failed to make a meaningful analysis of the conflict and predict the future events. The chip on their shoulders is way too big. I suspect the book was not intended as an analysis, but rather `war journalism', in which the authors catalog the `crimes'. Unfortunately, all the crimes are Russian, while the Chechen are romantic freedom fighters, described with warmest feelings.<br />The book has failed to tell the truth, i.e. the fact that with Russian withdrawal from Chechnya and disintegration of the power-base, the thuggish element took the upper hand in Chechnya in 1991-1995 and then again in 1996-1999. These thugs are describes as freedom fighters. The journalistic style is also little weird: sometimes the authors use the first person, sometimes they don't - I assume a difficulty of writing book together. I believe that they were told about many events in the book, rather than witnessed them directly. Much was told by Dudaev, Basayev, Raduyev, and by other Chechen separatist leaders directly to Carlotta Gall. It is known how objective these guys are (or were) - and the book suffers from the same symptoms. I can't recommend it, unless you are a Mujaheddin looking for summer reading.disintegration of Russia, as others would be looking to chip away like Chechnya. Chechnya was not Afghanistan. Not only it was a member of Russian Federation, it is also had 250,000 -strong Russian community. Also the huge difference with Afghanistan was the fact that the Chechen Mujaheddin, unlike the Afghani Mujaheddin, could speak Russian, look like Russians, act like Russians.  That made them a very dangerous enemy.<br />I think this book, which was written in 1997, didn't pass the test of time. Unfortunately, it has failed to make a meaningful analysis of the conflict and predict the future events. The chip on their shoulders is way too big. I suspect the book was not intended as an analysis, but rather `war journalism', in which the authors catalog the `crimes'. Unfortunately, all the crimes are Russian, while the Chechen are romantic freedom fighters, described with warmest feelings.<br />The book has failed to tell the truth, i.e. the fact that with Russian withdrawal from Chechnya and disintegration of the power-base, the thuggish element took the upper hand in Chechnya in 1991-1995 and then again in 1996-1999. These thugs are describes as freedom fighters. The journalistic style is also little weird: sometimes the authors use the first person, sometimes they don't - I assume a difficulty of writing book together. I believe that they were told about many events in the book, rather than witnessed them directly. Much was told by Dudaev, Basayev, Raduyev, and by other Chechen separatist leaders directly to Carlotta Gall. It is known how objective these guys are (or were) - and the book suffers from the same symptoms. I can't recommend it, unless you are a Mujaheddin looking for summer reading.	2002-12-21
US	52748989	R8CBPPGV14CCE	0394575660	193554429	Nest of Spies: America's Journey to Disaster in Iran	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Between Thomas Jefferson and Henry Kissinger.	The Iranian fiasco stands out in the otherwise pretty nice list of American successes in the XX century. What makes it even more interesting is the fact than none other than Dr. Kissinger in his monumental volume `Diplomacy' (written in 1994) doesn't mention the Iranian revolution, Ayatolla Khomeini, or the Shah. Perhaps it doesn't blend in to his views of the world. In Amir Taheri's splendid book about Iran however Kissinger's name is mentioned almost on every page. Perhaps it has something to do with the fact that Mr. Kissinger was an architect of the US Iranian policy prior to the revolution and trusted friend and advisor to the Shah. `Nest of Spies' helps to understand why Mr.Kissinger, and with him the whole US policy vis-&agrave;-vis Iran, had failed to my view in both short and long run.<br />First, it was a story of love. Iran (Persia) was crazy about America. In the chapter `Bountiful Americans' Taheri explains how thousands of Americans who came to Iran in late XIXth and early XXth centuries swept away the Iranians with their kindness, hard work and adherence to new technology and education. They were like Thomas Jefferson - the best, the enlightenment people, XVIIIth century philosophers at heart.<br />To the amazement of mullahs, even American Christian missionaries didn't convert the locals but were focused on setting up schools and hospitals, and other `good works'.<br />In Nixon-Kissinger years this image, which started changing after WWII, was dramatically transformed. The country has become a US outpost in Middle East. The Iran was filled with influence peddlers, fixers, oil executives, and arms salesmen. Special personal relationships between the Shah and Nixon were emphasized. The strategic position of Iran on the Soviet border had insured Iran a role in `Cold War' as very important US ally. Meanwhile the influence of mullahs was underestimated and they were even encouraged, because of their anticommunism. The repressive actions by the Shah were focused on the Moscow-sponsored Marxists and followers of Dr. Mohammad Mossadeq - leader of the oil-nationalization movement (and actually quite pro-western). As usual (and it reminds me about the Russian Revolution) the revolution was started by moderates with liberal slogans but was carried out by more ruthless extremists who didn't want to stop where moderates would stop.<br />The author shows intimate knowledge of Iran with its surprisingly complex political life. Despite everything, the US was probably a positive force in Iran, particularly in the beginning. In later years the US-Iran policy was managed by Dr. Kissinger and advocates of `cloak and dagger' operations (i.e. `gentlemen with noble intentions'). Also policy consistency was never an American strong point due to peculiarity of the US political system.<br />To my view, the US committed two major sins in Iran. First, it utterly failed to recognize the danger of rising Islamic fundamentalism. It made a huge mistake by secretly helping mullahs as a potent anticommunist force against Russia (as it did by sponsoring and arming the Mujaheddin in Afghanistan).  The name of the game was to win the `Cold War' almost at any price. The stakes were too high. Of course, the US came victorious in `Cold War', but by using this double-edged weapon, it created a problem, which came back to haunt it. Unfortunately, the genie was let out of the bottle. The second sin was failure to see that the Shah was doomed. This highly secular and `pro-western' ruler had in fact had gone against the traditions of his own country. I think he was limited like Tsar Nicolas before him, and not keen to the `vox populus' - and therefore doomed. I highly recommend this book - it is provocative, but well written and thoughtful.ocused on the Moscow-sponsored Marxists and followers of Dr. Mohammad Mossadeq - leader of the oil-nationalization movement (and actually quite pro-western). As usual (and it reminds me about the Russian Revolution) the revolution was started by moderates with liberal slogans but was carried out by more ruthless extremists who didn't want to stop where moderates would stop.<br />The author shows intimate knowledge of Iran with its surprisingly complex political life. Despite everything, the US was probably a positive force in Iran, particularly in the beginning. In later years the US-Iran policy was managed by Dr. Kissinger and advocates of `cloak and dagger' operations (i.e. `gentlemen with noble intentions'). Also policy consistency was never an American strong point due to peculiarity of the US political system.<br />To my view, the US committed two major sins in Iran. First, it utterly failed to recognize the danger of rising Islamic fundamentalism. It made a huge mistake by secretly helping mullahs as a potent anticommunist force against Russia (as it did by sponsoring and arming the Mujaheddin in Afghanistan).  The name of the game was to win the `Cold War' almost at any price. The stakes were too high. Of course, the US came victorious in `Cold War', but by using this double-edged weapon, it created a problem, which came back to haunt it. Unfortunately, the genie was let out of the bottle. The second sin was failure to see that the Shah was doomed. This highly secular and `pro-western' ruler had in fact had gone against the traditions of his own country. I think he was limited like Tsar Nicolas before him, and not keen to the `vox populus' - and therefore doomed. I highly recommend this book - it is provocative, but well written and thoughtful.	2002-11-01
US	52748989	R2C9X7HQ1642SG	0684869764	220908343	Casino Moscow: A Tale of Greed and Adventure on Capitalism's Wildest Frontier	Books	2	5	10	N	N	Russes Terribles	I think Mr. Zbignev Brzezinski - a former US National Security adviser under President Carter - would enjoy the book. This is because `Casino Moscow' was written by his young nephew - Matthew Brzezinski. Plus it portraits Russians in the most unpleasant light - some people like that! Certainly, to his credit, Mr. Matthew Brzezinski has reached new heights in his creative Russia - bashing. The author has actually moved a full circle from his uncle's traditional Truman-like anti-communism to the age-old loathing of everything Russian by the Polish ultra-nationalist aristocracy from Marshal Pilsudski camp.<br />I am not sure if this loathing is unjustified, but the question I am asking is simple: is Mr. Matthew Brzezinski really the right person to represent US business community in Russia (as a WSJ correspondent), or may be he is a little biased to bridge Russian and American points of view?  No wonder US investments in Russia are less than in Costa Rica.	2002-10-21
US	52748989	R1YLXDAMFKRL8G	0684869764	220908343	Casino Moscow: A Tale of Greed and Adventure on Capitalism's Wildest Frontier	Books	3	1	8	N	N	Despicable Russians	Despicable Russians <br />I think Mr. Zbignev Brzezinski - a former US National Security adviser under President Jimmy Carter - would certainly enjoy the book. After all, `Casino Moscow' was written by his young and talented nephew - Matthew. Plus it portraits Russia in the most unattractive light - what a feast for an old Russophobe! Certainly, to his credit, Mr. Matthew Brzezinski has reached new heights in his creative Russia -bashing.  The author has actually moved a full circle from his uncle's typical Truman-like anti-communism to the more traditional and age-old loathing of everything Russian by the Polish right-wing aristocracy. I am not sure if this loathing is unjustified, the question I am asking is simple: is he really a right person to represent US business community in Russia (as a WSJ correspondent), or may be he is a little biased to bridge Russian and American business interests?  No wonder US investments in Russia are less than in Costa Rica.	2002-10-21
US	52748989	R3J3NCNNKHIXCX	0967724805	999795757	The Color of Oil : The History, the Money and the Politics of the World's Biggest Business	Books	2	20	29	N	Y	Good Public Relations exercise.	Reading this book I couldn't suppress a suspicions that this book was written for PR purposes. The people who wrote it are, undoubtedly, very knowledgeable in their area - i.e. the oil industry, but still... Many pages are dedicated to how the US government had been trying to put a straitjacket on the oil industry. Another theme is inefficiency and greed of oil-producing countries. The only `sacred cow' in the book is The Big oil, and unfortunately it is excluded form meaningful critical analysis. From my perspective, the book's goal is make you feel good about oil industry. It is a good book for that purpose. Unfortunately, although it presents some tidbits of really curios information, this book is essentially shallow. I would recommend it for a college student who wants to join oil industry, but isn't sure. This book would cement his or her decision. But if you seek a truly good book on the subject go for 'The Prize' by Daniel Yergin. I am reading it now and I believe it is more balanced and simply more interesting.	2002-10-13
US	52748989	R4VWGKLLYD3FU	0140284583	436220225	Stalingrad: The Fateful Siege: 1942-1943	Books	2	26	42	N	N	Strange book	I gave two stars only because of the subject - I am sure it takes a lot of effort and guts to research and write about Stalingrad. Otherwise I feel it deserves only one star if any at all. I was bored and I rarely get bored reading these kinds of books. I had the impression the author didn't really care much about the subject, as if his heart was somewhere else. Also I thought his open cynicism about Soviet Union and its leadership went a little bit too far. It looks to me like Mr. Beevor is still fighting the `Cold War'.<br /><br />Alan Clark's \\"Barbarossa\\" offers a stark contact to Mr. Beevor book. May be \\"Barbarossa\\" is a little bit dated and not as focused on Stalingrad, but Alan Clark  (another well-informed Brit) writes about the subject with wit, insight, and passion. Mr. Beevor is cynical and methodical, but he writes without spark, and, most importantly, with remarkable lack of insight. He had written about what happened, but not why it happened. In the book technicalities had dimmed the bigger picture of the German onslaught and encirclement.<br />To his credit Mr. Beevor had shown realistically and in detail everyday life, fighting, and suffering of the German (and allied) soldiers in Stalingrad. He has also shown the fate of the Germans from the unusual humanitarian point of view. But as far as the fate of Russian soldiers, it is hard to tell because he is reticent about their everyday life. The author offers no more than physical description of the Russian commanders. For example, Vasilii Chuikov had `gold-crowned teeth' (page 89). Unfortunately there is very little about his qualities as General and personal qualities of this key Russian defender of Stalingrad.<br />The civilians in Stalingrad suffered a lot, beginning August 1942 when the German `super'-bombing of the city took place. 40,000 of them had died, but the author had only a cursory mentioning of their struggle to survive during the bombing and five-month long fighting. I think the American author William Craig in his \\"Enemy at the Gates\\" did better job in brining the human drama of Stalingrad to life. To my opinion, this book is a strange and unsuccessful attempt to recreate the famous battle. I think that truly balanced and complete account about `Verdun on Volga' is still waiting to be written.author William Craig in his \\"Enemy at the Gates\\" did better job in brining the human drama of Stalingrad to life. To my opinion, this book is a strange and unsuccessful attempt to recreate the famous battle. I think that truly balanced and complete account about `Verdun on Volga' is still waiting to be written.	2002-08-04
US	52748989	R3VHJEBCG2H5LT	0300084595	178326203	Grand Delusion: Stalin and the German Invasion of Russia	Books	4	18	31	N	N	Solid Post-Cold War history	The Cold War gave birth to a myth that the Soviet Union was cunningly planning a strike against Germany in July 1941. As a result, some historians had been calling for justification of the invasion to Russia, which Nazi Germany started on June 22, 1941. The logic goes if Stalin was planning an aggression against Germany, Hitler had a right to a preemptive strike against Russia. The creators of the myth use a testimony of a defector from the Russian military intelligence by the name of V. Resun. Under a pen name \\"Suvorov\\" he wrote a book called \\"Icebreaker\\" where he presented a theory that Stalin in 1939-1941 was meticulously preparing a war against Germany. Therefore according to this theory Russia was an aggressor rather than the victim in 1941.<br />In \\"Grand Delusion\\" Israeli professor Gabriel Gorodetsky shows beyond reasonable doubt that Suvorov's arguments are ridiculous. He presents evidence that Stalin was not contemplating attack on Germany; but in fact was trying to avoid any confrontation with Germany while playing a compacted diplomatic game to limit Germany's political influence on the Balkans, particularly in Bulgaria and Yugoslavia. He shows Stalin's obsessions with the Turkish Straits and Bulgaria, which wasn't new, but was an old Imperial policy of Russia for many years. I was surprised to learn how much \\"tsarist\\" Stalin's foreign policy really was - there was very little in it related to the communist ideology or \\"class struggle\\" theory of Karl Marx.<br />The failure to understand Hitler's bellicose plans was a result of Stalin's misjudgment of power structure and decision-making process in Berlin. As an extremely suspicious person, Stalin mistrusted everyone, but looks like he believed misleading information presented to him by opponents of Hitler's policy such as Count Werner Von Schulenburg (German ambassador to Moscow, who became later a leading figure of anti-Hitler failed coup) and Ribbentrop. Stalin mistrusted equally both Churchill and Hitler and attributed all warning signals to England's efforts to drag Russia into war with Germany. Also Stalin didn't believe that Hitler would allow Wehrmacht to fight on two fronts. German double agents \\"Litseist\\" encouraged this false believe. The Germans succeeded in their sophisticated disinformation campaign, which coupled with Stalin's wishful thinking, led Russians to believe that Germany was not planning to invade Russia at least in the near future.<br />Gorodetsky points out that the idea of a preventive war was embedded in the German (from Frederick the Great to Moltke) rather than the Russian military tradition. \\"Barbarossa\\" plan was devised to quickly crash Russia in quick 10-week war and to free Hitler's hands to complete his \\"mastery of Europe\\". Then he would take care of England without any distractions from the \\"Soviet Empire\\". It looked like everything was working just wonderful for Nazi Germany until June 22, 1941 - the beginning of the German invasion to Russia (which by the way started suddenly without any declaration or ultimatum). But it turned out that the Germans seriously underrated the opponent and seriously miscalculated the amount of the effort they would need to crush Russia. Sure, the German might was incredible, but so was German overconfidence. Hitler's disparaging attitude towards Russian \\"vermin\\" makes ridiculous the theory of preemptive strike. Gorodetsky shows that this attitude was widespread in the West - Sir Winston Churchill himself was prone to disparaging attitude towards Stalin and the Red Army.<br />But just before his attack on Russia Hitler was beating Stalin at his own game. Stalin's failure to prepare for the German onslaught, which cost many Russian lives, was a result of his own self-deception and wishful thinking. Although Stalin was very wily, I feel that he lacked formal education to think abstractly and deal with issues like, for example, proverbial German concept of \\"Drang nach Osten\\" or draw analogies from history. Although as a Georgian, he was obsessed with history of the Black sea and repercussions of potential German capture of the Turkish Straits. 150 years earlier the Grand Army of Napoleon stood looking across the English Channel - but there was nowhere for it to go - except to Russia. It seems to me again in June 1941 the same gravitational force was pulling 200 idle German divisions to the endless Russian steppes. Where else would these \\"drunk with success\\" armies go?<br />I really liked the book. This scholarly and dry book was not an easy read. But the amount of information looked at is enormous and the quality of analysis is good. Also for the first time the reliance is not only on the German and British sources, but also on the declassified Russian archives. The book de-romanticizes many myths and accounts, including well-known Churchill's history of WWII, which is \\"persuasive but excessively self-centered and therefore occasionally misleading interpretation of events\\". I highly recommend this book to everybody interested in reading a non-Disney history of WWII.y. Although as a Georgian, he was obsessed with history of the Black sea and repercussions of potential German capture of the Turkish Straits. 150 years earlier the Grand Army of Napoleon stood looking across the English Channel - but there was nowhere for it to go - except to Russia. It seems to me again in June 1941 the same gravitational force was pulling 200 idle German divisions to the endless Russian steppes. Where else would these \\"drunk with success\\" armies go?<br />I really liked the book. This scholarly and dry book was not an easy read. But the amount of information looked at is enormous and the quality of analysis is good. Also for the first time the reliance is not only on the German and British sources, but also on the declassified Russian archives. The book de-romanticizes many myths and accounts, including well-known Churchill's history of WWII, which is \\"persuasive but excessively self-centered and therefore occasionally misleading interpretation of events\\". I highly recommend this book to everybody interested in reading a non-Disney history of WWII.	2002-07-24
US	52748989	R5GFJYUO0U2SE	0870031902	712063489	The End of Eurasia: Russia on the Border Between Geopolitics and Globalization	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Pragmatic examination of the Russian foreign policy	According to Mr. Trenin the end of Eurasia can be a good thing if the Russians will manage to abandon the idea quickly. Eurasia in this context is not a geographical term, but a mental construct, the idea of uniqueness of Russia and her separate (from the Western civilization) identity and destiny. Russia has a distinctive feature of having more land in Asia than in Europe, which undeniably has had a huge impact on Russian life since 17 century. But from the author's point of view the idea of Eurasia would be foolish pursue since Russia is facing a whole new set of challenges.<br />The author argues that the collapse of Soviet Union was de facto the end of the idea of Eurasia. With the final end of the Russian Empire (and its short-lived successor - the Soviet Union) myth of Eurasia must also be abandoned. This is the right time for the Russian people to shed this idea once and for all and to join the European civilization where the Russian roots are. A Europe that includes Bulgaria and Turkey cannot close its doors to Russia - at least not on cultural grounds, Mr. Trenin emphasizes. I would also add that, while the concept of Eurasia was first developed by the 19-th century Russian Slavophile, these days it is completely turned around and used by the Western either far-right or far-left circles just to argue how barbaric and \\"Asiatic\\" Russia is and always will be. May be if the Russians discard Eurasia myth, the Western academics and policy-makers will finally give up using Marquis de Custine's book written in 1839 as the ultimate source of knowledge about Russia!<br /><br />The author notes that the most important thing for a state has always been the sense of identity stemming from clear realization of its geographical limits - borders. In tsarist Russia and then in Soviet Union this idea was basically absent. Russia has emerged as an imperial-minded state, conqueror of the ever-moving frontiers. The frontiers had been shifting from the Urals to the Pacific and from the Polar Circle to Afghanistan. As a result Russia has never emerged as a nation state. The human and other recourses were routinely taken by the rules and invested in the continuously expanding borderlands at the expense of Russia proper.<br /><br />The time of these spreading out Empires has passed. To survive in the XXI century Russia (which is significantly smaller now) needs to be integrated to the Western economic and political environment. But the part can integrate into whole only when the part is aware of its own limits. Russia needs to maintain secure borders, which connect rather than separate countries. Only then the true integration is possible. Russia can recreate itself only through its successful relationship with the West. It will have - the author argues - to recognize that its place in Europe will rest on its ability to integrate, not on its political-military influence beyond its borders.<br />The author correctly argues that with NATO quickly expanding Russia faces the prospect of progressive marginalization. This prospect can be stopped only by a conscious Russian decision in favor of Europe. The Eurasia myth must be buried. In the same time Mr. Trenin is aware that there are Western high-profiled advocates of dismantling of the Russian state (for example, Mr. Zbignev Brzezinski has offered three loosely confederated Russian States). Or rather there are some people in the West who \\"love\\" Russia so much that they prefer to see several of them.<br />The other point, which Mr. Trenin is not making but it is implicit, is that Russia cannot any longer play the role of \\" the Great Satan\\" for the West. Mr. Churchill and Mr. Truman  (I would argue) successfully prodded Stalin on this role. The Soviet Union so dutifully (and foolishly) played \\"The Evil Empire\\" for 40 years. Russia simply can't afford anything like this - catastrophic population decline (Russia has approximately the same population as Pakistan) and underdeveloped economy are more important than anything else. Of course, with stunning $300+ billion budget the American military has to have some enemy. Russia is fortunate that the West is looking for it elsewhere. It would be wise if Russia continues to refrain from assuming the role of the Western antagonist and refuse any attempt by the \\"friends\\" inside and outside to drag her into that unrewarding role (over Chechnya, NATO, etc).<br />This is a well-researched book from a very insightful observer. Mr. Trenin is retired Russian army officer who participated in arms control negotiations. He is now with the Carnegie Endowment for International peace in Moscow. I disagree with the author on some minor points (also he can be perceived as someone who idealizes the West a little too much), but totally agree with his main lines of thought. What adds weight to this book is the fact that Russia under Putin's leadership seems to be moving (slowly but steadily) to the same direction as the author suggests. I recommend this book to everyone interested in Russian affairs.portant than anything else. Of course, with stunning $300+ billion budget the American military has to have some enemy. Russia is fortunate that the West is looking for it elsewhere. It would be wise if Russia continues to refrain from assuming the role of the Western antagonist and refuse any attempt by the \\"friends\\" inside and outside to drag her into that unrewarding role (over Chechnya, NATO, etc).<br />This is a well-researched book from a very insightful observer. Mr. Trenin is retired Russian army officer who participated in arms control negotiations. He is now with the Carnegie Endowment for International peace in Moscow. I disagree with the author on some minor points (also he can be perceived as someone who idealizes the West a little too much), but totally agree with his main lines of thought. What adds weight to this book is the fact that Russia under Putin's leadership seems to be moving (slowly but steadily) to the same direction as the author suggests. I recommend this book to everyone interested in Russian affairs.	2002-07-03
US	52748989	R2IDCIGVSOLGI	0446676055	600753319	Passport to Profits: Why the Next Investment Windfalls Will Be Found Abroad and How to Grab Your Share	Books	3	7	9	N	N	More chitchat than substance	I respect Dr. Mobius who has a tremendous reputation as a pioneering global fund manager working for Templeton Group of mutual funds. However I found the book a little superficial and at some places wacky. Also while there is no doubt about his economic acumen, I found his political thinking questionable.<br /><br />To start with the fact that he really likes Estonia. In fact he dedicated to this small Baltic country as much space as to Russia or Brazil (while zero to such important market as Poland and zilch to Ukraine). His idea was that investing to Estonia is like investing to Russia (because Estonian main trade partner is Russia) but without Russian risks.<br />I have nothing against Estonia per se and I even agree with his concept of \\"gateway\\" country. He brings an example of such successful \\"gateway\\" country - the Netherlands. But while the sizes of Netherlands and Estonia are similar, the population numbers are not. The Netherlands has 15 million people, while Estonia only 1.5 million. 1.5 million is also one-sixth of population of Russian capital city of Moscow.<br />Also many Estonians of Russian ethnic origin (a substantial minority) are unhappy since Estonian government made their lives difficult by enacting a discriminating legislation, leaving them to face a choice to either leave the country or go through the painful process of naturalization. It doesn't make Estonia automatically a \\"cleft country\\" but the potential is there. This potential danger should \\"boost\\" Estonian country risk as high as Russian country risk (but to my view without the advantage of Russian \\"economy of scale\\").<br />Another his passage, which to my opinion is simply strange, is where he talks about the Baltic enclave of Kaliningrad. He writes, \\"until World War II it was part of Prussia, and now the Russians refuse to give it up\\" (page 60). Mark Mobius (who is German citizen) should be more careful in saying things like that, because it's silly and not true. He should be aware that Germany has renounced her claim to the former province of East Prussia (60% of which now is in Poland and 40% is in Russia).<br /><br />I think if one day the present European border system is challenged, that very day Mr. Mobius could say good-buy to all his Templeton investment holdings in Europe. For sure it would be naive to expect a fund manager to be familiar with European geopolitics, but an international investor as prominent as he shouldn't repeat these kinds of beer cellar-type fallacies.<br />Dr. Mobius is much more convincing when he writes about Hong Kong and Thailand. He used to be a resident of Hong Kong for many years. I was impressed by the author's grasp of Asian economies and cultural context. To my humble opinion Dr. Mobius should have limited himself to this region, which he obviously understands well. His coverage of Eastern Europe and Latin America I didn't find convincing and I didn't buy his notion of South Africa as an emerging market.<br />All in all it is not a heavyweight book, although it's not totally devoid of refreshing ideas. I've enjoyed his shots at Gorge Soros. I've learned about Dr. Mobius more than I learned about investing in emerging markets. For one thing there is no doubt about his political sympathies - he let it slip a number of times. On one page he criticizes  \\"labor unions and leftist lawyers\\" with theirs \\"typical obstructionist tactics\\". A redeeming feature is the fact the author doesn't seem to take himself too seriously - in fact I think he has a good sense of humor. Buy it if you'd like to read about common sense investing rather than sophisticated investment strategies and have time for a light, but engaging summer read.at Germany has renounced her claim to the former province of East Prussia (60% of which now is in Poland and 40% is in Russia).<br /><br />I think if one day the present European border system is challenged, that very day Mr. Mobius could say good-buy to all his Templeton investment holdings in Europe. For sure it would be naive to expect a fund manager to be familiar with European geopolitics, but an international investor as prominent as he shouldn't repeat these kinds of beer cellar-type fallacies.<br />Dr. Mobius is much more convincing when he writes about Hong Kong and Thailand. He used to be a resident of Hong Kong for many years. I was impressed by the author's grasp of Asian economies and cultural context. To my humble opinion Dr. Mobius should have limited himself to this region, which he obviously understands well. His coverage of Eastern Europe and Latin America I didn't find convincing and I didn't buy his notion of South Africa as an emerging market.<br />All in all it is not a heavyweight book, although it's not totally devoid of refreshing ideas. I've enjoyed his shots at Gorge Soros. I've learned about Dr. Mobius more than I learned about investing in emerging markets. For one thing there is no doubt about his political sympathies - he let it slip a number of times. On one page he criticizes  \\"labor unions and leftist lawyers\\" with theirs \\"typical obstructionist tactics\\". A redeeming feature is the fact the author doesn't seem to take himself too seriously - in fact I think he has a good sense of humor. Buy it if you'd like to read about common sense investing rather than sophisticated investment strategies and have time for a light, but engaging summer read.	2002-06-16
US	52748989	R2YBH8YUN28XLJ	0736612653	179769523	The Fate Of Admiral Kolchak	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Important but forgotten episode of the Russian Civil War	\\"The fate of Admiral Kolchak\\" by British writer Peter Fleming is written and researched well. Admiral Kolchak, a former commander of Russian Black Sea fleet, became (against his will) in 1918 the head of Russian anti-Bolshevik forces in Siberia. His leadership was not very successful for many reasons. Honest and very proud, Kolchak didnt fit to be a successful dealmaker and go-between among various anti-Bolshevik forces in Russia and abroad.<br />In 1919 Kolchak was handed over to the Bolsheviks in Irkutsk by the Czechoslovakian guards (who were supposed to be guarding him). The French General Maurice Janin, who was formally in charge of Czechoslovakian troops as commander-in-chief of all Allied troops in Russia not only did turned a blind eye on this affair, but, as Fleming alleges, he must have been the person who gave the green light to the Czech and Slovak guards to hand over Kolchak to the Russian Red Army in exchange to a free passage to Vladivostok.<br />Predictably and sadly Admiral Kolchak was executed by the Bolsheviks (after 9 days of interrogations) and his body dumped into the river in Irkutsk. Fleming does not talk extensively about U.S. involvement, but there are several pages describing Woodrow Wilsons decision to intervene, why it came about and how it was implemented. It seems to be heavily based on George Kennan books.<br />There are some intriguing details about complicated relationships between British, French, American, Japanese, and Russian anti-Bolshevik forces in the Russian Far East. Useful book for Russian history buffs, although would be probably hard to find (was written in the early 1960s). Its great that Amazon has at least the audiotape version.	2002-06-09
US	52748989	R3GTJDIJT9CIWU	0700608990	535506720	When Titans Clashed: How the Red Army Stopped Hitler (Modern War Studies)	Books	4	23	26	N	Y	Who stopped Hitler?	The Russians  - is the answer of two American military historians. American and British contribution was large and important (and the authors correctly stress that), but the Russians would have been in Berlin anyway although after much longer and bloodier campaign (ending up probably in Atlantic beaches of France).<br />But this conclusion was not important for me. As a Russian I always knew it. Anyone who read anything about Stalingrad battle would have realized that. Much more important and enlightening was to read about little ironies of Barbarossa and the rest of German - Russian 1941-1945 conflict. Some of these ironies were pointed out directly by the authors; others came to my mind while I was reading the book.<br />The most important irony was the fact that Soviet Army ended up the war looking and acting like Wehrmacht in1941 in its mobility, strength and tactics, while the German army in 1944/45 increasingly looked like Red Army in 1941. Truly, we become what we fight the most!<br />Second irony. Despite apparent Soviet/Russian internationalism and proclaimed by the Nazis superiority of the Germanic/Nordic race - by 1942/43 the main burden of war was carried by the Russian people, while the Germans depended more and more on auxiliary troops from places like Italy, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria. Plus Croatian regiments in Stalingrad, Latvian and Ukrainian \\"Galician\\" SS divisions - all were fighting against \\"godless Bolshevism\\" and for all practical purposes - the Russians.<br />Third irony. As the war progressed the German army was increasingly becoming subject to ideological brainwashing from the Nazi party and Hitler direct meddling, while Stalin left Red army pretty much along after 1942/43.  Not only he did left people like Zhukov and Vasilevskii along in their conduct of war, but also Stalin withdrew Bolshevist ideology, stressed Russian patriotism and after 1941/42 he stopped harassing Russian Church. Of coarse, it doesn't make Stalin an angel, but still it's important to remember these facts (which might or might not have been crucial to Russian victory).<br />These are just some of my observations - you might end up with totally different ones (depending where you are coming from). For sure the authors seem sympathetic to the Russians but the book is not one-sided at all.<br /><br />To sum up, I think this is an impressive book. Despite its relatively short length, obviously much scholarship and archival research went into it. Great maps! I give four stars only because the book could use some help with correction of Russian personal and geographical names. For example - map on page 164 shows city of Opel instead of correct Orel; Marshal Timoskenko on page 13 should be correctly Timoshenko; General Voronev on page 141 is really Voronov, etc.it's important to remember these facts (which might or might not have been crucial to Russian victory).<br />These are just some of my observations - you might end up with totally different ones (depending where you are coming from). For sure the authors seem sympathetic to the Russians but the book is not one-sided at all.<br /><br />To sum up, I think this is an impressive book. Despite its relatively short length, obviously much scholarship and archival research went into it. Great maps! I give four stars only because the book could use some help with correction of Russian personal and geographical names. For example - map on page 164 shows city of Opel instead of correct Orel; Marshal Timoskenko on page 13 should be correctly Timoshenko; General Voronev on page 141 is really Voronov, etc.	2001-12-28
US	52748989	R3LSV86B396L22	0300089023	681039726	Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Anti-Communist Taliban? You wish!	While listening to NPR's Bob Edwards talking to \\"American Taliban\\" John Walker Lindh's lawyer I was struck by the phrase that this assertive lawyer had used. Apparently one of the main lines of the defense for Lindh was the theory that this fellow went to Afghanistan and joined Taliban in order to fight the group of the \\"Russian communists\\" called themselves the Northern Alliance whose corrupting influence on the Afghan society wasn't just limited to spreading ideology but also was coupled with opium-growing activities (which Taliban strictly opposed). Sounded like John Walker Lindh was practically a hero.<br />I was very amused with the lawyer's interpretation of events. You would be too if you read the book. Published in 2000 it is not only the definitive book on Taliban (which is rapidly becoming a history), but also on Afghanistan as a country. It is about people, ethnic and religious paradoxes and divisions and how the great powers took advantage of it in their own (sometimes ill-defined) interests. The forerunners in the XIX century were the British and Russian Empires, and they were replaced in the XX century by the US and the Soviet Union. Soviet-American standoff during the Cold War unquestionably resembled \\"The Great Game\\" of the XIX century between the Great Britain and Russia. If you interested in this subject you probably want to read also \\"Tournament of Shadows: The Great Game and the Race for Empire in Central Asia\\" for better description of \\"The Great Game\\" and its repercussions for Afghanistan and the region.<br />Of course this competition between the great powers for \\"spheres of influence\\" and control of \\"buffer states\\" during the last two centuries has brought nothing but trouble to once prosperous Afghanistan. Sure, to invoke \\"Russian communism\\" as a boogey man was clever  - feeling of repulsion to the Evil Communistic Empire can yield dividends to the Lindh's legal defense. But, alas, it has nothing to do with the reality of the conflict in Afghanistan. If any group looked to me like the commies it would be Taliban itself. Reading the book, I was struck by the resemblance of Taliban to the early Bolsheviks - groups of frustrated and uprooted young men with strong but misguided religious (or quasi-religious in case of Bolsheviks) fervor. I highly recommend this book to everyone interested in having a more informed and independent view of events in Afghanistan and the rest of Central Asia.hanistan. If any group looked to me like the commies it would be Taliban itself. Reading the book, I was struck by the resemblance of Taliban to the early Bolsheviks - groups of frustrated and uprooted young men with strong but misguided religious (or quasi-religious in case of Bolsheviks) fervor. I highly recommend this book to everyone interested in having a more informed and independent view of events in Afghanistan and the rest of Central Asia.	2001-10-23
US	52748989	R1OID80ZQR1EGW	0393049647	605138821	Failed Crusade: America and the Tragedy of Post-Communist Russia	Books	3	15	25	N	N	Thoughtful book, wrong hypothesis	Mr. Cohen in his sharp and insightful book argues that American overenthusiastic attitude in the 1990's actually weakened Russian camp of liberal reformers. Russian reforms stalled and the danger of nuclear proliferation increased because of American policy of the unconditional support of Boris Yelstin's regime. Crusade failed. However, for me the question is - was it a Crusade? To my point of view Mr. Cohen spends too much time citing himself instead of analyzing the realities of the US policy vis-&agrave;-vis Russia in the 90's. And these realities were created by people; and mostly by three powerful American policy makers: M. Albright, J. Helms and B. Clinton. Lets do a quick reality check.<br />Powerful Secretary of State in the 90's, Madeline Albright was the most likely crusader out of three. Straightforward and hawkish, she was suspicious of any regime that didn't have a hallmark of American market democracy. However her crusade was siphoned out (luckily for Russia) to the Balkans. That was partially because of her personal attachments to the region. Escaping Nazis, as a daughter of the Jewish refugees from Czechoslovakia, Madeline Korbel for some time found home in Belgrade, capital of Serbia.<br />Jesse Helms was a chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and a sponsor of legislation that tightened the American embargo against Cuba and withheld US dues to the United Nations. Mr. Cohen didn't even mention him in the book, but Mr. Helms was one of the most prominent figures in American foreign policy in the 90's. Actually Ms. Albright was not only Mr. Helms' personal friend and a soul mate, but also pretty much his prot&eacute;g&eacute;e for the Secretary of State position, as she was a Clinton's choice. A man of integrity, Mr. Helms however was a conservative Cold War \\"warrior\\", who didn't trust anybody (besides probably North Carolina farmers), let along Russia. Isolationist who kept blocking dispatching of the American troops, he was an unlikely supporter of any crusade.<br />Bill Clinton despite his friendship with \\"Tsar\\" Boris and few good laughs together didn't trust Russia either.  Educated in Georgetown University he used to be fascinated by the lectures of the late professor Carroll Quigley. Irish Catholic from Boston and a genius, Mr. Quigley was very suspicious of Anglo-American Establishment, but every bit as much conservative. His main idea about Russia (unfortunately erroneous one) was that Russia is a separate and alien civilization, Russian \\"Orthodox\\" Civilization.  He borrowed, but modified the ideas of Arnold J. Toynbee who thought that Russia was just a branch of the Western Christian Civilization.<br />Ironically, with new Bush administration in the office Christian tradition may have found a new role to play in the relationship between two countries. Most ethnic Russians are Christians and that may be one single fact that brings Russia closer to the White House. However lets not forget the sad lessons of the history. Sacking of the Christian Constantinople by the Forth Crusade (and the fellow Christians) in 1204 arguably contributed to the eventual demise of the Christian Byzantium and conquest of the Byzantine Empire by the Muslim Ottoman Turks. Started out as a grand enterprise with a moral dimension the medieval crusade ran out of steam and ended up being pure conquest and looting. To tell you the truth, I am awfully glad that the 1990's Russia Crusade has failed if ever happened. May be we finally learned something from the sad story called history.supporter of any crusade.<br />Bill Clinton despite his friendship with \\"Tsar\\" Boris and few good laughs together didn't trust Russia either.  Educated in Georgetown University he used to be fascinated by the lectures of the late professor Carroll Quigley. Irish Catholic from Boston and a genius, Mr. Quigley was very suspicious of Anglo-American Establishment, but every bit as much conservative. His main idea about Russia (unfortunately erroneous one) was that Russia is a separate and alien civilization, Russian \\"Orthodox\\" Civilization.  He borrowed, but modified the ideas of Arnold J. Toynbee who thought that Russia was just a branch of the Western Christian Civilization.<br />Ironically, with new Bush administration in the office Christian tradition may have found a new role to play in the relationship between two countries. Most ethnic Russians are Christians and that may be one single fact that brings Russia closer to the White House. However lets not forget the sad lessons of the history. Sacking of the Christian Constantinople by the Forth Crusade (and the fellow Christians) in 1204 arguably contributed to the eventual demise of the Christian Byzantium and conquest of the Byzantine Empire by the Muslim Ottoman Turks. Started out as a grand enterprise with a moral dimension the medieval crusade ran out of steam and ended up being pure conquest and looting. To tell you the truth, I am awfully glad that the 1990's Russia Crusade has failed if ever happened. May be we finally learned something from the sad story called history.	2001-08-23
US	52748989	R322NJ97N1XXQO	0142000000	244426828	Enemy at the Gates: The Battle for Stalingrad (Movie Tie-In)	Books	4	292	310	N	N	An interesting book, despite...	This is a book to read if you want to get a sense of the scope, intensity and human drama of the incredible battle between German and Russian armies on the banks of Volga. It was one of the most important battles of the WWII (if not the most important). It demonstrated the incredible heroism of both the Germans and the Russians. It also showed that Hitler made a mistake of underestimating ability of Stalin to regain control and learn from mistakes of disastrous summer of 1941 and determination of Russians to fight for each building in Stalingrad.<br />Written by the American author, the book for the most part describes events from the German point of view. I am Russian and admittedly it is not easy to stay totally objective about an account with slight pro-Axis slant, but I am interested in Stalingrad battle and have read some other books on the subject. I also been to Stalingrad (now city of Volgograd) myself, and my main criticism is this: Mr. Craig, despite the fact that he spent five years researching for this book, unfortunately didn't quite familiarize himself with some aspects of Russian life and culture. I don't know, may be he didn't have an opportunity...But that would have made his book more balanced and more readable for the Russian audience.<br />For example, \\"Kazakhs\\" on page 321 aren't \\"Kazakhs\\" but Cossacks. There were no  \\"Kazakhs\\" living on river Don, only Cossacks. Kazakhs live in Kazakhstan. These are two different peoples. \\"Kaytusha\\" throughout the text of the book is misspelled; it is really \\"Katjusha\\" - a Russian rocket launcher. I was surprised that it was misspelled, since it was not only famous Russian weapon of war, but also a woman's name, derivative of Katja (Russian for Katie). It would be equivalent for a Russian author to call German tank \\"Mark\\" as \\"Mrak\\".<br />Another example - on page 283 Mr. Craig assumes that December 24th was a Christmas Eve for both Germans and Russians. Close, but no cigar...The Christmas in Russia is celebrated due to Christian Orthodox tradition on January 7th, hence the Christmas Eve is January 6th. But during Communist times it was prohibited anyway.<br />Perhaps as a result of the author's lack of firm grasp of Russia's cultural context, the Russians in a book depicted a little bit like caricatures (despite the author's effort to do otherwise). Germans are more believable, better developed and likeable. To summarize, despite the fact that I thought the book was good, I have encountered many errors about the Russians that it made the book less enjoyable to read and sometimes even a little annoying. Otherwise the book is well written. I would recommend this book to anyone interested in history of WWII, military history, and German or Russian history.d due to Christian Orthodox tradition on January 7th, hence the Christmas Eve is January 6th. But during Communist times it was prohibited anyway.<br />Perhaps as a result of the author's lack of firm grasp of Russia's cultural context, the Russians in a book depicted a little bit like caricatures (despite the author's effort to do otherwise). Germans are more believable, better developed and likeable. To summarize, despite the fact that I thought the book was good, I have encountered many errors about the Russians that it made the book less enjoyable to read and sometimes even a little annoying. Otherwise the book is well written. I would recommend this book to anyone interested in history of WWII, military history, and German or Russian history.	2001-08-05
US	52748989	R3SNU3DZCFCUA4	0679749810	806639526	Balkan Ghosts: A Journey Through History	Books	1	16	24	N	N	Kaplan�s Ghosts	I picked up this book because it has received good reviews. All I wanted was to get an objective and balanced third party opinion about situation on the Balkans. Well, the experience was exactly the opposite. I rarely hate books, but tell you the truth this was the one... I started hating the book from the second page where a nice panegyric to Mr. Kaplan is placed below his own smirking portrait. Apparently he was the first American author, I read, warning the world about upcoming Balkan catastrophe. Yeah, right...<br />I continued to hate it through the foreword where Mr. Kaplan pointed out to me that he was and still is a supporter of the USA sending combat troops to the former Yugoslavia to pacify the region. Here I was presented with a military solution to the Balkan problems on the page two of the Foreword... This is even before I heard anything whatsoever about what was wrong with the Balkans. I wanted to throw the book through the window many times since I soon realized that Mr. Kaplan wasn't objective and the balanced picture was not his goal. He obviously not only had a love affair with himself but also had an axe to grind. Boy, was I right!<br />Lacking history training, he constantly repeats old Western stereotypes. He is using the data taken from the dubious sources. Sometimes it feels like a daily tabloid type of read. This helps to create caricatures, not balances portraits of peoples and nations. He knows some facts, but his knowledge is superficial and mostly sensation-oriented. Usually the less is the knowledge the higher is moral ground taken by the critic. Mr. Kaplan delivers his opinions from the high moral ground.<br />No one spared, but the groups outside of the \\"Big Three\\" of the American religions - Protestantism, Catholicism and Judaism are suffering the most form the patronizing attitude of the author. Particularly scornful he is towards Muslim Turks and Orthodox Romanians and Serbs. There is no drama. Mr. Kaplan doesn't suffer with his characters and he doesn't change with them. He finishes the book with the same tone and attitude as he starts it. Intellectualism and sarcasm without much compassion - this is a bottom line of this book.<br />The one thing is certain - you will learn some curios (mostly morbid) facts about the past of the Balkan nations. However, I doubt it will be a good guide for understanding the past or predicting the future of this troubled region. After all, the book is only a travelogue, which tells us more about Mr. Kaplan's state of mind rather than the nations he describes. But, hey, lets be fair to poor author, at least the author kept some humility if his picture is only on the second page of the book. He could have insisted to put it on the front cover like some other self-loving types. In short, don't waist your time, unless you enjoy sensation of pile of dirt thrown on your head from above.racters and he doesn't change with them. He finishes the book with the same tone and attitude as he starts it. Intellectualism and sarcasm without much compassion - this is a bottom line of this book.<br />The one thing is certain - you will learn some curios (mostly morbid) facts about the past of the Balkan nations. However, I doubt it will be a good guide for understanding the past or predicting the future of this troubled region. After all, the book is only a travelogue, which tells us more about Mr. Kaplan's state of mind rather than the nations he describes. But, hey, lets be fair to poor author, at least the author kept some humility if his picture is only on the second page of the book. He could have insisted to put it on the front cover like some other self-loving types. In short, don't waist your time, unless you enjoy sensation of pile of dirt thrown on your head from above.	2001-07-21
US	52748989	R2PZ51900F2Y0J	0312143796	497634708	Nicholas II: Twilight of the Empire	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Mr. Lieven does the job	Well-written book on Nicholas II and the last days of the Russian Empire... The last Russian Tsar is shown in this book with sympathy and good understanding of the Russian history. The author has done a very good research of Russian and foreign sources, including many official documents and private diaries of Nicholas himself, his wife Alexandra and many top officials including Witte, Benckendorff, Durnovo and others.  The author is a scholar of the Russian studies of the London School of Economics and his account is well supported by the thorough analysis of the political and economic situation in Russia in the last years of the Russian Empire 1880 - 1917.<br />The account of Nicholas is fairly balanced, he is shown as a decent man dedicated to his family, country and its people, but neither equipped with character needed to run the huge country, nor even trained for that. Despite the fact the author clearly sympathize with Nicholas and his huge burden; there are numerous accounts in the book describing Nicholas glaring lack of vision, lack of assertiveness and simply managerial skills. For example, after the World War I started in 1914, Nicholas II, the \\"chief executive of Russia\\", for several months continued to lead a life of the country gentlemen, riding horses, playing tennis, visiting relatives for tea.<br />For his credit Nicholas did in the end assumed the supreme command of the Russian army, but not until after it suffered several disastrous defeats. He was on the one hand, an intelligent and decent, but soft and indecisive man trying to play a role of iron-willed autocrat, and on the other hand a member of a leisure class, a country gentleman trying to play a role of a hands-on CEO of a huge corporation called Russia. As Mr. Lieven showed, Nicholas had honestly tried, but unfortunately because of his own mistakes and disastrous external circumstances failed in both roles.  Despite that, to the author's credit the collapse of the Russian Empire and fall of the Romanov dynasty is mostly attributed to the inability of the Russian State to quickly modernize itself, rather than to other coincidental factors as the presence of Rasputin or tolerated by the Tsar widespread involvement to the politics of his family and relatives.the Romanov dynasty is mostly attributed to the inability of the Russian State to quickly modernize itself, rather than to other coincidental factors as the presence of Rasputin or tolerated by the Tsar widespread involvement to the politics of his family and relatives.	2001-06-26
US	52748989	R2JQ1NG761LEV6	0452277450	443307754	Dermo!: The Real Russian Tolstoy Never Used (Russian Edition)	Books	1	13	28	N	N	Filthy	The author took the worst existing in Russian language, mostly criminal jargon and represented it as an \\"everyday Russian\\".  I lived for 30 years in Russia and believe me I never heard anyone talk according to Mr. Topol's book. Of course, these filthy words and expressions do exist but their usage is very limited (I would imagine mostly by prison walls and criminal world). This is a tasteless misrepresentation. Don't buy it.	2001-03-13
US	52748989	RD11TOKZ3CUBC	0374252912	20730003	The Russian Question at the End of the Twentieth Century: Toward the End of the Twentieth Century	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Great book on Russian history	Winner of the Nobel Prize for literature Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn was born in Russia in 1918. He has experienced World War II, labor camp, internal exile, and expulsion from the Soviet Union. He spent 18 years in seclusion in rural Vermont. In this book he explores Russian history in search for answers for Russia's decline. This book was born and distilled through Solzhenitsyn's many years of experience of struggle with the Communist state and exile... In the same time he is not someone who just have an ax to grind, but rather a thinker who attained understanding to the question \\"Why?\\" or at least someone who knows where to look for answers...<br />Solzhenitsyn doesn't spare criticism to rulers of Russia starting with the biggest figure - Peter \\"the Great\\".  He calls him  \\"a man of mediocre if not savage mind\\" with appetite to the European grandeur, squandering national resources and wasting lives of Russian people. From Peter up until now it was \\"...three hundred year period ...of missed opportunities for internal development, and ruthless squander of national strength on the pursuit of external aims of no benefit to Russia: we troubled more about European \\"interests\\" than about our own people.\\"<br />\\"The Russian Question\\" is an honest and thought-provoking book, written by someone who criticizes, but really loves Russia and her people. It would be a great book to read as a counterbalance to academic books on the subject.  This is a real gem that shouldn't be overlooked by anyone interested in Russian history, philosophy and politics.	2001-01-28
US	52748989	R36A81OBDHUNOM	0060922834	897653726	Modern Times: The World from the Twenties to the Nineties, Revised Edition	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Slightly biased, but highly readable book	Although this book is worth reading for anyone interested in recent history and international affairs, there are two things I'd like to point out.<br />First, the title of this book should have been  \\"Modern Times from the Anglo-American perspective\\". This would have better reflected the author's position. He is a well-known British author who obviously puts the US over Europe as a natural British ally. There is an Anglo-American bias in his narrative. Although he is openly criticizes relativism, he is not totally free of relativism himself. He often presents some things done by Germany or Japan as immoral and evil and the same things done by the UK or US as a pragmatic necessity.<br />Second, his pages about Russia are interesting, and his insights are very impressive. But I had a feeling that the sources he used were somewhat selective. He didn't usually use the sources that would contradict his point of view. To my surprise he didn't use or mention \\"The origins of the Russian Communism\\" by Nicholas Berdyaev, a classic book on the subject that became, for example, a basis of Carroll Quigley's chapter on Russia in his \\"Tragedy and Hope\\".<br />Overall this is an impressive and well-written book that shows the Anglo-American perspective on history and international affairs in the 20th century. I highly recommend it.	2000-11-28
US	52748989	RU0AHF35LSYIM	0520044746	898524974	Native Realm: A Search for Self-Definition	Books	5	53	53	N	N	Astonishing auto-biography of the ultimate Eastern European	If you want to better understand Europe and European history of the 20th century, this is a book to read. Milosz is a Nobel prize-winning poet and writer. This book is his autobiography. He was born in 1911 on the territory of the former Russian Empire. He comes from the Polish-Lithuanian family and is an ultimate Eastern European.  He also knows America and Western Europe well.<br />His knowledge of the European history of the 20th century is nor from the books, but something he lived through himself. Milosz traveled to Siberia with his father. He survived both World wars. He studied in France before WW2 and spent the war in Warsaw, where he witnessed destruction of Warsaw after the upraising.  Milosz seems very observant, honest, and has a tendency to self-reflection, which makes the narrative even more interesting.<br />He had many dangerous adventures during the war years and he remembers and describes them in great detail.  Many of his remarks about Russia are right on target (as Russian I can confirm that). This is great and unique book of the ultimate Eastern European. Definitely worth reading if you are interested in the history of this part of the world.	2000-11-13
US	52748989	R1A0OS9GSIFYZS	1586480189	972672754	First Person: An Astonishingly Frank Self-Portrait by Russia's President	Books	5	71	84	N	N	An amazing story	This is a remarkable little book of questions and answers. If you read it, you will probably start to understand the enigma called Putin.  Almost ten years ago the President of Russia Vladimir Putin left the KGB in the rank of a colonel. One might say that the KGB officer would not be the best person to head a new and democratic Russia. But Putin served in the foreign intelligence and that is the big difference. As he admits in the book, the foreign intelligence officers in the KGB due to many years they spent abroad, were the group most critical towards the Soviet system, because they were able to compare the living standards, economic growth etc.<br />Soviet foreign intelligence as this type of organization in any other country used to hire the best people, whose tasks included gathering and analyzing information and feeding it back to Moscow. KGB officers saw very vividly the growing gap between the West and the East. Some people defected, but the majority honestly served to the hopeless cause and disintegrating, but their own country.<br />Putin talks about his family in this book and the story is amazing, albeit not so unusual for a 50 year-old Russian man. His father served in a submarine before WW2, and went to the War as a volunteer. He was almost killed in encirclement. His wounds left him limping for the rest of his life. His mother Maria by miracle avoided death after fainting from hunger in the blockaded Leningrad, but fortunately she moaned and made people aware that she was still alive and was separated from the dead bodies. But the blockade took a life of their son. Vladimir Putin was the only survived child out of their three children.<br />Life was tough after the war. They were poor. His father worked in a factory and his mother was a simple girl from the province. They lived for many years in a communal apartment in Leningrad, occupying one small room on the fifth floor and sharing the kitchen and facilities with two or three other families. Young Vladimir spent some time chasing rats with a stick in their staircase.<br />Putin came from humble, decent, and hard-working family. His rise to the presidency and the speed of his ascendance is truly amazing considering his background. He is not and never been a professional politician, although he got a law degree from the Leningrad University. Political activism was never his passion, as it was with Stalin and other communist gangsters. It was not  a quasi-religious passion as it was with Lenin.  In fact Putin, who wares a little golden cross on his chest, had only two real passions: espionage (originally in a form of spy movies) and sport (judo). Given how apolitical and low-key he is, it is truly amazing that he left behind people, who eat, drink and sleep politics. One of Putin's favorite historic figures is Ludwig Erhard, who become famous for his pragmatic free-market philosophy in post war Germany.<br />Russia seems to be tired of zealots, communist gangsters and political activists. For sure he is a professional spy, but fortunately he is not a politician. The emergence of Putin from the nowhere may be a first little sign of hope and Russia's recovery after one hundred years of nightmare and social engineering. Worth reading, although frankly I am not sure about translation. I read it in Russian and I am glad I did.  Thank you.Vladimir spent some time chasing rats with a stick in their staircase.<br />Putin came from humble, decent, and hard-working family. His rise to the presidency and the speed of his ascendance is truly amazing considering his background. He is not and never been a professional politician, although he got a law degree from the Leningrad University. Political activism was never his passion, as it was with Stalin and other communist gangsters. It was not  a quasi-religious passion as it was with Lenin.  In fact Putin, who wares a little golden cross on his chest, had only two real passions: espionage (originally in a form of spy movies) and sport (judo). Given how apolitical and low-key he is, it is truly amazing that he left behind people, who eat, drink and sleep politics. One of Putin's favorite historic figures is Ludwig Erhard, who become famous for his pragmatic free-market philosophy in post war Germany.<br />Russia seems to be tired of zealots, communist gangsters and political activists. For sure he is a professional spy, but fortunately he is not a politician. The emergence of Putin from the nowhere may be a first little sign of hope and Russia's recovery after one hundred years of nightmare and social engineering. Worth reading, although frankly I am not sure about translation. I read it in Russian and I am glad I did.  Thank you.	2000-09-26
US	52748989	R1QV52HWKGT301	0300047231	897116912	Freud and the Problem of God: Enlarged Edition (The Terry Lectures Series)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Balanced and friendly critique of Freud	Hans Kung, a Catholic theologian, pays a tribute to Freud and his groundbreaking discoveries, such as theories of libido and human unconscious. But he questions the popular view that Freud was an atheist  and did not have a place for religious ideas in the scientific movement  that he originated - psychoanalysis. He fights Freud's views of religion as  a complex that needs to be treated. Moreover, he argues that although Freud  seems outwardly an atheist, but nevertheless his negative experiences with  religion, however much they discredit for him Christianity, need not have  shaken Freud's Jewish faith in God.  This is good and balanced work. A must  read for everyone interested in Freudian psychoanalysis, Jungian psychology  and spirituality.	2000-06-11
US	52748989	R3UN0N7QOGYJY9	0802130119	778351106	The Master and Margarita	Books	5	214	218	N	N	A masterpiece, but choose a right translation�	I am Russian, and have read this novel (which is my favorite Russian novel), in Russian. However, for some reason, a week ago I decided to look through Michael Glenny's translation of this novel and I was shocked by the various little mistakes in the text. In the very first dialog, one of the  main characters asks for a glass of Narzan (which is a famous brand of  mineral water in Russia), which M.Glenny translates as lemonade. Close, but  no cigar...And it goes further like this. That leads me to believe that the  translator probably was not familiar with nuances of Russian language, or  may be simply didn't care.  Nevertheless, I know that it had been the only  one English translation available since 1967 and thanks Mr.Glenny for that.  Now we have Mirra Ginsburg's more accurate translation (I have checked),  which makes me happy. The novel is truly fascinating. A really remarkable  person wrote it. Bulgakov was a doctor by profession, he received an  exellent education in the pre-Revolutionary Russia and lived through the  horrors and turmoil of the Revolution of 1917 and the Civil war. This is a  wonderful satire on Communism and a biblical story. This novel populated by  very interesting characters, one of them is \\"unknown visitor\\" Woland, who  is the Satan visiting Moscow with his entourage. Woland is a complex  figure, a diabolical seducer, father of lies - the Devil himself, but also  \\"he, who has brought the light\\" - Lucifer. He laughs at the Soviet  Communists, who mistakenly think that they have rooted out all evil and  have build a society which is even beyond the good and evil. In the clash  with Woland they watch how the \\"perfect\\" and godless society crumbles down.  Please read it, and you will enjoy it, because the novel goes beyond  Russian culture to the world of archetypal characters and events that have  meaning to all humans.	2000-05-01
US	52748989	R29B3QJR9SOHDS	0913966576	381276185	The Evolution of Civilizations	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Brilliant	I read this book two years ago, but would like to re-read it again, because it was such a joy to read. I regard Professor Quigley as one of the best thinkers of the 20th century, comparable to only few. This brilliant  book is about rise and fall of different civilizations. He is arguing that  there are certain commonalties and similar stages in development of every  civilization, including inevitable decline. He is an archetypal strategic  thinker. But he is a level above of the majority of petty-minded so-called  \\"geo-political\\" thinkers and strategists.  His approach to history is  dialectical, but much better grounded in human nature and more scientific  than works of Karl Marx. He is not sharing Marx's primitive economic  determinism. He uses a simple language, but goes deep. He is knowledgeable,  wise, and entertaining. A must read to everyone interested in history,  military strategic theories and thought-provoking read.	2000-04-27
US	52748989	R39V3B79D0MK4A	0684818906	668866041	First in His Class: A Biography Of Bill Clinton	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Engrossing book from a good person	This book tells a story of Clinton's past and his road to power. It is also a touching family story with some impressive psychological insights. One of the features of this book: you can't help but think that the author  is a decent person.  The devil is in the details, and the author's  attention to the detail is impressive. It is obvious that it is difficult  sometimes and takes effort, but Mr. Maraniss manages to give us a balanced  account of the events-packed life of the mercurial president. Accounts on  Clinton's tempo tantrums and his hot-temper were news for me. In the end,  combination of idealism of the Wilsonian kind with Machiavellian pragmatism  was, I think, crucial in bringing him to power. Wilsonian idealism is not a  pose, but genuine attitude based on conviction; Machiavelliaism  - what  politics is all about - was easily adopted or learned from Hillary Rodham  and Dick Morris. This is a dangerous combination, but it also brings  success. Sometimes this success could be short-lived, as in case of Woodrow  Wilson. Clinton is the most successful person in America today. How can we  blame success?  Will we be blaming it tomorrow?	2000-04-22
US	52748989	R2WBXM4BFENCJ7	1862040044	966587493	The Hiram Key: Pharaohs, Freemasons and the Discovery of the Secret Scrolls of Jesus	Books	2	10	18	N	N	Interesting read, but the authors are missing the point�	I have do give credit to the authors for their obvious hard work and dedication. The problem with this book is that the authors don't seem capable of rising above dealing with such a complex phenomenon as  Christianity with intellects only. They are not inferior, but are blind and  even misleading in these sublime areas as faith and God. The book does not  portray the Freemasonry in a very attractive light either, judging by the  ideas and views of the authors. \\"Stigmata\\" as a movie version of this book  is not very bright either, but probably is a better entertainment. I'd  recommend to read much more subtle and intelligent \\"Answer to Job\\" by Carl  Jung instead, if you are seeking fresh ideas in this area.	2000-04-02
US	52748989	R1FSLZHVTLFW7O	0875484174	189806451	Projection and Re-Collection in Jungian Psychology: Reflections of the Soul (Reality of the Psyche Series)	Books	5	52	56	N	N	Stands out among other books on Jungian psychology	Great writer and scientist on her own right, Marie-Louise Von Franz in her book explains and summarizes complex ideas of Carl Jung with good style and clear understanding of the subject.  The book deals very comfortably with  some of the most difficult subjects of Jungian psychology: projections, the  problem of evil and synchronicity. A must read for everyone interested in  Jungian psychology and spirituality.	2000-03-26
US	52748989	R139VGLZSPYCZC	0674873416	681771793	Temptations of a Superpower (The Joanna Jackson Goldman Memorial Lectures on American Civilization and Government)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Outstanding book	I am Russian and have been in the US for 1 year. This is the first book I read that really explained to me unexplainable things in American foreign policy. Obviously a scholar, Mr. Steel nevertheless does beautiful work in explaining how things really work in practice without any open partisan  agenda or moralistic drivel. Thoughtful and balanced book, worth reading  particularly for foreigners who would like a better understanding of how  American foreign policy works and what the forces behind it are.	2000-03-11
US	52748989	R18OE7D2V6LAMQ	089526272X	873277344	A Republic, Not an Empire	Books	5	26	34	N	N	Thought-provoking book	I really enjoyed reading this book and I learned a lot about American history, policies and politicians of the past. There is nothing outrageous about this book, only the fact that Mr. Buchanan is telling the truth. And  truth hurts many people. The American establishment should be ashamed for  the things it had done with America. All the things that the founding  fathers fought for: patriotism, small government and non-intervention to  European wars are long gone and forgotten.  Elitism, drive to American  domination around the world, huge government and mammoth government  spending have replaced them.  But, it is very dangerous, as events in  Russia have shown, is to have an almighty government like this. The  Communist elite, while giving lip service to individual rights, liberty and  equality, were in fact busy concentrating all power and resources in their  own hands. The government became all-embracing, having total control over  all individuals. Government had in its hands all banks, all schools and  universities, all newspapers, medical services, unions and almost all  businesses. An individual was reduced to a non-entity and did not have any  rights whatsoever in front of this \\"Big Brother\\". I hope America will be  able to avoid this sad end. And it certainly has a chance as long as books  like this are around. Thank you.	2000-01-17
