US	52754940	R3VAOM4GKJQWF9	0911520376	67913268	Ron Clarke talks track	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent Gem of a Book: interviews with Track Distance Great Clarke Before Munich	Outstanding interview with Ron Clarke shortly after he retired in 70-71 and released a year prior to the Munich Olympics. Clarke gives a retrospective on his career, tracks status at that  time with a look to the Olympics. In his prediction, he projected a medal for frank Shorter who finished 5th in the Munich 10,000 and won gold in the marathon. Clarke was a gentleman sportsman who raced often and hard setting up to 17 world distance records. He also provides excellent race descriptions, discusses the altitude effects of Mexico City that was unfair to sea level athletes, discussed competitors and his training. His earlier book, 'the Unforgiving Minute' issued at the peak of his record period is outstanding with exciting descriptions of his most competitive races. 'Talks<br /> Track' includes several outstanding race photos and a race summary of all Clarke's races/times.	2005-10-01
US	52754940	R16HK7G4V9328W	0807131113	742161616	To the North Anna River: Grant and Lee, May 13--25, 1864 (Jules and Frances Landry Award Series)	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Grant and Lee's Strategic Dance after Spotsylvania and the Great V	Part three of Rhea's series on the overland campaign, Rhea provides an excellent description from the end of the primary Spotsylvania battle to the real overland maneuvering between Grant and Lee. Supported by a series of maps, Rhea fully describes to the reader the maneuvering that Grant does to try to find a weak spot and out maneuver Lee after the major battles of Spotsylvania are exhausted.  As Rhea notes, Lee, without Stuart, tries to guess Grant's next move and guesses well as Grant shifts soldiers back to the Spotsylvania front to attack Lee's left assuming that it has now been weakened as both sides had shifted forces east. But it is held securely by Ewell with well positioned artillery. Rhea describes a horrible maiming of the union attack with bodies from previous fighting still on the field, Ewell's position is virtually a fortress. Rhea also spotlights Lee's audacious maneuver of Ewell way around the Union right to demonstrates against the enemy but Ewell gets snared into a full fledge battle that punishes the 2nd corp. The best part of the book is the highlighting of battles and maneuvers generally lost to the large-scale battles that many authors leave out. An example is the outlining of Grant's move east sending Hancock way out ahead of his army in a vulnerable position, tempting Lee. Lee; however, pulls back down telegraph road south as the Union forces start to follow in two tracks. Rhea also gives great detail on Grant's personal movements along with Meade's, they often seem too far from the front to give appropriate and timely direction. Rhea also addresses the fact that the Army of the Potomac starts to come together, corps commanders seem to improve and Burnside and the 9th finally come under Meade as they should have as opposed to the semi freelance role under Grant. Rhea notes that lacking intelligence, Lee cannot readily comprehend Grant's movements initially along the North Anna and Grant as well does not realize that Lee has not abandoned the North Anna line. All adds to a unique situation with Warren getting across the river west of Lee and Hancock across East of Lee. Lee and his ranking engineer devise the famous inverted V wedge position stopping a central Union crossing leaving both Union wings isolated while the ANV has a extremely strong defensive works. This is the most fascinating aspect of the campaign as Lee has a unique opportunity to strike te isolated union corps but he is stricken with illness and with a weakened command structure, he cannot act timely resulting in Grant making an abrupt  withdrawal. I would have liked to see more detail on Lee's health then and its effect on his future command abilities if any. His alternate command options seem limited, Hill often sick, Ewell not performing as he wished at Spotsylvania, Longstreet wounded and Beauregaurd and Bragg all had baggage, perhaps there were no real options. A trying time for the confederates as casualties mount and command is tenuous, it does start the emergence of dynamic future corps leaders. Rhea also provides excellent insight into Grant's role that gradually expands with the Army of the Potomac and he explains the command relationship between Grant and Meade.  Rhea  also gives a detailed account of the little known battle of Fort Pocahontas where Fitz Lee's attack on African American soldiers on the James goes for naught as these union forces are well fortified and fight very well. After this book, on to Cold Harbor.he North Anna line. All adds to a unique situation with Warren getting across the river west of Lee and Hancock across East of Lee. Lee and his ranking engineer devise the famous inverted V wedge position stopping a central Union crossing leaving both Union wings isolated while the ANV has a extremely strong defensive works. This is the most fascinating aspect of the campaign as Lee has a unique opportunity to strike te isolated union corps but he is stricken with illness and with a weakened command structure, he cannot act timely resulting in Grant making an abrupt  withdrawal. I would have liked to see more detail on Lee's health then and its effect on his future command abilities if any. His alternate command options seem limited, Hill often sick, Ewell not performing as he wished at Spotsylvania, Longstreet wounded and Beauregaurd and Bragg all had baggage, perhaps there were no real options. A trying time for the confederates as casualties mount and command is tenuous, it does start the emergence of dynamic future corps leaders. Rhea also provides excellent insight into Grant's role that gradually expands with the Army of the Potomac and he explains the command relationship between Grant and Meade.  Rhea  also gives a detailed account of the little known battle of Fort Pocahontas where Fitz Lee's attack on African American soldiers on the James goes for naught as these union forces are well fortified and fight very well. After this book, on to Cold Harbor.	2005-09-26
US	52754940	R1JYQQ2LALH2LM	1891369539	379987900	God On The Starting Line: The Triumph Of A Catholic School Running Team And Its Jewish Coach	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Bloom's Quest to Make Small School Champs with Interfaith Twist	This a very personal real story of an expert on Track and Field (Bloom) and empty nester with a desire to coach the pure running sport of Cross-Country. Remarkably, his only taker in New Jersey is St. Rose, a private Catholic School. Although Jewish, there is a prompt mutual respect between the team and Bloom. At this point in the book, Bloom has been coaching his team for several years but every summer he faces a challenge in team depth and symptoms of a summer of too little training. With his skeleton team, Bloom develops and gets to know each individual. He works personal motivation, skill in workouts, a touch of psychology and a mix of father figure and teacher together to help guide the boys through life. The book is surprisingly personal as Bloom reveals much of himself, his past and his family along with his own running experiences as he in turn learns about the boys under his tutelage. Bloom acts as a total coach knowing each boy's personality, personal conflicts and athletic needs while providing versatile training that promotes a team running style while also perfecting their training to the course they will run on at the Parochial Class B Championship. There is a great blend of faith as Bloom shares in their prayer before each race, holds a boys crucifix while he runs hoping that rubbing it will power the boy forward and at other times touching his own mezuzah for the same reach of faith and power. The final race is exhilarating as the boys give a tremendous effort and do run as a team as there coach has continual emphasized. Whether they win or not, they run as great heart, each one showing great improvement. The final sprint to the end is exciting as you literally sprint with the coach along the course to see how they finish. Without peeking at the end, you will find their final efforts surpisingly rewarding. Throughout the book, Bloom discusses the issues such as the detrimental effect hard training has on young girls, the effect multi-year sports has had on distance running (particular soccer) and insights to past great runners. The book may be more appealing to the mature runner as it's not all races and training but a look back at Bloom's life from mid life with an introspective look at the boys' lives and future as well. The book will be a treat for those former cross-country runners who enjoyed the simple purity of the sport and who also know that when the summer final cools, making your sweat turn cold, its cross-country season.had on distance running (particular soccer) and insights to past great runners. The book may be more appealing to the mature runner as it's not all races and training but a look back at Bloom's life from mid life with an introspective look at the boys' lives and future as well. The book will be a treat for those former cross-country runners who enjoyed the simple purity of the sport and who also know that when the summer final cools, making your sweat turn cold, its cross-country season.	2005-09-22
US	52754940	RZTZZM1Z6ZZ4R	0252062108	989313246	How the North Won: A Military History of the Civil War	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The "Big Picture" on The Civil War: Strategy and Leaders	There are many great books on the Civil War particular specific battles or campaigns but this book is a wonderful full view of the Civil War from virtually the commander's chair. Hattaway and Jones give you this big picture view of the war without minute detail but the concepts and plans that makes a difference. They provide an engrossing and very readable study of the factors that present the differences between the Union and Confederates. The big picture includes a study of leadership styles such as the contrasting of Lincoln and Davis to the emergence of competent generals such as Henry Halleck. Surprised about Halleck? Although not an inspiring leader, Halleck is a great military organizer and administrator. Although somewhat abusive of Grant, even Grant recognizes his skills when he becomes commander of the armies. The best part of the book is how they present the grand campaigns analyzing what each side is trying to accomplish and with simple but very helpful graphics, demonstrate how they were executed. What you get from this book are the two diverse strategies that culminate in the successful grand Union strategies of simultaneous movements against Southern territories that actually make the anaconda like pressure that old General Scott first suggested. Stymied by political generals though much of the war, competent Generals are in place as Grant final starts the Petersburg siege. The advantages of railroads, telegraph, supply systems, materials, geography and the difference in population all weigh heavily against the south. By the end of the book, you'll appreciate all the great \\"turning movements\\" made during the war, such as the Lee-Meade dance after Gettysburg, and you will appreciate the references to their European roots. For an intellectual overview of the war without bias, at least none that I could detect, this book will give you an honest picture from the war room's perspective.	2005-09-17
US	52754940	R1HBIP7QC8RIB6	030010426X	998725557	Murder in Tombstone: The Forgotten Trial of Wyatt Earp (The Lamar Series in Western History)	Books	5	10	13	N	Y	Surprising & Interesting Close Look at the Gunfight Through the Trial	This is well written and a fascinating account of the trial of the Earps and Doc Holiday versus the prosecution led by the brother of the McLaury brothers that were killed in the famous gunfight along with Billy Clanton. Lubet, who is a professor of law at Northwestern U., writes a very articulate account of the history of the Earp-Holiday  Clanton-McLaury feud that culminates in an interesting and revealing review of the trial.  Readers familiar with Wyatt Earp and Tombstone will appreciate Lubet's brief biographies and economical account of the brewing battle that virtually takes place after a mere 50 pages. Those unfamiliar with the famous gunfight will appreciate the detail that Lubet gives the reader in those few pages. The bulk of the book is about the trial, characters and witnesses, the lawyers, the strength of the cross examinations and a review of Judge Spicer's ruling. The shootout does have a personal element as the Clantons and McLaurys, paryicularly Ike Clanton who personally threaten the Earps and Holiday. The prosecution's theme is that the Earps and Holiday planned the all out confrontation to eliminate their enemies. Of course, as the author points out, the Earp's' defense attorney, Thomas Fitch, is a superior trial lawyer and Lubet makes it clear by discussing Fitch's accomplishments in the trial that reflects his superior experience and knowledge of the law. The trial relives the gunfight that barely lasted a minute virtually in slow motion as Lubet leads you through the testimonies and the strategies of both sides. Interesting that Ike Clanton who ignited the event essentially asks for Wyatt's blessing to flee from the gunplay unarmed. Lubet covers it all in this relatively brief book such as the weak actions of Sheriff Behan, the erstwhile politician, that makes a weak attempt to disarm the cowboys and who apparently had an interconnected history with Wyatt. Wyatt stole his girl, Josephine Marcus, who eventually became Wyatt's  second wife and Behan also reneged on a promise to make Wyatt his Deputy. Lubet provides a wealth of information including Judge Spicer's earlier history as the defense attorney of John Lee who became Brigham Young's famous scapegoat for the Mountain Meadows massacre of a wagon train. The author also demonstrates that there were two societies in Tombstone, much like in Billy the Kid's town in New Mexico, Democrats that leaned to the Cowboys and the Republicans who were primarily town folk and businessmen who supported the Earps. Although most know the outcome of the trial, the aftermath is just as fascinating as Virgil is severely wounded in an assassination attempt and Morgan is murdered. And Wyatt, once his brother Virgil is safe, does go on a revenge posse acting as a Deputy Marshall on dubious authority tracking down and killing three of the suspected killers. Later after Doc and Wyatt escape to Colorado and apparently away from the scene, Johnny Ringo is found shot to pieces. It is fascinating that after the Earps leave, as did so many of the interesting people, the town ironically dies shortly there after. And how fitting that Ike Clanton, who stirred the passions that emptied into that famous street fight, was killed in 1887 for getting caught doing what he did best, rustling. And Lubet has a great comment about Sheriff Behan, he led many posses in pursuit but no closer than a mile of who ever he was chasing. But let the author tell the story, he does such a good job of it.Behan also reneged on a promise to make Wyatt his Deputy. Lubet provides a wealth of information including Judge Spicer's earlier history as the defense attorney of John Lee who became Brigham Young's famous scapegoat for the Mountain Meadows massacre of a wagon train. The author also demonstrates that there were two societies in Tombstone, much like in Billy the Kid's town in New Mexico, Democrats that leaned to the Cowboys and the Republicans who were primarily town folk and businessmen who supported the Earps. Although most know the outcome of the trial, the aftermath is just as fascinating as Virgil is severely wounded in an assassination attempt and Morgan is murdered. And Wyatt, once his brother Virgil is safe, does go on a revenge posse acting as a Deputy Marshall on dubious authority tracking down and killing three of the suspected killers. Later after Doc and Wyatt escape to Colorado and apparently away from the scene, Johnny Ringo is found shot to pieces. It is fascinating that after the Earps leave, as did so many of the interesting people, the town ironically dies shortly there after. And how fitting that Ike Clanton, who stirred the passions that emptied into that famous street fight, was killed in 1887 for getting caught doing what he did best, rustling. And Lubet has a great comment about Sheriff Behan, he led many posses in pursuit but no closer than a mile of who ever he was chasing. But let the author tell the story, he does such a good job of it.	2005-09-03
US	52754940	RJFL8YYJUH41Q	1401300030	78737937	The Pirate Coast: Thomas Jefferson, the First Marines, and the Secret Mission of 1805	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Incredulous Secrret Pllot to Take on the PIrates of Tripoli	Zack tells the exciting story of how one man's drive to free captured American prisoners virtually succeeds with eroding and minimal support by his own government undermined by President Jefferson and his diplomat Lear. William Eaton, the former consul of Tripoli who goes broke to free an enslaved young girl, returns to the US without rank only to propose a secret mission to over throw the pirate leader, the Bey of Tripoli, Yousaf and restore his pro-American brother Hammet. Upon arriving in Egypt, Eaton finds his has brave support from the Navy but limited. With six marines and a navy Lieutenant and two midshipmen, he attempts to find Hammet and fund an army to attack Tripoli. As Zack colorfully notes in rich research, Jefferson has a very late change of heart and withdraws the financial support and chooses to negotiate cash for hostages. Meanwhile, Eaton scrapes for money to fund his operation and miraculously holds his mutinous band of Arabs together with European mercenaries and his marines. In spite of an ailing commodore, a mischievous diplomat, half hearted Hammet, under funded Arabs, Eaton with his quick temper and drives leads an attack on an important town outside of Tripoli that shakes Yousaf's nerve. All this by barely crossing the Libyan dessert after an over 40-day treks worthy of Lawrence of Arabia. As Zack demonstrates, only then after a brave attack by his force and after surviving counter attacks does Eaton realize he has been betrayed by Jefferson's change of policy and the diplomat Lear. Great characterizations of the marines, midshipman and Lieutenant while also recognizing the efforts of Captain Hull and Rogers in supporting Eaton's efforts although at times grudgingly with little funds. In addition the previous brave actions of Lt. Decauter and Captain Preble are also captured along with the timorous personality of Hammet who at late is suddenly abandoned. But Zack is not done here as he demonstrates that although the sailors are free on ransom, Eaton does not forgive Jefferson or Lear, the latter having a sleazy mark in history explained very well by Zack. Eaton's somewhat reckless desire to secure his losses from Jefferson and to go public about the covert arrangement proves costly to this driven man. But Zack attaches another complicated story that is fascinating, Aaron Burr's attempt to include Eaton in his filibuster run at creating a separate nation. Eaton responds as a patriot first telling Jefferson although still bitter about his treatment. Zack tells this story of a heroic man that is driven as a virtual true life John Wayne action character who has country, pride and mission virtually blended as one. Regretfully, he cannot let go of the past and becomes a frustrated, pound-foolish man that never recovers. Zack tells a great story that spins in many complicated human conflicts but it is held together through excellent research and great story telling.m, Eaton does not forgive Jefferson or Lear, the latter having a sleazy mark in history explained very well by Zack. Eaton's somewhat reckless desire to secure his losses from Jefferson and to go public about the covert arrangement proves costly to this driven man. But Zack attaches another complicated story that is fascinating, Aaron Burr's attempt to include Eaton in his filibuster run at creating a separate nation. Eaton responds as a patriot first telling Jefferson although still bitter about his treatment. Zack tells this story of a heroic man that is driven as a virtual true life John Wayne action character who has country, pride and mission virtually blended as one. Regretfully, he cannot let go of the past and becomes a frustrated, pound-foolish man that never recovers. Zack tells a great story that spins in many complicated human conflicts but it is held together through excellent research and great story telling.	2005-08-23
US	52754940	R2OI3YEY7L3D1D	0807121363	773031948	The Battles for Spotsylvania Court House and the Road to Yellow Tavern, May 7--12, 1864	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Great Book on a Battle that Changed the Course of the CW	Rhea does a wonderful descriptive job on the Battle that changed the Civil War in the east forever. Any romantic feelings of cavaliers and great flanking maneuvers is at a loss for this grim beginning of the complex battle of entrenchments that eventually extend to Petersburg, This battle is ugly in the sense of great casualties as waves of humanity go up against mine balls, canister, bayonets and the well entrenched foes, in the case of the latter, Lee's ANV. Rhea does an outstanding job in two particular areas, one is the study of command for both the Union and Confederates and in his excellent detail descriptions of the many battles at Spotsylvania that culminates in the horrid bloody assaults at the mule shoesalient including the equally high casualty counter attacks. In reference to the command structure, Rhea describes a continuation of the Union problems of command initially described in his preceding Wilderness book (one of a four part series on the Overland Campaign). In this case; however, Grant is much more involved and Meade is seemingly relegated to a senior staff officer position. An example is Meade's dissatisfaction with Sheridan's inability to cut through to Spotsylvania and beat the confederates only to be subjected to Grants intervention to allow Sheridan to cut loose with the entire cavalry in a run at Richmond and Stuart.  And ackwardly, Burnside still maintains an independent command under only Grant. Rhea articulately studies the confederate command particularly in reference to Stuart's cavalry brilliantly blocking Sheridan at Todd's Tavern, and Anderson's timely march to support Fitz Lee at Laurel Hill that plants one of the main defenses of Spotsylvania setting the stage for the confederates extended defense works. Rhea does an astonishing job of tracking the complex maneuvers of virtually every brigade from Hancock's attempt to move two exposed divisions north of the Po River attacked by Early to Hancock's attack at the salinet's maze of entrenchments. Rhea equally tracks the confederates in the salient from the initial defenders to those in the many brigades involved in the counterattack. Rhea also highlights the emergence of Gordon that parallel's the demise of Ewell in Lee's eyes. The account of the bloody angle is with first hand quotes of the miraculous charge by Hancock, the bad luck of the Confederates (weather, fog, movement of artillery) and the virtual free for all fight for control of the angle. Krick has a more poignant description of the battle of the mule shoe salient but Rhea provides the whole battle scheme brilliantly. The importance of Laurel Hill is well described and not forgotten nor is Early's late flanking attack against Burnside. Inclusive in this monumental task is a vivid account of Sheridan's raid and Stuarts attempt to harass and finally stop his better-supported foe. As Rhea points out, unlike Sheridan, Stuart left half his troop with Lee while Sheridan took his entire corps. The consequences are better for Lee but not so for Stuart at Yellow Tavern. The book concludes with great analysis of the command success and failures of both sides. Of interest is Warren's conflicts as Grant is frustrated with Warren's desire to avoid headlong attacks against well-entrenched foes (seemingly appropriate), while Warren may be right but he was better served to working for Meade who had a similar cautious nature. Also a good look at Grant's drive to destroy Lee and end the war while suffering great casualties. Two items that could use more detail, was Ewell that bad at Spotsylvania to be reduced in command or was Gordon's star just eclipsing Ewell at this point as Gary Gallagher suggests? And what was the reason why the confederates maintained the salient position that became exposed? Some authors suggest that the layout was the result of night marches with units forming where they stopped at whatever terrain vantage points seemed best in the dark.  Fascinating account of Lee as he continues to take an active battlefield role as his officer corps becomes decimated. An excellent book and as the author says in the last chapter, \\"Twenty-five miles south, toward Richmond, the North Anna beckoned\\". After reading this book, you are ready for that next part of the campaign.nues to take an active battlefield role as his officer corps becomes decimated. An excellent book and as the author says in the last chapter, \\"Twenty-five miles south, toward Richmond, the North Anna beckoned\\". After reading this book, you are ready for that next part of the campaign.	2005-08-14
US	52754940	R2QZCBUPRLLT34	0399529209	502818647	Lord of the Flies: 50th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Classic Story Of Primitive Human Nature	This is a true classic story of a downed aircraft full of boys apparently during a time of war. The boys, of all ages, some how survive and are spread over the Island. The story essentially pits two leaders against each other as no adults survive. There is a distinction between good and evil as the hero Ralph finds a shell and uses it as a horn that attracts all the boys on the island. The shell along with his intellectual yet near sighted friend cruelly nick named Piggy provide him a pedestal of leadership. His chief rival is a leader of a uniformed choir named Jack who commands the group as if it was a Para-military unit. As the search for food becomes more necessary beyond fruit, Jack leads his group on the wild hunt for wild pigs. Success leads to meat for the boys and a power base for Jack as he creates a police unit with his hunters acting as warriors. On top of the fracture among this isolated society is the discovery of a \\"beast\\" on the island, which is actually the remains of a dead pilot still strapped to his parachute. The sighting of this moving but unidentified object in the hills and darkness causes a panic among the boys. This provides a power vacuum for Jack as he takes more control and attempts to undermine the more rational Ralph and Piggy. Piggy is very symbolic not only as the intellect for the group but a source of power in his own right since his glasses help make the fire; however, among his enemies his glasses are more appreciated then his well thought ideas. In between this struggle is the young boy Simon who is almost visionary and fearless in the dark who carries an insight into what is happening on the island and eventually has a clearer perception of what the \\"beast\\" truly is. Eventually there is a violent coup as Jack and his warriors unseat Ralph and take away Piggy's glasses in a heartless control of fire. This escalates to a more severe collision as the warriors and Jack become more ruthless and the desire for power contribute to almost shocking level of violence. The island setting serves as a microcosm of society where rational thought and democratic leadership that is unprotected becomes a victim of a totalitarian adversary that uses intimidation and violence to create its own form of government while making the former leaders suffer violent consequences. At the end, Goldman puts it all in perspective when at the climax of the brutal hunt for Ralph, a rescue team arrives of bright British uniforms causing the boys to all stop and contemplate what they have all done. A book that the young will never forget particularly as one becomes older and you can see the pattern in many governments in many parts of the world today where raw power and self indulgence sometimes conquers what is right and rational.ost shocking level of violence. The island setting serves as a microcosm of society where rational thought and democratic leadership that is unprotected becomes a victim of a totalitarian adversary that uses intimidation and violence to create its own form of government while making the former leaders suffer violent consequences. At the end, Goldman puts it all in perspective when at the climax of the brutal hunt for Ralph, a rescue team arrives of bright British uniforms causing the boys to all stop and contemplate what they have all done. A book that the young will never forget particularly as one becomes older and you can see the pattern in many governments in many parts of the world today where raw power and self indulgence sometimes conquers what is right and rational.	2005-07-30
US	52754940	R3BLV9795IG24U	076530984X	225802859	Last of the Donkey Pilgrims: A Man's Journey Through Ireland	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Wonderful Book About a Traveler & the People of Ireland	Kevin O'Hara writes about his 1979 journey along the entire coast line of Ireland with nothing but a few clothes, coin, a ration or two, a donkey cart and of course his surprisingly unsinkable donkey, Missy. American Irishman O'Hara is a post Vietnam nurse who is looking to escape from past demons and leaves his lovely wife back in America to visit with his relatives in Ireland, particularly his loving grandmother. Virtually as a whim, strengthened by bets, O'Hara makes the improbable wish to travel the entire coast of Ireland with nothing but a donkey and cart. O'Hara does a surprising job as a writer and expert storyteller as he details his travels virtually as a diary from place to place. The book is truly heart warming as strangers along the way accept him into their home (or barn) with Missy in a barn or an overhang. With the aid of local media, many are forewarned of his arrival and look down the road for his arrival. Combined with a network of new friends that often give him an address, he often finds a place waiting for him. O'Hara captures the spirit of the people of Ireland, the history of the land and provides wondrous humor throughout the book. His early struggles with taking care of Missy are aided by many hands as he finds helping hands along the way. O'Hara describes with a heart the tragedy in Northern Ireland as he stays in both Catholic and Protestant homes shortly after the assassination of Lord Mountbatten followed closely by the Pope's visit. This is the tense part of the book as the RUG police as well as a mysterious carload of young men who may or may not be the IRA check on him periodically. However, his travel to any town, large or small, is generally followed by a meet the neighborhood at the local pub for a pint and friendship. His descriptions of the many families is interesting and amusing as he meets many folk who have stayed on with their parents as he describes the life of the Irish who are enthralled in their history referring to events in the 17th century virtually as recent times. Describing beautiful countryside and enduring barren stretches and severe weather, he and Missy walk over mountains and along bogs seeing sites that he describes in such detail you can imagine it yourself. This is a great book that puts faith in humanity and takes you on a mental trip to a wonderful place.nts in the 17th century virtually as recent times. Describing beautiful countryside and enduring barren stretches and severe weather, he and Missy walk over mountains and along bogs seeing sites that he describes in such detail you can imagine it yourself. This is a great book that puts faith in humanity and takes you on a mental trip to a wonderful place.	2005-07-08
US	52754940	R3J6AEGN1D6OQ	0807118737	796615899	The Battle of the Wilderness, May 5--6, 1864	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Maybe The Best Book on the Complicated battle of The Wilderness	This is quite possibly the best book on the battle of the Wilderness particularly since this is one of the most difficult battlefields to visualize with an on site visit since the wilderness, barring suburban encroachment, is still hard to see since much of the growth has or was still there. Rhea does a wonderful job providing the reader the plans that each commander had in mind for the campaign particularly Grant's original plan to move south than west to attack Lee, which was obviously upset by Lee's aggressive move forward. Rhea also does Freeman like bios on the key officer corps of both armies including a well detailed discussion of the complex nature of Grant being present and active with the Army of the Potomac and Meade but not yet taking a firm hand in operations while Burnside's 9th Corps is an independent unit commanded by Grant. Rhea provides outstanding maps with several showing the overall plan of the campaign (Xerox the overall geographic layout map and use it as a book mark for later reference) while also providing several timely spaced close up maps of the various battle developments. Rhea also provides excellent detail on the failure of the Union cavalry to detect Ewell's and Hill's forward movements particularly Wilson's inability to provide reconnaissance as he becomes isolated and virtually cut off on the Catherprin Road entangled with ANV Rosser while the ANV infantry move up the Orange Turnpike colliding with the unsuspecting 5th corps entangling Warren and upsetting Meade's move. Rhea provides tremendous detail on the complicated movements and the interplay of commands while providing a wonderful balance of quotes from participants. Some of the highlights are Ewell's strong defensive performance on the turnpike, Warren's forced dilemma in attacking an entrenched foe without proper support, Hancock's suspended movement to support the union right wing, Longstreet's bulldozer attack and flank move, Burnside's difficulties in positioning for a center attack, and Longstreet's long march and his ordered change of march. Rhea also highlights discussion ion on Hill's failure to secure his lines after the first day of battle where his two divisions held back virtually four union divisions, Longstreet's great march of 32 miles in one day yet with one extensive break, Gordon's late flank attack delayed by Ewell and Early, Burnsides almost piercing of the vulnerable center, Lee's desperate attempts to rally Hill's crushed division, the mysterious lack of cavalry participation by Stuart and Sheridan, Grant's gradual assertion of command and Lee's desperate attempt to break through Hancock's line after Longstreet's wounding and great flank attack. The only mild criticism is that some of the officers are somewhat stereo typed and they do not always have their actions judged by face value in the campaign. For example, Ewell is praised throughout the book because of his staunch command of the initial aspects of the battle and his handling of troops yet at the end he seems criticized a little too much for having a delayed initiative that seemed more hamstrung by Early's reluctance (Gettysburg the first Day again?). The author's descriptions of the difficulty of either army to maneuver in the deep scrub growth woods is so well documented that the reader can appreciate how brigades not less divisions became separated and lost sense of direction and often fought separate battles within a battle. And Rhea describes best why a center attack well conceived but fails by Burnside in the entangled woods between Hill and Ewell as the ANV plugs another gap. How good is Rhea's book? I started the next book of his series on Spotsylvania and I will stay the course for the duration of Rhea's overland campaign.nter attack, and Longstreet's long march and his ordered change of march. Rhea also highlights discussion ion on Hill's failure to secure his lines after the first day of battle where his two divisions held back virtually four union divisions, Longstreet's great march of 32 miles in one day yet with one extensive break, Gordon's late flank attack delayed by Ewell and Early, Burnsides almost piercing of the vulnerable center, Lee's desperate attempts to rally Hill's crushed division, the mysterious lack of cavalry participation by Stuart and Sheridan, Grant's gradual assertion of command and Lee's desperate attempt to break through Hancock's line after Longstreet's wounding and great flank attack. The only mild criticism is that some of the officers are somewhat stereo typed and they do not always have their actions judged by face value in the campaign. For example, Ewell is praised throughout the book because of his staunch command of the initial aspects of the battle and his handling of troops yet at the end he seems criticized a little too much for having a delayed initiative that seemed more hamstrung by Early's reluctance (Gettysburg the first Day again?). The author's descriptions of the difficulty of either army to maneuver in the deep scrub growth woods is so well documented that the reader can appreciate how brigades not less divisions became separated and lost sense of direction and often fought separate battles within a battle. And Rhea describes best why a center attack well conceived but fails by Burnside in the entangled woods between Hill and Ewell as the ANV plugs another gap. How good is Rhea's book? I started the next book of his series on Spotsylvania and I will stay the course for the duration of Rhea's overland campaign.	2005-06-25
US	52754940	R3M23T6N9DFWUY	0912783346	550804521	Battle of Little Big Horn: A Comprehensive Study (Battle of Little Big Horn)	Books	5	28	30	N	N	An Exhaustive Review of the Theories: Plus The Author's	This is a very advanced book on the Little Big Horn \\"what happened to Custer's battalion\\" book. Pennington who actually has ridden on horseback over the Little Big Horn battlefield and adjacent sites is an expert on the land and a devoted researcher on the subject. In his large book, he reviews the testimony of the major surviving participants starting with the Reno Court of Inquiry and devotes chapters on Wallace, Keogh, Girard, Cooke, Kanipe and Martin. Pennington then covers a large collection of Indian testimonies starting with the Arikaras, Crows, Curley and then several Sioux and Cheyenne testimonies. After reviewing the key data associated with the LBH, the author spends the second half of his book reviewing the major theories of the primary historians who have written of the battle. The collection includes Kuhlman, Graham, Jerome Greene, Hardorff, Marquis, Dustin, Gray, Willert, Stewart and Scott and Fox. The analysis of each with Pennington's questions on these notable historian's theories leads you to the author's conclusion where Pennington presents his own theory with a time table and several appendices. The maps are very good showing Custer's possible movements and most interesting Benteen's planned movement that never occurred as Custer apparently directed. Pennington demonstrates that Benteen's claim that Custer had no plan or that Benteen was simply to go \\"valley hunting to infinity\\" was false. Pennington theorizes that Benteen was suppose to go all the way across the LBH after swinging left and return to support Reno in the valley. Benteen was Reno's direct support while Custer supported with an attack from the northeast. Pennington, possibly more than anyone else, details the number of couriers sent to him from Custer while Benteen was on his left oblique. I have been familiar with two but Pennington adds other personnel including a sergeant major that brings a total of four contacts from Custer. The evaluation of Benteen, Reno and Wallace adds credence to a possible conspiracy to protect them or close up on any further damage to the 7th. The following sentence gives the flavor for Pennington's book, \\"I disagree with Colonel Graham in several respects. I believe what happened to Custer after he left Major Reno is what provides the intrigue and thus the fascination that has and - that because of the conjectural nature of any answer - will continue to promote interest in the Battle of the Little Big Horn\\".  You may not agree with Pennington's own theory but the review of the major historian's theories and review of the major participant's testimonies is well worth the read. The book is a collectable.dence to a possible conspiracy to protect them or close up on any further damage to the 7th. The following sentence gives the flavor for Pennington's book, \\"I disagree with Colonel Graham in several respects. I believe what happened to Custer after he left Major Reno is what provides the intrigue and thus the fascination that has and - that because of the conjectural nature of any answer - will continue to promote interest in the Battle of the Little Big Horn\\".  You may not agree with Pennington's own theory but the review of the major historian's theories and review of the major participant's testimonies is well worth the read. The book is a collectable.	2005-06-15
US	52754940	R2MTTIQAGD71OQ	B0007DLFIG	620365195	The Jim Ryun Story	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Exciting Book on the Teen Miler from A Track Expert	This is one of the most straight forward and exciting books ever written on Track and Field. Corder Nelson, one of the famed editors and writers from Track and Field News, captures  Jim Ryun the competitor who was the first high schooler to break 4 minutes and of course later set the World Record that lasted for almost 9 years. From Track and Field News' archives, the book is complimented by Rich Clarkson's wonderful photograohs of Ryun racing in action shots throughout the book capturing the excitement of races and drama. Clarkson was the premier track and field photographer for his time. For example, Clarkson captures Ryun stealing a glance at Peter Snell at one of their two races at the starting line and then has a running pictorial of the race. This is a truly exciting book capturing the work outs, the races and determination of Jim Ryun and his coach Bob Timmons. Perhaps the most excitiung race is Ryun's 1964 Olympic trials race where he and famed miler Jim Grelle duel all the way to the line with Grelle diving for the finish. Only minutes later does either know who made the team. Ryun had an amazing tough mental ability to work hard, just look at the picture of Ryun running up an incredibly steep Kansas hill with the camera looking down on him. The race descriptions are fanatastic and Nelson makes you feel that you are watching the race unfold in person with his descriptions and Clarkson's pictures. This book was released before the 68 Olympics but it's still a great book on a wonderkid's development. A reprint second release is desperately needed.	2005-06-12
US	52754940	R200YCRYNX2OHY	0895293234	757858875	The Defence of Duffer's Drift	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Wonderful Snall Book on Tactics: Puts you in the Scenario	Swinton is  a military professional with experience in the Boer War who wrote this famous short book based on a series of thoughts he had on how a infantry unit with only 50 men could defend a river crossing. A young Lieutenant has the role but you are given his perspective, the terrain features, the political situation, conflict with civilians and limits on your own military support. There is a brief history of the war with the \\"Dutch\\" and then your Lieutenant receives his assignment. With the use of maps, there are six scenarios of the Lieutenants approach to defending the crossing (drift). Each scenario is acted out and with each of the first five scenarios there are several lessons learned such as the effect of enfilading fire, the limitations of a simple trench, the use of the military crest versus being located on top of the hill, the effect the local sympathetic population may have on aiding guerrilla fighters, the effect of surprise, disguising your defense from view, proper posting of sentries and responsibilities, how to combat artillery, dealing with multiple directions of attack, using the terrain to advantage  and on. As the Lieutenant in each scenario learns from his mistakes, he alters the outcome to his advantage but only incrementally. Only at the end and sixth scenario does he get it right but with realistic loss.  The same map is introduced in each scenario with defense features matching the new defensive tactics. Fascinating book for all interested in basic infantry tactics, which has been used as a training manual for militaries world wide. This is a very readable book that can be read in less than 2 hours time.  Applicable to any war but this book would be interesting to read with an account of Rappahannock  Station, which was a spearhead position held by Confederates in advance of Lee's line on November 7, 1863 where Meade's forces overwhelmed the defenders and took almost 3,000 prisoners.  Duffer's Drift would be very applicable here.	2005-06-09
US	52754940	R2SAAPSIXNPC4W	1561900265	884996272	Southwest Virginia in the Civil War; the battles for Saltville.	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent Coverage of the Small but Critical Battle	Marvell does an excellent job writing of this small but critical battle for Saltville located in western Virginia. The salt works here supplied the confederacy with much needed salt for preserving food as well as a dietary supplement. This was during a desperate time in late 1864 and the book actually covers several battles in the campaign such as Cloyds Mountain outside of Dublin (Crook versus Jenkins). The climax of the book is Stoneman's raid on Satlville and Breckenridge's rushed efforts to concentrate and repel the Union raiders who were intent on destroying the salt works and neighboring lead works.<br /><br />As Marvel points out the efforts of the Confederates were desperate and results in loss but the damage to Saltville was tardy for any long range effect by the Union. The dark side pf the book is an appropriate analysis of the mistreatment of wounded black cavalry soildiers that were left behind. Marvel provides an interesting discussion on whether it was a massacre or obvious mistreatment. A side that many historians do not cover but certianly appropriate to give this sad event full coverage. Stoneman today is still considered a scurge among the people of the southwest Virginia as Sheridan is in the valley or Sherman in Georgia or Columbia.	2005-05-30
US	52754940	RXHQESMKMNJRY	0811700518	684633757	Cavalry at Appomattox	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Small Exciting Book on the Cavalry at the Close of the War	I enjoyed this small book at the final stages of the war particularly some of the minor battles of the campaign. I particularly enjoyed the section on Five Forks that was very large in scope in contrast with most of the described battles and the map was well laid out in that although not complex, it demonstrated well where the V corps was in relation to Sheridan's calvary and the east angle of the Confederate line. The book does not over awe the reader in detail but for someone familar with the retreat, it was refreshing that the book moved along at a pretty good pace. And I particularly enjoyed finding the ocassional nuggett of information that I did not know, such as the animosity between Rosser and Mumford, or know very well. I also enjoyed reading about the battle of High Bridge, which was a modest battle by most standards but a desperate battle fought earnestly by both sides with devastating loss as the war was coming to an obvious end. My own personal visit there recently made that section exciting to read. It would have been exceptional if the author did provide maps showing more geography to better understand the different routes that Lee and Grant took along with their cavalry. The strength of the supplied maps was their small scale presentation of battles that were quite good such as the final battle for the road to Lynchburg just outside Appomattox Station. Perhaps the only criticism besides maps of a greater scope was explaining how Lee's Army semed to constantly be blind as the Army seemed to stumble into traps (Sailor's Creek)and never seemed to know when Sheridan was going to cut them off (Jetersville) or capture their trains. The author does note that Fitz Lee was frequently in the rear protecting the wagons or rear guard and that may have been the climatical advanatge Sheridan had over the cavalry of the ANV, fresh mounts and more men. The advanatge hastened Lee's troops to their physical detriment, cut off supplies and disected their trains. Makes one wonder if Wade Hampton would have been more effective but the reduced ANV cavalry was probably too undermanned for anyone. The other note, was that at Amelia Courthouse, Marvel has pointed out that Lee's delay was not to search for food that did not exist but to wait for Ewell's forces to find a way across the river since his pontoons never appeared. The author sticks to the older theory but Marvel makes a good point, Ewell had difficulty and why would you stay where there is no food. But the book has  some very good descriptions particularly of Pickett who literally seems to be falling apart well before the end. Obviously, the strength of the author's biography lent itself well with Pickett. Also numerous pictures and a good shot of the High Bridge.one wonder if Wade Hampton would have been more effective but the reduced ANV cavalry was probably too undermanned for anyone. The other note, was that at Amelia Courthouse, Marvel has pointed out that Lee's delay was not to search for food that did not exist but to wait for Ewell's forces to find a way across the river since his pontoons never appeared. The author sticks to the older theory but Marvel makes a good point, Ewell had difficulty and why would you stay where there is no food. But the book has  some very good descriptions particularly of Pickett who literally seems to be falling apart well before the end. Obviously, the strength of the author's biography lent itself well with Pickett. Also numerous pictures and a good shot of the High Bridge.	2005-05-28
US	52754940	R2V4CGGDKX4K6R	0375706364	123472120	Crucible of War: The Seven Years' War and the Fate of Empire in British North America, 1754-1766	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Readbe & Global Perspective of the French and Indian War	This is a truly a global history of the French and Indian War that provides the reader the total perspective not only what goes on between the French, British, Colonials and the American Indians but what is occurring elsewhere that shapes the balance of the war in America. Anderson gives you an overview of the war situation between France and England and details the political alliances that come into conflict such as England's alliance with Prussia and Frederick the Great who carries the burden of fighting the French, the Austrians and Russians. England balances the war in Europe virtually financially while dealing with conflicts in India and of course the Colonies. The rise of Pitt is notable as he formulates a policy to win the war at great expense with  success in Canada.<br /><br />Anderson has excellent descriptions of the Indian relations with the French as well as the more tenuous relationship that towards the end of the conflict drifts in the balance to the English. Anderson discusses the different effects of trade relations that favor the French and the Indians desire to stop colonial migration to the west. The relationship between the French commanders is engrossing as the Indians expect to gain prisoners for barter or as slaves and reap material benefits as prizes of conflict. Montcalm; however, does not appreciate their role or respect their methods of warfare that eventually undermines the French war effort. A breakdown is exemplified by the partial massacre of Monroe's troops retreating from their Fort after an amicable surrender that breaks down when the Indians attack regardless of the surrender agreement.<br /><br />The history displayed in this book is so detailed that it may surprise the reader to learn that Wolfe's taking of Quebec was not the end all battle of the War but a major consequence that was made a long-term success due to a British naval victory over the French Fleet off the coast of France that determines who will receive precious supplies and reinforcements at Quebec. That difference saves the day for the British but this is an example of the full picture that Anderson gives you to allow a total perspective of the war. The war across the globe between the two major powers contributed greatly to the outcome of the French and Indian war. The author also provides detail on the aftermath of the war such as the relations with Indians, which surprisingly includes a Cherokee uprising in the south. In my mind, Anderson provides a highly readable and interesting book giving you a complete perspective of the global conflict that North America was one part of.  Anderson's mini-biographies on Wolfe, Montcalm, Washington, Pitt and Frederick the Great are satisfying and makes you want to consider detailed biographies on those subjects.  This is the best book for understanding the total conflict.plies and reinforcements at Quebec. That difference saves the day for the British but this is an example of the full picture that Anderson gives you to allow a total perspective of the war. The war across the globe between the two major powers contributed greatly to the outcome of the French and Indian war. The author also provides detail on the aftermath of the war such as the relations with Indians, which surprisingly includes a Cherokee uprising in the south. In my mind, Anderson provides a highly readable and interesting book giving you a complete perspective of the global conflict that North America was one part of.  Anderson's mini-biographies on Wolfe, Montcalm, Washington, Pitt and Frederick the Great are satisfying and makes you want to consider detailed biographies on those subjects.  This is the best book for understanding the total conflict.	2005-05-21
US	52754940	R1HP0YYJUYXBZ6	1574883852	38841875	Little Phil: A Reassessment of the Civil War Leadership of Gen. Philip H. Sheridan	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Short Critical Assessment of Sheridan	Wittenburg writes a very compact critical book on the military skills and ethics of Phil Sheridan. The author writes in a concise fashion presenting factual detail centering on the most important moments of Sheridan's career. After a review of Sheridan's early career including the near bayoneting of a senior classman at West Point, the author spends virtually the remainder of the book on Sheridan Civil War career offering rather severe critiques of Sheridan's military ability as a cavalry leader and tactician, as an unfair supervisor of subordinates, his inability to follow orders, his inability to tell the truth abut early forays and his failure to recognize the contributions of subordinates.  Although this does appear to be pretty harsh treatment of Sheridan, Wittenburg presents the information in a flowing economic narrative that sets up the final chapter's evaluation as a virtual summary of points categorically describing Sheridan's weaknesses. The author virtually starts with Sheridan's failure not to bring on an engagement at the battle of Perryville, to his inability to follows Meade's directions to open the road to Spotsylvania to his possible bypass of Grant's original orders for him to join Sherman. The author notes thst Sheridan's typical veteran post Civil war memoir glories in abundant hyperbole that speaks of frequent victories over southern horsemen. Sheridan's most interesting conflicts are personal with Crook, Averell and of course the cataclysmic collision with General Warren at Five Forks. However, in spite of the numerous criticisms, Wittenburg acknowledges that in the final theater during and after Five Forks, Sheridan was relentless in pursuit of Lee's retreating army earning accolades. And perhaps this last phase balances the book in that although Sheridan had his faults and ego, he had a certain ruthless drive that could truly make war hell for his his opposition in the valley or Indians and he could apply total war when the end was near. Grant's respect for Sheridan at the end seems to be at its zenith when he tells Sheridan that he may sack Warren with total authority and discretion. Of course Sheridan sacks Warren most likely without facts or reason but more so for perception and past negatives that Meade did not hold Warren accountable. Sheridan and Warren are perhaps the most interesting pair in conflict during the Civil War other than Jefferson C. Davis and William Nelson where the former assassinated the latter. Wittenburg's critiques may be controversial but they are well presented and many are well proven. But the debate is still on in the end because Grant has full confidence in Sheridan and with Sheridan brimming with confidence and his well-supported cavalry force, he literally pulls the plug on Lee's valiant and hopeless attempts at escape. A well-written book with controversy but the best part is that the book challenges your thought professionally leaving room for argument.nt's respect for Sheridan at the end seems to be at its zenith when he tells Sheridan that he may sack Warren with total authority and discretion. Of course Sheridan sacks Warren most likely without facts or reason but more so for perception and past negatives that Meade did not hold Warren accountable. Sheridan and Warren are perhaps the most interesting pair in conflict during the Civil War other than Jefferson C. Davis and William Nelson where the former assassinated the latter. Wittenburg's critiques may be controversial but they are well presented and many are well proven. But the debate is still on in the end because Grant has full confidence in Sheridan and with Sheridan brimming with confidence and his well-supported cavalry force, he literally pulls the plug on Lee's valiant and hopeless attempts at escape. A well-written book with controversy but the best part is that the book challenges your thought professionally leaving room for argument.	2005-05-17
US	52754940	R3J8WMSN9IUCOX	1579542905	374683565	Run with the Champions: Training Programs and Secrets of America's 50 Greatest Runners	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent Look at Best US Distance Runners: Bio/Workouts	This book surpassed my expecations because it not only masses the best all time U.S. distance runners of both sexes but Bloom does not just give you the workouts but includes compact and effective biographies on each runner that I found the most interesting of all. The fact that Frank Shorter was fair runner in his private HS years but later won the NCAA 10,000 meters is quite amazing and of course so are his marathon medals as well. Bill Rogers virtually borrow gear to get appropriately outfitted for a race (Pre sent him  a pair of shoes he still has) and then runs his first 2:09 while stopping to tie his shoe (Bloom didn't mention that Rogers often stopped to drink water). Everyone remembers Jim Ryun but what about Billy Mills the great cinderella story gold medalist of the 64 Olymmpics and asthmatic Bob Schull who also wins in 64 in the 5000. Well both are covered extremely well and Schul wonders like Bloom where the top runners are of today (soccer suggests Bloom).  Great personal nuggets of information plus a bit of where are they now in four pages on each athlete. The women are well represented with Doris Brown, the great miler and 800 runner Jan Merrill, Francie Laraeu, Pattie Catalano (2:27 marathon), Joan Bennoit and Mary Slaney. What's great about this book is that Bloom gives you a career look in the few pages he has on each athelete with their PR's and dates and locations along with their greatest acheivements, times, records and victories and touches of ther personal life (Schul's wife was his workout timer). For example both Slaney and Laraeu were well known milers and 1500 specialists but late in their careers both Francie Laraeu and Mary Decker Slaney ran excellent 10ks both qualifying for the Olympics late in their careers. Listed at the end of each chapter is a week out of one of their workouts during their peak period such as Frank Shorter doing intervals on the track with only 50 yards of rest just before the Olympics. Bill Rogers running almost 30 miles a day for over 200 miles a week. Mary Slaney and her impressive track workouts and Pre running 30 second 220s with a 40 second 220 (jog?) for two miles at an overall 9:20 pace. The book also includes recent stars like Bob Kennedy, Suzie Hamilton and Regina Jacobs (now shrouded in controversy).<br /><br />The hardest part of the book is the rating system, outside the top 30, Bloom lists an honorable mention section but a few deserving folk seem to be missing. Bloom graciously invites you to submit anyone missed on email such as where is Rick Wolhoter the mid 70's dominate 800 meter specialist and later 1500 runner? He's the other guy that fell down in the heats at Munich. And can you believe that Rogers and Shorter still put in over 50 miles a week? If you follow U.S. distance running this is the book. Bloom also has an intro that sounds like \\"Where have all the U. S. distance runners gone?\\" He'll give you his best answer.30 miles a day for over 200 miles a week. Mary Slaney and her impressive track workouts and Pre running 30 second 220s with a 40 second 220 (jog?) for two miles at an overall 9:20 pace. The book also includes recent stars like Bob Kennedy, Suzie Hamilton and Regina Jacobs (now shrouded in controversy).     The hardest part of the book is the rating system, outside the top 30, Bloom lists an honorable mention section but a few deserving folk seem to be missing. Bloom graciously invites you to submit anyone missed on email such as where is Rick Wolhoter the mid 70's dominate 800 meter specialist and later 1500 runner? He's the other guy that fell down in the heats at Munich. And can you believe that Rogers and Shorter still put in over 50 miles a week? If you follow U.S. distance running this is the book. Bloom also has an intro that sounds like \\"Where have all the U. S. distance runners gone?\\" He'll give you his best answer.	2005-05-03
US	52754940	R37N1JES75VMRE	0870044354	706940218	Forlorn Hope	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Reads Like a 1950's Western but True Account of a Dissaster	The story opens almost like a typical western movie where a tribe of Indians is wronged by whites and retaliation starts slow by a few angry young men who turn vengeance into a small scale war. The author tells the story of the Nez Perce and the ranchers who live side by side so well that the reader literally cringes when three young tribes men decide to retaliate against any white that mistreated them as they are being forced to accept another move off of their land. The initial phase of the book tells a thrilling and frightening story as each ranch or store is subject to attack as each set of occupants is isolated. After securing more tribesmen, the young Nez Perce drive most of the whites to the frayed security of small towns. Requiring a demonstration of force, General Howard sends an ill prepared set of cavalry companies  in pursuit of the Nez Perce along with civilian volunteers. the result is a force of over 100 men meeting the Nez Perce in a rugged canyon that causes a total loss of coordination between the two companies particularly after the civilians give way. The battle quickly turns into a route with a series of short and isolated rallies resulting in one officer abandoning the field, one leading a platoon into a ravine of death and the commander doing his best to stem the tide of panic but eventually giving up the field. The terrain and the riding and fighting ability of the Nez Perce successfully defends Chief Joseph's initial flight. The small book does not complete the campaign but familiarizes the reader with one of the greatest plains disaster for the US Military after Little Big Horn and the Fetterman Massacre. The book includes a transcript of the investigative hearing which is interesting since the officer that abandoned the field attempts to press charges of incompetence against his field commander. I only wish the lone battle map was clearer since the terrain is confusing and the battle description could utilize a more simple map to show movements on the field. The author gives you a good feel for what the conditions and participants were like using first hand testimonies that start each new chapter and you experience the story unfolding virtually as the ranchers saw it and as the soldiers and participants may have seen it from their own point of view.ments on the field. The author gives you a good feel for what the conditions and participants were like using first hand testimonies that start each new chapter and you experience the story unfolding virtually as the ranchers saw it and as the soldiers and participants may have seen it from their own point of view.	2005-04-01
US	52754940	R2IPGAI1OXG81M	0912783370	32079635	Battle At Sand Creek: The Military Perspective	Books	5	26	34	N	Y	A Different Perspective: How the Homesteader May Have Viewed	Michno usually writes books on Plains Indian wars in a different perspective and this usually makes things interesting. In this case, the controversial battle always attached with the word massacre is looked at from a different vantage point such as looking at the military situation as a whole and the fact that the areas around Denver were in a panic from Indian attacks. Several raids had occurred that included Cheyenne, Arapahos and other tribes. Black Kettle and other Chiefs did want peace and traveled to Denver to meet with government officials. However, many young men still made war on the public, which include atrocities. Michno argues that although Black Kettle and many of his bands wanted peace, the failure to control his young warriors called for action. Interesting characters in this conflict are Colonel Chivington, Governor Evans , Black Kettle and Major Wynkopp. The later acts independently but not as a representative of his government or the military and thus loses command of Fort Lyons as action is in place to retaliate against the Cheyenne. The author indicates conflicting testimony some based on political motives and some by mixed interests such as the Brent family that is associated with the Cheyenne. There is even the argument that the Indians seek peace in winter and war in the summer requiring action when they are less mobile. Michno also argues that the famous American flag was not flying or if it was it was impossible to see among many lodges. He also notes that the Cheyenne fought valiantly and created many casualties. Other issues, the Cheyenne gave up four hostages but kept two at the time of the attack. A well documented book that puts forth a strong argument. You will not be disappointed with this challenging book.	2005-03-26
US	52754940	R1R7UWUPH40DEN	0806135514	336409586	Washita: The U.S. Army and the Southern Cheyennes, 18671869 (Campaigns and Commanders Series)	Books	5	16	19	N	Y	Controversial Subject: Custer and the Cheyenne	Washita is one of the more controversial battles of the Plains Wars in that there are several aspects that make it unique. What is not unique is the standard approach of attacking native americans in the dead of winter when they were much less mobile and prone to surprise if the attacking force could survive the elements. What makes the battle exceptionally controversial is that Black Kettle of Sand Creek fame and known as a peace chief once again bears the brunt of an attack, which in this case he does not survive. He also was making peace overtures at the time that several young men from many villages and perhaps his own were still making raids. The other ring of controversy is the loss of Major Elliott and his platoon that impulsively chased after escaping villagers too far from support and was annihilated by Indians from neighboring villages. Custer eventually abandoned the field under pressure to save his command but this seemed to aggravate a split in his command since Elliott could not be found.  The split was particularly with Captain Benteen who was highly critical and later has a contributory part in Custer's demise at the Little Big Horn, which has more than a touch of irony. Well written and researched by Green, maps are very good and for example demonstrates how young Lt. Godfrey almost made the same mistake as Elliott but was restrained by wiser counsel. Excellent over all view of the Cheyenne with a background on their history as well as a good review of the military situation in Kansas. Good balance although more dicussion on Sand Creek may have been  appropriate a new book cast a different opinion on that battle and perhaps recognizing that may have made that section of the book more interesting. This is a good book to buy and keep on the shelf and take with you if you ever get a chance to go in the field and visit the site yourself.	2005-03-26
US	52754940	R1DOCWH4P13MNC	0156005492	198406169	Under the Black Flag: The Romance and the Reality of Life Among the Pirates (Harvest Book)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Readable Detail on Pirates, their Life and Famous Pirates	Well written, easy read on Pirates detailing how they lived, how they formed and details of the different types depending on where they originated such as Corsairs, Buccaneers and of course Pirates. The book gives a global perspective of Pirates along the China Sea, the Barbary Coast and detailed attention on the Caribbean. The author includes a nice glossary for basic nautical terms for the landlubber but it also contains pirate terms or terminology for the period. Cordingly uses reference works from early and accurate pirate histories along with discussion on classical writers such as Daniel Defoe. Until reading this book I had not realized that Robinson Crusoe was based on a real individual marooned on a desert isle for five years. Aside from discussing the more famous Pirates such as Captain Kidd (who had the worst of luck or limited competence), Henry Morgan and Black Beard, the book references a number of lesser known along with those that commit some fantastic feats such as Mrs. Cheng who along with her husband commanded a pirate fleet in the West Indies. And of course, many countries notably England used privateers such as Drake and Hawkins to directly attack  their enemies' ships by providing them a percentage of the take in a undeclared war.  Fascinating account of how the Pirates recruited or forced men to join there ranks, along with a few infamous female pirates, and used their large numbers, sleek ships, and numerous cannon to attack or intimidate their prey. The authors discuss their hideouts, their careening of ships to clean them for speed and he challenges the Treasure Island theory of pirates burying their treasure or making individuals walk the blank. From this book it is apparent that pirates had a short, indulgent and violent life. The author brings you up to date on literature on pirates that although some contain many accuracies from actual testimonies, he points out the liberties they take with the truth such as buried treasure. In addition, he also reviews the movies that often depict pirates on large galleons not because it was true but because the size provided a Hollywood stage. As the author notes, when countries such as England set their mind and resources to it, they could fairly eradicate the pirate population. The results were often a hanging and the horrid suspension of the body upright and hanging in the harbor. A great read to learn about pirates or a wonderful vacation book to read about the romantic and wild men who were sometimes  cruelly violent often ending with an appropriate violent demise of their own.he also reviews the movies that often depict pirates on large galleons not because it was true but because the size provided a Hollywood stage. As the author notes, when countries such as England set their mind and resources to it, they could fairly eradicate the pirate population. The results were often a hanging and the horrid suspension of the body upright and hanging in the harbor. A great read to learn about pirates or a wonderful vacation book to read about the romantic and wild men who were sometimes  cruelly violent often ending with an appropriate violent demise of their own.	2005-03-19
US	52754940	R1AI929L9U6EDN	1883522102	129291379	Prince of Edisto: Brigadier General Micah Jenkins, C.S.A (Confederate Biography)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Good Book on Jenkins and the First Corps of the ANV	This is a very good book on studying the Army of Northern Virginia and in particular its First Corps. Longstreet's First was the most steady Corps that Lee had particularly after Jackson's fall. But as the war reached that weary phase and the Confederate cause grew dark, the effects seem to show heavily on the First Corps after it was transferred to the West. With a costly but total victory at Chickamauga, Longstreet's First Corps settles in with Bragg and the unhappy misled Army of Tennessee. Jenkins is a thriving young officer out of the Citadel and is felt by his rivals to be a pet of Longstreet. The command ruptures when Jenkins is picked by Longstreet to command Hood's division over Law. The situation becomes severe when Longstreet's forces fail to repel Grant's established bridgehead at Brown's Ferry. Although Longstreet did not perform well, the failure of Jenkins' night attack seemed to spark a decline in the coordination of the First Corps and between Longstreet and Bragg. Feuding between Law over Jenkins became so severe that by the time the First Corps was reassigned to East Tennessee the whole First Corps was affected by failed supplies, desolate country, minimal support, low morale and a rivalry that intensified with Law being allowed to leave yet be later set up for a court martial for changing his military destination. Interference by Davis on the matter seemed to make things worse and even Longstreet's friend Lafayette McLaws is charged with malfeasance. Jenkins is later shot down and killed during Longstreet's severe wounding at the Wilderness but he is a heroic figure although on a  more modest scale. His emergence seemed to time with the first fracture of the First Corps and with the Confederate war effort starting to feel the sustained pressure of Grant and the reduced resources of the south. This book on Jenkins is a path to the less glorious part of the war but a revelation on the true realities of a war not going well. A rising star killed like many heroic figures as the war reached the desperate phase.e many heroic figures as the war reached the desperate phase.	2005-03-09
US	52754940	RV0OW4YOW39K6	0718173104	936127073	The Unforgiving Minute	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Exciting Races and Story from the Greatest Distance Runner	One of the best books ever written about distance running and particularly races then any book on the subject. Ron Clarke was the dominate distance runner from 1962 up through 1968 and even in the 1970's. He held records from the two mile all the way up to the one hour run and many of his records were not broken for 10 years or more particularly his 10,000 meter record. A man who raced anyone anywhere thus his book is full of exciting racing stories. He raced the youth phenom Garry Lindgrin, Billy Mills, Michael Jazy, Kip Kieno, Mohammed Gamoudi, Murray Halberg, Gaston Roelants and more greats. He unfortunately got the inappropriate title of the \\"bloke who never won anything\\" due to a series of fantastic upsets. He defeats all the favorites in the 1964 10,000 meters only to be beat at the final rush by little known Billy Mills who runs one of the two races of his life at the Olympics in a great story that made Mills  a Cinderella legend. He loses in the steamy humidity of the 66 Commonwealth Games to Temu one of the emerging Africans and at Mexico City he tries gallantly for the win at high altitude to suffer horribly over the last 800 meters to try to defeat the altitude friendly Africans. A very enjoyable book of how a gifted youth, who ran against the great John Landy (world mile record holder) but puts running aside  only to start back several years later and emerge as a world record holder virtually running alone on a cinder track in Australia described in a great chapter called \\"Clarke's Gone Mad\\". Great description of his competitors, races, tactics and training. For instance, Harold Norpoth was a great German runner with fantastic finishing speed but one that never led the pace like Clarke who always had a compulsion to lead. Clarke describes a race where he sits on Norpoth for a change that virtually bewilders him until Clarke takes off. A great running book, Clarke loved the challenge and led every race from the start and just like his races, his books don't waste anytime getting to it.'t waste anytime getting to it.	2005-03-08
US	52754940	R1YOVDD20NLLJL	0803279418	662455567	The Cavalry at Gettysburg: A Tactical Study of Mounted Operations during the Civil War's Pivotal Campaign, 9 June-14 July 1863	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great Analysis on Why the Union Had the Edge at Gettysburg	One of the great controversies of Gettysburg, aside from pointing the finger at Longstreet, was why did the Confederates go blind through Pennsylvania and of course where was Stuart? Longacre gives a highly readable story of how the supremacy of the Confederate Cavalry crested before Gettysburg as the Union begin to have bolder leaders and more aggressive tactics and better mounts. Starting with Stuarts embarrassment at the shock like attack of Union Cavalry at Brandy Station, Longacre explains the difference evolutions of the Cavalry on each side and in detail you see how the Union became more like the Confederates and less like picket line guards in the past. Excellent story of how Stuart took all his top brigade commanders with him leaving Grumble Jones behind to screen Lee's army and with the little known Albert Jenkins virtually leading reconnaissance for Lee's march through Pennsylvania. To me, the best part of the book is about Stuart's misadventures and Lee's army groping its way almost blind through Pennsylvania running into Buford's cavalry equipped with spencer repeater rifles. Great detail on Stuart's final arrival and desperate attempt to ride behind the Union line to disrupt it during Pickett's charge only to be quashed by Custer's attack stopping Stuart completely. In addition, excellent detail on Farnsworth's suicide charge into Longstreet's right flank after Pickett's charge ordered by \\"Kilcavalry\\" Kilpatrick. There is also additional detail on the harassment of Lee's retreat by the Union cavalry and Stuarts tired efforts to hold his ground. Excellent book fills the void left by most all Gettysburg books.	2005-03-05
US	52754940	R2BOGMAYV4F08I	0807118052	809009387	Breckinridge: Statesman, Soldier, Symbol (Southern Biography Series)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	From US Vice President to Confederate Secretary of War	Excellent biography of one of the most interesting men in the US Civil War. From a political star as Vice President and Presidential Candidate against Lincoln, Brekinridge typlifies the great split in our country. Dutiful and professional serving as VP to the virtual end of his term he leaves as a vagabond due to his southern sympathies. Brekinridge served as a Confederate General during the war and ended it as perhaps the most proficient Secretary of War that the south had. Davis covers Breckinridge's rise as the succesor to the great Henry Clay. When the crisis of civil war looms, he is reaching his zenith as a political star. In an almost sad despair, he leaves to fight for the south as his border state home Kentucky remains in the Union. Breckinridge is a great subject of the war as he serves in both the western theater and the east as well and as a succesful independent commander in southwestern VA. Davis captures Breckinridges life throughout the war with great detail such as when his division is severly punished at Stones River under Bragg who in turn accusses Breckinridge unfairly of incompetence and drink. But Breckinridge thives later as an independent commander in an undermaned and threatened theater of southwestern VA. He consolidates his troops and wins one of the souths last great, although small, battles at New Market that is forever associated with the valor of the VMI cadets who supported the final charge. Breckinridge later serves wiith Lee at Cold harbor and throughout the overland campaign. But as the author Davis carries you through Breckinridge's career, you become a witness to the south's final destruction as Breckinridge is the Scretary of War during the final months of the Confederacy. Aside from closely associating with Lee, Breckinridge is with the Confederate government that flees Richmond. Breckinridge, with loyalty but with objectivity, tries to steer Davis into the realization that the war is doomed. While Davis is in flight, Breckinridge stays with Joe Johnston and helps negotiate terms that Stanton felt were so generous he publicly embarrased Sherman causing Sherman's return for a new surrender. With this biography, the author provides you an inside view of the sadness the war has on a leader who does seem caught in the middle and who is involved in both the military and political situation. Breckinridge was in the center of the military and the government throughout the last year to its final collapse. An excellent biography that bridges you to many of Davis' other books such as the Battle of New Market, his Davis Biography, The Rise and Fall of the Confederate Government and the Orphan Brigade.dge stays with Joe Johnston and helps negotiate terms that Stanton felt were so generous he publicly embarrased Sherman causing Sherman's return for a new surrender. With this biography, the author provides you an inside view of the sadness the war has on a leader who does seem caught in the middle and who is involved in both the military and political situation. Breckinridge was in the center of the military and the government throughout the last year to its final collapse. An excellent biography that bridges you to many of Davis' other books such as the Battle of New Market, his Davis Biography, The Rise and Fall of the Confederate Government and the Orphan Brigade.	2005-03-03
US	52754940	R3ZNFE2XECUBQ	0806136383	786289980	Custer and Me: A Historians Memoir	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	Memiors of a Western Historian:Starts and Ends with Custer	From any Western historian's perspection, Utley had the ultimate dream come true when he spent many youthful summers as a Custer Battlefied (now Little Big Horn) guide under the famed Captain Luce. From the age of 16 through his college years, Utley spent each summer under Captain Luce's command working at the battlefield and living in various quarters in Crow Agency. I find this the high point of the book because this is just phenomenal to any Little Big Horn historian to have such a long enduring relationship with the actual battlefield and with Luce who was one of the most reknown battlefield supts. The book is a memior as it moves into Utley's story of a historian's journey from a youth with a wonderous start with Luce to a stint in the Army that eventually ended up in the Penatgon as a military historian to his career with the National Park Service. I initially had hoped that this book was about Utley's evolving perspective of Custer and what happenerd at the Little Big Horn, it does address some of the critical issues but this is more about Utley's growth as a historian and the evoloution of the National Park Service during his career before, during  and after retirement. Specific Park developments, such as the Hubbell Trading post on the Navajo reservation, are very interesting as they eventually mesh with his second wife's experiences as a park supt. Although less enthused with the politics of the park service, the political and management aspects do provide an inside view on how our nation's parks are managed. While discussing his personal development along with he evoloution of the NPS, Utley's also discusses the many books he wrote along the way, which is most enjoyable. For a Custerphile, the best parts of the book are when Utley periodically covers the LBH controversies of the park in reference to the Indian movement under AIM and controversial management issues associated with the park in reference to politics and economic considerations. Utley also discusses the LBH archeological digs in the mid 80s under Superintendent Jim Court who he applauds as an excellent supt. (and a great tour guide today) but disagrees about the importance of the results. I had hoped that the author would spend some time at the end of the book contrasting the various interpretations of what happened to Custer at the Little Big Horn after he descended Medicine Trail Coulee. So many authors have offererd variations of the final two hours that I hoped that Utley would have dedicated a chapter on his current point of view. He does write short and nteresting snippents such as what he writes of archeologist Dr. Richard Fox \\"...I have yet to discover how our understanding  of the battle of the Little Big Horn has been significantly changed (after the digs). But Fox has emerged as a major authority on the Battle of the Little Big Horn, one who commands a large and loyal following. He also tends to regard his interpatations as beyond challenge, which in the volatile world of the Little Big Horn aficionados is a sure invitation to challenge\\". An interesting book overall particularly Utley's on site visits to historical parks, the development of historical parks that he was directly involved in and references to the subjects of his many books.scusses the LBH archeological digs in the mid 80s under Superintendent Jim Court who he applauds as an excellent supt. (and a great tour guide today) but disagrees about the importance of the results. I had hoped that the author would spend some time at the end of the book contrasting the various interpretations of what happened to Custer at the Little Big Horn after he descended Medicine Trail Coulee. So many authors have offererd variations of the final two hours that I hoped that Utley would have dedicated a chapter on his current point of view. He does write short and nteresting snippents such as what he writes of archeologist Dr. Richard Fox \\"...I have yet to discover how our understanding  of the battle of the Little Big Horn has been significantly changed (after the digs). But Fox has emerged as a major authority on the Battle of the Little Big Horn, one who commands a large and loyal following. He also tends to regard his interpatations as beyond challenge, which in the volatile world of the Little Big Horn aficionados is a sure invitation to challenge\\". An interesting book overall particularly Utley's on site visits to historical parks, the development of historical parks that he was directly involved in and references to the subjects of his many books.	2005-02-16
US	52754940	RII0D67HIA9T3	1400040310	845366857	His Excellency: George Washington	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Captures the Personality and Importance of Washingon's Role	Ellis captures the importance of Washington as the critical first US President and preserver of the union of States. Perhaps no one could have helped create a stable democracy without a man of his high principals, confidence of abilities, the ability to select competent men to serve and a certain forebearance that made the position of President so prestigous. Washington's officers suggested that he become a dictator but he eliminated any thought of such and retired from public life only to be drafted into the position of President long after resigning from the Army. Ellis' book is a fast paced biography that reviews Washington's early years as a surveyor and VA. officer as well as his role in the French and Indian War. Ellis even captures Washington's interesting but liitle known error in judgement when he captured a French fort with Indian allies who impulsively and without authoriozation slaughter the survivors. The book moves quickly over the Revoloutionary War and efficiently covers the war without tactical study. What evolves in Ellis' book is a study of Washington's personality, his strong pride, his ability to overcome a limited education, his ability to be above petty squabbles and be a stoic and competent leader with an air of authority. Ellis notes that Washington's pride created errors in judgement when confronting the british in early battles but that with consultation with his trusted staff, he becomes more adept at fighting a \\"fabian\\" stealth style of battle to live another day. He expected great loyalty and those that crossed him in some fashion paid the consequence such as General Charles Lee who was abused at Monmouth more for his loyalties than his battle actions. His practical sense as President to steer clear of foreign alliances again seems to fashion his fabian sense of battle as he recognizes that the US is not strong enough for a major war until at least the 1820s which proves true. Ellis points out that position on eliminating slavery is sympathetic yet he postpones any address of the situation until the country's unity is stronger to tolerater the great issue. Later rankled by the conflicts among the Federalists and Jefferson's Republicans he seemed intent to be above the fray. After reading Ellis' book, it appears that the man who rode his personal chariot in full uniform to the Continental congress knew the effect of his controlled presence and he had the ability to lead brillant men such as Jefferson, Hamilton and utilize their services. The most interesting part of the book is the intrigues of Jefferson who through secret correspondence criticizes Washington as great but senile and covertly utilizes a critical press to harshly attack his policies. Washington later writes of Jefferson \\"one of the most artful, intriguing,, industrious and double faced politicians in America\\". Had John Adams been the first President, the union may not have held since those earliest of years required someone with the ultimate respect of a nation and for the time, that man was Washington.pathetic yet he postpones any address of the situation until the country's unity is stronger to tolerater the great issue. Later rankled by the conflicts among the Federalists and Jefferson's Republicans he seemed intent to be above the fray. After reading Ellis' book, it appears that the man who rode his personal chariot in full uniform to the Continental congress knew the effect of his controlled presence and he had the ability to lead brillant men such as Jefferson, Hamilton and utilize their services. The most interesting part of the book is the intrigues of Jefferson who through secret correspondence criticizes Washington as great but senile and covertly utilizes a critical press to harshly attack his policies. Washington later writes of Jefferson \\"one of the most artful, intriguing,, industrious and double faced politicians in America\\". Had John Adams been the first President, the union may not have held since those earliest of years required someone with the ultimate respect of a nation and for the time, that man was Washington.	2005-02-12
US	52754940	R1XL4BTK7KZ7RT	0060736798	882691706	Secret History of the Iraq War	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Exahustive Study of the War with All the Players	This book weaves an amazing amount of analysis into a single volume concerning the Iraq War. The author does implicate Saddam with WMD and indicates that he not only has a realtionship with terrorists but he is prepared to launch them not just in Israel but Europe and the US. The book has extraordinary detail on Saddam's plans, his plan of insurgency after the fall of Bagdad and his reliance on Syria to spirit away his weapons, materials, money and providing a hiding place for his familiy and sons. Besides the role of Syria providing cover for Saddamm and his forces, Iran is  a major player in the sponsor of terrorism and the three countries along with Arafat plan a massive attack against Israel. The attack would include pentrating Jordan to intiate an attack that they hoped would spark a major attack by Israel that would inflame the Arab world causing a coordinated strike at Israel. With a blow by blow account of the US attack on Iraq covertly before the start of the war and after, the author captures the details of the fighting including inside Saddams command virtually ruined buy his son Qusay. The most interesting part of the book is Iran's role in fueling Islamist terrorists to Iraq to lead to a Shiite sympathetic Iraq government and Iran's role in hosting terrorists such as Osoma Bin Laden and al-Zarqawi to plan and supply terroriists into both Iraq and Saudia Arabia. Chalabi is also implicated in secret meetings in Terhan. The book is depressing in the fact that even Murbarak is covertly involved in resisting the US, although propped up by billions of US dollars, and he is also involved with Arafat who creates a face of peace while planning violent terrorist acts. At the end, the author is critical of the US's foray into Iraq and its failure to recognize the power of Islamist extremists but his alternative does not ring very clear because the extremists seem beyond rational negotiations. The entire middle east comes across as a complicated maze of strong arm leadership by a few combined in  areas of mutual distrust and hatred. Kurds hate Saddam but hate the Turks more and vice versa. The only criticism is a lack of maps, I would recommend downloading a map that will fit into the book and there is a need for a quick reference page for all the charcters. There are so many players that an easy reference page would help keep the average reader up on who all the parties are. I do have to agree with an earlier reviewer that footnotes would provide more creditability particularly when referencing such episodes such as Saddam's being drugged and virtually  held capative by his own disillusioned supporters when discovered by US troops based on a tip.leadership by a few combined in  areas of mutual distrust and hatred. Kurds hate Saddam but hate the Turks more and vice versa. The only criticism is a lack of maps, I would recommend downloading a map that will fit into the book and there is a need for a quick reference page for all the charcters. There are so many players that an easy reference page would help keep the average reader up on who all the parties are. I do have to agree with an earlier reviewer that footnotes would provide more creditability particularly when referencing such episodes such as Saddam's being drugged and virtually  held capative by his own disillusioned supporters when discovered by US troops based on a tip.	2005-02-04
US	52754940	R4XNJ0Z7LYUF9	0306809133	649891793	George B. Mcclellan: The Young Napoleon	Books	5	8	9	N	N	No one Knows McClellan Bettter than Sears	Perhaps no one was a better organizer of an Army during both sides of the Civil War than George McCellan. He took a dispirited army after the defeat of the First Bull Run and equipped it, drilled it and raised its morale to an effective unit. Unfortunately, McClellan could not mobilize into battle or effectively command when in battle. During the Seven days battles, McClellan left his army disorganized at Glendale and hugged a ship in the James letting his army fight for it's life without a commander. McClellan's initial movements outside the gates of Washington were so sloth like that Joseph Johnson's Confederates moved out of their forward positions unchallenged with the aid of their \\"Quaker Guns\\" (fake cannons). Sears captures the tremendous ego of McClellan through McClellan's letters, orders and first hand accounts. McClellan, who was so disrespectful to Lincoln personally and among his generals, is given a second chance at Antietam where he had captured Lee's<br /><br />strategic dispatch only to squander his great opportunity on uncoordinated attacks allowing Lee to defend with limited resources. The popularity among his generals and his troops was a great concern to the Lincoln administration due to McClellan's<br /><br />references to marching on Washington and his leniancy toward the Confederates. Fed by incompetent spys and paranoia, McClellan imagined that the Confederates had a huge numerical adventage over hhis armies when the reverse was true. Sears has made virtually a career of understanding McClellan and his command. A fascinating book and time, the fear of McClellan's military politics contributed to General John Porter's courtmartial and the oppressive Congressional Conduct on the War Committee. A great book on an extremely capable, egotistical yet limited personality. Sears captures the man and all the conspiracies in the Army of the Potomac. After reading this book, you will understand why Lincoln took a shot at having a Western Commander come east, General Pope, after dealing with McClellan.neral Pope, after dealing with McClellan.  <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-01-30
US	52754940	R28RPR3WGRW7O4	0306805073	879983799	Sherman: Soldier, Realist, American	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Classic Study of Sherman by Military Expert Hart	This is a classic written by Liddell Hart in highly readable compact detail. Hart, an English veteran of WWI, was a 20th century military expert who had a great appreciation for Sherman's strategic ability and understanding of an enemy morale. In contrast to what Hart calls a game of \\"shuttle cock\\" in the east, Sherman's strategic maneuvers and splitting of command out frequently force Johnson to give up ground while shedding very little blood. Hart notes that he does not spend too much analytical detail on where every \\"man stood\\" in reference to regimental history but Hart provides the reader the necessary detail to appreciate the battles and over all campaign. Hart's appreciation of Sherman's ability to take the war to the Deep South, live off the land and take a great risk of literally disappearing from his line of communications is well detailed here as Sherman's penetration through three states eventually undermines Lee's great efforts in Virginia. Hart, the veteran of the stalemate battle of trenches that featured great loss appreciates Sherman's successful plan of warfare. Of course, there are many historians who believe that General Joe Johnston's propensity to retreat may have made him a weak opponent but Johnston did keep a strong army in the field until Hood decimated the Army of Tennessee.  This is a great book written by a man who not only lived through \\"The Great War\\" but was highly capable of writing about a war that was very similar in the eastern theater by late 1864.	2005-01-29
US	52754940	R1H4A3U154JDYZ	0805067264	874293205	The Lewis and Clark Companion: An Encyclopedic Guide to the Voyage of Discovery	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Companion Book it Is : A Need for All L & C Books	A wonderful reference book of terms, food items, boats, geographic locations, tribes, specific Indians, games, politicians and of course the entire cast of explorers down to Seaman the Newfoundland. Biographies can be several pages long and they cover not only an individual's role but what is known of the individual after the journey. Particularly helpful are the definitions in detail and descriptions of the materials utilied on the journey. An example are descriptions of the small flat bottomed boats called a Pirogue, a cake like food made from grease that was an easy to retrieve as a traveling food called Pemmican and a \\"drink composed of equal parts water and rum used for medically or for celebration\\" called grog. The definitions, descriptions of geographic locations and biographies are in satisfying detail almost like small books within a book. A book not only handy for sitting near your reading chair for any Lewis and Clark book but for any reading of early American historty.	2005-01-23
US	52754940	R2DAJ4XY85EELT	1930806019	850788550	The Character of Meriwether Lewis: "Completely Metamorphosed" in the American West	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Inside the Mind of Meriwether Lewis	As Jenkinson notes in his Acknowledgements, \\"This is a humanities essay, an expression of a perspective\\" learned over the course of his career thanks to the National Endowment for the Humanities. Jenkinson, who portrays Jefferson on NPR radio wonderfully in the first person, writes a detailed analysis on  the character of Lewis in this short but incitefully detailed book. This is not a full biography but a breakdown of the characteristics of Lewis that by the end of the book help the reader understand why Lewis deemed himself a failure to the point of committing suicide. Jenkinson covers Lewis' perception of his role in the expedition, his relationship with Clark, various Indian tribes, views on sex, relationships with women, his final role as governor of Louisianna and Lewis' perception of himself, quite often utilizing Lewis' own words. The posed picturer of Lewis on the cover of the book with an animal skin drapped more for show across his chest than for warmth seems to capture the sentiment of a highly intelligent aristocrat in the wilderness. In contrast to Clark who takes his role seriously yet within the general purpose of exploration, Lewis seems to look at the exploration constantly in reference to himself. In Jenkinson's book, Lewis seems to have a troubled temperment and a superior attitude toward the Indians and men in his company. He prefers the study of birds and animals to the Indian culture that he meets. He also seems concious of his need to be first as an explorer, sharing roles of leadership with Clark but not important points of discovery. Lewis undoubtedly contributed largely to the great success of the journey with his intellect and trained eye for biology but he also is tainted with melancholly. Jenkinson is very fair not to attribute today's typical pyschological diagnosis on Lewis as he states it is unfair to apply today's standards to times 200 years ago but he details a troubled mind that seems to come apart with alcohol, lack of a long term companionship, specifically women, and his non-military role as Governor of Louisianna. Combined with writer's block, his guarding of the Lewis and Clark written journey, his poor relations with civilians within and outside his administration, Jenkinson concludes that it all may have been too much for Lewis who was battling not only for reimbursements but his political life. Jekinson concludes that like Buzz Aldrin, the second man on the moon, Lewis didn't quite receive the recognition he felt due him and that he also reached his \\"zenith\\" too soon in life at age 32.rm companionship, specifically women, and his non-military role as Governor of Louisianna. Combined with writer's block, his guarding of the Lewis and Clark written journey, his poor relations with civilians within and outside his administration, Jenkinson concludes that it all may have been too much for Lewis who was battling not only for reimbursements but his political life. Jekinson concludes that like Buzz Aldrin, the second man on the moon, Lewis didn't quite receive the recognition he felt due him and that he also reached his \\"zenith\\" too soon in life at age 32.	2005-01-23
US	52754940	R2PCJCT7KDYJZG	047139209X	986944551	Aaron Burr :  Conspiracy to Treason	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Very Detailed Study of a Very Elusive Complex Man	Aaron Burr will always remain a mystery since it's never totally clear what his intentions were when he went west to join a band of men traveling south to join the commanding General of the U.S. Armies, James Wilkinson, in a complex plot. However, Melton enjoins his own legal expertise to not only provide a history of Burr's western misadventure but to also analyze the courtroom proceedings that involved the greatest attorneys at that time including Burr himself. The trial was before Supreme Court Justice Marshall who was also doubling as a circuit judge in Virginia. This is a very confusing story since Burr whose political career was ruined by Jefferson and Hamilton; the duel does not help either, goes west to coordinate or participate in separating the west or getting involved with a filibuster to take over Spanish held territory much like George Rodgers Clark attempted before and Jackson and Houston later succeeded. Burr seems very erratic in trying to solicit support from France and England while working with the virtual double agent James Wilkinson. Melton does well explaining the complex relationship between the men and does an excellent job in explaining the complexities of the unique trial and the involvement of Jefferson. However, no one can quite get a definitive handle on what Burr's ultimate plan was. What is missing from all books on Burr is a study of Burr from a psychological point of view. Burr achieved a period of political greatness in spite of losing his parents and grandparents while only a toddler and he partakes on his misadventure not too long after his wife dies and his political career is crushed. One must wonder if Burr would have gotten so involved had his wife survived. Burr; however, was kind to his friends and children after rebounding from poverty and Melton provides this interesting epilogue that makes one wonder if Burr's life might have made a better turn had his domestic situation been more solid when his political career vaporized..	2005-01-22
US	52754940	R1KI7O7ZHCLNXA	0253202884	489078778	Grant and Lee: A Study in Personality and Generalship	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Unique Unbiased View of the Generalship of Both	If you read the introduction to this book, you will understand that Fuller has set out to write a brief but direct book on the Generalship capabilities of Grant and Lee. In the introduction, Fuller notes that Henderson's classic book on Jackson is more a romantic study than one that is an objective view. He goes further to say that a full study of Jackson gives a different appreciation. A respect for his maneuvering and desire to fight but also his idiosyncrasies and secrecy that Fuller indicates would cause one to question Jackson's sanity. With that introduction, you are prepared for the author's blunt assessment of both Generals. The book is brief concentrating more on strategy than just battlefield tactics. He concentrates on the critical battles of the war and the general effect the war has as a whole not just the eastern theater. In Lee, he notes that he was not a grand strategist but one that fought with intuition. As a General, he excelled on fighting on the defensive as showed in the final campaign. However, Lee preferred fighting aggressively and his errors show at Gettysburg and Malvern Hill. In the case of Chancellorsville, Fuller notes that Lee should have used the wilderness more often as a greater asset for defensive maneuvers instead of coming out in the open into battle. That like a spider, he should have waited for opportunities to attack and withdrawal with the protection of cover. He further indicates that Lee had a poor operating staff and his administration impaired supply and clarity of orders as all were given verbally and minimally. Grant on the other hand was a former quartermaster, was well organized and had a global plan of the war hence his simultaneous operations with the western theater and his multiple prong attacks in the east. Fuller notes that at first his objective was to follow Lee and not concentrate on the Richmond. But later he changed to maneuver so that Lee had to react to him as opposed to the reverse. Grant was often accused of having little imagination but as Fuller notes, he did not have the imagination to inflate numbers that were against him (McClellan) but he was rational in knowing that the Confederates had limited manpower. Through his intuition, Lee had success against the earlier Union generals but as Fuller points out, he could not fathom Grant.<br /><br />The book is critical of both; however, as an overall commander, Grant comes across as much more able and Lee a totally different commander highly capable on the defensive but not as much a hands on commander as most would previously think. Both men are stripped bare; the author offers a unique unbiased view of the war without the human frailty of sentiment.ed of having little imagination but as Fuller notes, he did not have the imagination to inflate numbers that were against him (McClellan) but he was rational in knowing that the Confederates had limited manpower. Through his intuition, Lee had success against the earlier Union generals but as Fuller points out, he could not fathom Grant.  <br /> <br />The book is critical of both; however, as an overall commander, Grant comes across as much more able and Lee a totally different commander highly capable on the defensive but not as much a hands on commander as most would previously think. Both men are stripped bare; the author offers a unique unbiased view of the war without the human frailty of sentiment.   <br />	2005-01-20
US	52754940	R31OJ77G8X4RV7	0786714379	824855104	Jefferson's Vendetta: The Pursuit of Aaron Burr and the Judiciary	Books	5	15	19	N	N	Story of Burr, Jefferson, Marshall and a High Ranking Spy	This is a highly readable book on Jefferson and his fascinating nemesis Aaron Burr. Also included, the establishment of John Marshall and the Supreme Court and the villainous double-dealing General of the Army and mystery figure General James Wilkinson.  Burr is the Revolutionary hero, brilliant lawyer, lady's man and political genius who virtually gave the election to Jefferson by bringing in New York as a Republican state. But in the 1800 election, President and Vice President candidates were not on a single combined ballot and Jefferson and Burr, both on the republican ticket as President and vice Presidential candidates respectively, end up with the same number of votes. The legislature eventually breaks the tie after extraneous wheeling and dealing on Jefferson's part, which also starts Jefferson's determination to ruin Burr's political career. Burr, already savaged by Hamilton his former law partner and associate when both were Federalists, now is ruined by Jefferson allowing him little of the patronage due him as Vice President.  Even after the election, both Jefferson and Hamilton undermine Burr's political career. Burr's killing of Hamilton in a justified duel seals the alienation of the once meteor like political career of Burr.  Wheelan writes a fascinating account that is sympathetic toward Burr who now moves west in a historically confusing circumstance to either separate the western U.S. from the east or invade part of the Spanish held territories or he may have intended just to settle on his large property in Louisiana until an opportunity arose. With his fortunes dashed in the east, Burr associated with General of the Army James Wilkinson who was later to be revealed as a Spanish agent on Spain's payroll for decades. As the author points out, Burr had some grand scheme associated with Wilkinson perhaps to initiate a filibuster and take over Florida or Texas from the Spanish. Wilkinson is the key as the plan leaks out, he turns on Burr and his 30 associates and accuses him of treason along with Jefferson and Wilkinson may he have even tried to assassinate Burr to protect himself. The author tells details the trial as a very entertaining factual story as John Marshall the Supreme Court justice presides and the greatest lawyers of that time prosecute Burr and defend him. Supporters for Burr include Andrew Jackson while Jefferson personally supports the prosecutor. The trial reveals something of Wilkinson as a scoundrel and he is one of the most fascinating individuals detailed in the book and history. The author reveals evidence of Wilkinson's role as an agent for Spain through documentation obtained years after Jefferson's death but Jefferson strangely supports Wilkinson even though evidence of Wilkinson's complicity appears apparent. Burr comes across as a sympathetic character that may naively have gotten involved in the scheme that was not as dark as portrayed but even that extent is still confusing. A filibuster to take over foreign land was not too unusual at that time. George Rodgers Clark tried it earlier and was not banned a traitor. The Alien and Sedition Act, the rise of the Supreme Court under Marshall and Jefferson's challenge to the court are all critical and fascinating side stories.  Had Jefferson not ruined Burr, it seems unlikely Burr would he had gone west in a desperate plan. The one clear hero is Marshall who follows the letter of the constitution making the Supreme Court an equal to the other two branches of government. Jefferson's desire to limit the Supreme Court, destroy Burr and to maintain his Virginia dynasty of Madison and Monroe does seem to indicate, \\"Power corrupts\\".  A very interesting book encouraging the reader to read more on each personality.ciates and accuses him of treason along with Jefferson and Wilkinson may he have even tried to assassinate Burr to protect himself. The author tells details the trial as a very entertaining factual story as John Marshall the Supreme Court justice presides and the greatest lawyers of that time prosecute Burr and defend him. Supporters for Burr include Andrew Jackson while Jefferson personally supports the prosecutor. The trial reveals something of Wilkinson as a scoundrel and he is one of the most fascinating individuals detailed in the book and history. The author reveals evidence of Wilkinson's role as an agent for Spain through documentation obtained years after Jefferson's death but Jefferson strangely supports Wilkinson even though evidence of Wilkinson's complicity appears apparent. Burr comes across as a sympathetic character that may naively have gotten involved in the scheme that was not as dark as portrayed but even that extent is still confusing. A filibuster to take over foreign land was not too unusual at that time. George Rodgers Clark tried it earlier and was not banned a traitor. The Alien and Sedition Act, the rise of the Supreme Court under Marshall and Jefferson's challenge to the court are all critical and fascinating side stories.  Had Jefferson not ruined Burr, it seems unlikely Burr would he had gone west in a desperate plan. The one clear hero is Marshall who follows the letter of the constitution making the Supreme Court an equal to the other two branches of government. Jefferson's desire to limit the Supreme Court, destroy Burr and to maintain his Virginia dynasty of Madison and Monroe does seem to indicate, \\"Power corrupts\\".  A very interesting book encouraging the reader to read more on each personality.  <br /> <br />  <br />	2005-01-15
US	52754940	RT5FZ8LU1FIA4	0912783389	639070852	4: Abcs of Custer's Last Stand: Arrogance, Betrayal and Cowardice	Books	5	33	36	N	Y	Hard Hitting Account of the LBH: Reno and Benteen Skinned	This is a blunt straightforward account of the Little Big Horn with no holds bared. It reminds me a great deal of Graham's great work the \\"Custer Myth\\" which provided a ton or resource material from all sides of view, Indian, scout and military participants. But Unger uses more recently discovered material such as the famous Maguire (Gibbon's engineer) map that apparently was altered many times at the time of the Reno trial, new documents written by Benteen only discovered in the 1950's and many accounts of participants both Indian and military to show what happened on the day that a 1/3 of the 7th cavalry met their death. Utilizing Walter Camps extensive references, comments and map by Philo Clark the great Indian interpreter, the Reno trial transcripts, and various Indian testimonies, Unger makes one of the strongest cases that Reno and Benteen failed Custer and left his battalion to fight the Indians alone. Includes several new perspectives and questions such as Daniel Kanipe, the next to last messenger or deserter? Was Reno drunk during the battle? Did General Merritt allow the Reno trial to be a whitewash? Why did the pack train commander not know of Kanipe's mission? Why did companies<br /><br />C and I wait on the ridges behind Custer's attacking column? Were they holding for Benteen who was given the last message? Unger makers a strong case that Custer did actually attack at Medicine Trail Coulee and that it was not a feint or just a change of mind to utilize a ford further down. Unger does an impressive chronology indicating where all Custer's units were at any one time and although suggesting that Custer was on the attack when he moved north as Fox suggests, he disagrees with Fox by stating that Custer was under great pressure from the start particularly when Reno abandoned the field. Unger even speculates on whom the Officer was that Indians say was shot at Medicine Trail Coulee's ford and he provides insight into what happened to several missing Officers' bodies. Unger gives you the whole campaign perspective including Crooks abandonment of the campaign and failure to notify his superiors timely, Sheridan's failure to notify the columns of numbers of Indians leaving the reservations timely, Reno's failure to hold his position or move to Custer after Benteen's arrival, Benteen's failure go to follow Custer's orders and his deference to Reno for convenience, Reno and Benteen's claim on not hearing Custer's firing and on. No one involved with the debacle is left out that may have had a contributing part. Unger even covers the details of cavalry organization, unit size, missing officers and who the survivors were and he speculates why and how they were not with Custer. The chapters on each subject are short, very direct and loaded with evidence and testimony. The book also has a large number of photocopied exhibits from a variety of sources. My only question is that Unger credits Reno's battalion with firing a lot of ammunition but some eyewitnesses indicated that Reno's battalion took few shells when the packs arrived. Also, the Nathan Short story of the escaping trooper has not had much recent support. The only negative is that I wish I could have read the maps a bit better as they are reprinted with no additional detail and its hard to find some of the lettering that references the fords<br /><br />This book is a delight to read, full of information and points of view (even challenges Fox and Scotts' archeology digs). Any LBH historian will enjoy this book since all the primary participants are highlighted and detailed probably better than any other LBH book.dies. Unger gives you the whole campaign perspective including Crooks abandonment of the campaign and failure to notify his superiors timely, Sheridan's failure to notify the columns of numbers of Indians leaving the reservations timely, Reno's failure to hold his position or move to Custer after Benteen's arrival, Benteen's failure go to follow Custer's orders and his deference to Reno for convenience, Reno and Benteen's claim on not hearing Custer's firing and on. No one involved with the debacle is left out that may have had a contributing part. Unger even covers the details of cavalry organization, unit size, missing officers and who the survivors were and he speculates why and how they were not with Custer. The chapters on each subject are short, very direct and loaded with evidence and testimony. The book also has a large number of photocopied exhibits from a variety of sources. My only question is that Unger credits Reno's battalion with firing a lot of ammunition but some eyewitnesses indicated that Reno's battalion took few shells when the packs arrived. Also, the Nathan Short story of the escaping trooper has not had much recent support. The only negative is that I wish I could have read the maps a bit better as they are reprinted with no additional detail and its hard to find some of the lettering that references the fords <br /> <br />This book is a delight to read, full of information and points of view (even challenges Fox and Scotts' archeology digs). Any LBH historian will enjoy this book since all the primary participants are highlighted and detailed probably better than any other LBH book.   <br />         <br />	2005-01-03
US	52754940	R1PSAIERG37RN6	0809030411	6678433	William Clark and the Shaping of the West	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Bio beyond Lewis and Clark:  Clark and the Indians	This book is much more than one would expect for the biography of William Clark of Lewis and Clark fame. William Clark, after his great journey, is the center of all the major dealings with the Indians along the Mississippi and the western interior. Clark, as Indian Superintendent of the Louisiana territory, is involved with all the major warfare and peace out breaks between the Indians and whites for 30 years. He executes the majority of the treaties after his return in 1807 until the end of his career in the late 1830s. He personally meets and deals with every maybe chief from the friendly Osages to the less friendly Sauxs, Sioux, Rees, Blackfoot and many others along with the tragic removal of the five civilized tribes that Jackson evicted from the east of the Mississippi to the ever crowding of Indian tribes in the west.<br /><br />The first part of the book is virtually a biography of the famous brother George Rogers Clark who is not only a revolutionary war hero for his military feats against the British and their Indian allies but also an explorer and leader of western migration. William follows his brother's footsteps in Indian campaigns some of which are actually more disastrous than Custer's Little Big Horn. Rogers's serves directly or indirectly with a number of famous individuals such as \\"Mad\\" Anthony Wayne and the infamous General Wilkinson who intrigued with foreign powers about the future of the West. Clark also works closely with the founding fathers of St. Louis and perennial traders, the Chouteau family. Clark's dabbling in trade in the early years seems to have bent the ethics line as many other officials did.<br /><br />The author provides a short but thorough history of the Lewis and Clark exploration that demonstrates that Clark was the experienced outdoorsman and leader of the men. He also had a calm steadying influence on Lewis' sometimes-mercurial temperament. Although both returned to St Louis in official capacities, Lewis seems to collapse under the weight of political pressures and Clark's marriage that seemed to cause a natural physical separation but not of friendship.<br /><br />The author literally demonstrates that Clark was an excellent diplomat with Indian chiefs who respected his dealings from strength. The unfortunate aspect is that Clark executed treaties that continually shrank Indian lands on behalf of his government. Aside from steadying Lewis, Clark also supported his brother whose alcoholism literally bankrupted him. Clark is a great witness to all the Indian affairs and even replaces Lewis as Governor for quite sometime. Towards the end of the book, the author is critical of the Virginia born Clark's dealings with slavery, which may not be completely fair since he like Jefferson may have been reflected their times and environment. However, it is disappointing that Clark rids himself of his slave York who was his youth playmate and who accompanied him during the Lewis and Clark expedition. But the biography of Clark is, at its best, a first hand look at the Indians' of the Louisiana Purchase whose treatment mirrors the future of the Plains Indians in the second half of the century.ght of political pressures and Clark's marriage that seemed to cause a natural physical separation but not of friendship.    The author literally demonstrates that Clark was an excellent diplomat with Indian chiefs who respected his dealings from strength. The unfortunate aspect is that Clark executed treaties that continually shrank Indian lands on behalf of his government. Aside from steadying Lewis, Clark also supported his brother whose alcoholism literally bankrupted him. Clark is a great witness to all the Indian affairs and even replaces Lewis as Governor for quite sometime. Towards the end of the book, the author is critical of the Virginia born Clark's dealings with slavery, which may not be completely fair since he like Jefferson may have been reflected their times and environment. However, it is disappointing that Clark rids himself of his slave York who was his youth playmate and who accompanied him during the Lewis and Clark expedition. But the biography of Clark is, at its best, a first hand look at the Indians' of the Louisiana Purchase whose treatment mirrors the future of the Plains Indians in the second half of the century.	2004-12-19
US	52754940	R3CLD1M5AP6RYN	0374252874	48810266	Running on Empty: How the Democratic and Republican Parties Are Bankrupting Our Future and What Americans Can Do About It	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Articulate Bleak View of the US's  Future Financial Peril	Very up to date book on the seriousness of not only the US debt but the immense long term financial obligations the US will face in the future for programs such as Social Security and Medicare. The author goes beyond the recent tax cuts and discuss the aging US population of boomers who will be dependent on programs that will spiral in cost with fewer workers to pay for them complicated by longer life spans. As the author discusses, politicians will not address these fast approaching crises typically for fear of losing elections and fail to face reality that will jeopardize the US financial solvency by 2030 or sooner. Plus Americans do not save enough on their own. The author makes recommendations that will require tough decisions such as pay now and do with less to prevent bankruptcy tomorrow. I won't mention which President with whom the author discusses the plight of the US future financial crisis, but this president agrees with the author's bleak outlook wholeheartedly then proceeds to have a press conference where he paints a rosy and false picture. You'll have to read the book to find out whom.	2004-11-14
US	52754940	R2L9RRT5FSGWNP	0966862309	797506852	How Cars Work	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	If you want an elementary book on how cars work: This is it	For a non-mechanic, this book gives the simplest guide to understanding how cars work with excellent illustrations. The book is broken down into short sections giving you a very basic understanding of the engine to the electrical to all parts of a car. The book covers it all.  The language is very simple as it breaks down the various car parts into understandable terminology and by the end if you didn't know what \\"twin cams\\" mean, you will now. You won't be able to rebuild a car after but that's not the purpose. For a mechanic it may seem like a comic book but for the uninformed its very enlightening.	2004-11-14
US	52754940	R1ZJ344HY5NQM2	1401902413	905427441	How to Ruin Your Financial Life	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	A Book Needed in High School as a Must Read	Considering the impending doom of the American financial situation in years to come, all High School students need to read this book to understand simple economics. One of the biggest complaints about Americans economically is that they don't save. Well Stein's virtually sarcastic way of telling you excactly how to ruin your life financially is amusing and direct such as \\"don't worry about maxing out your credit cards, you can always get another one and no one will foreclose because people really like you\\". Written in a way that teenagers will get the message and the humor, direct, short and sweet. This book is within a teenagers attention span, the smart ones will get the message in a few short chapters.	2004-11-14
US	52754940	R1C7TJP3HE5CSP	0374110050	718672132	Before Lewis and Clark: The Story of the Chouteaus, the French Dynasty That Ruled America's Frontier	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Chouteau Dynasty  that  Established St. Louis Before L & C	When I originally read this book, I thought it was primarily dedicated to the exploration of the Louisiana territory before Lewis and Clark, but the book is really about the dynasty of the Chouteau family of French traders and town founders of St. Louis who not only came before Lewis and Clark by about 40 years but remained to develop the territory, town and engage in the fur business west of the Mississippi along with trading north up the Missouri.  It as quite astonishing to read that when Lewis and Clark reached St. Louis to start their trek in 1803 that the accommodating Chouteaus, along with other French settlers and perhaps Spanish, had settled a town of 200 or more houses with the Chouteaus owning fairly upscale homes along with significant land grants that pre-dated the Americans. The Chouteaus were enterprising merchants that had significant contacts with local Indian tribes such as the Osages and other tribes in the surrounding areas North such as the Arikaras.  Not only did the Chouteaus know the territory and trade as far west as Spanish held Santa Fe their family stayed in St. Louis and interacted with Governor Lewis of Louisiana until his death and had a lifelong friendship with Indian agent William Clark. The Chouteaus relationships with local tribes was key to having reasonaly good relations with whites and Indians. What is amazing about this book is the amount of documentation and letters that survived from over 200 years ago. The family has a long history after Lewis and Clark's adventure with sons graduating from West Point and their presence in local politics and involvement with St. Louis and the territory goes well into the 19th century. This book has a great amount of detail about a family that developed the interior of America.	2004-11-02
US	52754940	R2C2MYQJ46SY8M	1401903339	571433037	Can America Survive? The Rage of the Left, the Truth, and What to Do About It	Books	4	10	18	N	N	Cheeky Defense of Conservatism	Whether you like the book or not will probably depend on your political orientation. This pretty aggressive defense of the conservative point of view hammers the liberal point hard. Unfortunately whether you read Al Franken's book or Stein's, they both make aggressive arguments towards their own political direction. Stein though is a pretty bright fellow and he does make some convincing arguments. The best part of the book is where Stein takes direct quotes from Democrats, liberal personalities and the media, which laying naked look pretty startling, and he then provides argument against that point of view. The weak part to me is some of the psychoanalysis towards the end of the book. Interesting points, the Kyoto treaty restricts the west but not the east, so why would the U.S. sign it? And why are so many Hollywood stars liberal when they earn huge sums of money and fly in their own individual jets burning up substantial fossil fuel? His point is that primarily we are not a bad country (broadly states that liberals think otherwise) and we should maintain our conservative values to keep it that way. Have a good end of summer and read Stein with Al Franken's \\"Liars\\" book.  Ben is a little cheeky too so the both can add balance to your point of view while being entertaining.	2004-09-12
US	52754940	R2HZFZKMFWINX1	0805068848	593111837	A Peace to End All Peace: The Fall of the Ottoman Empire and the Creation of the Modern Middle East	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Detailed Book on How the Midle East Became What it is Today	The origin's of the Middle East's hostility to the west is often referenced back to the fall of the Ottoman Empire and World War I, this book by Fromkin provides all the details and give you a total appreciation for the global political situation involving all the countries at war and their alliances that crave and carve up the Middle East, creating the countries of Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Syria, Jordan and Palestine (Now Israel). England is the major architect of the post WWI changes in the Middle East and the book is dominated by the Prime Ministers of England notably Lloyd George at the latter end of the war and by Churchill who later tries to reduce England's tremendous military responsibilities that are put to great strains by the end of the war. Of course Turkey is the other great center piece of the book and their own political changes starting with the Young Turks and their virtual eclipse of the Sultan who ruled the empire and the emergence of the military strongman Kemal who after the war is lost, rallies his countrymen against victors who try to claim the spoils of victory notably the British and Greeks. Within all this is the roles of France, who want Lebanon but Syria, Germany', and their alliance with Turkey and later Russia, and Russia whose quitting of the war starts an imbalance between the pre-war alliances. The Bolsheviks accession to power also does not negate Russia's continuous desire to expand and actually becomes more of a challenge as they have a secret treaty of support for Germany and expand into weakened countries on their border. In the midst of these activities is England's leading role in taking over responsibilities for countries in the Middle East by supporting kings such as the Hussiens and the Sauds to hopefully become client states or members of the Commonwealth. Also, incorporated in these complexities is the Balfour Declaration that provides a homeland for Zionist Jews. There are notable splits between Jews in Palestine (Israel) that initially support Turkey and then those that support the Western Alliance such as the Jewish legion. Later, after the war, two of the Jewish leaders in Israel split over what the borders of Israel should be and today that is still in dispute from the seeds of this split over 80 years ago.  Other that is complicating these issues are George's under the table manipulation to have greater control at the expense of his allies notably France, his failed support of Greece against Turkey and the desire of the Arab countries to become independent and England's failed attempt to manipulate Muslim leaders for political purposes. Every major character in the Middle East is covered in the book from Lawrence of Arabia to the leaders of the Arab countries, France, Turkey, Russia, Germany, Italy and England in great detail. From reading this book you can see how the victor attempted to carve up the world around them that has its parallel in the aftermath of WWII. And of course oil is already an economic and political entity almost 100 years ago. The only thing I would add to this book is a glossary for all the major characters as a reference for this readable book of 567 pages. After reading this book, you will have a greater understanding of how the Middle East resents the west and any occupation no matter temporary as well as the fact that to conquer a country does not mean its easy to occupy.t initially support Turkey and then those that support the Western Alliance such as the Jewish legion. Later, after the war, two of the Jewish leaders in Israel split over what the borders of Israel should be and today that is still in dispute from the seeds of this split over 80 years ago.  Other that is complicating these issues are George's under the table manipulation to have greater control at the expense of his allies notably France, his failed support of Greece against Turkey and the desire of the Arab countries to become independent and England's failed attempt to manipulate Muslim leaders for political purposes. Every major character in the Middle East is covered in the book from Lawrence of Arabia to the leaders of the Arab countries, France, Turkey, Russia, Germany, Italy and England in great detail. From reading this book you can see how the victor attempted to carve up the world around them that has its parallel in the aftermath of WWII. And of course oil is already an economic and political entity almost 100 years ago. The only thing I would add to this book is a glossary for all the major characters as a reference for this readable book of 567 pages. After reading this book, you will have a greater understanding of how the Middle East resents the west and any occupation no matter temporary as well as the fact that to conquer a country does not mean its easy to occupy. <br /> <br /> <br />    <br />	2004-08-08
US	52754940	R1WWRAFPNAAJB4	0684859793	531000691	Lee's Lieutenants: A Study in Command	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Great Analytical Detail and Story Telling of Lee his Lts.	Very well written book that is really three volumes that looks at Lee's command of his Army of Northern VA. from the perspective of his leadership and the relationship and performance of his key generals. There is newer information on many of the individuals in this classic such as Magruder, Longstreet, Gordon and Hill but Freeman does one of the best blow-by-blow accounts of the battles then anyone. When I first read the book I was very impressed with the detail even about the Battle of Williamsburg and I clearly recall Freeman's description of Jubal Early getting shot down when trying to take redoubts not knowing that Hancock had already arrived on his left. He provides a fascinating  analysis of each key officer at the beginning of each volume. The only weakness is that Freeman was a huge admirer of Lee and he accepts Jubal Early's post war philosophy that Lee did not fail but was failed by others. Note that in each volume, the character description of Longstreet grows dark as Freeman starts to write about Gettysburg. Stonewall has less luster in the book as well but in spite of that, the volumes are quite fascinating.	2004-07-30
US	52754940	R1U7DBSTT6UGBM	0679642811	448968193	The Crisis of Islam: Holy War and Unholy Terror	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The Best Small Book on the History of Middles East Conflict	This a a very readable and concise book on the history of the middle east right up to the present. Lewis does an excellent job providing a brief history of the Muslim religion along with the conflicts with western Europe and later the United States. The main turning point with the west is the end of WWI and the fall of the Ottoman Empire and the beginning of Europeon colonization of the Arab lands. Lewis also points out how the Muslim religion is more cohesive among its people with its people less concerned about nationalism. It was interesting to note that many Arabs sympathized with the Germans with WWII because they pushed the French and English out. Lewis also covers the growth of the conservative Muslim movement that is violently opposed to western culture and he explains the role of religious leadrship . In fact, Lewis theorizes that Bin Laden may think of himself as a new religous leader of the Muslim world. This is not a deep book on the Muslim religion but it does motivate the reader to read more about their religion and culture to have a better understanding of their beliefs and its clash with western culture. A superiot primer on the Middle East.	2004-06-27
US	52754940	R19MSK82ZTX6W0	1400061849	714772964	Father Joe: The Man Who Saved My Soul	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Touching &amp; Humorous Story of a Man Inspired by a Kind Monk	Fascinating and heartfelt true story of how the former editor of National Lampoon was taken to a monastery on the Isle of Wright at the age of 14 to serve penance for having an affair with married woman only to be surprised by a monk named Father Joe who befriends him instead of punishing him. Instead of heaping guilt on the young man he objectively interprets the affair as being much a problem between wife and husband with Hendra an indirect victim. From his support and sincere affection, Father Joe provides young Hendra a father figure and a sanctuary so strong that Hendra has a desire to partake in the life of a monk. The story is told with humor as one would expect from Hendra but also evolves into a more serious nature as Hendra goes to Cambridge discovers Monty Python style satire and Dudley Moore that inspire a penchant for humor that provides success. However, with maturity, personal doubt and damage to his first marriage Hendra falls on personal hard times and while keeping contact with Father Joe he periodically returns to the Isle of Wright for the inspiration and affection of Father Joe. Hendra has a good turn and he credits Father Joe who seems incapable of judging but is a supportive priest, a religious leader that many would love to know. Hendra inspires humor throughout the book as one would expect but this is a serious book, which you well appreciate by the epilogue. My favorite humor part, and there are many, is the way Hendra proposed on a freeway to his current and second wife, true, bizarre and funny. A book that makes a busy family man reflects on life and to consider making time for the family while having time to laugh.	2004-06-09
US	52754940	R55KE4I3GLZTM	0618391126	941261274	The Perfect Mile: Three Athletes, One Goal, and Less Than Four Minutes to Achieve It	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Great Race for the Four: Story of Three Great Men	Terrific story of three great men from different continents who are more than just athletes but are men with academic responsibilities that come first but they found time to train under unique circumstances while trying to break the four minute mile barrier on cinder tracks. Banister is well know as the 1952 Olympian who is racing against his own personal time knowing his completion of medical school will end his career soon as he tries to break the barrier before anyone else. John Landy is the modest Australian somewhat isolated who trains virtually at when he can and he has a break through after leaving Cerutty's unique Stoatan training program that may have given him the necessary base to perform at a high level. Wes Santee is the Kansas miler whose coach puts the team above individualism that seems to cost Santee the opportunity to run fresh against major competition. All three come to a head in 1954, as it is virtually a race of opportunity since either of the three appears to be able to break it. Bannister literally streaks ahead with his training partners in a controversial but legitimate first sub four-minute mile. Landy roars back weeks later with an amazing front led 3:57. The second climax of the book is the great show down between the two sub fours at the Vancouver games. Santee cannot be there due to his commitment to the Marines. Landy runs in spite of an injury, keeps it secret but runs another sub four after leading virtually from the start but is cut down by Bannister at the end. Terrific book about three great men that you have to admire and you feel for Santee who has limited individual opportunities and is handcuffed by the rigid AAU officials who also limit his opportunities seemingly in pay back for his free spirit. Wonderful book that will charge up any former or current track athlete particularly when you think how just rain could ruin any attempt by making ruts and lakes in the cinder track and even after rolling off the water and repaving the track, the dampness would remain making the track heavy to run on. The author also fills you in on what else was going on in the 50's and punctuates the book with quotes from classical writers such as Lewis Carroll that have some metaphorical relationship to the chase for the record. The racing passages are so exciting, you can literally feel the lactic acid building up in your legs while reading of their attempts to run those last 200 yards in those gallant attempts at the record.he track, the dampness would remain making the track heavy to run on. The author also fills you in on what else was going on in the 50's and punctuates the book with quotes from classical writers such as Lewis Carroll that have some metaphorical relationship to the chase for the record. The racing passages are so exciting, you can literally feel the lactic acid building up in your legs while reading of their attempts to run those last 200 yards in those gallant attempts at the record.	2004-05-30
US	52754940	R2239NR9PNC3MP	0807120790	538965260	Jefferson Davis: The Man and His Hour	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Best Book on Jefferson Davis: A Much Challenged Man	WC Davis writes a thorough bio on one of the most unique icons in our history. Jeff Davis is shown from his youth, painful first marriage, through his political and military rise, to the senate and to the Chief Executive position in the Confederacy. WC's bio helps explain why Davis was so unwilling to give up to the point of unrealistic dreams during the final month of the war particularly when Lee's army collapsed. WC notes the sad loss of Jeff Davis' first wife that left him a social cripple for several years to his slow rebirth. His success in the Mexican war seemed to lead him to conclude that he was a superior military man and his role as the Secretary of Defense perhaps encouraged his perspective. More a man of criticism than bright ideas in the senate, he seemed to hold his perception of honor above all else. WC does a great job describing Jeff's relations with his generals particularly Lee who seems to placate Davis' need for detail unlike Johnson and Beauregard. At the end, Jeff Davis seems to hold the Confederacy by himself and his only last political hurrah may have been allowing Alexander Stephens to make his futile effort at peace in March 65. In the end, WC notes that Jeff Davis seems to rebound with the southern public aided by his cruel treatment at Fort Monroe by his captors; however, his two-volume book seems a disaster of disorganization. One has to respect Davis for holding the Confederacy together in spite of his true desire to be a general and particularly because of his ill health and fractured political support.  The book answers the question of how Davis could ever imagine that the Confederacy could survive as he was riding with a small protective band through Georgia in his last hours acting more like a fugitive than the President of a country that could still rally.	2004-05-21
US	52754940	R8MQG7X8HJL2T	0738501131	805628158	The Battle of the Ironclads   (VA)  (Civil War History Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Author Not only Knows the Ships but the Battle Site Too	Quarstein grew up virtually amidst the river battlefield of the Monitor and Merrimack. He lived at Fort Monroe at the mouth of the James and he is the director of the Virginia War Museum in Newport News a mere 1 mile from the Merrimacks attack of the US Congress and Cumberland. Great description of the huge Merrimack (CSA Virginia)with its large crew, bickering builders, balky engines and a slow moving and hard to turn ship. Ouarstein outlines the ships strengths and weaknesses including its unplated water line. The Monitor is described as quicker and more efficient with its turrent but it has its own weakness to shot. Both ships are not very sea worthy with the Merrimack unable to run in modestly deep water. Quarstein also gives you the total theater of war as the Merrimack slows McClellan and interferes with his use of the James. Although they never again meet in combat after their intial engagement, Quarstein describes a month long stalking of the two as Merrimack guards Norfolk and the entrance to the James while the Monitor stays in the bay waiting to lure the Merrimack out to the heavy guns of the forts and ships. Well told with quality pictures and maps. Fascinating failure of the CSA army to support the Merrimack leaving it to total destruction when it could have been saved.	2004-05-18
US	52754940	RB4ZZQMJ5L46M	1577470060	499137351	Grant and Lee: The Virginia Campaigns, 1864-1865	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great for Looking At the Overland campaign: Then and Now	This is my favorite book of the author's because he takes you across the landscape of the great Lee and Grant campaign of 1864 right up to the Petersburg siege. Here you see the less famous pictures of the long and ferocious campaign that decided the war. The author/photographer shows you pictures of river crossings, earth works, battlefields, albatis, historically significant homes and he often finds the exact locations in present time where he gives you a present day photo on the scene where the initial picture was originally shot. These reflective pictures give the historian the knowledge and ability to stand where that point of history was made. Excellent for those that follows the Civil War trails and who like to stand in those historic places. Also includes many pictures of Officers and staff that are famous and in some cases obscure. The healthy size book has a sprightly narrative that ties the pictures and events together to give the reader a quick reference to all the pictures as the campaign unfolds. Frassanito's work on Gettysburg is famous because he finds the exact location of historical pictures taken just days after the battle and corrects their location on the field through photographic research.  This book steps into a less famous campaign compared to Gettysburg but it is a jewel as it covers the many months of campaigning creating a great visual appreciation of it making it a great guide to the decisive Lee and Grant campaign.	2004-05-03
US	52754940	R2SWE0DCALRFQB	0688137989	2408087	The Frontiersman: The Real Life and the Many Legends of Davy Crockett	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Beyond Disney: The True Story of Davey Crockett	Derr does an insightful and entertaining job of providing and up to date and reflective history of Davey Crockett. Crockett is a man of simple means, follower of Jackson who remarries to a better station and he is known for his outdoorsman accomplishments along with his wry wit and sometimes-contrary views. Aside from his frontier accomplishments that may well have been embellished by his gift of story telling and sense of humor, Crockett favors the Indians while in congress and opposes Jackson's relocation of the Indians and other bills that do not favor his constituents. Crockett is a fascinating frontiersman/politician and Derr brings the interesting man to earth as he corrects historical exaggeration, which is sometimes Crockett's own as he sometimes lengthens and overstates his service in the Creek War and the war of 1812 and some of his frontier stories. Particularly interesting is that among the frontier of Tennessee; Crocket was a shrewd owner of properties and investment property. However, the man that lost his local election at the height of his national fame and exclaimed, &quot;You can go to hell, and I'll go to Texas!&quot; is a fascinating historic figure of the frontier and of the 1800 era politics. Derr even updates Crockett's death at the Alamo where in reality; he was one of six captured but Santa Anna that was brutally put to the sword. This book is a good read on a fascinating man enhanced to a greater legend first by a ghostwriter than by Disney.	2004-04-25
US	52754940	R3DSHMKJ31QN4J	0807122866	835439889	Lee and His Generals in War and Memory	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great Detail on Lee, worthy of Douglas Freeman	Excellent book on Lee and his generals. Covers Lee's unique hands off style and his relationships with his senior staff with mini biographies. The best part of the book is how Lee deals with adversity particularly after Longstreet is shot down in the Wilderness, Ewell is relieved at Spotsylvania and Hill becomes bed ridden. Lee has to rise above it all and pick interim successors in a time of crisis with Grant bearing down. Lee has to make crucial personal decisions with limited experienced staff and take a greater role. One of Gallagher's best books.	2004-04-18
US	52754940	RW0SIK5BXW0LS	0679724141	821994534	A Bright Shining Lie: John Paul Vann and America in Vietnam	Books	5	4	5	N	N	History of the War and Vann: Both Inseperable, Unique Story	This is a tremendous and unique book in perspective, detail and size. The book is both an in-depth insight of Vietnam from the pre-WWII period and a bio on the Civilian General Vann who dies in 1972 in a helicopter crash. The author tells the story of Vietnam from Vann's critical bench seat. The author was one of many famous reporters who spent a lot of time in Vietnam such as David Halberstam and Morley Safer. The book starts with Vann's funeral in Washington that includes the highest level of Nixon's defense team along with friends of Vann disillusioned with the war such as the \\"Pentagon Papers\\" leak Daniel Ellsberg. Vann is a career Lt. Colonel who retires after serving in Vietnam on a tour as a battlefield advisor in the early 60's. He loved to command combat dangerously from the sky in helicopters to observe the fighting personally and command units directly from the front. Notable for his Korean War exploits, he suddenly resigns seemingly in protest as the military brass creates an illusionary picture of how the South Vietnamese are winning the war. In reality, the South's political generals are for the main part political hacks and corrupt with the regime fearful of going far from their bases giving the initiative to the VC. The title of the book reflects what Vann refers to as the COs in Vietnam's &quot;Bright and Shinning Lies&quot;. But Vann's true reason for resignation is not just to protest as assumed by many in the media but it is also a bright and shinning lie as reporters find out years later that Vann resigned due to significant personal issues that may have affected his career. The in depth bio of his youth is told in detail as Vann came from a broken in home in Norfolk, VA. where his mother made herself the priority to the determent of her children. Vann literally is a heroic American story of a man who comes from nothing to a most respected leader in Vietnam. He returns to Vietnam as a District leader in a Civilian capacity as part of a pacification program. By the last two years of his life he is actually a civilian general equal to two stars commanding both American and South Vietnam forces. He emerges from Westmoreland's failed battle attrition strategy to the more successful community based programs of the population intermingled with a reasonable military presence that recruits the community and stops indiscriminate bombing. Toward the end he is virtually the victim of his own success by taking too many risks and his untimely death in 1972 appears to be the final loss and noted faiure of the ARVN units that determines America's abrupt exit from the war. Vann is a unique character that knows and touches every major character in Vietnam from General Harker in 1962 to serving with the disillusioned Daniel Ellsberg. Vann's total dedication to Vietnam was a determent to his American family with an already struggling marriage with numerous personal relations in Vietnam that equal his unique energy' and personal high risk in the field. This is a big book of 800 readable pages. The only thing lacking is more maps and a quick reference page for all the acronyms and character names particularly the Vietnamese that are so prominent in the book. My neighbor that served two tours in Vietnam in the 1st Air Cavalry highly recommended this book.ion program. By the last two years of his life he is actually a civilian general equal to two stars commanding both American and South Vietnam forces. He emerges from Westmoreland's failed battle attrition strategy to the more successful community based programs of the population intermingled with a reasonable military presence that recruits the community and stops indiscriminate bombing. Toward the end he is virtually the victim of his own success by taking too many risks and his untimely death in 1972 appears to be the final loss and noted faiure of the ARVN units that determines America's abrupt exit from the war. Vann is a unique character that knows and touches every major character in Vietnam from General Harker in 1962 to serving with the disillusioned Daniel Ellsberg. Vann's total dedication to Vietnam was a determent to his American family with an already struggling marriage with numerous personal relations in Vietnam that equal his unique energy' and personal high risk in the field. This is a big book of 800 readable pages. The only thing lacking is more maps and a quick reference page for all the acronyms and character names particularly the Vietnamese that are so prominent in the book. My neighbor that served two tours in Vietnam in the 1st Air Cavalry highly recommended this book.	2004-04-18
US	52754940	R3D2FOT1HQQACG	0807845876	5632074	Lee Considered: General Robert E. Lee and Civil War History (Civil War America)	Books	5	11	20	N	N	A Hard Reflective Look at Lee, Challenging the Lost Cause	This is a tough book to take if you are a southerner and particularly if you have great respect for the Generalship of Robert E. Lee. However, if you are up to the challenge, Nolan offers some interesting insight to his views on the south's most aggressive fighter. Nolan's book falls in line with Thomas Connelly's \\"Marble Man\\" in that he takes a revisionist look at Lee and the history of the Civil War. In his text, Nolan challenges the Douglas Freeman view of Lee offering that the south could have been much more successful if the south had effectively utilized its resources preserving their limited manpower. Nolan's is very critical of Lee's offensive measures and he feels that Lee was more effective on the defensive, taking far less losses. He offers an interesting view of Lee at Chancellorsville, particularly the second day where Lee takes most of his losses. Nolan attempts to breakout of myths and present what \\"he feels\\" is a factual perception of Lee. The book is challenging in that respect. What Nolan may have found difficult to measure is the positive psychological effect Lee's victories had on the south such as turning McClellan back outside Richmond when he was at the literally door step. Still all in all, a good book to read offering challenges that one can debate. You have to give Nolan credit; he gave a lecture in Norfolk, VA. shortly after the book was published and politely withstood the onslaught of questions defending his position and he was not entrenched.	2004-02-28
US	52754940	R32WPE2HJMD3BV	0700608915	966523697	The Contested Plains: Indians, Goldseekers, and the Rush to Colorado	Books	5	6	7	N	N	How he Plains Indians were Wiped out by Developers	This is a very unique book about settlers and the plains Indians because the author gives a detailed introductory history on each as it coincides with the discovery of gold, the mass migration of miners and settlers that went west and the effects it had on the nomadic Indian's way of life. Lots of minute detail that is not exactly for a quick read but the author makes great points that the Indians existed in America thousands of years before Moses and that their life as nomads accelerated when Cortez introduced the horse to the plains Indians. The author also demonstrates that the various tribes of Cheyenne, Kiowa, Arapahoe, Comanche, Apache and others were already straining the resources of the plains, which are dramatically effected by the mass migration of whites. Even the buffalo moved further east from the front range of the Rockies where tribal rivalries gave the over hunted beasts a sanctuary in no mans land. In addition, the development of Denver through the discovery of gold is actually quite interesting as the mountain men and those married to Indian women had initial influence that promptly disappears as Denver flourishes once a higher class society emerges. The initial boosters are eventually disregarded as well as the tribal influences through family relations.  Finally, the author puts it altogether noting that whites took the various oases on the plains where water, grass and trees were plentiful, removing the primary sources of comfortable survival for the Indians. What happens to the Indians has some familiarity to what is happening in rural America where developers (ranchers, the army, farmers and miners in this case) flatten large tracts of land changing not only the landscape but also the community itself but of course with more dire effects to the Indian way of life. By taking the natives' areas of shelter and food, they are eventually hard pressed to survive culminating in occasional armed conflict particularly by the dog soldiers. There was a misunderstanding or lack of appreciation by settlers that just because Indians did not occupy water and treed sites at the present, it did not mean it was not used. The Indians used many of these more productive areas as seasonal shelters for their nomadic use, which begin to be occupied exclusively by whites. In the end, resistance by some dog soldiers fuels the totally avoidable massacre at Sand Creek where peaceful Cheyenne were instructed to camp. The massacre was even a greater tragedy since responsible individuals knew and informed Chivington that village camp was peaceful with several notable whites staying with their relatives by means of marriage. As the author points out, the massacre may also have been a violent repudiation of the intermingling of the races. Sometimes there is too much detail (in the introduction that author states that his friends complain that he cannot write about a stop sign unless he gives an in-depth history of the intersection) but the final 60 pages converge into understanding how the Indians were pushed out of their prime hunting areas and areas of respite resulting in short termed and sporadic welfare. As the author points out, the attraction of gold in Denver causes the vacuum of the plains to be filled changing the life of the Indians in virtually a short period.misunderstanding or lack of appreciation by settlers that just because Indians did not occupy water and treed sites at the present, it did not mean it was not used. The Indians used many of these more productive areas as seasonal shelters for their nomadic use, which begin to be occupied exclusively by whites. In the end, resistance by some dog soldiers fuels the totally avoidable massacre at Sand Creek where peaceful Cheyenne were instructed to camp. The massacre was even a greater tragedy since responsible individuals knew and informed Chivington that village camp was peaceful with several notable whites staying with their relatives by means of marriage. As the author points out, the massacre may also have been a violent repudiation of the intermingling of the races. Sometimes there is too much detail (in the introduction that author states that his friends complain that he cannot write about a stop sign unless he gives an in-depth history of the intersection) but the final 60 pages converge into understanding how the Indians were pushed out of their prime hunting areas and areas of respite resulting in short termed and sporadic welfare. As the author points out, the attraction of gold in Denver causes the vacuum of the plains to be filled changing the life of the Indians in virtually a short period.	2004-02-16
US	52754940	R3EWZ77EMORZJ6	0764552996	909457547	Judaism For Dummies	Books	5	40	42	N	N	An Excellent Guide for Goys	Very detailed and fun guide to Judaism. A wonderful book particularly for the non-Jew, Goyim, and possibly as a basic teaching guide for Jews who are less studious with their faith. Captures everything from who Jews are to their origins and discusses different types of worship from conservative to orthdox to the Hasidism. The book not only covers the basic beliefs but also a modest history along with chapters on the specific holidays with straight forward explanations. Even includes a glossary of frequently used Jewish words, frequently asked questions, reference information and detail on the types of cultural food with recipes. Strong points are not only the description of the beliefs but the break down of the meanings of the holidays with guides on how to act, what to expect and what to bring. This book provides  a very pleasant and positive look at  the faith, capturing the celebration of life along with soulful reflection. The only criticism, which is mild, is that I wish the book had a broader glossary for quick reference utilizng more terms with small bios of the critical people involved.	2004-02-01
US	52754940	R3B3W5BJK0WSUU	0816010552	456665489	Who Was Who in the Civil War	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Great Reference Book: From Jesse James to Mudwall Jackson	Provides short but helpful biographies of all the major Generals, politicians and characters in the Civil War. Gives a<br />complete summary bio on the commands or political career of each person such as all their commands, rank and terms of service. It then gives a readable descriptive of the highlights of the individuals career. From notables such as Jackson, Lee, Longstreet, Johnston, Beauregard Sheridan, Meade, to lesser knows who were reassigned such as Bragg, Pemberton, D. H. Hill, Rosecrans, Burnside (you can see where they were shuttled to) to infamous characters such as Bloody Bill Anderson, Jesse James etc. Even makes reference to a relative of Stonwall Jackson's referred to as &quot;Mudwall&quot; Jackson. Although surprisingly austere in the reasons why this Jackson was named Mudwall in the book, the derisive verse &quot;there he stands like a mudwall&quot; not mentioned here pretty much outlines that this Jackson was known to give way. Still, the book captures virtually all who made a difference. One great example is Confederate Imboden who wrote many historic articles on the CW but his record at the end of the war indicates that his competence was severely questioned based on his loss of command and minor reassignment. Casts some doubt on his fortutious witnessing of events.	2004-02-01
US	52754940	R1RK5EOGJ1I6D8	0938289969	35664821	James Longstreet: The Man, The Soldier, The Controversy	Books	5	17	18	N	N	A Collection of Essays that High Light Longstreet	This book is a collection of essays much like Gary Gallagher does for his Civil war battle series. The book starts with an explanation of how Longstreet became the scapegoat for the south engineered by the post war attacks of former VA. officers some of which were not held in high esteem during the war. Suffering from this malignment, Longstreet's place in history has not been very kind or in some cases accurate. The authors cover Longstreet's career describing him as a modern general in thinking strategicaly about inside lines of communication utilizing railroads and concentrating forces against a stronger foe. Essays include Longstreet at not only Gettysburg but Chickamauga, the latter being the last great southern victory. Wert covers the controversial aspects of Longstreet's role at Gettysburg and puts the bed any thoughts of the infamous but false allegation of a &quot;sunrise attack order&quot;. A fascinating essay is DiNardos comparison of the staffs of Longstreet's and Jackson's where Longstreet's staff come off as more professional with many receiving independent commands. Piston covers Longstreet in the antebellum prewar army where favoritism and connections were ripe and in the final essay covers Longstreet place in Southern History where he was succesfully vilified by Jubal Early.	2004-01-23
US	52754940	R2D8ZX108NCW8N	0736625151	586694728	The Civil War In The American West	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Best Book on the Civil war in the West	An excellent history of the fascinating and little published campaigns of the American West during the Civil War. Includes activities the Union had with the Sioux in the great Minnesota uprising and along with Kit Carson with the Apache at the Battle of Adobe Wells, Colorado troops and the Shoshone and the Cheyenne and the horrid Colonel Chivington at the massacre of Sand Creek. You'll find out that there were actually confederate prisoners fighting Indians in the Norhwest that were referred to as Galvanized Yankees and you'll find out what happened to General Pope after 2nd Manasass.Besides these fascinating and unique situations, the author covers Banks' failed Red River campaign against Taylor but the high point to me is the description of Sibley's attempt to conquer the western states particularly New Mexico and the Battle of Glorietta Pass. Referred by the author as the Gettysburg of the West, the Confederates make notable gains against Union forces until that later day when Chivington literally does an end run around Sibley's confederates flank virtually over a cliff resulting in a total loss of his supply train. Once that happens, it's over and the Confederates collapse back to Texas. Literally, a knockout in round two that preserves the southwest as Union.<br />Also covers those forgotten battles at the end of the war, Jeb Magruder from the 7 days battles comes out on top; however, the overall impact is too late to matter. This book covers the other sides of the Civil War universe.	2004-01-18
US	52754940	R1URXUE7MKBR19	0807816906	53326009	James Longstreet: Lee's War Horse	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Very Early Bio on Longstreet: with all the Warts	This is one of the first bios on Longstreet going back to 1936 when the first edition was published. The subsequent second edition is graced with Gary Gallagher's introduction that is more balanced and gives you a better and fuller picture of Longstreet with the benefit of more recent research. The authors' writing is very good and presents all of Longstreets warts full bore and pretty much hang Gettysburg on his shoulders. But, the Gettysburg segment is not very balanced and the authors do not write very complimentary of Longstreet and are more than punishing. It is still an engaging book but oddly the authors wrote a complete book without foot notes so sources are missing. But still, the book gives you a reference point of what Longstreet's reputation was in the south in the 1930's, virtually a pariah in the south still. The high point of the book is Gallagher's introduction that in 1986 was up to date on a broader perspective that the authors do not give. A much friendlier more up to date book is Piston's classic.	2004-01-18
US	52754940	RW7YLUREI56LJ	0679749896	269467708	Sherman: A Soldier's Passion for Order	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Full Bio on Sherman, Service and Personal Life	This is a complete bio on Sherman who had a very complex personal life and along with Grant had a horrendous start in the Civil War. The author not only details Sherman from Bull Run through the CW, Indians and commander of the Armies but also frames his personal life very well. The author relates Sherman's loss of parents along with his adoptive family in which Sherman appears to be make a gross error in marrying his step sister who seems more attached to her parents than her role as a wife and mother. Sherman leaves the military to run a bank in San Francisco while his wife goes to visit her parents for TWO years! The author relates a funny and tragic story that upon her return, she walks into the house unannounced frightening the children who do not remember her! The bank fails due to the drastic economic downturn of the 50's but Sherman squares with his investors and then Sherman ends up running an upstart southern Military academy in Louisiana that becomes LSU. Leaves to take command of forces at Bull Run and as the author notes he is termed a panic due to his early forecast that massive numbers of troops will be required to win the war, which of course is true. Best part of the book is his working relationship with Grant that blossoms after Shiloh and Vicksburg and his advice to Grant to leave Washington and stay in the field while commanding all the Armies. His performance of shuttling his forces around Joe Johnston in the Atlanta campaign is masterful except for his impatience with Kennesaw Mountain (Of course young Krick, the historian, wonders if Johnston would ever stand and fight). The author notes that Sherman is more a strategist then a tactician as he proves at the final Battle of Bentonville, which he shows not too much concern. Good description of his march, traveling light himself in contrast to Thomas and effectively living off the land to the strategic dismay of Jefferson Davis and General Hood. His ability to keep the confederates guessing as to his movements is done skillfully. The author's description of the surrender of Johnston's army is fascinating and amusing as Sherman grants terms better than Grants but is humiliated by Stanton for doing so. His post war career has him dealing with the Indians in some cases face to face in dangerous circumstances in one case backed expertly by buffalo soldiers. His handling of the Indians seems to be strained and as the commander of the Armies he moves his command away to St. Louis in a snit, as Grant seemed to bypass him to Sheridan and others. The author does such a wonderful job in capturing Sherman's personal life that one has to wonder if he was an unhappy man, the possibility that he took on a lover is almost heartening knowing his marital situation. A great book on the man who is credited with saying \\"If nominated, I will not run. If elected, I will not serve!\\"his movements is done skillfully. The author's description of the surrender of Johnston's army is fascinating and amusing as Sherman grants terms better than Grants but is humiliated by Stanton for doing so. His post war career has him dealing with the Indians in some cases face to face in dangerous circumstances in one case backed expertly by buffalo soldiers. His handling of the Indians seems to be strained and as the commander of the Armies he moves his command away to St. Louis in a snit, as Grant seemed to bypass him to Sheridan and others. The author does such a wonderful job in capturing Sherman's personal life that one has to wonder if he was an unhappy man, the possibility that he took on a lover is almost heartening knowing his marital situation. A great book on the man who is credited with saying \\"If nominated, I will not run. If elected, I will not serve!\\"	2004-01-13
US	52754940	R31VZ307PI9CMP	0380788411	708894817	The Cowboy Way: Seasons of a Montana Ranch	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Writer Living the Modern day Life of a Real Cowboy:	This is quite an undertaking by the author to leave the comforts of the modern world to work in a Montana cattle ranch for a year. The author experiences everything that a new hand will be required to do from the ground up. From virtually using large farm equipment to dump trucks, to manure haulers including repair work and cleaning that keep the equipment in shape. McCumber does a lot of humbling work all through the year with high points of fence repair in beautiful wide open country, to capturing strays usually on four wheel all terrain vehicles and the highlight of occasional work on horse back. Long, often-grueling days of honest work that test many a hand that quit and occasionally return. The amount of land involved in the Galt ranch is mesmerizing along with all the equipment needed to keep it all going. Quite astonishing to read that the owner can actually perform successful cesareans on cows that have breech problems along with a unique castration of a bull with a stone cramping his hose so to speak that as a result now has an alternate urethra.  The author does a wide range of mundane work but works his way up to running heavy equipment, wrestling steers for branding to actually vaccinating cows to the joy of driving cattle when its on horseback. He may not have learned it all but he experienced it all and actually became accomplished at most. The rewards for the hard work are his satisfaction of accomplishment, being out in beautiful open country and the occasional run at old cowboy style work on horseback.  This book reads like a highly readable and entertaining diary, which also lets you get to know all the hands and owner who must love the life to endure the days. At the end of the final chapter, you feel like you know them very well and you wish for another chapter or perhaps a personal newsletter.	2004-01-01
US	52754940	RUBEHU0KR7S6W	0394576233	856861058	Sword of San Jacinto: A Life of Sam Houston	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Story of a Plain Man who inspite of Setbacks Rises Again	From a hero from Horseshoe Bend fighting against the Creeks, Houston emerges as a disciple of &quot;Old Hickory&quot; eventually becoming the governor of Tennessee. Although successful, during a run at re-election, the battle scared Houston marries a much younger and indulgent woman who from the honeymoon night on rejects Houston, which captures wide spread press and ruins his political career causing him to amazingly exile himself amongst the Cherokee. With bouts of alcohol, remarriage and political representation of the Cherokee, Houston is seemingly rescued by Jackson and motivated to immigrate to Texas. The author gives a very good representation of a successful man who shows great promise particularly his ability to communicate with the common folk yet he has serious personal liabilities. Houston becomes active in Texas politics but the fascinating story of Houston is his command of Texas forces fighting Santa Anna. Houston orders Travis and Bowie to abandon the Alamo due to Santa Anna's large army and heavy cannon preferring to fight with mobility in the field. They refuse and become famous but suffer complete loss. However, Houston's tactics prove effective as he attains victory over Anna. Again active in politics, Houston stubbornly refuses to support secession while governor and is a pariah among his fellow Texans. Interesting story of a humble man who lived in such plain dwellings with dog runs in Texas. Very much a worthwhile read.	2003-12-20
US	52754940	R26XDKDX4BDEQF	185532458X	778320554	Little Big Horn 1876: Custer's Last Stand (Campaign)	Books	5	24	25	N	Y	Condensed but Accurate History  But Maps Are Killer: 3-D	I spotted Panzieri's book while on a tour of the Little Big Horn in the hands of a tour attendee and I had to have a copy. The best and most unique thing about this book are the maps. Large color overall campaign maps in several stages but the ultimate are the 3 dimensional maps of different phases of the Little Big Horn battle. These color topographical maps not only give you positions of the combatants with time interval notations but the terrain features are excellent. If you have never been there, you will now appreciate the difficulty of the terrian, the high bluffs, the coulees (large drainages) Weir Point etc. which contributed to the difficulty in communications, the effects it had on visualizing the village and the advantages it gave the Native Americans. You can hold the several 2 page maps in your hands at the battlefield and have one of the best guides literally in hand. Also, the condensed history is excellent with a wealth of pictures and it pretty much follows Fox's theory as well as heavy contribution apparently by Gray's time sequence estimates. Fox's theory that Custer was still in the offensive mode which was why his battalion was split with one wing waiting for Benteen when all hell breaks loose does make sense. This is the best condensed version of the campaign but it's all about the maps, they are the best, particularly the 3-D battle maps. The maps alone are worth the purchase.	2003-12-14
US	52754940	R3V62URGP3E92B	0895870320	904036305	Blackbeard the Pirate: A Reappraisal of His Life and Times	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Captures the Excitement of Blackbeard	This is a compact but entertaining book on the life of Blackbeard. Lee describes how being a pirate was not so notorious during Blackbeard's time when they were virtually raiders on commission. But Blackbeard seems to be the first that self promotes himself as a fearful pirate with a his unique for times long Blackbeard and during an attack of a ship he would curl lit fuses behind his ears to promote a frightful look of a bearded pirate with a frightening haze about his face. This is a man that once fired two pistols at the kneecaps of two fellow card players from under the table disabling one merely to ensure his reputation as a scoundrel. As Lee points out he was a rascal recognizing the value of his reputation which assisted him in closing off Charleston and holding it for ransom and he loaned his reputation to many ladies by making over 13 woman as his wife to provide them their own fearful reputation as Mrs. Blackbeard. Sad ending for the semi retired pirate and friend of the governor of N. C. who meets his demise when Governor Spotswood of Virginia organizes his death. Final interesting query, where is Balckbeard's head today after it one was hung on a pike in Hampton and allegedly used as a punch bowl in Williamsburg? Lee covers his life and notes he was an entrepreneur as well as a pirate. A great read while visiting Nags Head and the Outer Banks where he lurked in semi retirement.	2003-12-03
US	52754940	R3562RKL3ZBS1C	0807845205	207290168	The Civil War in North Carolina	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Barrett is the Expert on Civil War in North Carolina	Barrett writes all that happens to North Carolina in this book from Burnsides fascinating attack on Roanoke Island that is composed of the first amphibious landing and with fascinating  Confederate errors to the end when Sherman slides through North Carolina shadowed by Johnson's army with Hardee, Mclaws and Bragg. In between all this are the modest attempts the Union makes to penterate the North Carolina interior particularly Washington, Plymouth and New Bern along with the numeroius attempts by Confederates to retake these towns. Even covers the number of deserters who hide in the montains and those that become &quot;galvanized Yankees&quot;, four of which are captured and hung by Pickett. An interesting collection of Generals command in North Carolina such as Daniel Harvey Hill and George Pickett. Barrett has it all from raids to full fledged campaigns.	2003-12-01
US	52754940	RTI87U3M2SVVZ	0811700542	52604633	Lee's Real Plan at Gettysburg	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Lee's Three Day Focus on Cemetery Hill	As a historian and national Park Ranger at Gettysburg, Harman provides a new insight into Lee's plan of battle at Gettysburg that has otherwise been clouded by too much attention to Little Round Top, a loss of critical survivors of the battle and their reports, too much Confederate fault finding and internal arguments and too much attention given the famous corpse of trees that ended up as the center of Pickett's (Longstreet's charges) misdirected assualt. Harman, through battle reports, primarily Lee's and Longstreet's, demonstrates that Lee's overall strategy was to attack Cemetary Hill with converging forces to break the center of the Union line thus controlling the most dominant ground of the battlefield. As Hartman notes, Lee plans to take Cemetery Hill from day one but is stymied by Ewell's inability to coordinate an attack based partly by midguided fears of an attack from the east.<br /><br />Hartman proves through reports and witnesses that Lee focuses on Cemetery Hill on the second day but his plans were severely hindered by incorrect surveilance from a staff officer who stated that the area around the Peach Orchard and the southern end of Cemetery ridge was devoid of Union troops. Lee's plan was to send Longstreet's troops up the Emmitsburg Road making an oblique towards Cemetary Hill to strike at an angle with Anderson hiting perpindicular. As the attack goes underway, as we all know today, Sickles entire Corps is in the Peach Orchard withh additional reinforcements along the way. After Hood is shot down, his forces inadvertently sweep to Little Round Top and lose focus for the primary attack. Little Round Top is of no interest to Lee and the movement to the right stymies the coordination of the attack along with Sickles forces and supports.<br /><br />Hartman's evidence makes less argument of Longstreet's turning movement since Longstreet does abide by Lee's orders including Longstreet's refusing of Hood's ill advised attempt to flank the round tops which would be in total conflict with Lee's plans.<br /><br />Hartman also goes on to demonstrate that Zielgler's Grove on top of Cemetery Hill was Lee's focus for attack on Day 2 and Day 3 when Pickett's Charge is made. Changes to the battlefield over time made the corpse of trees mistaken as Lee's focal point of the attack and Hartman provides evidence that Ziegler's Grove, which was chopped down after the war, was the better land mark for the center of Cemetary Hill while the corpse of trees are at a less significant part of Cemetery Ridge. Pettigrew and Picket's lead forces ended up there primarily because flanking fire on their failing flanks combined with the lack of artillery support collaped the attack more south of the original converging point. The failure to reach their assigned attack point also reduced the possibility of additional support.<br /><br />Very articulate book that offers that historians 'may' have missed a clear understanding of Lee's attentions to bring superior forces to bear on one important part of the Union line. Hartman notes severall of the problem associated with Pickett's charge but does not offer an in depth critique. I think he leaves that to the reader. After reading Hartman's description, the reader has to wonder how Pickett's charge could have been made since the artillery have limited ammunition and the long oblique that Pickett's division had to make to meet up with Pettigrew exposes him to significant Union artillery and small arms. Hartman should wite a follow up analyzing why Pickett's charge was ever made.total conflict with Lee's plans.     Hartman also goes on to demonstrate that Zielgler's Grove on top of Cemetery Hill was Lee's focus for attack on Day 2 and Day 3 when Pickett's Charge is made. Changes to the battlefield over time made the corpse of trees mistaken as Lee's focal point of the attack and Hartman provides evidence that Ziegler's Grove, which was chopped down after the war, was the better land mark for the center of Cemetary Hill while the corpse of trees are at a less significant part of Cemetery Ridge. Pettigrew and Picket's lead forces ended up there primarily because flanking fire on their failing flanks combined with the lack of artillery support collaped the attack more south of the original converging point. The failure to reach their assigned attack point also reduced the possibility of additional support.              Very articulate book that offers that historians 'may' have missed a clear understanding of Lee's attentions to bring superior forces to bear on one important part of the Union line. Hartman notes severall of the problem associated with Pickett's charge but does not offer an in depth critique. I think he leaves that to the reader. After reading Hartman's description, the reader has to wonder how Pickett's charge could have been made since the artillery have limited ammunition and the long oblique that Pickett's division had to make to meet up with Pettigrew exposes him to significant Union artillery and small arms. Hartman should wite a follow up analyzing why Pickett's charge was ever made.	2003-11-29
US	52754940	R3R4M4OPP4F5OY	0688169783	182078128	The Days of the French Revolution	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Well Written and Concise Read of a Cyclic Violent Revolution	Well written and concise history of the French Revolution that is equipped with appendices that includes a summary of the individuals that have roles in the revolution, definitions of key French terminology predominately political and a time chart that outlines the revolution's history.<br />Quite a fascinating story of the rise of the third estate against the monarchy, the nobles and clergy which had its roots in the downward turn of the economy (partly due to the cost of the war against England during America's war of independence) and the burden of the poor to pay most of the taxes while owning little land. The sheer violence and grotesqueness of the revolution is astonishing as political groups seem to rise and fall not only against the monarchists but continuously over the lengthy period of the revolution with and against various feuding political parties. There seems to be endless purges oddly each supported enthusiastically by the masses in the streets. At times the fear of death is attached to everyone as political shifts occur at astonishing speed over  the possible return of the monarchists and outside military powers, which causes extraordinary panic, and just through political differences among the leadership. The deaths of the poorly leadership equipped Louis XVI and his Queen Antoinette are well described and almost symbolic of the many individuals executed for political reasons and the many innocents who were simply accused without regard to a fair trial. Amazing how so called patriots could be aligned to organize a new constitution only to later compete for power at the expense of the life of their former colleagues.<br />The revolution according to the author seems to cycle into periodic periods of controlled political organization then to despotic periods of terror that seems to reach its peak with the politically self consumed and self important Robespierre whose insensitive annihilation of his political competition back fires when his own out of control ego and vague threats to the assembly make every man feel threatened hastening his own rapid and violent demise with a trip to the guillotine.<br />This exhaustive cycle of control supplanted by terror opens the door for a strong willed military despot as the author's final two chapters cover the entrance of Napoleon into the national spotlight.  One can see that the general population would welcome any sustained order.<br />I only wish the author spent a little more time explaining how the political mobs could be so violent to literally tear people apart, purposely soak themselves in the blood of their victims and readily kill anyone violently just by mere association. Understanding that lacking the means to eat was certainly part of it plus the heavy tax burden on the poor, but the extent of the violence is shocking as well as the continuous applause of the crowds as the various losers of political power take their trips in carts to the guillotine.control ego and vague threats to the assembly make every man feel threatened hastening his own rapid and violent demise with a trip to the guillotine. <br />This exhaustive cycle of control supplanted by terror opens the door for a strong willed military despot as the author's final two chapters cover the entrance of Napoleon into the national spotlight.  One can see that the general population would welcome any sustained order. <br />I only wish the author spent a little more time explaining how the political mobs could be so violent to literally tear people apart, purposely soak themselves in the blood of their victims and readily kill anyone violently just by mere association. Understanding that lacking the means to eat was certainly part of it plus the heavy tax burden on the poor, but the extent of the violence is shocking as well as the continuous applause of the crowds as the various losers of political power take their trips in carts to the guillotine.	2003-11-20
US	52754940	R1RI5CORMUYMDQ	0618344195	865873587	Landscape Turned Red: The Battle of Antietam	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Audacity versus an Ego that loses thge Initiative	Sears scores big in this well detailed book on the Antietam campaign. He is the expert on McClellan and offers a great picture of \\"Little Mac's\\" state of mind as he has the advanatge over Lee in numbers and knowledge but cannot seem to coordinate his attacks to overwhelm Lee. On the other hand, Lee shows great audacity in shuttling his troops from needed areas of the field leaving virtually nothing but 500 sharpshooters to hold Burnside at bay on the far right Burns contemplates the bridge later named after him below the great hill that the sharpshooters occupy. Besides describing the slugfest on Jackson's north side of the field where he handles uncoordinated attacks, Longstreet handles the south end and at one point he heroically commands his staff while they fire a cannon due to the depletion of gunners. Fascinating account of the Confederates in the sunken road that stops a Union advance but results in crippling of the Confederate line when a rumored order of retreat causes 100s of Confederates to get shot down. Harvey Hill is at his best in this battle and he bravely stays on horseback while Lee and Longstreet complain that he is drawing fire by being mounted. After reassuring them, the front forelocks of his horse are amputated by a cannon shot. Burnside waits for defenitive orders to advance and does so late while McClellan has almost 20,000 cavalry in reserve loosing the battle when blue coated A. P. Hill's light division appears as Burnside is finally in motion only to be hit from Hill in an oblique angle. Sears captures probably the north's greatest opportunity to win the war. A well preserved battlefield in very rural Maryland. Best sites are the sunken road, Burnside's bridge, Sharpshooter hill, the path to the ford that Burnside finally finds and the Dunker Church West Woods area. This battlefield is in a more natural state than Gettysburg as it is not adorned with a gross number of monuments. Pack a lunch, this lovely place was too rural for fast food which is part of the great attraction.which is part of the great attraction.	2003-11-08
US	52754940	R1960TLOAGLVWV	067003133X	929452996	The Bounty: The True Story of the Mutiny on the Bounty	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Tremendous Revelation of Truth in this Intriguing Story	This is a fascinating look at the Bounty from a well-researched and objective perspective. Alexander proves that Bligh eventually became a victim of the better connected as his reputation is besmirched after the infamous court martial of the captured mutineers by the writings of Fletcher Christian's brother supported by literary figures and members of the elite. Bligh survives 3000 miles in an open boat saving the lives of 18 occupants out of the initial 19 only to fall victim to malicious and broadly stated propaganda that portrays Fletcher Christian as a man driven to act by a despotic captain to a hero leading his men to a new perilous journey away from England. In actuality, Bligh takes the Bounty out on a much-delayed start because of the Admiralty's indifference, without Marines and without any commissioned officers. In actuality, Bligh rarely punished his men by physical means such as the cat of nine tails. Like his mentor Cook, Bligh cared for his crew by utilizing a diet to prevent scurvy and he used dance as a means of exercise. Due to his late start, Bligh has to layover in Tahiti for an extended 5 months. Upon the return voyage as the Bounty nears the point where the winds will make it difficult to turn back, a mutiny arises under Christian. Based on the court martial, it's unclear why the mutiny took place but it appears that Christian may have had a low constitution for criticism (often broke out in a sweat) and drink may have contributed and once he started the mutiny, he couldn't step back. Bligh slept in an unlocked cabin apparently much shocked by the mutiny he never expected. Irregardless of Christian's motivation, he set 19 men afloat in a small overcrowded launch with insufficient food, no guns and little in navigation instruments with minimal chance of survival. The survival of these men in open waters far from a friendly port is truly amazing. In retrospect, it is phenomenal to ever imagine that Christian can be portrayed as a reluctant here. The other side of the story is Peter Heywood, the young 16-year-old midshipman that sailed with Christian because he was forced or because, as he put it, the launch had such a small survival chance he stayed with the Bounty. Heywood voluntarily greets the ship sent to capture the mutineers and becomes a prisoner himself who eventually escapes death through his own elitist connections and subsequent exceptional representation. Ironic that he proclaims his innocence but at a later time he seems to supply Christian's brother with damning and apparently half-truths to portray Bligh as an oppressive tyrant fueling the story that Christian was driven to act. Alexander does a wonderful job of tracing the modest histories of the survivors particularly John Adams, the lone mutineer survivor on the Pitcairn Island whose many versions of how Christian died creates a virtual unsolved mystery that later reveals that some including Peter Heywood think that Christian made it secretly back to England. While it took many years for an English ship to reach Pitcairn, Adams hinted that ships may have come earlier and the treasure of the bounty was never found. Bligh has an extensive career, which in every negative turn, his detractors fall; back on his Bounty history to at least allege that he had an oppressive tongue. Ironically, Heywood's stepdaughter marries a Lieutenant who was on one of the early ships to land at Pitcairn Island and this Lieutenant seemed to gleam a lot of information from Adam's perhaps enough to make Heywood uncomfortable. Ironically, the Lieutenant's own reputation was severe as he was much disliked and as a captain, he court-martialed many officers under his command. And, he passed a syphilitic disorder onto Heywood's stepdaughter.  Perhaps the maltreatment of Bligh was returned to Heywood in another form. Outstanding book that makes one realize how history can be written to favor the victor or the well connected, just ask Richard the III.The other side of the story is Peter Heywood, the young 16-year-old midshipman that sailed with Christian because he was forced or because, as he put it, the launch had such a small survival chance he stayed with the Bounty. Heywood voluntarily greets the ship sent to capture the mutineers and becomes a prisoner himself who eventually escapes death through his own elitist connections and subsequent exceptional representation. Ironic that he proclaims his innocence but at a later time he seems to supply Christian's brother with damning and apparently half-truths to portray Bligh as an oppressive tyrant fueling the story that Christian was driven to act. Alexander does a wonderful job of tracing the modest histories of the survivors particularly John Adams, the lone mutineer survivor on the Pitcairn Island whose many versions of how Christian died creates a virtual unsolved mystery that later reveals that some including Peter Heywood think that Christian made it secretly back to England. While it took many years for an English ship to reach Pitcairn, Adams hinted that ships may have come earlier and the treasure of the bounty was never found. Bligh has an extensive career, which in every negative turn, his detractors fall; back on his Bounty history to at least allege that he had an oppressive tongue. Ironically, Heywood's stepdaughter marries a Lieutenant who was on one of the early ships to land at Pitcairn Island and this Lieutenant seemed to gleam a lot of information from Adam's perhaps enough to make Heywood uncomfortable. Ironically, the Lieutenant's own reputation was severe as he was much disliked and as a captain, he court-martialed many officers under his command. And, he passed a syphilitic disorder onto Heywood's stepdaughter.  Perhaps the maltreatment of Bligh was returned to Heywood in another form. Outstanding book that makes one realize how history can be written to favor the victor or the well connected, just ask Richard the III.	2003-11-03
US	52754940	REUTTHJBSNJ7U	0743236106	152286871	The Secret Life of Cowboys	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Trying to become a  Cowboy in the 21st Century	Many of us imagine taking up a different life and perhaps due to responsibilities and economics we cannot take the plunge into a totally different lifestyle. But due to his youth and commitment, author Groneberg fulfills his desire to be a cowboy and he starts to work on ranches, first starting with dude ranches working himself up, with the aid of his parents, to owning a ranch so large in eastern Montana that it is beyond any easterners imagination that someone could own so much land yet not be considered a large ranch owner among his peers. Groneberg starts initially without the woman who will soon be his wife who he leaves behind when he starts his cowboy venture but she will soon join him as they first live in north eastern Montana at times living in a primitive cabin facing a lake up scaling it to modern plumbing and basic electricity. Groneberg describes the responsibilities of being a cowboy and with appreciative descriptions of their lifestyle including the bronc busters who ride professionally with skill and modest rewards. The cowboys are described as earnest, modest and helpful people who often offer Groneberg a hand such as redoing his bronc saddle to keep him from being killed when he enters a rodeo with very little experience. In the second half of the book Groneberg buys a ranch in the more arid eastern part of Montana where it takes a lot more acreage to support a herd of cattle thus the need for lots of land. The responsibilities of ranch life are overwhelming for someone with limited cattle and history, as Groneberg becomes a ranch manger, which requires him to be a vet, a plumber, a mechanic, an accountant and a ranch hand. The life and death struggle of the animals that either do not breed as rapidly as needed or prematurely die due to the weather or other complications takes its toll as Groneberg has to make an adult decision about what to do with his life and still enjoy the outdoor life with less responsibility. Excellent descriptions of all the people along the way and after reading this book you'll know how hard life can be on a ranch and for cowboys. It's also funny in parts as you can appreciate why cowboys don't want &quot;dudes&quot; to dismount any more than they have to on a trail rides along with the many codes of the west such as &quot;Never criticize another man's dog&quot;.he people along the way and after reading this book you'll know how hard life can be on a ranch and for cowboys. It's also funny in parts as you can appreciate why cowboys don't want &quot;dudes&quot; to dismount any more than they have to on a trail rides along with the many codes of the west such as &quot;Never criticize another man's dog&quot;.	2003-09-28
US	52754940	R29R77QMBD9AHF	039587744X	950486766	Chancellorsville	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great Insight of the Union Command at Chancellorsville	Sears always offers superior detail on what went on within the Union command structure before and during the subject battle. This works very well in the battle of Chancellorsville as Hooker, unpopular with his generals, catches Lee by surprise and crosses 70k troops the Rappahannock on Lee's west flank with 30K with Sedgwick in his front at Fredericksburg. Wonderfully executed but things unravel and not all due to Hookers personal failures. Sears in detail notes the failure of Stoneman's failed cavalry raid that not only does not cut Lee's communications but he takes himself out of the battle altogether along with any ability to screen the army or provide intelligence. The failed telegraph that continually delays communication to the apprehensive Sedgwick only contributes to his sloth like movements along with Gibbon's confused feel that he is an independent command and does not aid Sedgwick by any means. Sears makes it clear that Hooker wanted to fight defensively to inflict casualties on Lee's army for a change but the Wilderness does not make the best defensive ground as it not only impairs visibility but reduces the Union artillery which is one of Hooker's failings since he pulled General Hunt out overall command of the artillery. Hooker loses the initiative early and combined with Sickles confused perspective, that Lee is in retreat which in reality was only Jackson's flank march, sets up Jackson's crushing flank attack on the west side of Hooker's line held weakly by Howard's 11th corps whose commander is elsewhere on the field. One of the 11ths division heads also ignores pleas to turn the line west in expectation of an attack. Sears aptly puts to rest that Hooker did not so much lose his head in battler but suffered a concussion from a section of exploding pillar. His inability to pass command contributed to the failure of the Union to centralize their command of the field at the time that Jackson's units seemingly were over running the union's south and western line. This is a very good book to read on Chancellorsville because it was probably the most high stakes battle combined with great daring by both sides<br />while Sears give you insider information on the decision making of not only the Union but of of Lee, Jackson and Esarly alonmg with the Union Command's. Sears also captures Lee's inate ability to intiate the attack with confidence not only in his troops but in his assurance that his opponent lacks the confidence necessary to win battles. Sears in particular captures these traits in Lee but perhaps at  Gettysburg there is an exception to the latter, Meade is now in command.tern line. This is a very good book to read on Chancellorsville because it was probably the most high stakes battle combined with great daring by both sides<BR>while Sears give you insider information on the decision making of not only the Union but of of Lee, Jackson and Esarly alonmg with the Union Command's. Sears also captures Lee's inate ability to intiate the attack with confidence not only in his troops but in his assurance that his opponent lacks the confidence necessary to win battles. Sears in particular captures these traits in Lee but perhaps at  Gettysburg there is an exception to the latter, Meade is now in command.	2003-09-27
US	52754940	R23PS9PZF5OM3U	0684845695	505645608	The Gettysburg Campaign: A Study in Command	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Bible on Gettysburg: All others compared	This book by Coddington has been known as the best-detailed book on Gettysburg since it was written many years ago. Combined with excellent maps, the author provides straightforward detail on all the movements attacks and the aftermath. Coddington's book has traditionally been held as the single best volume on Gettysburg. Combined with Stephen Sears new book, the two provide the best look at Gettysburg. Coddington describes the strategy of the campaign to the tactics of the battle which starts with confusion for the Confederates and ends that way as Hancock, then Meade organize their defense on a position worthy of Malvern Hill with open fields of fire (except the base of the round tops) and elevation. Descriptions of the battle are well described particularly Longstreet's desperate and crushing attack on the Union left and Ewell's failed attack on the 2nd day that demonstrated that occupying the town and the far left were not beneficial to the Confederates at all. Pickett's attack with Hill's corps under Longstreet is an inexplicable disaster that was a forlorn hope from the start that is still a mystery that it was ever attempted across a field suitable for massing Union artillery and enfilading fire from both artillery and infantry. Coddington provides Lee's thoughts on the success of the attack that was to be supported by Stuart's attack in the rear.<br />Sears does a more detailed job on the decisions of the main characters and key information such as surveillance by the Union. Both books are objective which is particularly refreshing since the apologist historians looking for a villain in the southern cause get lost within their perspective and damage the history of the event.	2003-09-01
US	52754940	RZHKMQ6BCMLFS	0395867614	702211299	Gettysburg	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Best Book on Gettysburg: Well Written and Objective	Sears' book steps off where his Chancellorsville book ended. Sears has a knack for giving you the big picture particularly due to his in depth study of the command structure and intrigues of the Army of the Potomac. He starts with detailing how Lee formed the Army of Northern Virginia into three new corps with the loss of Jackson with the selection of commanders Hill and Ewell. Sears also tells of Hooker's fall without friends in the Army of the Potomac aside from Sickles and his destructive battle with Army Chief of Staff Henry Halleck who undermined Hooker's efforts to rebuild his army with reinforcements even while Lee was invading Maryland. Sears chronicles Meade's rise after Hooker asked to be relieved. Included in all of this is a portrayal of Meade who makes critical decisions such as putting Reynolds in charge of his wing at Gettysburg where the field is chosen and his selection of Hancock to take over at Reynolds's death in spite of not being the senior the senior officer on the field. Sears' background with Chancellorsville is well served as he informs the reader of General Howard's limitations as a commander of the 11th corps contributes to the Union collapse on the first day. His failure to recognize the growing danger of being flanked and overwhelmed as Ewell arrives contributes to the 11th again being crushed. Sears gives Doubleday credit he deserves for holding the 1st corps together and requesting a retrograde movement which is disallowed by Howard's inability to see that holding was tactically impossible. This in fact is the key to Sears book, which makes it so different. In his research and writing, Sears appraises the actions of the participants objectively where before some historians were drawn to politically charged history or memoirs that were self-serving. Longstreet is handled very fairly. As Sears notes, Longstreet objected to Lee's plans aggressively particularly since Lee took more than his normal active role in his troop placements. In contrast with the false \\"Sunrise attack order\\" Longstreet does take his typical active role in the attack on the second day when his deep columns plow into the Peach Orchid. Sears notes Lee's frustration with his generals particularly Ewell's desire not to move the second corps to the right to allow Lee a greater concentration of his lines. On the other hand, A. P. Hill almost seems a non-participant from his hands off management of the first day to his failure to support Longstreet's attack on the second and his poor organization of his divisions for Pickett's attack led to the left of the line's prompt erosion and exposure to enfilading fire. Anderson in Hill's corps is inactive on the 3rd day contributing to Hill's corps lack of organization during Pickett's charge.<br />On the other hand, Sears demonstrates that Meade is responsiveness with reinforcements along the whole line adjusting to Sickel's debacle in the Peach Orchard, sending divisions where needed regardless of Corp designation. He communicates effectively with all his corps commanders. In addition, his artillery chief at Gettysburg Hunt consolidates the artillery for the best field of fire along the entire Union line of defense. Sears demonstrates Hunt's skill by describing how Hunt conserves his ammunition during the Confederate bombardment and by letting the Confederates think that their barrage injured his artillery. Sears notes that Hunt even had 40 guns hidden behind a low lying ridge that the Confederates could not see that eventually raked Pickett's right unmercifully.<br />Sears has detail that often is neglected such as his descriptions of how the Union's Bureau of Military Affairs provided Meade excellent surveillance on the Confederate Army. By the time Lee attacked on the second day, Meade knew that the only reinforcements that Lee had was Pickett's division thus he knew Lee had little more unused fire power while he still had the untested 6th Corp. In contrast, Stuart is lost to Lee for over a week.. Other great detail is the failed reconnaissance by Captain Johnson of Lee's staff that somehow missed the entire 3rd Corp that advanced from Cemetery Ridge to the Peach Orchard.<br />Other great tidbits concern the early order for Pickett to move up on the third day failed because Lee had initially directed Pickett where to camp, Longstreet may have assumed that Lee also gave Pickett orders when to march which he apparently did not.  Sears also puts to rest former Chief of Staff Butterfield's accusation that Meade was ready to retreat after the second day. As Sears points out, this accusation was made after Meade dumped Butterfield and after Butterfield bungled Meade's earlier communication of a concentration point before Gettysburg materialized. Meade, in contrast to Lee, kept constant communication with his Generals while Lee's communication and organization control were seriously impaired. The ground and artillery does turn out to be the defender's advantage as the catastrophic failure of Pickett's charge, doomed at the start, was met by the Union cries of \\"Fredericksburg!\\"over a week.. Other great detail is the failed reconnaissance by Captain Johnson of Lee's staff that somehow missed the entire 3rd Corp that advanced from Cemetery Ridge to the Peach Orchard.  <br />Other great tidbits concern the early order for Pickett to move up on the third day failed because Lee had initially directed Pickett where to camp, Longstreet may have assumed that Lee also gave Pickett orders when to march which he apparently did not.  Sears also puts to rest former Chief of Staff Butterfield's accusation that Meade was ready to retreat after the second day. As Sears points out, this accusation was made after Meade dumped Butterfield and after Butterfield bungled Meade's earlier communication of a concentration point before Gettysburg materialized. Meade, in contrast to Lee, kept constant communication with his Generals while Lee's communication and organization control were seriously impaired. The ground and artillery does turn out to be the defender's advantage as the catastrophic failure of Pickett's charge, doomed at the start, was met by the Union cries of \\"Fredericksburg!\\"	2003-08-31
US	52754940	R19JE32RPGBC3U	1557100349	474600971	Benedict Arnold: Patriot and Traitor	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Good Over View of How a Hero Became a Traitor	Although a little disturbed by reviewer York's comments that Arnolds hazardous march to Quebec is not altogether accurate particularly in regards to sabotage and desertion, the book provides a grand over view of Arnold's life that I was not altogether familiar with. The book starts with Arnold's early life where his father virtually becomes financially destroyed which seems to make him forever conscious of a need for him to be prosperous and financial solvent in the author's view. The best part of the book is the detail on Arnold's military accomplishments, which include his command of the Great lakes during the early part of the war in which he funded the building of small boats with his own money. One or part of the boats is in the Natural Museum of History on display in Washington D.C. where you can see the modest boat with a good size hole near the bow from a British war ship. Covers Arnold's failed but brave attempt to attack Canada and his great victorious battle at Saratoga where he suffers a crippling injury. In convalescence he is the military governor of Philadelphia where he meets his beautiful young wife whose family is suspect of being Tories. In the meantime, Arnold becomes frustrated with the failure of the Continental Congress to reimburse him for his costs in building the Great Lakes fleet. The author suggests this failure to appreciate Arnold and the lack of refund along with his love for his Tory wife may have prepared Arnold for the great act of treason at West Point. It is surprising that Arnold after he fled from West Point to the British he commanded a British army that captured Petersburg and burned his way south to Portsmouth. Arnold risked a hanging if he was caught by the Americans thus he leaves no doubt that he was brave on which ever side he served. Arnold allegedly counseled Cornwallis against moving to the Peninsula and Yorktown. The author reviews Arnold's post war quarrels with the British over money and commissions for his sons along with his failed land investments in Canada. Surprising that Arnold had business in Canada so close to the country he betrayed. A complex man that is fascinating to read about.ng with his failed land investments in Canada. Surprising that Arnold had business in Canada so close to the country he betrayed. A complex man that is fascinating to read about.	2003-08-24
US	52754940	R3DUOEG4ZLLQDM	0807123498	873562405	The Politics of Command: Factions and Ideas in Confederate Strategy	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fabulous Book on the Inside Details of Politics and Command	This a truely great work on the politcal behind the scenes aspects of how the Confederate command structure worked under Davis and the military and political opposition groups that festered within. Davis has incredulous feuds with Johnson and particularly Beauraguard to the point of destruction while maintaining an unbending loyalty to Braxton Bragg even when he loses the support of all the generals in the Army of the Tennesee. What developes is a political block of generals that maintain a loose alliance such as Johnson, Beauraguard, Longstreet and Senator Wigfall from Texas. Certianly astonishing about the effect personal dislikes and favoritism had on militarty assignments and strategy. It is interesting that Johnson had significant support from many fields except Davis. One of the great failings of the Confederacy is that they did not have a competent Secretary of the War that was strong enough to work with Davis until Breckenridge took the job too late.	2003-08-23
US	52754940	R2640NNOT38DS9	0807110205	589704834	God and General Longstreet: The Lost Cause and the Southern Mind	Books	5	14	17	N	N	The Seeds of the Lost Cause and the Rise of Old Jube	If you want to know how the Lost Cause syndrome got its start and how Longstreet to his shock became the designated failure of the Confederacy, this is a revealing book. Old Pete survived his crippling wounds incurred by bullets during his great counter attack in the Wilderness but the ink from \\"Old  Jube's\\" (Jubal Early's) pen created greater harm and anguish to Longstreet as Early effectively destroys his reputation. Early holds a tight grasp of southern history and the Southern Historical Society making sure that no one dared write anything about the War of the Rebellion without his approval. How ironic that the man that moved Alexander's auxiliary guns away during Pickett's charge, the former and inefficient Pendleton, makes up a bogus story about Longstreet disobeying a sunrise attack order on the second day of Gettysburg in a speech shortly after Lee died and blames Longstreet solely for the lost battle and in turn the \\"cause\\". Early picks up the ridiculous story to exaggerate Pendleton's story to gross proportions while coloring his own role that is very suspect in not supporting an attack on Culp's Hill on the first day of Gettysburg and he also pushed Ewell in not moving his corps to the right as Lee wished failing to contract Lee's over extended lines. Old Jube was a tough fighter but had a hard time with cavalry particularly in the Valley where Lee finally has Early relieved. Unlike Longstreet and Lee, Early left the country after the war and upon his return made a career out of rewriting history to suit his slant. Jubal Early could have been the Roy Cohn of the post Civil War era.<br />Connelly also explains how Lee becomes a greater hero after death and a rallying point for statues and dedications while the south understandably searches for an answer to the defeat of what many in the south tried to remember as a noble cause. Jackson's role is diminished as Lee's appreciative role becomes magnified almost to diety. As the reasons for the \\"Lost Cause\\" become justified, Davis and Stephens even write retrospective histories that contrast conveniently with the changing times, States Rights and Rights under the Constitution rise to greater reasons of separation than does slavery for example.<br />A devastating loss with so much death, maiming of young men and destruction needed a nobleness that was overwhelmed only by large numbers of Union soldiers and errors of judgement of those other thsn the leaders of the armies. \\"Lest we Forget\\" is defined in Connelly's fascinating book.ecome justified, Davis and Stephens even write retrospective histories that contrast conveniently with the changing times, States Rights and Rights under the Constitution rise to greater reasons of separation than does slavery for example.<br />A devastating loss with so much death, maiming of young men and destruction needed a nobleness that was overwhelmed only by large numbers of Union soldiers and errors of judgement of those other thsn the leaders of the armies. \\"Lest we Forget\\" is defined in Connelly's fascinating book.	2003-08-23
US	52754940	R26Z0BKKADLA7B	0807818879	125720710	Stonewall Jackson at Cedar Mountain (Civil War America)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great Detail of one of Jackon's Desperate Fights	Jackson leaves his lethargic performance at the Seven-day's battles to go North to confront Pope and northwest of Richmond he runs into a former nemesis from the valley, Banks. Banks gives him great fits in a slug fest described in minute detail by his battlefield biographer Krick. The desperate battle shows Jackson's personal leadership as he is at the brink of failure when he impulsively rushes to the front to have his troops hold and counterattack. He heroically pulls his sword and leads by waving it to the front. Krick's descriptions are so detailed and accurate there is a bit of humor as Jackson, unable to pull his sword out of the scabbard, waves his sword with the scabbard still in place. This is a ferocious battle as a cannon shot decapitates the leader of the Stonewall Brigade, Winder. Ironically, A. P. Hill comes up and virtually helps save the day. The Union Commander, Banks, although not considered particularly competent, always gave Jackson an unusually hard time in battle such as an earlier defeat at Kernstown. This battle, although a victory for the Confederates, still leaves a bit of a shadow on Jackson, as he seemed ill prepared for battle and survived with assistance from Hill's legendary light division. This battle has everything including a virtual suicidal Union cavalry charge at the Union's final desperate attempt at victory.<br />The tactics of the battle cannot be better described by anyone other than Krick who was the Superintendent of the battlefields at and around Fredericksburg. A great researcher, Krick probably walked the entire battlefield. Comes with a number of helpful maps showing movements, which help the reader, follow the detailed battle movements.	2003-08-09
US	52754940	RVVS4B0OO0JJ9	0806129980	14871685	Archaeology, History, and Custer's Last Battle: The Little Big Horn Re-examined	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Worth a Trip to the Little big Horn	This is an update on my previous review. I recently took a two-day tour of the LBH with Fox and former Superintendent Jim Court and reading the text before the tour was very helpful. Aside from the archeology that determine that the Sioux and Cheyenne were well armed with at least 200 repeaters, the key to the mystery of what happened to Custer and his battalion(s) takes place at Medicine Trail Coulee. Some historians say that Custer was repelled and forced to retreat, others say he was shot at he ford putting the attack into confusion and early historians thought the ford was  at the center of the village and that he had to move further downstream. Fox's theory is that the main population had already fled north thus \\"no one was home\\" other than the warriors fighting Reno and a few that happened to be at the ford. Thus Custer moves further north to cut them off leaving a rear guard on Calhoun Hill (south battle ridge) possibly for Benteen to connect. Fox essentially believes Custer was still on the offensive and confident when the high influx of warriors began to fracture his spread command. As Fox pointed our on the tour the lack of headstones near the ford and the ridges east of it indicate that there was not any significant loss of casualties which helps support his theory that Custer was still on the offensive and not retreating. The latter would seem to make sense to anyone at the battlefield since Custer's commands are spread far apart and not in a defensive perimeter. May not be the final theory but a very reasonable possibility and very thought provoking.	2003-08-09
US	52754940	R1QKNEVV2KGIUO	0871138549	429519064	Charlie Wilson's War: The Extraordinary Story of the Largest Covert Operation in History	Books	4	3	3	N	N	How Does One Man Fund a War against the Russians?	This is an amazing inside look at not only how a politician becomes passionately involved in Afghanistan and the war against the Russians but also about the inner workings of the CIA, which is told, in surprising detail and the author explains how big money can be moved around in congress without much scrutiny. It's a fascinating story of how Charlie Wilson, the good time Congressman from a Baptist district, is able to not only party with numerous women, almost kill himself with alcohol but somehow adopt his freedom fighters of Afghanistan and become an international broker of middle east alliances so successfully that he actually creates deals that astonish the badly wounded CIA recovering from the Carter era and later Iran Contra.<br />Wilson has the friendship of John Birch society millionaires that fuels Wilson through her connections with Texas politicians and her inexplicable connections to Pakistan's Zia who she whole-heartedly supports in the name of anti-communism. But aside from Wilson is the story of the Greek American in your face CIA chief that refuses to play political games within the agency and some how survives through inner agency friendships to command the CIA Afghanistan operation that secretly supplies the warriors millions of dollars through US funding that is directly matched by the Saudi's. It is hard to imagine how the CIA was able to provide such an astonishing array of modern weaponry like stinger missiles, thousands of Tennessee mules and all kinds of technical support to these horse-riding warriors that seem almost the same as those who fought the British centuries ago.<br />There are some fascinating interpersonal stories such as the head of the appropriations committee, \\"them that has the gold, makes the rules\\", Wilson's non-stop escapades and his Greek CIA associate Avrakotos telling one of the highest ranking officers in the CIA exactly what he thought of him in four letter words, and Wilson's close relations with all the governments of the Middle east including their enemy Israel. There are also many humorous moments such as Wilson bringing his own American belly dancer to the east to entertain his eastern associates.<br />This story really tells how this US war in Afghanistan broke the Russians and may have directly caused the collapse of the Russian ability to sustain the cold war together with Reagan's build up of arms. What is difficult to fathom is the lack of participation in this operation by Reagan and his officers or perhaps they kept more behind the scenes then the author knows. In addition, this is looked upon as revenge for Russia' support of the North Vietnamese and that this was an opportunity to get even.<br />A very sad turn to this book is the treatment of captured Russian soldiers particularly if you take the vein that soldiers are not the decision makers for war. The level of cruelty is noted in matter of fact detail in the book and it is so gruesome it reminded me of the book about Indian warfare written years ago by Thomas B Marquis, \\"Keep the Last Bullet for Yourself: The True Story of Custer's Last Stand\\". Obvious psychological warfare particularly as the atrocities are advertised by the warriors and many a Russian mother is advised never to open the coffin to look at her son. A quick death was most likely for the lucky. This is something to think about today since our troops our fighting some of the same people whose culture is very complex, stoic, deeply religious and very desirous of revenge. The epilogue covers the seeds of the warriors turn against the US and includes an earlier warning that some of the warriors were so extreme that the author mentions that the remaining Afghanistan government (deserted by the Russians) that is overthrown appeared far more tolerant than the liberators. .<br />--------------------------------------------------------------------------------of the Middle east including their enemy Israel. There are also many humorous moments such as Wilson bringing his own American belly dancer to the east to entertain his eastern associates. <br />This story really tells how this US war in Afghanistan broke the Russians and may have directly caused the collapse of the Russian ability to sustain the cold war together with Reagan's build up of arms. What is difficult to fathom is the lack of participation in this operation by Reagan and his officers or perhaps they kept more behind the scenes then the author knows. In addition, this is looked upon as revenge for Russia' support of the North Vietnamese and that this was an opportunity to get even.<br />A very sad turn to this book is the treatment of captured Russian soldiers particularly if you take the vein that soldiers are not the decision makers for war. The level of cruelty is noted in matter of fact detail in the book and it is so gruesome it reminded me of the book about Indian warfare written years ago by Thomas B Marquis, \\"Keep the Last Bullet for Yourself: The True Story of Custer's Last Stand\\". Obvious psychological warfare particularly as the atrocities are advertised by the warriors and many a Russian mother is advised never to open the coffin to look at her son. A quick death was most likely for the lucky. This is something to think about today since our troops our fighting some of the same people whose culture is very complex, stoic, deeply religious and very desirous of revenge. The epilogue covers the seeds of the warriors turn against the US and includes an earlier warning that some of the warriors were so extreme that the author mentions that the remaining Afghanistan government (deserted by the Russians) that is overthrown appeared far more tolerant than the liberators. .<br />--------------------------------------------------------------------------------	2003-08-07
US	52754940	R3RRTR05E64W6H	0871138549	429519064	Charlie Wilson's War: The Extraordinary Story of the Largest Covert Operation in History	Books	4	15	18	N	N	The Story of Two Men That Build The War Against Russia	This is an amazing inside look at not only how a politician becomes passionately involved in Afghanistan and the war against the Russians but also about the inner workings of the CIA, which is told, in surprising detail and the author explains how big money can be moved around in congress without much scrutiny. It's a fascinating story of how Charlie Wilson, the good time Congressman from a Baptist district, is able to not only party with numerous women, almost kill himself with alcohol but somehow adopt his freedom fighters of Afghanistan and become an international broker of middle east alliances so successfully that he actually creates deals that astonish the badly wounded CIA recovering from the Carter era and later Iran Contra.  <br />Wilson has the friendship of John Birch society millionaires that fuels Wilson through her connections with Texas politicians and her inexplicable connections to Pakistan's Zia who she whole-heartedly supports in the name of anti-communism. But aside from Wilson is the story of the Greek American in your face CIA chief that refuses to play political games within the agency and some how survives through inner agency friendships to command the CIA Afghanistan operation that secretly supplies the warriors millions of dollars through US funding that is directly matched by the Saudi's. It is hard to imagine how the CIA was able to provide such an astonishing array of modern weaponry like stinger missiles, thousands of Tennessee mules and all kinds of technical support to these horse-riding warriors that seem almost the same as those who fought the British centuries ago. <br />There are some fascinating interpersonal stories such as the head of the appropriations committee, \\"them that has the gold, makes the rules\\", Wilson's non-stop escapades and his Greek CIA associate Avrakotos telling one of the highest ranking officers in the CIA exactly what he thought of him in four letter words, and Wilson's close relations with all the governments of the Middle east including their enemy Israel.  There are also many humorous moments such as Wilson bringing his own American belly dancer to the east to entertain his eastern associates. <br />This story really tells how this US war in Afghanistan broke the Russians and may have directly caused the collapse of the Russian ability to sustain the cold war together with Reagan's build up of arms. What is difficult to fathom is the lack of participation in this operation by Reagan and his officers or perhaps they kept more behind the scenes then the author knows. In addition, this is looked upon as revenge for Russia' support of the North Vietnamese and that this was an opportunity to get even.<br />A very sad turn to this book is the treatment of captured Russian soldiers particularly if you take the vein that soldiers are not the decision makers for war. The level of cruelty is noted in matter of fact detail in the book and it is so gruesome it reminded me of the book about Indian warfare written years ago by Thomas B Marquis, \\"Keep the Last Bullet for Yourself: The True Story of Custer's Last Stand\\". Obvious psychological warfare particularly as the atrocities are advertised by the warriors and many a Russian mother is advised never to open the coffin to look at her son. A quick death was most likely for the lucky. This is something to think about today since our troops our fighting some of the same people whose culture is very complex, stoic, deeply religious and very desirous of revenge. The epilogue covers the seeds of the warriors turn against the US and includes an earlier warning that some of the warriors were so extreme that the author mentions that the remaining Afghanistan government (deserted by the Russians) that is overthrown appeared far more tolerant than the liberators. .	2003-08-07
US	52754940	R3NEETTEBOKNHF	0684826976	646280776	Undaunted Courage:  Meriwether Lewis, Thomas Jefferson, and the Opening of the American West	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Description of the Great Expedition	Ambrose does a very good job writing a detailed bio on Lewis while presenting the expedition from it infancy with an early history of the Louisiana territory and the early plans to explore and exploit the land. Lewis literally is a prot&eacute;g&eacute;e and neighbor of Jefferson and he is virtually educated by Jefferson as his secretary and along with tutoring by scholars. Although someone free with monetary scripts, Lewis shows great organizational skills in getting the trip together and he shows modesty by wanting to co-lead with Clark for whom he attempts to gain equal rank. He fails to gain Clark  the rank of captain  but in spite of that, he still shares command. Ambrose describes in detail Lewis' meetings with the various tribes along the Missouri River, Rockies and Snake River who without their assistance, it is unlikely Lewis and Clark would have survived their journey. High points of the book is Lewis and Clark's interacting with the tribes particularly the Nez Perz along with the Chinooks which was quite a contrast and of course the Plains Indians such as the Sioux, Mandans, Hidatsa and the Arikarees. Quite a story about their crossing of the Rockies which took them by surprise and this is the literal high point of the book along with the suffering in their west coast camps that were dominated by boredom and limited game. The plains are described as a paradise for food.<br />Lewis' ability to examine and write about minerals, botany, zoology and the geography is quite astounding for a layman along with his ability to administer wounds and act as a pharmacist with good results. The interesting low points of the expedition is Lewis' failure to get a portable iron frame boat to float and his naive venture to meet the fierce Blackfeet tribe with only four men that rightly would have ended his return trip if he met a sizable party. Also facinating is that Lewis never seems to recover from the expedition as he is appointed governor of the Louisiana territory, which seems to be too much responsibility along with his inability to write the book that Jefferson and the public expected. At the end he is overwhelmed and after 400 pages Ambrose describes his suicide in a reasonably detailed manner. With so many concerned about his mental health, it's amazing that Lewis was allowed to travel without a significant escort always at his side.<br />The low point of the book is the return trip where Lewis and Clark split up for several 100 miles taking different routes before rejoining, little is written of Clark's journey along the Yellowstone where he splits his group into horse handlers and those in canoes. Although never mentioned in the book, Clark's horse handlers led by Sergeant Pryor encounter Crow Indians who steal their horses. Pryor and three men attempt to over take the Crows for 10 miles in unknown territory finally giving up and floating themselves down river in fresh buffalo hides stretched over tree branches called Bull boats. They have a frightening encounter with Grizzly bears who think the smelly buffalo hides coming down river to them are dead buffalo that they were accustomed to seeing floating down river for easy pickings. Clark's discovery of the huge limestock rock natural monument which he named Pompey's Pilar after Sacagawea's son is also never mentioned.Clark is portrayed as the ultimate military man and as a great woodsman which makes him invaluable. More detailed on Clark's post expedition life would have been interesting. His ability to balance Lewis was huge for the expedition to succeed. Sacagewea is very prominent the expedition's success in communicating with the Rocky Mountain tribes and her knowledge of the country. Her role in translation is responsible for a lot of the expedition's peaceful dealings with the mountain tribes. Regretfully not much is known of her life after the expedition. This is a great introduction book that is worth reading.to be too much responsibility along with his inability to write the book that Jefferson and the public expected. At the end he is overwhelmed and after 400 pages Ambrose describes his suicide in a reasonably detailed manner. With so many concerned about his mental health, it's amazing that Lewis was allowed to travel without a significant escort always at his side. <br />The low point of the book is the return trip where Lewis and Clark split up for several 100 miles taking different routes before rejoining, little is written of Clark's journey along the Yellowstone where he splits his group into horse handlers and those in canoes. Although never mentioned in the book, Clark's horse handlers led by Sergeant Pryor encounter Crow Indians who steal their horses. Pryor and three men attempt to over take the Crows for 10 miles in unknown territory finally giving up and floating themselves down river in fresh buffalo hides stretched over tree branches called Bull boats. They have a frightening encounter with Grizzly bears who think the smelly buffalo hides coming down river to them are dead buffalo that they were accustomed to seeing floating down river for easy pickings. Clark's discovery of the huge limestock rock natural monument which he named Pompey's Pilar after Sacagawea's son is also never mentioned.Clark is portrayed as the ultimate military man and as a great woodsman which makes him invaluable. More detailed on Clark's post expedition life would have been interesting. His ability to balance Lewis was huge for the expedition to succeed. Sacagewea is very prominent the expedition's success in communicating with the Rocky Mountain tribes and her knowledge of the country. Her role in translation is responsible for a lot of the expedition's peaceful dealings with the mountain tribes. Regretfully not much is known of her life after the expedition. This is a great introduction book that is worth reading.	2003-07-31
US	52754940	R2CM83KX5UKS7Q	0803295510	500446258	Frontier Regulars: The United States Army and the Indian, 1866-1891	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Utley's Knows the Frontier Life	This is Utley's second volume on Frontier Regulars as it documents the modest army that dealt with the plains wars, Apache and the remoteness and often boredom of army life. The book starts with the post Civil war era and Red Cloud's war over the Bozeman Trail to the Fetterman's massacre in 1866 and stops shortly after Wounded Knee when most of the tribes are all virtually on a reservation with their lives forever changed. It's not like the movies with daily Indian attacks since the Indians rarely attacked in mass and they were difficult to find or corral particularly in the summer. Anyone reading this book will understand how imperative it was for Custer to attack when he discovered his quarry since they could evaporate on the plains. Besides Indians, the commanders had to fight poor rations, incompetent or dishonest Indian agents, lack of social life (particularly few women), desertions and alcohol. To make matters worse, limited promotion. John Ford captures it pretty well in his movie \\"Tie a Yellow Ribbon with the running line \\"keep it up and you'll get promoted in seven to 10 years\\". Columns of fours though rarely occurred unless you were in dress parade.	2003-07-27
US	52754940	R2BV7EGO84E7NC	0028646851	357317671	Stonewall Jackson	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Detailed Bio by the Man Who Made Him a Life Study	Robertson and Krick are the greatest biographers of Stonewall Jackson. Robertson who wrote the wonderful \\"Stonewall Brigade\\" and chaired the Civil war Centennial Commission under JFK writes the most detailed biography ever written on Stonewall Jackson. Robertson starts with the site of Jackson's birth in what is now West Virginia and documents his humble origins including the loss of his parents and separation from his sister. It's an amazing account of how Jackson even makes it to West Point only because the first choice had a very abrupt change of mind. Robertson's tells an inspiring story of how the little educated Jackson persevered academically at West Point in spite of his limited education. Robertson follows his career to the Mexican War where Jackson performed admirably and eventually ends up at VMI with Daniel Harvey Hill who eventually becomes a brother-in-law. Robertson also documents the fact that Jackson was not an inspiring professor dependent on rote memory for lectures.<br />Of course the great story is Jackson's CW career that includes bios of his staff that were as interesting as Jackson, particular the preacher (Dabney) who was his Chief of staff with a ridiculous beaver hat and umbrella that Jackson may have tried to lose by impulsively galloping with his staff into heavy woods. High points include Jackson's great valley campaign and his use of his mapmaker, the great battle of Cross Keys and Port Republic where Jackson is almost captured and there is very interesting detail on Jackson's laconic and ever puzzling performance during the 7 days campaign that has puzzled historians for a century. The high point of the Seven Days is the great battle of Glendale that almost cuts the Union army in two but the Confederates fight without Jackson's participation with 26,000 men when he is stymied and then dozes into a fatigue slumber. Robertson has an excellent description of Jackson's great wide flank march during his Manassas raid (a feast for his troops) and his impulsive attack on Pope's army leading to the 2nd Battle of Bull Run where his line holds a great defensive position at the railroad cut (you van still see it today) and he bears the brunt of attack until Longstreet's corps swings into action. Nice review of Antietam where Jackson absorbs most of the Union attacks and his great Chancerlorsville campaign, you can drive the 8 mile flank march today to appreciate how Jackson was isolated in a bold risk that he and Lee took literally  subdividing the ANV into three parts.<br />Robertson also covers the personal side of Jackson, his loss of his first wife, his relationship with God and Church and the community he lived in as well as his charitable side such as leading a prayer group for slaves. But most interesting is Robertson's analysis of Jackson's behavior such as situations where he seemed to throw his hand or hands upright at the peak of battle as if asking for God's blessing and Robertson addresses Jackson's compulsiveness for secrecy that leaves General Ewell literally in the dark.<br />A large book, but for a Jackson aficionado, it's the best book on Jackson.s) and his impulsive attack on Pope's army leading to the 2nd Battle of Bull Run where his line holds a great defensive position at the railroad cut (you van still see it today) and he bears the brunt of attack until Longstreet's corps swings into action. Nice review of Antietam where Jackson absorbs most of the Union attacks and his great Chancerlorsville campaign, you can drive the 8 mile flank march today to appreciate how Jackson was isolated in a bold risk that he and Lee took literally  subdividing the ANV into three parts. <br />Robertson also covers the personal side of Jackson, his loss of his first wife, his relationship with God and Church and the community he lived in as well as his charitable side such as leading a prayer group for slaves. But most interesting is Robertson's analysis of Jackson's behavior such as situations where he seemed to throw his hand or hands upright at the peak of battle as if asking for God's blessing and Robertson addresses Jackson's compulsiveness for secrecy that leaves General Ewell literally in the dark. <br />A large book, but for a Jackson aficionado, it's the best book on Jackson.	2003-07-27
US	52754940	RGGLEWG8CL4LN	0806131888	997650278	Phil Sheridan and His Army	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Excellent Bio: Sheridan's CW Valley Campaign Goes West	If anyone wonders how Custer could have been so driven to relentless pursue Sioux and Cheyenne to the Little Big Horn one must understand his mentor Phil Sheridan. As Hutton points out, Sheridan aggressiveness from his  men and he could inspire them to such great lengths that one Union Soldier at the battle of Five Forks shot through the primary artery in the neck starts to seek medical help only to be blistered by Sheridan. Although mortally wounded, the young man turns to continue to attack and then immediately collapses to his death. The picture of the angular red haired cadet Sheridan at West Point looks just like the devil and his temper was evident there as he almost bayonets an upper classman that chews him out on parade. Sheridan applies his aggressive nature to the Indian campaigns such that if he is unable to capture the Indians (typical), he systematically destroyed their way of life by eradicating anything they needed to exist. Whether its buffalo, horses or village food stuffs, Sheridan essentially does to the Indians what he did to the Virginia Shenandoah valley during the Civil War where he or Grant made the comment that \\"a crow would have to carry rations if it flew over the valley\\" after Sheridan got through. Sheridan's effective Indian campaigns were often fought in the winter when the Indians had less food and were less mobile. Custer and Terry's campaign was desperate from the start since it started in the summer when the opposite was true. Hutton demonstrates Sheridan's black and white side and his Victorian views when Sheridan refuses to trade six horses for a captured white woman because he imagined her to be too sullied by the Indian braves and thus unfit for civilization. Hutton states in his introduction that he hopes that his daughter never has to meet a man like Sheridan which if he were your enemy it would be a relentless challenge without rules of war.	2003-07-14
US	52754940	R385Z8ESU7VAYA	0972393501	464187805	Death of a Myth	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A Rational Comprehensive Presentation Using Current Research	Snelson offers a direct and comprehensive study in this compact book that focuses on the battle and its aftermath in just 165 very readable pages. If Graham (The Custer Myth) had access to the more current research and archeological studies he may have written a book like this because Snelson tries to write a very objective account. Snelson utilizes the research of others with few primary sources to examine what occurred at the LBH, which, in one sense allows the book to flow quickly. The jist is that Snelson offers and mitigates what the bare facts are and what can be proven and argues against conspiracy theories, which are very popular. A typical example concerns Reno, was he right stopping his charge and forming a skirmish line? Well, who would want to charge into an 8,000-person village before the rest of the regiment was up? You may not like Reno or Benteen for that matter but Snelson argues pretty good points on whether or not they could have made a difference. He uses several of Hardoff's Indian accounts of the battle to establish what Custer did after he came to Medicine Ford Coulee. He obviously spilt his 5-company battalion into two parts but the mystery today still is did he leave half his command to go further north to attack at a better positioned ford to stop the exodus from the village or was he performing a feint to pull the Indians away from Reno? Who knows for sure but the end result is that Custer with E and F (and maybe part of C) move away from Keogh (L and I and all or part of C) and both now isolated cannot support the other when the Indians envelope and shock the troops into a loss of cohesion. He does make sense as does Fox that Custer had to be confidently on the offensive when the abrupt collapse occurs because he is still moving north instead of south towards the rest of the regiment. Keogh may have been split off as a lynchpin to Benteen who was expected to come up and also deal with Indians that were harassing the rear of the column. At the end Snelson attacks the various theories of why the defeat occurs from all the various angles. One of which is that this is a most unique Indian fight in that they fight in unusually large numbers with an almost unified aggressiveness that was only shown at the Rosebud just a week earlier. This unique nature unlike typical Indian fighting totally overwhelms Custer's and any commander's expectations (such as Crook). It's easy to fault Reno and Benteen because of their personalities and their variation of the facts (did not hear shooting down stream) but Snelson challenges you to look at what was happening at the time without the benefit of hindsight. In fact, they all made errors including Custer but it was based on two primary things, that the Indians would run and that Custer could take care of himself and may have if he had not made the final separation of his 5 company battalion on unsuitable ground. I learned a lot from my two day tour of the battlefield earlier this week one of which is the fact that Benteen did not follow Custer's trail at the morass and take the shorter route, he followed Reno's trail to the creek and thus took the indirect route that probably cost a half hour plus the pack train took the same course. Would that have made a difference? Maybe not if Reno still had time to block Benteen and ask for help.  This is compounded by Boston Custer who told his brother that Benteen was coming up to support him as ordered which may have set Custer up to split his battalion, one to safeguard Benteen's connection and leave the other for offensive maneuvering. Unless you have been there, you cannot say enough about the effect of the terrain. The huge rising bluffs blocked Custer's command from having a total view of the village until they were committed and when suddenly put on the defensive, the bluffs offered little protection for Calvary unlike the valley floor that they were best able to operate on. A good book because you can debate the author'sviews with your own or with a colleague, but it is a challenge  to argue his presentation that which makes the book fun to read because all Custer historians enjoy the argument. This is the anti \\"what if\\" book, the author concentrates on \\"what happened and what they knew then\\".views with your own or with a colleague, but it is a challenge  to argue his presentation that which makes the book fun to read because all Custer historians enjoy the argument. This is the anti \\"what if\\" book, the author concentrates on \\"what happened and what they knew then\\".	2003-07-04
US	52754940	R28X2A6WV886F5	0786868961	471611374	Dispatches From the Culture Wars	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Music Industry Activist	When I heard the 60's era liberal Danny Goldberg state on Imus's radio show that the leading democratic presidential candidate Joe Lieberman was in his mind the worst possible person to lead the party for 2004, it perked my interest in this book. I found it interesting to hear a liberal bashing his party's top candidate and I had to find out why.  Goldberg, a successful music executive and social activist and member of the ACLU, writes a detailed opinion on why he thinks the democratic party lost the pragmatism of the 60's and early 70's turning into a somewhat mirror image of the conservative republican party. The Democratic Party once had the primary attention of youth that was reflected in the civil rights movement and in folk/rock music. The author writes of the battle of free speech and freedom of censorship that was challenged by Tipper Gore in congress who became his nemesis politically but oddly a friend as Tipper sticks to her guns but is social to Goldberg. He has some amusing antidotes such as Dee Snyder's (Twisted Sister) rather direct testimony to congress on what the acronyms for his fan club stand for. Interesting to hear that John Denver un-expectantly testifies against censorship because even his songs were questioned about their true lyrical intent.<br />He offers a concise appraisal of why Bush won the election. Essentially, to create space from Clinton, Gore picked a strict conservative moralist who alienated young people and true liberals. Plus the democrats rode old issues to death such as social security.<br />The moral of the story seems to be that as anyone becomes successful, they become more conservative which may explain the leadership of the democratic party spacing themselves apart from their more liberal supporters. It's also amusing that the author seems to like Tipper more than he admits. After reading this book, I think I need to pick up a Rolling Stone magazine occasionally to see what music attracts youth today and maybe catch what politically interests them if anything does.at politically interests them if anything does.	2003-06-19
US	52754940	R1FKUWCIPUF22U	1893554708	973469945	Damn Senators: My Grandfather and the Story of Washingtons Only World Series Championship	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Reflection on the  Great Senators Teams of  Long Ago	Although this book was about the great Senators' franchise of the Walter Johnson era that included the \\"Big Train\\" Walter Johnson, Sam Rice, Goose Gooslin, Bucky Harris and the perennial first baseman Joe Judge, the author's grandfather, it also reflects on a City that had struggling teams in the last two decades of D.C. baseball only to lose them to a new owner that took the team to Texas with great sadness to the D.C. fans. Judge tells the story of one of the worst teams in baseball that eventually unfolds into a star-studded team that could beat the Yankees and actually win a World Series in 1925. Judge intermixes the play by play with biographies of the players of that era anchored by quality detail about Walter Johnson the dominating pitcher, a modest gentleman, and of course his grandfather who typically hit 300 plus with a tremendous fielding percentage. The exciting description of the Senators great team is also full of sports articles and editorials of that era that contribute to the telling of how the fans felt about their team and their national good guy, Walter Johnson. The author has a special view of Judge through his family as they presented a personal picture of the player that played consistently at a Hall of Famer level in 17 seasons with the Senators. The star players of the Senators of the twenties are in stark contrast to Ty Cobb with his bad guy image and the outgoing and sometimes wild Ruth. The author quotes a Ruthian binge of eating 12 hotdogs and 5 sodas at a train stop resulting in intestinal injury. The good guy Senators of the twenties reminds me of my favorite Senator of modern times, Ken McMullen. McMullen, a lifetime 260 hitter with Washington wasn't the star sacker like Judge but he anchored the infield and played steady and had a consistent bat. But what I remember most about McMullen was that he signed autographs after the game for kids including me while most of the ball players of this second division team ran to their cars. McMullen like the Big Train and Judge were players that were gentleman far from the era of today made up of individuals. Bob Short, the 70's owner of the Senators, traded the left side of the infield (Rodriguez and Brinkman) for Denny McLain who lost over 20 games while Detroit flourished. That bad trade seemed to start Short's cruel destruction of a team that literally went south.llen like the Big Train and Judge were players that were gentleman far from the era of today made up of individuals. Bob Short, the 70's owner of the Senators, traded the left side of the infield (Rodriguez and Brinkman) for Denny McLain who lost over 20 games while Detroit flourished. That bad trade seemed to start Short's cruel destruction of a team that literally went south.	2003-06-02
US	52754940	R1CALZW8DSRU7V	140130057X	764274447	The Teammates: A Portrait of a Friendship	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Warm Remembrances Of Four Red Sox Forever Teammates	This is a very warm and refreshing book about four ball players from the greatest period in Red Sox history, Ted Williams, Bobby Doer, Dom DiMaggio and Johnny Pesky. This book Is not only about the undying friendship of four ball players, two of which are in the hall of fame and the other two should be, but also about baseball when teammates stayed on the same team virtually for their entire career. They not only shared the diamond but a cab after a game and enjoyed each other's company even after the season. Pesky and DiMaggio with friend Flavin drive down to visit a dying Williams for there last meeting. During their trip, they relive their careers with the Red Sox, but also the Red Sox franchise at its peak. The author also serves this as an opportunity to provide a biography of each player. The perfectionist and gifted Williams, the scrappy and undying baseball man Pesky, the nice guy and steady star player Doer and the fascinating and extremely intelligent DiMaggio who was just as successful after he left baseball as he was when he played. Great breakdown of what happened in that fatal World Series game in 1946 that was set up actually by DiMaggio's clutch hit and then pulled hamstring. Interesting that Williams was such a perfectionist not only in baseball and fishing but anything in life such as cutting a grapefruit. Very heart-warming story that flows so easy you can read the book in a long lazy afternoon.	2003-05-25
US	52754940	R28444STSLTYJO	0811704777	99267759	The Custer Companion: A Comprehensive Guide to the Life of George Armstrong Custer and the Plains Indian Wars	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Great Overview, Bios, Maps and References for Futher Reading	This is a well detailed overview of the life of General Custer from his roots to the aftermath of the LBH. The book is interlaced with a 100 or more biographies of all the key people associated with from family, soldiers, scouts, and politicians to Native Americans. The bios are outstanding and they fill in some holes even for the seasoned Custerphile. One example is the bio on Dr. Coates, the surgeon who served with Custer in Kansas and. Coates was a key witness on Custer's behalf in reference to the charge that he denied medical treatment for deserters. The bio covers Coates' short army career before and after the incident including his post army life. Another is Colonel Sturgis, the actual Colonel and actual commander of the 7th, who typically was on assignment or administrative duties deferring field command to Custer. In addition, when referencing a particular individual or place or battle, Hatch provides a detailed bibliography on the person or topic. When I read of the controversy regarding Custer's 1867 court-martial, the listed references led me to Lawrence Frost's detailed book on the subject. In addition to the bios sprinkled throughout the book are quotes by the General himself, which are highlighted outside the regular text, which adds depth to what Custer was feeling at that point in his history. It's also quite clear that he and Libby had one of the closest relationships in history. Although there may be more detailed works on the various prime subjects of Custer's life, this book captures it very well and closes ranks on information with people that intersected Custer's life from Reno, Benteen, Tom Custer, Belknap, Crazy Horse, Two Moons, Keough, Calhoun, Weir, Godfrey, Sitting Bull, Gall, Crazy Horse, Curley and on. The biographies sometimes seem a little redundant since they often overlap the text but they are well worth it. My only criticism was that there was not more on Lt. Wallace who was the timekeeper during the LBH command. Wallace appears to have aided and abetted Benteen and Reno at Reno's Court Martial. The fun part is at the conclusion of the LBH the author adds a little argument by critiquing other authors' views in what happened to Custer's brigade and he comes up with his own plausible theory. In Hatch's book, Reno and Benteen are held accountable for their wrong actions or inactions. A very good perspective and well worth reading as it even includes a review of the final Plains Indian campaigns.o have aided and abetted Benteen and Reno at Reno's Court Martial. The fun part is at the conclusion of the LBH the author adds a little argument by critiquing other authors' views in what happened to Custer's brigade and he comes up with his own plausible theory. In Hatch's book, Reno and Benteen are held accountable for their wrong actions or inactions. A very good perspective and well worth reading as it even includes a review of the final Plains Indian campaigns.	2003-05-17
US	52754940	R23LR4AVNFVQB0	0806116080	754354596	Court Martial of General George Armstrong Custer	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent Look at Custer Before the LBH	Custer was a fascinating personality and this book offers a good look into how Custer operated from a military, staff and personal vantage point. The Court Martial is based on his performance in the 1867 campaign against the Cheyenne, Kiowa and Arapaho and it reveals a lot about Custer under both professional and personal pressure. Custer was charged primarily with shooting and mistreating deserters, abandoning his post and not moving against Indians that killed two members of a detachment from his command that allegedly killed two of his men.  Since desertions were epidemic in the commands at this time in the field, Custer, after a bold group left virtually in daylight announced that deserters would be shot. They in fact were when they resisted capture and he made the announcement that medical care would be denied which had a profound of affect limiting future desertions drastically. The desertions were incredulously almost a third of the command and occurred during field maneuvers jeopardizing the entire command. However, the staff physician spoke at the trial in Custer's behalf that Custer announcing no medical treatment was more shows for effect than truth. The other charge concerns Custer leaving his tired and played out command to go east 270 miles to see Libby. Historians have noted that he may have left in a drastic hurry with 72 men as an escort because of jealousy due to the implied attentions of Lt. Weir or that he was worried about her due to cholera that was spreading across several commands. Although some historians lean to the jealousy angle, it appears that Custer may simply have been worried about his wife due to lack of letters and her failed ability to come further west as planned.<br />However, not pursuing the Indians that shot two members of a detachment is the most interesting charge. Did Custer in a driven pursuit of a rendezvous with his wife leave behind two men that were shot, one of which survived? That is the most fascinating issue and if true paints a picture of a man more concerned with his personal desire to see his wife than taking care of fallen members of his regiment. The trial in my mind never completely addresses the situation because it is not clear that Custer knew that a man was wounded, only that two men were shot and killed and abandoned by the rest of the detachment that never put up a fight to save them but ran. An infantry unit went out and recovered the bodies one of which turned out to be a wounded soldier. His defense has been challenged as he states that he was told that two men were killed, that the Indians had evaporated long before he could get there and that the infantry was able to perform a body retrieval service. More than any other aspect of the trial, I wish the author had explored this further. In addition, I wish the author reviewed the courts findings and offered an opinion whether the findings were valid and whether the suspension for one year was as lenient as suggested by General Grant. Excellent descriptions of the campaign and the loss of Lt. Kidder and his escort that was trying to deliver a message to Custer. Custer did in fact make an active arduous search for the elusive Indians such as Pawnee Killer who ended up massacring Lt. Kidder's party. The other half of the book covers the trial, actual witness transcripts, defense statements along with the prosecution's argument, newspaper accounts and the controversy over the Court Martial board that included several officers junior to Custer that was an item of complaint since it is improper and since 3 or more members were associated with General Hancock who made the charges against Custer. Interesting that Custer's commanding officer, Colonel Smith, actually gave Custer his regards to his wife after Custer left to board a train to see her a few miles east. Does appear to be more retribution against Custer by Hancock for a failed campaign. Interesting that after 9 months of a failed Indian campaign that Custer was recalled to do the aggressive fieldwork, which was his role in the LBH campaign.as recalled to do the aggressive fieldwork, which was his role in the LBH campaign.	2003-04-18
US	52754940	R8C6J2BH8AKAN	0814316689	964025444	Custer and the Little Big Horn: A Psychobiographical Inquiry	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Pyschiatric View of Custer	A psychiatrist's view of Custer is quite interesting as the author brigs full focus on Custer's up bringing and environment and how it effected him. Also covers the unique relationship that Custer had with his wife, an inseperable dependent relationship.<br />The author gives a brief history of the campaign that is a little naive based compared to more recent reserach. The author defines Cuser's need for rash behavior but I think the jury is still out on what Custer was attempting to do at the LBH. If he he stopped short of the LBH to attempt to regroup with all his battalions that would be a logical action after he became aware that Reno evacuated from the valley unfortunately in a rout. The failure was capitolized by a very late attempt to follow Custer's trail by two malcontent subordinates. A fascinating book nevertheless but I think taking a more detailed look at Custer's action at the LBH takes more thought which could have given the book a boost. One has to remember that the Indians were suppose to run and the Colonel that failed to sustain an attack for Crook that March was almost court martialed.	2003-02-24
US	52754940	R276KUA4JV91HA	0826319661	698672324	The Indian Frontier, 1763-1846 (Histories of the American Frontier Series)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Excellent History with a Different Perspective	This is not a standard listing of Indian wars when describing what happened to the Native American Indians but what happened to them from the encroachment of several nations. The Americans, British, Spanish and French all had effects on the natives creating different policies and treaties. The book starts from the end of the French Indian War when the French become neutralized opening westward expansion. But the book delves immediately into the Spanish attempts to conquer the west particularly Texas, New Mexico and California. Using missions and the Catholic Church to create Missions or Presidios, the Spanish make attempts to subjugate the natives by forcing their religion on them and virtually making them slaves. Many tribes withdraw into the interior and the effects of disease are devastating reducing the populations tremendously. Hurt notes the enterprising trading of the Chinooks and how they were able to deal with the multiple cultures of Europeans. The author notes that Jefferson originated the plan to move natives west of the Mississippi. President Jackson manipulated breaking treaties on technical grounds arguing that State's rights could nullify Federal treaties forcing the removal of the Creeks, Choctaws, and Cherokees. Chickasaw and others. Fascinating that the author pinpoints how government leaders created divisions between full bloods and mixed bloods and among the splinter groiups of tribes to get legal signings that did not always represent the majority. Also, the author speaks of the attempts at confederation of several tribes such as the Shawnees, Miamis, Delewares, Wyandots, and Ottawas etc. to defeat white expansion. Success is shocking initially to the Americans as General Arthur St. Clair's army suffers a far worse defeat casualty wise than Custer's troop as he loses 623 dead and 250 wounded in 1791. Inevitably, the flourishing attempts of resistance are put down requiring natives to move further west causing their own conflicts with the plains Indians. In addition, the book covers accounts of tribes in conflict such as the Comanche who fought the Apache and the some unique forms of tolerance. An example is the New Mexicans tolerated the Comanche raiding Mexico for horses passing through New Mexico as long as the Comanche didn't attack them. Certainly stressed Mexican and American relations. Gruesome account of how the Mexican government attempted to use rewards fostering professional scalp hunters to eradicate the Apache who preyed on their undermanned frontier. This book sets the course of understanding how the natives were force to move or in some cases eradicated due to disease from white contact. This is an excellent book for a platform into the Plains Indian conflicts.Indians. In addition, the book covers accounts of tribes in conflict such as the Comanche who fought the Apache and the some unique forms of tolerance. An example is the New Mexicans tolerated the Comanche raiding Mexico for horses passing through New Mexico as long as the Comanche didn't attack them. Certainly stressed Mexican and American relations. Gruesome account of how the Mexican government attempted to use rewards fostering professional scalp hunters to eradicate the Apache who preyed on their undermanned frontier. This book sets the course of understanding how the natives were force to move or in some cases eradicated due to disease from white contact. This is an excellent book for a platform into the Plains Indian conflicts.	2003-02-22
US	52754940	R6X0QVD2JBKF	080612279X	533649859	Custer in '76: Walter Camp's Notes on the Custer Fight	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Hammer enhances Camp's wonderful interview Notes	Walter Camp had the great fortune and drive to visit the critical sites of the old west and seek out and interview actual participants and witnesses. Unfortunately, Camp did not survive to put his great efforts into a book but Hammer does the next best thing possible by organizing Camp's would be book and providing editorial commentary to fill in the gaps.  Hammer collects Camp's material on the Little Bighorn and every page is full of interesting information. My favorite parts of the book are references to participants other than the main characters such as Peter Thompson and other members of Custer's separate battalion that survived because their horses broke down prior to the descent into Medicine trail Coulee. Hammer does an excellent job of providing clarification of the participants or writings of Camp in the footnotes so that you almost have all your questions answered by Hammer. A delightful book without harsh judgment offered by Camp and a great collection of readable material. It must have been frustrating to have first person interviews with participants when their stories clashed, were foggy or perhaps grandiose such as Thompson's alleged view of the valley as Custer descended to the river. Camp not only interviewed troopers but also Custer's scouts and Sioux and Cheyenne participants. Camp did a lot not to just record history but to locate historical sites in the remote West like Slim Buttes that without his timely intervention may have otherwise been lost to history. The only unfortunate aspect of the book is that there isn't more material and that Camp's health failed before he could draw his own conclusions. He also had the greatest vacation hobby, exploring and researching the old west before it was very old.	2003-02-21
US	52754940	RS6PMV71061S5	0306804646	646334722	From Manassas to Appomattox: General James Longstreet	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Longstreet Speaks Although After Time Has Passed	This is a fairly long book written by Longstreet a few years before his death as one of the longest living of the great generals of the Confederacy. He wrote many controversial articles prior to this book in the late 1870's that sparked controversy during the building of the Lost Cause syndrome. Since Longstreet does seem to have some memory issues with some battles such as Gaines Mill, parts of the book may be a little disappointing; however, he provides pretty good detail on his Gettysburg participation that is probably the most significant part of the book. The issue of what occurred on the morning of the second day of Gettysburg with Lee is in some conflict with previous testimony but Longstreet clearly states that there was no \\"sunrise attack order\\". He also defends his proposed move to the right but offers, what almost seems a publishers delight, a view that \\"Lee's blood was up\\" and there was no recourse but to attack. Unfortunately, Longstreet spends little time on his Tennessee campaign where in brutal winter conditions his wonderful command totters into disharmony. Although I wonder how much involvement Longstreet had with ghostwriters due to the loss of the use of his arm from the Wilderness, the demeanor seems consistent with \\"Old Pete\\". Perhaps if Longstreet followed D. H. Hill's view of never speaking ill of the dead, he would have a place in Richmond. In contrast to \\"Old Pete\\", D. H. Hill who was a cranky and outspoken critic during the war and but effective general, following his own rules Hill was rather boring in his lack of commentary.  What is phenomenal about Longstreet is the great punishment he has taken from earlier CW writers about Gettysburg because of his post war views while in contrast Jackson was not held nearly as accountable for his failure to participate properly in the 7 Days battles where the war could have been won. Contrast Longstreet's role at the battle of Glendale with Jackson's	2003-02-21
US	52754940	R2TU5SL5ZQV9U5	0807854271	968516271	General George E. Pickett in Life and Legend	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Well Done Bio on the General Associated with Great Disasters	Lesly Gordon does a well done bio on Pickett the General associated withh three of the greatest disasters of Lee's Northern Army of Virginia. Pickett is obviously associated with the great charge at Gettysburg but also the crushing disaster at Five Forks and within a week the final crushing blow at Saylers Creek where Lee lost over 6,000 soildiers. The bio covers Pickett's early years with the Mexican War where he takes the flag from a wounded Longstreet to bound up the steps at Chapultepec, his realtionship with an Indian maiden that may have included marriage and the son that he seemingly abandoned and left in the northwest. Picket also is involved with a virtual skirmish with England over islands in the northwest near Pugent Sound.<br />But the best part of the book is Gordon's filling in of Pickett's Civil War career. After an early wounding during the Peninsula Campaign, Pickett's career stays on the back burner until Gettysburg. After discussion of Pickett's role and actions where he actually participates in 1/3 of the charge that holds his name Pickett has other assignments such as the retaking of North Carolina towns and his early defense of Petersburg where he holds back the Union forces with just a few thousand men  until Beauregard arrives to take command. Pickett's miring in controversy is well brought out such as his decision to hang former Confederates that were captuted while fighting for the Union in North Carolina and his infamous part in the Five Forks battle where he was away from the fight eating shad and partaking in drink with Rosser and Fitz Lee while his command is virtually wiped out. The later is whispered but little known until after his death. His remnants of command are virtually captured at Sayler's Creek and Lee allegedly discharges him with Anderson and Bushrod Johnson days before Appomatox.<br />Gordon's bio is fascinating as Pickett seems to be a brave and valiant soldier but one that is immature such as his leaving the lines in Suffolk to visit LaSalle`his future wife who lived a few miles in Chuckatuck, his stepping away from command to party behind the lines at Five Forks and his penchant for writing emotional and whinny battle reports. The latter is probably why Lee had Pickett tear up his Gettysburg report. LaSalle is revealed as a dedicated wife but one that fabricates history to enhance Pickett's reputation. Alleged letters from Pickett that she published are in  many cases most likely written by her own hand and recent scholarship has shown gross plagerism and in some cases illogical history where the facts dispute her version of the truth such as Lincoln stopping  by to see the Picketts in Richmond. A fascinating account of inconsistencies, Pickett stems the tide at Petersburg abnd fights well at Dinwiddie Court House against Sheridan but then relaxes too much at Five Forks in a very difficult and unsupported position which in the end results in the collapse of Lee's right wing. Gordon does well in removing some of the mystery about Pickett who today is burried near his men at Hollywood Cemetery but seemingly isolated from other Generals burried there.Suffolk to visit LaSalle`his future wife who lived a few miles in Chuckatuck, his stepping away from command to party behind the lines at Five Forks and his penchant for writing emotional and whinny battle reports. The latter is probably why Lee had Pickett tear up his Gettysburg report. LaSalle is revealed as a dedicated wife but one that fabricates history to enhance Pickett's reputation. Alleged letters from Pickett that she published are in  many cases most likely written by her own hand and recent scholarship has shown gross plagerism and in some cases illogical history where the facts dispute her version of the truth such as Lincoln stopping  by to see the Picketts in Richmond. A fascinating account of inconsistencies, Pickett stems the tide at Petersburg abnd fights well at Dinwiddie Court House against Sheridan but then relaxes too much at Five Forks in a very difficult and unsupported position which in the end results in the collapse of Lee's right wing. Gordon does well in removing some of the mystery about Pickett who today is burried near his men at Hollywood Cemetery but seemingly isolated from other Generals burried there.	2003-01-23
US	52754940	R1SZ18ALWGS095	0873384822	562093860	The Second Day at Gettysburg: Essays on Confederate and Union Leadership	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Narrow Focus and Krick Uses Canister on Longstreet	This book is the third in a series of essays on the Gettysburg battle and as much as I thoroughly enjoyed the First day and the Third, this book is my least favorite. Although, Gallagher as usual writes a very fair and well researched essay on REL and his reasoning and actions at Gettysburg, the remaining three authors are a little too narrow in scope on their topic or in the case of Krick to eager to harpoon the great white whale. Gallagher has the best essay as he explains Lee's position, options and reasoning in a very logical format. He also underlines well Lee's interactions with his generals.<br />It was very disappointing that Krick who is a tremendously well researched writer on Jackson and who adores him writes the critical essay on Longstreet who Krick has a long history of open disgust. Krick starts off his essay with a collection of everything ugly that was ever said about Longstreet to incredulous proportions that he even includes the relatively few comments made by Longstreet's trusted subordinates. Often quoting McLaws who called Longstreet a \\"great big humbug\\", in contrast it was noted in Jeffery Wertz's more recent book that recently discovered documentation between Longstreet and McLaws indicated that Lee wanted Longstreet to either ride McLaws hard to keep him from being lethargic or lose him, which may explain the strains in their relationship. It's no secret that Longstreet was not motivated for a frontal assault and he is taken to task for trying to conceal moving 20,000 men from an open field although I would agree he could have done it more effectively. Krick roasts Longstreet every which way, he criticizes him for not embracing Lee's attack plan and arguing but then beats him up for refusing Hood's last minute desire to flank the round tops. By this time, Longstreet played Lee too long for the same request thus he ordered the attack a fact Longstreet never hid even in his writings; however, poorly written. Krick in effect makes Longstreet look like such a dolt that it reflects negatively on Lee, as if he was incapable of either command or command changes. Looking at the number of officers that Lee moved out after the Seven days and at Antietam, Lee could and did reassign anyone that displeased him. The second day was the heaviest fighting on the field and in spite of the Union position; the First Corp almost breaks through. This should have been the best and most critical essay in the book and I think more even handed in the analysis.<br />The remaining two essays maintain a more narrow scope. Greene expertly explains the bewildering day of Slocum and the 12th Corp. Slocum inexplicitly does not march to the sound of the guns embracing orders that are out of date and when he pulls into Culps Hill to become the senior commander he seems to lose control of his corps not even knowing the whereabouts of his divisions. Fortunately for the Union, no great attack occurred while 2/3's to the division marched away from their positions to assist the Union Center and left flank and while Geary inexplicitly marched from Culps Hill away from the battle essentially getting lost. Only Greene's division hang's on beating Johnson's dramatic attack in which he out numbered Greene 3 to 1. Slocum's units return at the end of the day. The one piece that would have added an interesting aspect to the essay was how the Confederates just missed out on having over whelming numbers in the attack phase to the point of success.  Part of it is explained in that the Stonewall Brigade had to watch a threat from the east but a little more detail would have been wonderful. It sounds that this was the great possibility for a breakthrough while the maligned Longstreet's attack took much of the focus of the Union's attention away.<br />The last essay by Hartwig is a detailed study of General Caldwell's division filling the breach at the Wheatfield stemming the attack by the First Corp led by Kershaw, Anderson and Semmes. Plugging the holeexpertly and timely without any leadership from either Corp commanders on the field. He borrows commands to fill holes in his line and he stymies the Confederate attack until Barksdale and Wofford's brigade ruptures Sickles line collapsing Caldwell's exposed right flank. In spite of high casualties and expert service, Caldwell is castigated by his superiors and eventually loses his command. He's never properly appreciated and perhaps is made inappropriately culpable by his inept Corp commander whose ruthless critique may have been the cover for his own limited performance.<br />Another essay was needed, what was A. P. Hill doing?e expertly and timely without any leadership from either Corp commanders on the field. He borrows commands to fill holes in his line and he stymies the Confederate attack until Barksdale and Wofford's brigade ruptures Sickles line collapsing Caldwell's exposed right flank. In spite of high casualties and expert service, Caldwell is castigated by his superiors and eventually loses his command. He's never properly appreciated and perhaps is made inappropriately culpable by his inept Corp commander whose ruthless critique may have been the cover for his own limited performance.   <br />Another essay was needed, what was A. P. Hill doing?	2003-01-22
US	52754940	R1QTHU1Q832L6	0743223233	692090769	War in a Time of Peace: Bush, Clinton, and the Generals	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Best Explanation of the Balkans War and US Anxiety	The author of the Best and he Brightest about Viet Nam unglues the complications of the war in the Balkans and makes the cause of the war and the US's hesitance to become involved much more straight forward to understand than any other publication I have read. The US government reluctantly gets involved due to a myriad of reasons that include the post Vietnam paranoia of over extended involvement, the effect of TV exploiting military failures and the politicians fearing of the polls and loss of votes. The book starts with Bush Sr.'s abrupt victory over Iraq that is so quick that his boost in the polls becomes both dramatic in its height as it was immediate in its plunge. His failure to grasp the impact of the failing economy along with the inability to over come an uncoordinated campaign that even Jim Baker cannot glue together in the late hour after his reluctant step down as Secretary of State. The author notes that Clinton's limited interest and experience in world affairs contributes greatly to a latent understanding of the Balkan's war. As Bush held a limited understanding of the divisive elements of the Balkan war in its early phase with the political fear of risking another foreign involvement too soon, the Clinton administration avoided the issue as long as possible letting the Europeans deal with the war as much as possible until Tony Blair and Chirac begin to become aggressively involved. The US reluctantly participated to limit the Serbs butchery of the Croatia and Muslims. Milosevic chameleon abilities to represent himself early on a  communist supporter, to a potential western leader to his real role as a dictator willing to commit ethnic cleansing to rival Hitler outrage the American Military commander in Europe Wesley Clark who strangely has little support by the Joints Chief of Staff and Secretary of Defense William Cohen and the Clinton team. Halberstam describes the Powell Doctrine of limited involvement that evolves into Clinton's Mogadishu failures colored by Clinton's inability to consult with either the CIA Director or his Secretary of Defense or the US staff on the ground in Mogadishu. Frustrating account of officials in the Clinton administration struggling over what to do, what would be right and what would be politically acceptable.<br />Halberstam covers a number of personnel issues such as the jealous and suspicious military superiors who weaken those with bright ideas and motivation to take on the horns of the devil in the Balkans. An example is the Air Force Colonel who advanced precision bombing on multiple targets and whose ideas were reluctantly adopted but yet after success he was pushed aside after the Gulf War. The sad split between the NSC's Anthony Lake and his former best friend Holbrooke who breaks out and eventually coordinates the Dayton accords. How sad that at the end the author describes how General Wes Clark who worked hard to successfully stop the war in the Balkans but was replaced by the distrustful and jealous Joint Chiefs who forced his retirement through the alleged ignorant approval of Clinton. Halberstam also covers the quiet role of the Vice-President whose active role in outside the limelight while Clinton and Albright basked in the attention may have become President had he not ironically had been as modest as the senior Bush. The author covers the complexity of the Balkans and the divisive elements and split loyalties between the European countries along the same lines as WWI and WWII. Milosovic even takes advantage of Clinton's polarization during the Lewinski affair. It's evident at the end that in the administration Clinton was a powerful public force that lived for public contact while Gore was the quiet and efficient Statesman that was hurt more by Clinton's personnel failures and indecision on foreign affairs. At the end Halberstam notes that Clinton left office so full of himself that he imploded with confidence leading to his poorly researched and unsavory pardons making the worst exit of the White House with the exception of Nixon.  The book does become exhausting due to the repeated inter personnel conflicts and the seemingly constant starting over with new officials.  Cohen seems to have to go back to the starting line on the Balkans after<br />he arrives in the middle of the second Balkans crisis. The other frustrating end is the Joints Chiefs who have the most sophisticated weaponry but who are more afraid to lose an Apache helicopter than to use it to quickly reduce the length of the war on civilians. After all, Halberstam notes, the US public's short attention span on foreign affairs combined with politician's fear of the polls reduces the effectiveness of the US in global affairs today, even for peace.dons making the worst exit of the White House with the exception of Nixon.   The book does become exhausting due to the repeated inter personnel conflicts and the seemingly constant starting over with new officials.  Cohen seems to have to go back to the starting line on the Balkans after<BR>he arrives in the middle of the second Balkans crisis. The other frustrating end is the Joints Chiefs who have the most sophisticated weaponry but who are more afraid to lose an Apache helicopter than to use it to quickly reduce the length of the war on civilians. After all, Halberstam notes, the US public's short attention span on foreign affairs combined with politician's fear of the polls reduces the effectiveness of the US in global affairs today, even for peace.	2003-01-18
US	52754940	R1SR6JB56H0C19	0385489129	752867547	My Losing Season	Books	5	3	3	N	N	More than a Sports Story:Conroy Conquers Great Adversity	Fascinating story of Pat Conroy's senior Citadel team that after their last game, the players separate from each other as if to avoid any memories of a severe loosing season made more frustrating by a coach who worked them excessively hard and frequently degraded their performance. Conroy goes back in time to find his teammates and he pulls them together to tell the story of a team with talent that self-destructs during an arduous season. But Conroy also goes back to his youth and his relations with his father. It's hard to believe when Conroy says the portrait of his father in the \\"Great Santini\\" was actually a softer image of his father. Conroy survives constant degradation by his father through not only basketball but also a love of literature where he becomes an accomplished student. He suffers the embarrassment of losing what he thought was a sure scholarship offer to South Carolina while small college offers were tossed by his father who wouldn't even open letters from colleges that didn't meet his approval. With a near miss scholarship out the window to South Carolina, Conroy enters the Citadel alone after a 5-day train ride. Conroy then suffers through the plebe system and after one particularly brutal night of hazing, he is saved by the intervention of a no rank senior who with other no rank seniors form a shelter in which he can survive. He never forgets their kindness as he eventually emulates them when he becomes an upper classman.<br />Conroy does develop academically at the Citadel and in spite of his frustration with the Plebe system, he continues to develop in literature and his aspirations of day being a writer seem to coincide with his confidence as a basketball player. While experiencing difficulties with communicating with his coach, Conroy develops excellent academic relationships with his professors achieving scholastically beyond his basketball endeavors.<br />But the bulk of the story is the telling of his development into a better than he describes basketball player. Conroy tells the entertaining story of the Citadel basketball team from his freshman year to that final year where he battles better athletes for the starting point guard position. He provides biographies for each player including their strengths and weaknesses while they play for a college that does not have any real affection for jocks. Their coach is a former NC State rebounder of high regard who seems frustrated that he is coaching in the Southern Conference. He handles his players harshly with virtually no positive feedback. On Christmas Day they practice for 4 hard hours only to have baloney sandwiches twice a day while they live in the visitor's dorm on the empty campus seems incredibly Spartan. But in spite of the negatives Conroy survives to eventually take his place as the captain of the team and as the eventual starting point guard. In addition, he blossoms as a student and makes strong friendships with his mentors that derive pleasure from his grasp of literature.<br />The telling of the basketball season is virtually game-by-game as he tells of teams familiar with anyone in the south who is aware of the Southern Conference. Conroy captures the exciting play as the team plays Davidson, then coached by Lefty Driesel, VMI, VA. Tech, Richmond, Jacksonville, William and Mary, Clemson and many others. He not only describes the game action well but also he describes the arenas such as the old Blow Gym at W & M, the VMI pit with the Keydets and playing in the hostile world of Clemson. Conroy provides insight to the players and their feelings and their struggles to play well in spite of their coach who at times punished the best players and sometimes wore them down before the games even started.<br />As the book evolved it seems that Conroy got in touch with himself realizing the consequences of living in a suffering house hold made him attracted to the down trodden particularly women that had a hard life. The psychological damage thathe feels is portrayed through the book and after the season is over Conroy seems to look back not only at the lives of his teammates but his own life as well. After graduating, Conroy becomes estranged from the Citadel because of his books and then his father because of the \\"Great Santini\\" (\\"It put a missile in his cockpit\\"). But this a positive story after all because in spite of his modesty, Conroy achieves beyond his dreams on the court, and academically at the Citadel and eventually his father makes a dramatic turn for the better. The basketball story is riveting but Conroy's survival even more so. And in his openness about his athletic limitations, the reader has to think that any point guard that can score over 20 points a game four times in a season has got to be a good player. But the high point is the bonds between the players that although they were not obviously evident during the losing season actually become cemented almost 30 years later as Conroy contacts his teammates as they jointly explore that catastrophic season. The one mystery is how his father could change so dramatically that at his death he was beloved by his family and his community. That aspect deserves more detail.that he feels is portrayed through the book and after the season is over Conroy seems to look back not only at the lives of his teammates but his own life as well. After graduating, Conroy becomes estranged from the Citadel because of his books and then his father because of the \\"Great Santini\\" (\\"It put a missile in his cockpit\\"). But this a positive story after all because in spite of his modesty, Conroy achieves beyond his dreams on the court, and academically at the Citadel and eventually his father makes a dramatic turn for the better. The basketball story is riveting but Conroy's survival even more so. And in his openness about his athletic limitations, the reader has to think that any point guard that can score over 20 points a game four times in a season has got to be a good player. But the high point is the bonds between the players that although they were not obviously evident during the losing season actually become cemented almost 30 years later as Conroy contacts his teammates as they jointly explore that catastrophic season. The one mystery is how his father could change so dramatically that at his death he was beloved by his family and his community. That aspect deserves more detail.	2002-12-24
US	52754940	R2ET4OS0UGXGXA	0807827452	1186759	Lee's Last Retreat: The Flight to Appomattox	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Best Researched Story of the Reteat, Facts Outweight Myths	William Marvel writes the most detailed and honest history of Lee's Retreat to Appomattox. While romantic excess has been over developed by memoirs of political generals and other like officers, Marvel provides the diaries and letters of the common soldier along with bureaucrats and officers and leaders establishing the true story of the retreat. While many of Lee's soldiers fight bravely against significant odds, poor transportation and the limited coordination of the retreat, many soldiers did not fare well with adversity. Marvel starts from the outer defenses of Petersburg where the Five Forks debacle leads to a separation of the main Army of Picket and Anderson's troops that struggle west into a splintered and disorganized command. Meanwhile, the break through occurs the next day just west of Petersburg causing a retreat from Richmond and Petersburg toward Amelia Court House.  The concentration at Amelia Court House seals the doom of the retreat, as Lee is too far north to move to North Carolina to join Johnson.<br />Marvel determines the true delay at Amelia relating not so much as the lack of food stores that were apparently never directed there but to the fact that Ewell's Richmond forces had no means to cross the Appomattox to join the command. The lack of a pontoon bridge that was directed elsewhere and Picket and Anderson's inability to cross the same river to the south slow and lead to coordination issues that are never over come.<br />Marvel notes that Lee had nearly 70,000 troops to start the retreat but defeat at Five Forks and morale and desertion problems preceding Five Forks continue to disintegrate the Army disastrously particularly the Virginia troops who desert at a high number as they are closer to home although Picket's predominately VA. Regiments suffer the blunt of capture at Five Forks and Sailors Creek. Gordon as history has shown was the great politician who was a hero but he maligned history to serve his own grandiose purpose such as his fantasy story of propping the wounded Union General Barlow against a tree at Gettysburg.  His story of his celebrated surrender of the troops is gross exaggeration complimented by Union General Chamberlain's portrayal that infers that he was in fact in charge of the surrender.<br />This day-by-day accounting is full of maps and personal stories of the men that marched, fought, deserted and walked along as stragglers or rabble. Longstreet holds his First Corps intact throughout the march as the other corps fragment due to incessant harassment of their rear and major losses at the two key battles aforementioned. The Union troops press on with the arrogant Sheridan hurrying his cavalry forward with Custer and Devin at the forefront effectively closing off Jetersville forcing Lee west and north instead of south. The veterans of the Army of Virginia fought well and hard but the gradual erosion of the army and the southern cavalry losing men continuously through the ponderously slow retreat caused by poor roads, broken down animals and broken spirits. In the appendix, Marvel spends more detail on the relief of command of Anderson, Picket and Johnson; covers Walter Taylor's inventive under reporting of Lee's army and the true reasons for the \\"fatal delay\\" at Amelia.<br />Fascinating that today Union General Ord's troops and Sheridan virtually follow Route 460 west while Lee's retreat is still composed of back roads. Even today, Lee's retreat route is not the direct route which is still composed of country roads.<br />The facts are even more interesting than some of the exaggerations that are now more myth than legend.fantasy story of propping the wounded Union General Barlow against a tree at Gettysburg.  His story of his celebrated surrender of the troops is gross exaggeration complimented by Union General Chamberlain's portrayal that infers that he was in fact in charge of the surrender. <br />This day-by-day accounting is full of maps and personal stories of the men that marched, fought, deserted and walked along as stragglers or rabble. Longstreet holds his First Corps intact throughout the march as the other corps fragment due to incessant harassment of their rear and major losses at the two key battles aforementioned. The Union troops press on with the arrogant Sheridan hurrying his cavalry forward with Custer and Devin at the forefront effectively closing off Jetersville forcing Lee west and north instead of south. The veterans of the Army of Virginia fought well and hard but the gradual erosion of the army and the southern cavalry losing men continuously through the ponderously slow retreat caused by poor roads, broken down animals and broken spirits. In the appendix, Marvel spends more detail on the relief of command of Anderson, Picket and Johnson; covers Walter Taylor's inventive under reporting of Lee's army and the true reasons for the \\"fatal delay\\" at Amelia.<br />Fascinating that today Union General Ord's troops and Sheridan virtually follow Route 460 west while Lee's retreat is still composed of back roads. Even today, Lee's retreat route is not the direct route which is still composed of country roads. <BR>The facts are even more interesting than some of the exaggerations that are now more myth than legend.	2002-12-03
US	52754940	R2TH73DK0S7DO1	0805065415	636052637	Blue Latitudes: Boldly Going Where Captain Cook Has Gone Before	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Follow Cook & History to Exotic Places with a Social Update	Horwitz takes a historians appreciation for Cook into an opportunity to travel and see the sights that Cook saw in the Pacific traveling first on a replica of the Endeavor, Cooks first Pacific ship, then by small boat, plane, ferry and on land by car and by foot. Horwitz provides a historical telling of Cook utilizing his actual logs, diaries of shipmates, and noted biographers. Horwitz tells the story of Cooks travels and historical events as he traverses the globe to the sites that Cook visited in three separate Pacific voyages. The best part of the book are his telling of what Cook saw and did at each site but also Horwitzs critical analysis of these exotic places as they appear today in contrast to 225 years ago. Horwitz asks natives today what they know about Cook and he gets an updated perspective from the populations unique to each place. In addition, Horwitz tries to walk and stand in the same places that Cook did. In this way, you get a great feel for what Cook went through in his travels starting with Horwitzs week long stay on the Endeavor replica as a crew member that worked hours and assignments similar to the original crew. Although, the Endeavor featured modern and safer bathrooms and kitchens, the grueling work requirements, hours, lack of sleep, storms and sleeping in hammocks wedged between other mates of various sizes gave the reader an appreciation for what Cooks sailors went through on 2  3 year voyages.<br />Horwitzs description is somewhat startling and amusing as he quotes an individual stating that the best thing about Tahiti are the post cards. His humorous and hard drinking Aussie companion describes that main city in Tahiti as being built by unemployable architects.  The poorly constructed building, the extreme heat, black sand (there is no white sand), insects and the care free or careless lifestyle of the Tahitians does not sound attractive. In addition, many of the Polynesian natives know little of Cook or think of him not as an explorer but as an exploiter of the lands. A man that brought violence, disease and western culture that destroyed the lifestyle of the lands. The New Zealand natives think of Cook in the same way that the American Indian Movement of the 1970s feel about Columbus today. Horwitz adds balance by telling of Cooks modern approach to keep his sailors healthy, quarantine the sick away from island women (a challenge in any day) and his attempts to peacefully co-exist with natives. Horwitz tells some delightful tales of his experiences in these exotic places such as Cook Town where Cook was beached after striking the Great barrier Reef (tough way to discover something) and joins the hard and early drinking residents in a re-enactment of their first landing. But he also tells of the plight of the Aborigines, their lack of need for material things and their virtual eradication by early settlers. He tells of the Island Tonga and its split society between Royalty and affluent and the balance of the natives that have little exercise of a true democracy. He also visits the Island of Niue, which was called Savage Island by Cook due to an aggressive meeting with the natives. Niue mysteriously earns income through a nefarious company licensing providing the government income and a tax shelter for the company. In addition, Niue has a 900 number connection as an income producer and a short lived medical college that has no students and a questionable lone member faculty.<br />Even if someone is unfamiliar with Cook, you will grew to appreciate the individual who rose from very modest means to a celebrated British Naval captain and navigator and explorer of the Pacific. By the time Horwitz tracks Cook on his third voyage to the Pacific particular his travels to Alaska and the windy and cold Aleutians<br /> and then Hawaii, you cannot help but have developed respect for this brave and straitlaced traveler. Although you know early on of Cooks death in Hawaii, Horwitz visits the island last appropriately  in the same locations as Cook and he weaves the story of his death while telling of the development of the Island and its people. At the end, it seems that Cooks elementary method of using force to recapture a stolen boat under estimated the response of the natives which may have been aggravated by his physical failings on his third trying voyage in a very short time with a boat that was disabled prematurely. This is the ultimate travelogue, visiting history with a social respective of the people and places with humor and with an Aussie who adds fun with a blunt perspective.ii, Horwitz visits the island last appropriately  in the same locations as Cook and he weaves the story of his death while telling of the development of the Island and its people. At the end, it seems that Cooks elementary method of using force to recapture a stolen boat under estimated the response of the natives which may have been aggravated by his physical failings on his third trying voyage in a very short time with a boat that was disabled prematurely. This is the ultimate travelogue, visiting history with a social respective of the people and places with humor and with an Aussie who adds fun with a blunt perspective.	2002-11-29
US	52754940	R1TWR5USQD7NPM	067975833X	289325498	Confederates in the Attic: Dispatches from the Unfinished Civil War	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Tour of  CW History sites and with updated Social Commentary	The author takes a roaming tour of Civil war sites and he provides an updated social view of the people and places where these sites lie. He starts with an introduction to one of the more extreme and realistic re-enactors who takes the role well over the edge. His man Rob goes beyond the legitimate necessity of clothing, materials and even the acting of the role. He stays lean for the deprived Confederate look and practices bloating to portray the dead. My best parts of the book are the history/social stops through the south that incorporate not only visits to primary Civil War sites but some as remote as prison and hospital sites with lonely graves nearby. The author notes the historical happenings of the sites quite well but he also notes it's impact on the town and the people. He also describes some of the individual people that live there today and he tells of the effects the war's legacy may have had on them and their town. Some of the these are very interesting while others reveal changes that are disappointing such as the excavation near the banks of the Mississippi at Vicksburg that are damaging veteran burial sites and impacts other Civil War sites. Horwitz writes with an objective eye and writes of things that are also unsettling such as Guthrie, Kentucky the site of a racial fallout over flags and racism resulting in a murder which became a subsequent rallying point for white supremacists. While he covers many of the historical sites well such as Shiloh most of what he captures is his personal experience with people at these sites and his situational experiences like camping in the woods at Five Forks while being pelted by rain, then heat than mosquitoes. The histories are relevant and sometimes brief but he gives you an updated look at life in the south which include  humor. Some of the humorous samples include the gun shop with the sign \\"Shoplifters will be shot on site, survivors will be shot again\\", his visit with grumpy Shelby Foote who growls but still answers his own phone and grants a personal interview and his search for the Gone With The Wind plantation in Georgia. Also includes a scary encounter with an oversized redneck in a redneck bar that didn't appreciate an author in his midst. A little harsh sometimes in his descriptions, I see Petersburg as a historical jewel with original homes from the 1700's and 1800's still in use and coming back to their original historical look with a great October Festival, the Siege Museum, endless battlefields, the crater etc. However, Horwitz makes comment that other than drinking beer and looking for tourists to talk to, the residents find Petersburg a slow town. It's all a matter of perspective. This book is a mixture of Ian Frazier and Emory Thomas. Horwitz's new book, Blue Latitudes, following the travels of Cook is even better. \\"Latitudes\\" is history and a vacation at the same time along with a social view of those lands so far away.ill answers his own phone and grants a personal interview and his search for the Gone With The Wind plantation in Georgia. Also includes a scary encounter with an oversized redneck in a redneck bar that didn't appreciate an author in his midst. A little harsh sometimes in his descriptions, I see Petersburg as a historical jewel with original homes from the 1700's and 1800's still in use and coming back to their original historical look with a great October Festival, the Siege Museum, endless battlefields, the crater etc. However, Horwitz makes comment that other than drinking beer and looking for tourists to talk to, the residents find Petersburg a slow town. It's all a matter of perspective. This book is a mixture of Ian Frazier and Emory Thomas. Horwitz's new book, Blue Latitudes, following the travels of Cook is even better. \\"Latitudes\\" is history and a vacation at the same time along with a social view of those lands so far away.	2002-11-20
US	52754940	R2FGNI3WM4JKUZ	0878423990	378863784	A Dispatch to Custer: The Tragedy of Lieutenant Kidder	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A Very Personally Reserached history wih Maps and Photos	This is a very personal history as the author takes personal interest in the Lt. Kidder massacre that occurred to a platoon of soldiers carrying a dispatch from General Sherman to Custer. This was during the 1867 Kansas Indian war during the military's unsuccessful campaign to defeat the various tribes. Earlier references to Kidder stated that the young inexperienced officer was unfamiliar with Indians and was ill prepared for his mission. However, the author through research confirms that Kidder had Civil War and Indian warfare experience. The latter was during the Sioux wars in Minnesota. The author provides more detail than the normal few pages in books about Custer. The detail includes a biography of Kidder, a detailed description of his family and particularly information about his father who was a judge and politician in South Dakota. High points include the story of the massacre. It starts initially with Kidders recent re-enlistment and assignment in Kansas and within a few weeks of his arrival, the mission to deliver Custer a dispatch who at that time was with the 7th trying to locate and defeat the Indians. Kidder finds Custer's trail but unfortunately where Custer turned off the Wallace trail, Kidder misses the new yet faint trail perhaps because he passed it at night. Approximately 200 warriors found Lt. Kidder instead and he tries to escape finally fortifying himself in a small ravine among high grass. It sounds familiar to the last survivors of Custer Hill running to a ravine for cover also killed without survivors. The author's surprisingly successful archeology digs help them map a course of battle and determine what may have happened. Kidder also had an Indian guide who died with all 11 army members. The author also writes of Kidders father making a brave trek to the battle site to recover his son's body, which actually encouraged the army to recover all the bodies. It's a personal trip with history and a real person's story about the need to find more detail about an often referred to event without elaborate research. The authors virtually take you there with their visit through descriptions, maps and photos.	2002-11-11
US	52754940	R2HAR87HU6H9K3	0385188501	728927408	Chemistry Made Simple	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Concise Review: A good reference book	I enjoyed the first 9 chapters of basic chemistry but my interest slowed with the steady diet of formulas. I think it's an excellent reference book and a book that would go very well with an outline course. I miss some of the examples given in standard books. But a very good primer.	2002-11-11
US	52754940	R33OR41GXQ34PE	0878423990	378863784	A Dispatch to Custer: The Tragedy of Lieutenant Kidder	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Excellent Personal History of a Little Explored Event	This is a very personal history as the author takes personal interest in the Lt. Kidder massacre that occurred to a platoon of soldiers carrying a dispatch from General Sherman to Custer. This was during the 1867 Kansas Indian war during the military's unsuccessful campaign to defeat the various tribes. Earlier references to Kidder stated that the young inexperienced officer was unfamiliar with Indians and was ill prepared for his mission. However, the author through research confirms that Kidder had Civil War and Indian warfare experience. The latter was during the Sioux wars in Minnesota. The author provides more detail than the normal few pages in books about Custer. The detail includes a biography of Kidder, a detailed description of his family and particularly information about his father who was a judge and politician in South Dakota. High points include the story of the massacre. It starts initially with Kidders recent re-enlistment and assignment in Kansas and within a few weeks of his arrival, the mission to deliver Custer a dispatch who at that time was with the 7th trying to locate and defeat the Indians. Kidder finds Custer's trail but unfortunately where Custer turned off the Wallace trail, Kidder misses the new yet faint trail perhaps because he passed it at night. Approximately 200 warriors found Lt. Kidder instead and he tries to escape finally fortifying himself in a small ravine among high grass. It sounds familiar to the last survivors of Custer Hill running to a ravine for cover also killed without survivors. The author's surprisingly successful archeology digs help them map a course of battle and determine what may have happened. Kidder also had an Indian guide who died with all 11 army members. The author also writes of Kidders father making a brave trek to the battle site to recover his son's body, which actually encouraged the army to recover all the bodies. It's a personal trip with history and a real person's story about the need to find more detail about an often referred to event without elaborate research. The authors virtually take you there with their visit through descriptions, maps and photos.re detail about an often referred to event without elaborate research. The authors virtually take you there with their visit through descriptions, maps and photos.	2002-11-11
US	52754940	R3H79463O9ZDH4	0670031178	14981931	Richmond Burning: The Last Days of the Confederate Capital	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Inside Story: The Final/post days of the Confederate City	Nelson Lankford provides virtually an insiders view of Richmond before and after fall over the course of the last few months of the Confederacy including the month after. Not only are the feelings of the citizens recorded but those of the Confederate government and Robert E. Lee. It seems that in spite of the Confederacy eroding quickly across the national front with Sherman entering North Carolina, Jefferson Davis and the population of Richmond were in shock when the capitol actually fell. Robert E. Lee's miraculous victories of the past and some of his mixed communications continue to give the Confederate citizens of Richmond a forlorn hope that Lee would be victorious. Even after the evacuation and crushing loss of 1/10th of Richmond to fire including the loss of 90% of the business district, Richmond citizens still believed Lee was capable of a counter attack up to the point of the news of Appomattox. Exciting prologue to the epic moment of the final retreat of the Confederate military, the destruction of bridges and the ultimate controversial firing of the tobacco warehouses. The latter seemed so unnecessary and out of touch with reality. Ironically, the Tredegar Iron Works survive completely and they are a tour stop in Richmond today. Lankford discusses the effects on the population including those with Union sympathies and even those that were spies and underground supporters. Some of the Union supporters were imprisoned during the war and others such as Elizabeth Van Lew assisted in funneling escaped Union prisoners home including the body of Union Captain Eric Dahlgren who led a controversial raid on Richmond. Lankford covers the harsh economic effects the war had on the citizens of Richmond, the effects of union occupation, the generals responsible for order in Richmond (Weitzel, Ord and even Henry Halleck), Lincoln's fascinating trip up the dangerous James and arrival in Richmond, the attempt by former Confederate cabinet member John Campbell to reopen the Virginia legislature with Lincoln's blessing, the effect of the assassination on Union and Confederate relations and the new but strained relations between white southerners and the emancipated African Americans. Lankford touches the fascinating birth of the lost cause sentiments of the south and the issue of race relations at that time and it's portending for the future. Lankford's research is rich in discovery as he writes of some of the most famous stories that became legends but either were untruths or misinterpretations. LaSalle Pickett wrote of Lincoln coming to personally visit the home of George Pickett (totally false along with most of her recollections) and the perception that Robert E. Lee accepted black freedmen as equal by kneeling next to a black man in church. Was he showing the white public to accept the man as an equal or to show fellow white southerners to co-exist by ignoring his existence and carry on in spite of his presence? A very economically written book that is easy to read, integrating quotes and facts while moving the story along. Lots of information on Richmond that usually was not detailed after Appomattox covering the impact of its downfall on the citizens and the struggle of the Union to deal with the citizens fairly yet firmly.e Virginia legislature with Lincoln's blessing, the effect of the assassination on Union and Confederate relations and the new but strained relations between white southerners and the emancipated African Americans. Lankford touches the fascinating birth of the lost cause sentiments of the south and the issue of race relations at that time and it's portending for the future. Lankford's research is rich in discovery as he writes of some of the most famous stories that became legends but either were untruths or misinterpretations. LaSalle Pickett wrote of Lincoln coming to personally visit the home of George Pickett (totally false along with most of her recollections) and the perception that Robert E. Lee accepted black freedmen as equal by kneeling next to a black man in church. Was he showing the white public to accept the man as an equal or to show fellow white southerners to co-exist by ignoring his existence and carry on in spite of his presence? A very economically written book that is easy to read, integrating quotes and facts while moving the story along. Lots of information on Richmond that usually was not detailed after Appomattox covering the impact of its downfall on the citizens and the struggle of the Union to deal with the citizens fairly yet firmly.	2002-11-10
US	52754940	RUPL3IIB7RE10	1565844025	69152238	Like a Hurricane: The Indian Movement from Alcatraz to Wounded Knee	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Very Balanced Story of the Radical Indian Movement AIM	Well written book by Native Americans who write an objective history of the 60's style Indian movement that merged into Dennis Banks' American Indian Movement. The first section about the Alcatraz take over is very informative about the Bureau of Indian Affairs plan to move Indians off the reservation to assimilate them in Cities. Unfortunately, many of the Indians that relocated off the reservation ended up in their own Ghettos in poverty. However, these urban Indians such as the Mohawk Russell Oakes get personally involved in the take over of Alcatraz. The authors define well how the plans to take over landmarks comes about, the value of publicity and they bluntly<br />describe the failures in organization. The failures botch attempts to take Ellis Island and leave the Trail of Tears caravan virtually without shelter which inadvertently results in the take over of the BIA building. Unfortunately, the movement seems to falter with acts of vandalism, burning of a building in Custer, South Dakota and the destructiuon of buldings at the seige of Wounded knee and the unfortunate circumstance of kidnapping. The damage to property, reports of alchol abuse such as the get together in Warrenton, VA. undermines the movement in my mind. Thse acts seemed to diminish the goals of the Indian Movement although the authors make a point that even Martin Luther King could not control all the elements of his movement.  Although the actions of AIM do obtian publicity and sympathy for their movement, the authors ironically note that their followers never materialize in large numbers. The book peaks with the reoccupation of Wounded Knee that succeeds as a great reminder of the mistreatment Indians in the past and invoking tribal rivalry between the current council President and AIM. In the finale, the authors note the failure of AIM to maintain itself after many of its leaders such as the charismatic Russell Means are put on trial or in some cases put in jail. The authors quote admirers and critics of the movement which is punctuated with the lack of concrete ideas that could translate to realistic acheivable goals and a lack of organization. Overall a very fascinating book that I wish spent more time on the transition of its main leaders to &quot;Reborn Capatalists&quot; (Banks)<br />and movie Stars (Means - Pochohontas and &quot;the Last of the Mohicans). In addition, I wish the book provided more detail on the desires of reservation Indians, their problems and ideas for positive change. Very unfortunate that Clyde Warrior,  one of the main leaders of the 60's rebirthing of an idealistic Indian movement, dies in the late 60's at the youthful age at 29. If he could have maintained his health and vision, his impact on AIM might have led to greater organization and acomplishments.<br />It was interesting to note that the authors refer to Sitting Bull as a Oglala Sioux when in fact he was a Hunkpapa Sioux (page 190).and critics of the movement which is punctuated with the lack of concrete ideas that could translate to realistic acheivable goals and a lack of organization. Overall a very fascinating book that I wish spent more time on the transition of its main leaders to &quot;Reborn Capatalists&quot; (Banks)<BR>and movie Stars (Means - Pochohontas and &quot;the Last of the Mohicans). In addition, I wish the book provided more detail on the desires of reservation Indians, their problems and ideas for positive change. Very unfortunate that Clyde Warrior,  one of the main leaders of the 60's rebirthing of an idealistic Indian movement, dies in the late 60's at the youthful age at 29. If he could have maintained his health and vision, his impact on AIM might have led to greater organization and acomplishments.  <br />It was interesting to note that the authors refer to Sitting Bull as a Oglala Sioux when in fact he was a Hunkpapa Sioux (page 190).	2002-11-01
US	52754940	R1FS9OMU3YANJ	0806131934	301881534	Bold Dragoon: The Life of J. E. B. Stuart	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Well Wtitten Bio of Beauty who was Beat by the Modern Era	A delightful bio of Stuart dealing with his early years, West Point, John Brown's rebellion, his relationship with women and of course the Civil War. Stuart the virtual romantic knight who enjoyed the role and traveled like a characer from Robin Hood with a banjo playing musician and a sect of followers that almost mirrors Custer's post Civil War band and family of followers. Besides Stuart himself, he has a fascinating collection of subordinate such as the Prussian Heroes Von Brocke, Fitz Lee, Rooney Lee, Wade Hampton, Grumble Jones (not his favorite) and Thomas Rosser who was a great friend of Custer's who never got the star he sought. As his legend develops it seems that Stuart became caught up with it particularly by the time of Brandy Station where the day after an elaborate parade showing of his calavry units for Lee he is shocked by aggressive and highly succesful attacks by the transformed union calvary. This may have led to Stuart's desire for a sensational trip around he Union army talking himself out of the picture at the battle of Gettysburg. At the end, Sheridan's forces seem to exhaust Stuart's calvary due to shortages of horses and the addition of repeaters.<br />Fascinating description of the seeming vain yet outging Stuart sparking a unique friendship with the religious and stern Jackson.<br />In the end, it seems that Stuart, the seemingly last cavalier, is undone by the modern use of calvary signifying the change in warfare and the abrupt decline of the confederacy.	2002-10-31
US	52754940	R28A9LLV2EC4QM	0872494985	346715596	Travels to Hallowed Ground: A Historian's Journey to the American Civil War (American Military History Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A book for those that like to visit CW historical sites	This is a small book about the author's visits to several war sites throughout the country. He writes as an authority on the CW but also as a common history loving travelor who gets an extra feel for history by actually visiting the sites. His description of the battle of Shiloh on what is described today as golf course cared for lawn along with a haunting synopsis of the battle which includes the brutally high number of casualties gives the reader a true feeling of what its like to visit this virtual shrine of the western theater. In addition, to some of the seriousness of the book the author injects humor at sites that are historical but much smaller in scale and regretfully less preserved. My favorite description is of the battle of Roanoke Island in N.C. just west of Nags Head. An excellent description of how General Wise's confederate forces were not only no match for the Burnside led amphibious attack but that the Confederates fortified the fort on the wrong end of the Island. The forts were on the north end while the south was the vulnerable end that was attacked. Thomas notes with some whimsy that the key portion of the land battle is left to your imagination as a the remains of the small earth work is only partially there but the road is flanked by swamp essentially preserving the site. The forts on the north end are now under water. Its a site worth a visit but amusing because so little remains of the battle. Its the type of book best appreciated by those that like to visit historical sites and have the ability to appreciate the lay of the land with attempts to ignore gas stations that are now on battlefield ground. Thomas is a nice contrast to the former expert on the Little Big Horn Graham who in spite of his excellent data collection never visited the site even when he actually had a chance. A great book to relax to for those that love wandering the fields.	2002-10-31
US	52754940	R1R7QTDHF2PED9	0807104450	617453496	Autumn of Glory: The Army of Tennessee, 1862-1865	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Connelly Covers it all: The Army and Political Intrigue	Connelly was one of the best western Civil War historians and the expert on the Army of Tennesse. This Army with so much promise in the heady days of Perryville and near success at Stone's River experiences a costly but hard won victory at Chickamaugua only to have the master of personal conflict General Bragg throw the lost opportunity away by having volitile arguments with his Generals. Bragg was a very good organizer but had conflicts with his leadership that caused a cabal to build asking for his ouster. Connelly captured all the conflicts that finally require Davis to hold a council with all the generals. Amazing that Davis asked all the leaders of the  army to express their feelings about Bragg with him present and then keep Bragg on causing a rupture of command. Several generals are reasigned, Longstreet and Bragg don't get along causing a serious coordination loss while the seige of Chattanoga is in process. As a result Longstreet and 1/3 of the army is sent to east Tennesse while Grant's swollen forces wash away the Army of Tennesse and taking Bragg's command away. Connelly not only covers the poor condition of the confederate soldiers, great detail on the campaigns but also the political manuevering. Joe Johnston replaces Bragg but in turn he is undermineed by Hood's letters to Davis. The cautious Johnson is replaced by Hood outside of Atlanta resulting in frontal assaults that weaken the army severely losing Atlanta in the process. Hood tries to lure Sherman on a wild goose chase which Sherman gives up but then Hood oddly leaves Sherman in Georgia while he marches back to Tennesssee. As Connelly vividly writes, after a lost opportunity at Spring Hill, Hood retaliates against his command by ordering the destructive frointal assualts at Franklin. Connelly covers the weak attempt to capture Nashville, the army's virtual destruction and the story of the sad remnants moving to North Carolina in a valiant but pathetic attempt to stop Sherman. The all star command is made up of many of the lost generals of the Confederacy, Johnson, McLaws and even Bragg. Connelly gives you the full monty, the story of the Army and politics within. What would have been had Davis not been so hung up on Bragg and if Hardee had stepped forward to command.nd is made up of many of the lost generals of the Confederacy, Johnson, McLaws and even Bragg. Connelly gives you the full monty, the story of the Army and politics within. What would have been had Davis not been so hung up on Bragg and if Hardee had stepped forward to command.	2002-10-26
US	52754940	RGQSC2K44E91T	0807116726	918544335	Back Door to Richmond: The Bermuda Hundred Campaign, April-June 1864	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Little Known Detail on the attempts to Capture Petersburg	Wonderful description of the Union successes in almost capturing the little protected Petersburg and the incredulous defense by Confederate forces against huge odds. This book has details on the campaign that actually starts from the Suffolk area where Union cavalry penetrate the lightly defended no man's land southeast of Petersburg outside of Suffolk that even today is lightly populated. The Union cavalry penetrate through small towns like Ivor on route 460 and Windsor heading all the way to the Weldon railroad south of Petersburg. This raid rivals the Grierson raid made during that was made during the Vicksburg campaign. The audaciousness of the Union cavalry<br />led by Kautz in a series of raids below and above Petersburg rivals Stuarts trip around McClellan in 1862. This is excellent writing as Robertson writes in efficient prose about the early aspects of the Petersburg campaign that has not gotten enough print. The book follows Pickett's stressed out attempts to protect Petersburg with just a few thousand troops and his physically collapsing as soon as Beuraguard arrives to take command. The book also describes the fluttered attempt by Butler's surprise move on Petersburg that fails only because Generals like William Smith stop their attack impressed by Confederate forces that establish a bold front with small numbers, numbers so small that Smith could have steam rolled them and entered Petersburg. The book also describes Beauregard's attempts to get Lee's attention to get more troops and the description of the strained relationship between the two. Very well written description of the Confederate defense of Drewery's Bluff on the James (a wonderful tour stop today) and the counter attack along the Bermuda 100 that seals Butler's forces on the Peninsula as a \\"cork in a bottle\\" as Grant was alleged to have said. The author makes a good point that Grant's continued attack of Lee at the Wilderness and Spotsylvania may also have been to divert Confederate pressure and attention north away from Butler to protect Butler's forces allowing an opportunity for victory. The defense of Petersburg is very exciting as the Confederates thin defenses and response forces barely held on for modest reinforces defeating the Union attack. It's truly a miracle that the Confederates held on. This compact book tells the story rapidly but is well written with an easy to read style.and attention north away from Butler to protect Butler's forces allowing an opportunity for victory. The defense of Petersburg is very exciting as the Confederates thin defenses and response forces barely held on for modest reinforces defeating the Union attack. It's truly a miracle that the Confederates held on. This compact book tells the story rapidly but is well written with an easy to read style.	2002-10-15
US	52754940	R2REQAOODQGVIY	0811717429	36867504	Troopers with Custer (The Custer Library)	Books	4	26	29	N	Y	The Author's loves Benteen &amp; Reno but some great testimony	This is a very readable book with interviews and stories by many of the participants of the 76 campaign. As Brian Pohanka (foreword) adeptly informs the reader, Brninstool did tremendous research and interviewed and corresponded with a number of the survivors of the LBH. However, as Pohanka hits the nail on the head, Brininstool lacks objectivity when it comes to Reno and Benteen. He supports their versions 100%. In Benteen's statements, he repeatedly denies that Custer had any plan. And in his testimony and letters he constantly states that he was to just ride to infinity to the left, which is totally absurd. In Gray's time motion studies and in Darlings \\"Benteen's Scout to the Left\\", Benteen only went one mile further than Custer by the time their trails intersect. Brininstool constant reminds the reader that Custer through his adjutant stated that Reno \\"would be supported by the whole regiment\\". If that statement was true then obviously he meant for Benteen to join the attack. If you tour the site of the first separation, it made logical sense for Custer to have flankers on the left where the ground rose and could have hid attacking Indians on his flank.  In addition, Brininstool supports Reno and his \\"charge\\" that was actually a rout. Later in the excellent recounting of the Lt. Kidder massacre in 1867 about the young Lieutenant and his platoon that ran into a Sioux war party the author states \\"Running away from Indians was, in the opinion of experienced Indian fighters, poor policy.\\" Well, he seems to forget this when applauding Reno for his abrupt run from the cottonwoods leaving 21 men behind who didn't get the word and somehow survived but Reno still lost 1/3 of his command in his run. The survivors particularly Lt. Hare continuously state that they would have not lived other wise. Brininstool also over estimates the number of Indians. Brininstool also has a section on Theodore Goldin and the famous water detail, which is very interesting except that Goldin has historically been proven to fabricate the truth including his own service period.<br />The best parts of the book are the story of Lt. DeRudio and Sgt. O'Neil's exciting two<br />days surrounded by Indians while abandoned and hiding in the cottonwoods after Reno suddenly bugged, the retelling of the 1867 Lt. Kidder massacre and the exciting story of Lt. Sibley's escape from a large Sioux war party while scouting for Crook. After being surrounded, Sibley led by famous scouts Grouard and Baptise Pourier abandon their horses at night and travel days in broken country to return to Crooks base camp. The book also includes a mini-bio on Lonesome Charlie Reynolds, one of the greatest scouts of the west who died turning Reno's bug out. Although not mentioned by the author, another great Scout Herendeen testified that he and Reynolds discussed that the worst thing that one could do is try to outrun Indians which was supposedly said not long before Reno abruptly hauled freight.<br />Lots of great testimony in spite of Benteen's self serving interview which is valuable to read since his extreme defensiveness is obvious along with his distaste for Custer, his argument is so absurd that it is irrational to believe. Besides Brininstool's lack of objectivity, I was disappointed that he didn't have more interviews with the surviving<br />Troopers such as Peter Thompson who was with Custer until just before Medicine Trail Coulee where his horse broke down with a few other troopers who walked back to join Reno.  Those interviews with these only technical survivors would have been fascinating.<br />This is actually a good book to add to your collection. In contrast, I like Walter Camp's book \\"Custer in 76\\" edited by Ken Hammer better. It appears more objective with lots of nuggets of information such as references to Peter Thompson. Brininstool like Camp met a lot of the participants, reading both is a pleasure.has historically been proven to fabricate the truth including his own service period.<br />The best parts of the book are the story of Lt. DeRudio and Sgt. O'Neil's exciting two <BR>days surrounded by Indians while abandoned and hiding in the cottonwoods after Reno suddenly bugged, the retelling of the 1867 Lt. Kidder massacre and the exciting story of Lt. Sibley's escape from a large Sioux war party while scouting for Crook. After being surrounded, Sibley led by famous scouts Grouard and Baptise Pourier abandon their horses at night and travel days in broken country to return to Crooks base camp. The book also includes a mini-bio on Lonesome Charlie Reynolds, one of the greatest scouts of the west who died turning Reno's bug out. Although not mentioned by the author, another great Scout Herendeen testified that he and Reynolds discussed that the worst thing that one could do is try to outrun Indians which was supposedly said not long before Reno abruptly hauled freight.<br />Lots of great testimony in spite of Benteen's self serving interview which is valuable to read since his extreme defensiveness is obvious along with his distaste for Custer, his argument is so absurd that it is irrational to believe. Besides Brininstool's lack of objectivity, I was disappointed that he didn't have more interviews with the surviving<BR>Troopers such as Peter Thompson who was with Custer until just before Medicine Trail Coulee where his horse broke down with a few other troopers who walked back to join Reno.  Those interviews with these only technical survivors would have been fascinating.<br />This is actually a good book to add to your collection. In contrast, I like Walter Camp's book \\"Custer in 76\\" edited by Ken Hammer better. It appears more objective with lots of nuggets of information such as references to Peter Thompson. Brininstool like Camp met a lot of the participants, reading both is a pleasure.	2002-10-13
US	52754940	R24W9Z3KCMB3GH	1882810163	477302848	Irish Rebels, Confederate Tigers: A History Of The 6th Louisiana Volunteers	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Highlight of Irish From Louisiana Fighting for Lee & Jackson	A very personal portrayal of a predominately Irish brigade from New Orleans fighting for the south. The enigma is that this regiment had the highest percentage of Irish in any brigade plus they were linked with the famed Wheat's Tigers plus they fought in Virginia during the entire Civil War.  This is particularly impressive since New Orleans was captured so early in the war and the 6th Louisiana virtually became orphans in regards to State support. Much like the famed Kentucky Brigade. Gannon is a excellent writer that through intensive research provides flowing first hand accounts particularly from the brigade priest and Captain Ring. The high point of the book is the close up look at where the brigade participated in major campaigns and battles. They were a key part of the Valley Campaign, particularly Port Republic, the Seven days, Cedar Mountain, both Bull runs, Gettysburg, Early's Valley campaign including the threat to Washington and the disasters at Cedar Creek and Fort Steadman. The best gem in the book is the section on the capture of Rappahannock Station, which was an isolated bridgehead for Lee's army located on the north side of the river. This fascinating break down in strategy and command is very well focused and told in detail because the luckless 6th  is one of the 3,000 troops that virtually get overwhelmed and captured in a sudden attack by large numbers. This little told event precedes Grant's arrival but seems to reveal problems in southern command caused by the lost of key officers and the strain of a long war on the Confederate supplies. The sadness of the brigade is captured as it is progressively whittled to only 50 odd survivors at Appomattox.	2002-09-27
US	52754940	R1ESYODTWIXR99	0807127876	171072323	Conquering the Valley: Stonewall Jackson at Port Republic (Civil War)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Lots of Detail - Best Telling of Port Republic : Nice Town	This is the most documented source on Jackson at the battles of Port Republic and Cross Keyes where Jackson's army stand between two armies that are trying to trap and squeeze him, which they almost succeed in doing at the start. Like the great author of the Gettysburg series Harry W. Pfanz, Robert Krick is the ultimate researcher on the tactics of Stonewall Jackson. Like Pfanz with Gettysburg, Krick is ultimately familiar with his subject particularly because he was the Superintendent of all the battlefields around Fredericksburg (Spotsylvania, Chancellorsville, Fredericksburg and the Wilderness).  Krick is also the grand researcher of soldiers' letters and writings and through his research he has weeded out fact from fiction.  Examples are the puffed writings of Trimble about his brigade at Cross Keyes. Krick reveals that Trimble's writings often neglected the role of other units on the field while heaping a disproportionate amount of praise on his own. Discerning historical inaccuracies is one reason why Krick's books provide an accurate portrayal of a battle or the campaign. Others that suffer from exaggeration, misperceptions and/or ego inflation are Chief of Staff Dabney and Colonel Imboden. The references to Colonel Dabney are humorous to some degree as Dabney performs well in some areas, he does try hard but in a lot of cases he is not as effective as he seems to think. Imboden's false references to interaction with Jackson make one question his famous comments that he witnessed Lee's distressed comments after Picket's Charge.<br />The village of Port Republic is still a small town nestled against the South and North Rivers that form the South Shenandoah with Cross Keyes across the North River to the west. The area still looks the same with modest encroachment from Harrisonburg just west of Cross Keyes. Krick details a blow-by-blow account of the battle interlaced withy biographies of the participants, their role in battle and even quoting them from their own source material or from first person accounts about particular individuals.<br />I particularly found the beginning of this last battle of the famous Valley Campaign fascinating as Jackson, his staff, his wagons and a small infantry unit with novice artillery are leisurely enjoying a summers' day when suddenly a complete cavalry detachment bursts on the scene almost capturing Jackson and all his staff (bagged some). The disheartening failure of the Calvary after Turner Ashby's death left no protection or early warning of the Federal rush. The story of the small infantry detachment at the end of Main Street with a few guns of artillery banding together to hold off the union force is an inspiring story. They saved the wagon train and gave time for Jackson to coordinate portions of the majority of his army resting on the opposite riverbank in time to salvage his hold on this small town.<br />The description of Ewell's relatively easy and effective defense of Cross Keyes exemplifies Fremont's failure as a commander. The other high point of the book is the description of the desperate fighting northeast of Port Republic where Jackson transfers the bulk of his forces from Cross Keyes to Port Republic to defeat the Federals who are better positioned defensively with a particularly strong artillery detachment on the side of a mountain called the coaling. Only a desperate attack by Taylor's Division through course woods saves the day as Jackson's units on the flats take a pounding. Ewell coordinates well indicating a perfect and under appreciated subordinate to Jackson.<br />The maps are difficult to follow in the early beginning but the publisher produces them better toward the end and they become very helpful as they finally label the units.<br />Take this book after you read it to the town of Port Republic. There are very limited markers in town and at Cross Keyes 4 miles west, but the book and maps help you get a picture of the battles on land that is hardly changed. This is fascinating because the little town has a modest museum in the house that Turner Ashby was prepared for burial in (open only on Sundays) but no commercialism. The fishing and general store always has a pleasant person to help you out with some information. You need the book because you will have better information then what many of local folk can tell you at random. The vicious battle outside of Port Republic has a marker and parking lot on HWY 354 about 3 miles northeast of town. Again, the maps will help, as the area is still much the same at 100 years ago. A very low-key battlefield without any gratuitous designations but hopefully it will be protected some day with enhanced markers.<br />Oh by the way, Krick gets in his usual swipe at Longstreet by referring to Trimble as bombastic but not as bad as Longstreet. Looking for Krick's dig at Longstreet in any feature is similar to finding Alfred Hitchcock's cameo in all his movies. The similarity, they are always there, you just have to look and wait for them.ged. This is fascinating because the little town has a modest museum in the house that Turner Ashby was prepared for burial in (open only on Sundays) but no commercialism. The fishing and general store always has a pleasant person to help you out with some information. You need the book because you will have better information then what many of local folk can tell you at random. The vicious battle outside of Port Republic has a marker and parking lot on HWY 354 about 3 miles northeast of town. Again, the maps will help, as the area is still much the same at 100 years ago. A very low-key battlefield without any gratuitous designations but hopefully it will be protected some day with enhanced markers.<br />Oh by the way, Krick gets in his usual swipe at Longstreet by referring to Trimble as bombastic but not as bad as Longstreet. Looking for Krick's dig at Longstreet in any feature is similar to finding Alfred Hitchcock's cameo in all his movies. The similarity, they are always there, you just have to look and wait for them.	2002-09-04
US	52754940	RBAV8HO2Y3FZX	089658531X	674483207	Custer and the Little Bighorn: The Man, the Myth, the Mystery	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Nice Overview Of Custer and the LBH with Great Pictures	A large book well armed with pictures of not only Custer, his family, but also of key major military personnel, Forts, leading confederates and best of all, great Indian leaders. Besides the large presence of photographs, the book provides a nice compressed history of Custer from Birth to his postmortem. It's an accelerated read with direct references to historical events without gratuitous detail. In reference to his CW career, Donovan is a little light on Custer in the valley in 1864 as Custer has some conflicts with colleagues over such things as who earned the captured flags versus who actually took them. In addition, Custer's role at Five Forks is a bit large in contrast to the infantry's 5th Corps who crushed the isolated Confederate left. Overall, it's a pretty good overview of Custer's Civil War and pre- LBH western career. I do note that pictures sometimes fill in voids such as the destruction of Lt. Kidder's command and Custer's meeting with Satanta, which are missing from the narrative. The best part of the book deals with the LBH and the author pulls no punches in explaining what he thinks happened. His theory reflects Michno's \\"Lakota Noon\\" primarily in that he theorizes that Custer held his battalion on the east side of the river waiting for Reno and Benteen to rally to him to squeeze the Indians his battalion and theirs. But of course that does not happen and the command is destroyed. The author captures all the personal conflicts in command such as Reno's fitness and Benteen's pouting causing his leisurely stroll. The after the LBH evaluation is also quite good recognizing that several elements caused Custer's defeat, not just Custer's brashness, Reno's ineptness or Benteen's bitterness but the loss of surprise, the pressure to attack, the confidence of the Indians, their stubborn resistance capitalizing on the fractured commands and collapse and the primary fact that they didn't run like everyone perceived. Other elements include Crook's stepping out of the campaign with his 1300 men after the battle of the Rosebud the week before against smaller numbers then Custer. But also it's noted that Custer preferred the standard morning surprise attack but after discivering Indians on his back trail, he felt the need to attack immediately with reconnaissance done while on the move. Many forget that Colonel Reynolds inder Crook was nearly Court Martialed for botching the March Powder River attack. Although not mentioned directly, all commanders were under pressure to attack before the Indians dispersed. Terry's and Crook's subsequent post LBH campaigns attest to the Indian mobility challenge. The latter part of the book deals with the Custer legend based on writings, movies and historical hindsight that are based on the culture at the present, WWII era versus post Vietnam. This latter portion reminds of Hutton's great book the \\"Custer Reader\\" which is also worth a very good look since it also deals with participant' writings and fellow historians. This is a good book for those looking for a pretty good capsule on Custer that includes excellent pictures and an argument. Then they can venture into the books with greater analysis and detail and of course a greater feel for why the battle is so controversial.t of the campaign with his 1300 men after the battle of the Rosebud the week before against smaller numbers then Custer. But also it's noted that Custer preferred the standard morning surprise attack but after discivering Indians on his back trail, he felt the need to attack immediately with reconnaissance done while on the move. Many forget that Colonel Reynolds inder Crook was nearly Court Martialed for botching the March Powder River attack. Although not mentioned directly, all commanders were under pressure to attack before the Indians dispersed. Terry's and Crook's subsequent post LBH campaigns attest to the Indian mobility challenge. The latter part of the book deals with the Custer legend based on writings, movies and historical hindsight that are based on the culture at the present, WWII era versus post Vietnam. This latter portion reminds of Hutton's great book the \\"Custer Reader\\" which is also worth a very good look since it also deals with participant' writings and fellow historians. This is a good book for those looking for a pretty good capsule on Custer that includes excellent pictures and an argument. Then they can venture into the books with greater analysis and detail and of course a greater feel for why the battle is so controversial.	2002-08-19
US	52754940	R2DFGA0UUI4CCV	B000065V2J	78452877	Arrogance of Power, The : The Secret World of Richard Nixon	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Covers Nixon's Dark Side:  Objectivity May Be At Issue	This is a very well written book that covers Nixon's birth through the aftermath of Watergate. My interest in this book bloomed when I watched Anthony Summers on Face the Nation on the 30th anniversary of Watergate. He even shared the spotlight with John Dean to the somewhat disgust of the author if body language means anything.<br />Summers has done quite a bit of research and links quite well the major partners in Nixon's campaigns and in addition the men that eventually help run the country. There is so much about Nixon's personal flaws and self gain obsession there is a question of balance. On the one hand I am amazed at the amount of detail that links Nixon to win at all costs campaign men, illegal money contributions even from mobsters, a long association with Howard Hughes, money laundering through Beebe Rebozo's bank, Swiss bank accounts, Nixon's plan to screw Johnson's peace initiative to win the election, his over compulsion with dirty tricks. It's hard to conclude otherwise that Nixon was a bad man more caught up with his own style of government. However, at times when the author goes back to Nixon's HS days its almost seems impossible for anyone retrospectively to say anything nice about Nixon other than his earnest desire to succeed. You almost expect someone to say &quot;I remember Nixon when he was in diapers, even my dog didn't like him!\\" A question to be explored upon a broader canvas is how bad was Nixon compared to other politicians. Was illegal fund raising rampant and typical of the candidates in that era? Is it still happening today? After all, Nixon even on tape seems to say the other guys are doing it too. And the author concludes that Robert Kennedy was bugging Nixon while he served as his brother's Attorney General which Nixon discovers.<br />During the presidency, Nixon finds out the Joint Chief are spying on Kissinger (The Radford Affair).<br />Besides the illegal contributions, the most devastating part of the book deals with not so much Nixon's development of the plumbers but in his post Watergate obsession to deal with Watergate instead of running the country. Summers does a great job of accounting of Nixon's whereabouts in the final 18 months of his presidency where according to the logs, Nixon spends a great deal of time on the California coast or Florida with Beebe. In addition, the critical tapes show Nixon totally focused on Watergate In addition, Summers states quite emphatically that Nixon without his secret psychotherapist was unstable due to the use of Dilantin, alcohol and sleeping pills. The latter part almost sounds like Elvis' final hours as Nixon is portrayed as a mentally compromised man who could no longer govern. It's a pretty frightening portrayal and if the Nixon Summers describes is accurate, then Al Haig and Henry Kissinger did a disservice to the country in not working to ease Nixon out of power. In Summers' portrayal, the final period of Nixon's presidency almost reminds me of the movie &quot;Dave&quot; where the Chief of Staff tries to take over the government by not disclosing that the president had a stroke.  While reading these parts of the book I was hoping that this was overstated because if not, Nixon was not lucid over the final 12 months of his presidency.<br />A book worth reading but a little more balance on how Nixon compared to his political adversaries would have been helpful, gosh Tom Dewey supported Nixon and he appeared to have similar fund raising issues. And didn't Nixon do more than just break down the cold war barriers a bit with Russia and China? Did he have any interest in domestic issues at all?<br />Now if Summers would do a book on John Dean. Dean acts extra clean since he bailed out first. Is a hit man any nicer because he cut a deal?Nixon's development of the plumbers but in his post Watergate obsession to deal with Watergate instead of running the country. Summers does a great job of accounting of Nixon's whereabouts in the final 18 months of his presidency where according to the logs, Nixon spends a great deal of time on the California coast or Florida with Beebe. In addition, the critical tapes show Nixon totally focused on Watergate In addition, Summers states quite emphatically that Nixon without his secret psychotherapist was unstable due to the use of Dilantin, alcohol and sleeping pills. The latter part almost sounds like Elvis' final hours as Nixon is portrayed as a mentally compromised man who could no longer govern. It's a pretty frightening portrayal and if the Nixon Summers describes is accurate, then Al Haig and Henry Kissinger did a disservice to the country in not working to ease Nixon out of power. In Summers' portrayal, the final period of Nixon's presidency almost reminds me of the movie &quot;Dave&quot; where the Chief of Staff tries to take over the government by not disclosing that the president had a stroke.  While reading these parts of the book I was hoping that this was overstated because if not, Nixon was not lucid over the final 12 months of his presidency.  <br />A book worth reading but a little more balance on how Nixon compared to his political adversaries would have been helpful, gosh Tom Dewey supported Nixon and he appeared to have similar fund raising issues. And didn't Nixon do more than just break down the cold war barriers a bit with Russia and China? Did he have any interest in domestic issues at all? <br />Now if Summers would do a book on John Dean. Dean acts extra clean since he bailed out first. Is a hit man any nicer because he cut a deal?	2002-07-16
US	52754940	RSP478P9NI2CK	0028629450	934202977	The Complete Idiot's Guide to the Old West	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Overview of the West and it's Development: Great Detail	If you are looking for an extensive overview of the west then this is your book. The surprise is that the book starts with the Bering Strait theory and the early Indian civilizations in North America. The book does not just start in the west but also the east since what occurred in the east affected the Indians all across our nation. Indian tribes moved from the east either through self migration to the west or forceful removal under Jackson's presidency. This forced move crowded other tribes such as the Sioux and Cheyenne into the plains plus created further tribal conflicts as land and game became competitive. Covers conflicts with the Indians from Cortez and Coronado's heavy and violent domination of the Indian tribes to Grant, Sheridan and Sherman's plan to subjugate the Plains Indians, the Apache, Nez Perce and northwestern tribes. Covers everything from the early mountain men, explorers, trails west, Indian conflicts, telegraph, stagecoaches, miners, gold, conquest of the black hills, James Gang, Quantrill, Tombstone and right up to the turn of the century.<br />The best part of the book are the detail of occurrences that may not be well known to many but are fascinating such as the Mountain Meadows Massacre of a wagon train by Indians with Brigham Young's Mormons orchestrating and actually participating in the horrible event. Jackson's forced removal of Native Americans is very sad particularly the civilized tribes who suffered great adversity and death.<br />Its very well laid out and covers it all and it's written with some cheeky comments. It's quite a history that includes all that happened in the west and events that impacted it. This so called Idiot's Guide is 400 pages of facts with excellent straightforward readable descriptions. Written with a sense of humor but with respect for tragedy. Love the western expression \\"Dunks sober up. Fools remain fools.\\"	2002-07-08
US	52754940	R1ZY6ZR0UOUWP8	080328246X	265612404	A Guide to the Indian Wars of the West (Bison Book)	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Excellent Book to Chart Your Tour or Get a Brief History	This book provides a concise historical perspective of the Indian Wars of the West with the second section providing sites of interest based on geographical location. There is a lot of detail on the different tribes, their geographic locations and differences, their relations with the &quot;whites\\", lifestyles of Native Americans, lifestyle of the soldiers, weapons of each and a review of literature, movies and TV shows on the West. Reminds me of a lot of Robert Utley mixed in with Paul Hutton's Custer Reader.<br />The second part organizes points of historical interest geographically and by tribal history detailing what you will see (actual structures or replica  and scenery)  and a mini biography of the site. This book is a great companion for touring since you can organize what you want to see easily since the sites are organized by states and region. For example, if I were in Colorado, one of my goals would be to see Brent's Fort particularly if I was there during the annual rendezvous. How great to not only see Fort Apache if you are in Arizona but also to be able to detour to Cochise's Stronghold.<br />I just wish the text had pictures of the tour sites or a portion of them and an index. It's a modest book of 200 pages but a walloping amount of information. It's also a great reference for further reading.	2002-06-28
US	52754940	R3LZKIE96SED9U	1582080224	177065347	Smart Soccer Officiating	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Compact Guide to Being a Better Referee &amp; Tips on Control	Excellent guide by an experienced referee who uses actually game situations to outline proper calls and when to make calls. My favorite section is the Myths of the game such as playing the ball while on the ground, its only a foul if it puts another player in danger. Plenty of room, no foul. Other good tips are on restarts so as to keep the game flowing (no need to wait for a whistle, let the free kick start when the offense wants to), underlining the critical decisions such as offsides (if you are not sure, no flag), how to referee the different age groups, different situations for adavantge for different age groups, how to control the game and when to apply cards when it is most appropriate and critical. Realistic commentary such as if both teams line up for a goal kick, even though you saw it lightly flick a defender, go withh the 21 other players that think its  a goal kick. Very readable and to the point, 91 pages but lots of depth.	2002-05-31
US	52754940	R1TPV1A8KRULFJ	039535403X	82380493	Olympic Gold: A Runner's Life and Times	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Review of Olympic Marathoner Frank Shorter's LIfe	Pretty good detail on Frank Shorter's rise from a pretty fair HS distance runner to a versatile athlete that could run national and world class 5Ks, 10Ks and marathons. He and Prefontaine kicked off the running boom. Shorter was part of the great USA running elite and central character in the outstanding Florida Track Club. Also, detail in his fight to establish more control of the American track athlete's rights to compete from the then AAU and the now TAC. Although I enjoyed the book I found it a bit choppy. It reminded me of a telling told in a series of interviews that sometimes overlap in detail. I think a greater collaberation would have been more effective if Kenny Moore (Sports Illustrated writer and 4th place USA finisher to Shorter's gold) wrote it with Shorter.	2002-05-27
US	52754940	RYBNGML13R98M	037540158X	512541409	Lincoln's Virtues: An Ethical Biography	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Scholarly Work on the Development of a Moral man	This is a very scholarly work on the development of Lincoln's ethics as a man and a politician. The book is a deep study of Lincoln's writings and influences, the books he read, the candidates (Henry Clay) that he favored and the influences in his life such as the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution.  I would recommend for those unfamiliar with the detail of Lincoln's life to read a primer as Miller brings forth information in such detail that the reader has to have more than a baseline of familiarity with Lincoln. As a scholar, Miller uses some phrases and language that reflect my limited education and caused me to occasionally keep a dictionary near by. I found that midway through the book that this need was less so.<br />In summary, the author notates the severe disadvantages that Lincoln had with a large and poor family, little schooling and s little opportunity for higher education and without the finer things in life such as well fitted clothing that must have caused more attention to Lincolns height and ungainly lean look. In spite of any set backs caused by losing future elections, even in cases where Lincoln had the inside track such as the Senate vote of 1855, Lincoln maintains a humility along with a sincere interest in staying on the high ground ethically. As Miller points out through extensive study of Lincoln's history, writings and course of study, Miller does well to describe the development of Lincoln's virtues. Miller notes that Lincoln is not politically nave, he starts out an as industrious politician dealing with matters of economy but also graduates as a leading member of the Whig Party in his State and eventually a leader of the Republican Party. Lincoln is astute in that he disagrees with the Know Nothings but instead of criticizing them waits for their collapse so that their better followers may enjoin the new Republican Party. Miller frames Lincoln's successfully arguments about the evils of slavery and the intent of the signers of the Declaration of Independence. Miller points out that Douglas and the growing State of Illinois gave Lincoln a National platform to espouse his views. After reading the passages from the debates (Lincoln initially engineers), I see Lincoln's argument more clearly that the Nebraska Act and popular sovereignty was absolutely wrong in that the Act allowed a small population to determine a national issue about the expansion of slavery into the territories. Miller also notes that Lincoln in his time stressed that slavery was wrong in clear, logical arguments with a point that anyone at anytime could be enslaved but his best argument was simply, that it was wrong and in violation of the Declaration of Independence.  I am most impressed with not only Lincoln's stand against slavery, irregardless of his occasional carefulness about equality of the races for those times, but his strident ability to defend his position and impress those that heard him speak. His Humility is incredulous that he does not make those that defeated him or snubbed him his enemies but enlists them for the betterment of his party and the installation of his national Government. My favorite passage in the book deals with Stanton's initial meeting with Lincoln, where Lincoln is virtually used as a local boy for a case in his State but never taken serious as a true partner in the case. Lincoln later has no deliberation in later making Stanton his Secretary of War. Lincoln was not condescending to those that disagreed with him, he recognized that differences in geography and environment made men think differently but not necessarily evil. I agree with Miller, that the second Inaugural was his greatest speech, only Lincoln after four years of war could say \\"with malice toward none\\".ers of the Declaration of Independence. Miller points out that Douglas and the growing State of Illinois gave Lincoln a National platform to espouse his views. After reading the passages from the debates (Lincoln initially engineers), I see Lincoln's argument more clearly that the Nebraska Act and popular sovereignty was absolutely wrong in that the Act allowed a small population to determine a national issue about the expansion of slavery into the territories. Miller also notes that Lincoln in his time stressed that slavery was wrong in clear, logical arguments with a point that anyone at anytime could be enslaved but his best argument was simply, that it was wrong and in violation of the Declaration of Independence.   I am most impressed with not only Lincoln's stand against slavery, irregardless of his occasional carefulness about equality of the races for those times, but his strident ability to defend his position and impress those that heard him speak. His Humility is incredulous that he does not make those that defeated him or snubbed him his enemies but enlists them for the betterment of his party and the installation of his national Government. My favorite passage in the book deals with Stanton's initial meeting with Lincoln, where Lincoln is virtually used as a local boy for a case in his State but never taken serious as a true partner in the case. Lincoln later has no deliberation in later making Stanton his Secretary of War. Lincoln was not condescending to those that disagreed with him, he recognized that differences in geography and environment made men think differently but not necessarily evil. I agree with Miller, that the second Inaugural was his greatest speech, only Lincoln after four years of war could say \\"with malice toward none\\".	2002-05-24
US	52754940	R53DSRKQE4M85	0803291000	236746376	The Battle of the Little Bighorn	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Compact Book with Basic Facts: A Little thin On Analysis	A small compact book that covers the history of the Little Bighorn battle  including a good representation of the Native American point of view. Lapses in my mind is the belief that Custer was seeking the Presidency with a flamboyant attack, that Benteen was telling the absolute truth that he was to go valley hunting to infinity and that the native Americans fought with command signals moving almost as troops. She does make an interesting point that due to the officers gathered at Custer Hill at the time of their death, that units may have fought as platoons instead of companies. The book is a bit naive to think that Custer did not have a workable plan and to think that it was unreasonable to assume that calvary units working together could defend agianst large numbers. Albeit in this case the numbers were very large, the terrain was against Custer and he received no support from his other wing commanders. Beechers Island and McKenzies attack aginst Dull Knife and his 1500 followers later that year indicate the possibilities.<br />A lot more analysis has occurred in 25 years and I would recommend a more up to date book.	2002-04-23
US	52754940	R3QSW58CS6ZWEO	0679764410	864803147	American Sphinx: The Character of Thomas Jefferson	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Inside Thomas Jefferson	Nice flowing and well written book on Thomas Jefferson that brought forth information that I was not aware of which always adds to a books attraction. One of the goodies brought forth is the misconception that Jefferson was a strict agrarian when in fact he had his own nail factory at Moniticello that was more productive than his land that featured mostly clay. The book also notes Jefferson's shyness which may have been one of the reasons John Adams suggested that Jefferson write the Declaration of Independence. Adams assumed incorrectly that his own spoken word would predominate over anything Jefferson wrote even though he and Franklin contributed to the document. The Declaration was also influenced by the writings of George Mason. Other gems of information concern Jefferson's conflicts with Patrick Henry who became a political enemy in which I wish there was even more detail since it's very interesting that two of VA.'s most prominent leaders had a mutual distaste for each other. The book covers Jefferson's role as governor including his escape from the British, his Presidency where he was fiscally tight, his own destruuctive personal finances and his views on religion, slavery, agriculture and government including his relationship with both of the Adams. Quite a story on how Jefferson's lean government financing during his term as President were so frugal that his failure to build up a navy and army may have resulted in the US being unprepared by the War of 1812. In contrast, his own personal finances were so out of control as he spent lavishly and continued to tinker with building Monticello that he died a penniless man losing the estate at the time of his death. His views on slavery and religion are conficting, expressing one thing but practicing another. The Sally Hemmings controversy is covered revealed initially as a political attack generated by his enemies yet its inconclusive that he fathered Sally's children although the circumstances lend it to be a serious possibility. A very interesting book about a quiet man that rose to the national spotlight yet seemed happiest when semi reclusiive at Monticello. His grand ideas were also expressed during the building of the University of Virginia with Madison and Monroe and perhaps if all his plans were executed the buildings would have looked grand, unfinished and outrageously expensive. Jefferson comes across as a highly educated philosopher who sometimes was challenged on application.ious possibility. A very interesting book about a quiet man that rose to the national spotlight yet seemed happiest when semi reclusiive at Monticello. His grand ideas were also expressed during the building of the University of Virginia with Madison and Monroe and perhaps if all his plans were executed the buildings would have looked grand, unfinished and outrageously expensive. Jefferson comes across as a highly educated philosopher who sometimes was challenged on application.	2002-04-13
US	52754940	R1Z8MO7TFQ2POY	0671892878	863732091	General James Longstreet: The Confederacy's Most Controversial Soldier	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Very Good Synopsis of Longstreet's Role with New Information	A very intyeresting book on a man who frequently has been castigated for his few failures as opposed to his overal Civil War career. Wert as all Civil war writers do looks at Longstreet's failings particularly at Seven Pines, his attack on Knoxville (Fort Sanders) and Chattonoga with very good detail of Longstreet's failed attempt to keep Grant from openning a supply to Chattanoga but he does a fine job of documenting Longstreet's exemplary career overall that has often been under appreciated because of his post war non-partisan politics and early critique of Robet E. Lee. There is some interesting detail on Longstreet's resignation from the US Army and his travel to the Virginia but perhaps the most interesting point that Wert provides is that Longstreet is not so much at fault on the second day of Gettysburg concerning the fictitious &quot;Sunrise attack order&quot; but on the third day, because he was manuevering his corps for his orginally desired flank attack around the round tops. Although Longstreet was exercising his normal initiative normally allowed by Lee, Wert argues that Longstreet should have consulted with Lee first who seemed to prefer the direct assualt and a more than usual active role with his corps commander (although not so active with Ewell). This delay between Longstreet's initial actions overidden by Lee caused some delay of Pickett's (actually Longstreet's) charge. It is impressive that Longstreet was initiating an attack without any cajoling by Lee but was actually held back from executing his preferred plan and that of General Hood's (wounded on the first day). He invoked the idea of interior lines, mobile mounted infantry units (hurt by a lack of horses and mules) and he was succesful with his intial transfer to the west and he was responsible for the huge success at Chickamaugua along with Rosecran's blundering. After that point it's harder to evaluate Longstreet too harshly (although many have particularly Virginia historians) since the Army of Tennessee dintegrates into dissention made worse by Davis' inexplicable support of Bragg. Afterwards Longstreet has independent command in Union East Tennessee with a small army that ranked low on the Confederate government's priority list for supplies while East Tennessee lacked any resources to support an army. Wert notes that the man who defended the crossing at Blackburn's Ford on the openning day of Manassas and fought with Lee to the end was Lee's best corps commander, Wert I think in the final analysis is careful not to say that Longstreet would have been a very good commander of an Army. I think many southern historians fail to appreciate Longstreet's abilities. He did not have a healthy independent military command until the war was failing for the Confederates. His Suffolk campaighn was limited. Afterall, there were no great Confederate victories after Chickamaugua. Perhaps, that is why the battle of New Market receives so much attention, the small battle although important for clearing the valley of invaders was a small battle by CW standards but also one of the last Confederate victories. Unfortunately, Longstreet's post war writings are not helpful to him in that there are inconsistencies and perhaps poetic license. A good book to read after Piston's.Army of Tennessee dintegrates into dissention made worse by Davis' inexplicable support of Bragg. Afterwards Longstreet has independent command in Union East Tennessee with a small army that ranked low on the Confederate government's priority list for supplies while East Tennessee lacked any resources to support an army. Wert notes that the man who defended the crossing at Blackburn's Ford on the openning day of Manassas and fought with Lee to the end was Lee's best corps commander, Wert I think in the final analysis is careful not to say that Longstreet would have been a very good commander of an Army. I think many southern historians fail to appreciate Longstreet's abilities. He did not have a healthy independent military command until the war was failing for the Confederates. His Suffolk campaighn was limited. Afterall, there were no great Confederate victories after Chickamaugua. Perhaps, that is why the battle of New Market receives so much attention, the small battle although important for clearing the valley of invaders was a small battle by CW standards but also one of the last Confederate victories. Unfortunately, Longstreet's post war writings are not helpful to him in that there are inconsistencies and perhaps poetic license. A good book to read after Piston's.	2002-04-01
US	52754940	R105MPZ5JTSZS5	0917298381	22366	Traveler's Guide to the Great Sioux War: The Battlefields, Forts, And Related Sites Of America'S Greatest Indian War	Books	5	24	26	N	Y	More than a Travelor's Guide: Great Frame Work of Sioux War	This book is fabulous in that in that it not only charts the tour sites of the Great Sioux was with excellent maps, directions and fantastic pictures but also provides excellent mini-histories on what occurred at each site including bios on the main participants. Just reading this book gives you a good  historical perspective for the great plains war with chapters that categorize the historical sites by period starting with the Gratten marker in Wyoming. The Gratten monument was for a Lt. and his company that threatened Conquering Bear's village over the alleged theft of a cow resulting in his death and his companies (1856). This book proceeds with sites and histories flowing the Red Cloud War of 1866, through the Little Bighorn Campaign period and aftermath, the summer and winter campaigns. Also includes historical sites after 1877 such as sitting Bull's Canadian sites with descriptions of the sites and pictures. Hedren covers every major historical site from old forts, some of which have been reconstructed and some have actual structures that he describes and has pictures of. You can virtually  follow the expeditions of the army or find exact locations of  significant village sites. This book adds an extra dimension to any trip as Hedren shows you additional sites, some  obscure, right next door to the more publicized sites.  A great example is Little Bighorn, just 30 miles away is the pristine Rosebud Battlefield site where Crook encountered the Sioux and Cheyenne in a desperate and critical battle a week before Custer. In addition, the Powder River Battlefield where Crook's forces struck first but lost the initiative in March is just further west of the Rosebud Battlefield. This book provides so much information and easy directions including those that are on private property (includes caution to seek permission) that an adventurous traveler can seemingly so it all in a long week but perhaps two. The book's pictures are better than many books that are dedicated to a specific battle. The pictures of the massive Bear Butte Mountain are incredible as its mass is seen along a flat plain. The also book includes pictures of the main participants and their places of rest. A book that Walter Camp would be proud of as he documented many of these sites almost 100 years ago before they were lost to obscurity. I wish I had this book when I visited the Little Bighorn two years ago; however, there is so much great information I would have had to stay west another week.to a specific battle. The pictures of the massive Bear Butte Mountain are incredible as its mass is seen along a flat plain. The also book includes pictures of the main participants and their places of rest. A book that Walter Camp would be proud of as he documented many of these sites almost 100 years ago before they were lost to obscurity. I wish I had this book when I visited the Little Bighorn two years ago; however, there is so much great information I would have had to stay west another week.	2002-03-23
US	52754940	RZTNUZ3IZMHR9	0813338859	109785068	A Concise History of the Middle East (7th Edition)	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Excellent History: Great Detail to Present & Very Read	Very informative book written by a man who can write to the masses in that he can explain detail of Middle East life, countries, religion and conflicts in terminology that is not too academic but inspiring to read. There is quite a bit of information provided by Goldschmidt who eases the burden of religious Middle East language (foreign to many of Americans)  with a glossary for various words, names of leaders, places and things. He includes a historical timeline chart of the great events of the Middle East including excellent maps that keep the reader in place geographically as he covers the evolution of the Middle East by region, dynasties and individual countries. He starts with the definition of history and of the Arabs followed by the land before Muhammad and then a mini biography of Muhammad. What follows is a detailed but easy to read chapter on Islam and how it develops into a civilization. The expansiveness of Islam in the Middle East and the associated power of the Ottoman empire that threatened to dominate Europe and Asia. He covers the invasion of the Mongol hordes and the eventual investitures of the European powers and colonialism as the Ottoman Empire weakens to collapse after WWI. As he writes of the dominance in controling the Middle East by England and France and the initial settling of Jews in the early 1900's the seeds of distrust of the west start to obviously emanate. The term concise history is  a bit misleading because Goldschmidt leads his student through WWII and its effect on the Middle East and the birth of Israel and Arab conflict. He also covers the surrogate relationship of English and France in trying to maintain control of trade routes, the Suez Canal and oil along with the USSR attempting to expand into the region. By the time I completed this book of just over 400 pages, I have a greater appreciation for the complex conflicts among the Middle East's Peoples not just Jewish and Arab but Sunni Muslims and Shi'i, Kurds, Maronite Christians, Armenians, Turks, Druze and various tribes within each country. Mr. Goldschmidt provides the reader a building platform to understand the Middle East, a great reference book and an avenue for more detailed reading.istians, Armenians, Turks, Druze and various tribes within each country. Mr. Goldschmidt provides the reader a building platform to understand the Middle East, a great reference book and an avenue for more detailed reading.	2002-03-19
US	52754940	RS3VLTVEFJMDB	0345389387	958610164	The Lance and the Shield: The Life and Times of Sitting Bull	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great detail on the rise and fall of Sitting Bull	Incredulous historical detail about Sitting Bull by one of the greatest writers of western history. Somehow Utley finds information concerning the early life of Sitting Bull including a few embarrassing moments during his youth. Utley describes Bull's eventual rise as a leader and then as a spiritual leader of the Sioux particularly the winter roamers. The winter roamers were Sioux who relished total independence and the traditional life. Utley discusses the emergence of Bull as a leader and visionary that peaks during the sun dance prior to Custer's attack and as I recall before Crooks attack a week before Custer. Utley covers the role of Bull in the Little Big Horn fight including his pre-attack vision that trooperrs would fall into camp and be killed.  He is a participant but not primarily as  a warrior at this stage of his life but as a spritual leader. Utley notes that Bull describes the Custer troopers as falling like corn inferring that there wasn't much of a fight. There is also discussion that Bull did not want to see the troopers annihilated fearing severe retribution. Very interesting account of Bull and his hardliners after the LBH where they eventually retreat into Canada living a hard life in that area with scarce game, unsympathetic Canadian Indians and the Mounties who communicated with Bull but were not totatally happy with his presence. Fascinating account of Bull's return to the US to surrender and his life on the reservation, the attempts to subjugate him to the authority by the reservation agent and the rivalry between Chief Gall and Bull encouraged by the agent to reduce Bull's status. Also notes Bull's hookup with Buffalo Bill and Wild West careeer and the sad Ghost Dance episode and Bull's assassination in 1890.	2002-02-17
US	52754940	RUVY7M6RQ7Y6C	0195144201	433958284	What Went Wrong?: Western Impact and Middle Eastern Response	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A Historical Perspective Of the Rise and Fall of the Middle	Lewis' book is based on three lectures that he gave in Vienna concerning what has happened to the Middle East over the past 2000 years. A very detailed and analytical study of how the Islam countries of the Middle East expanded and dominated the borders of their surrounding neighbors in Europe and parts of Asia. Lewis explains that the power of the Ottoman Empire began to dissipate with the rise of modernization of the Europeon powers particularly in the areas of military and science. In addition, he discusses the ability of countries to develop secularism with separation of church and state, which develop more religious tolerance and government that does not rely solely on religious customs and laws. In addition, Lewis notes that Islam portends that the west are composed of infidels that limits the flow of information to the Middle East. Western culture and modernization is then stymied in the Middle East. He even notes that Western effects are still having an effect in the Middle East particularly in technology, communications and military. How interesting that the current structure of the Islamic religion and ruling power of Iran is based on recent restructing with various levels of authority among the Islamic leadership that has only become apparent in the last century and is not included in origins of Islam. The epilogue provides a short summary of how the Middle East, a once dominating world power has blamed the west currently the US and Israel for their poverty and inability to participate in the world's economic growth. Unlike their Asian neighbors, who were once behind, but now compete with the west for economic power, the Middle East has been unable to participate most likely due to, not because of Islam, but by those who represent Islam as fundelmentalists, to keep their world as they believe it should be not neceesarily in line with the intentions of Islam. The fact that technical support often comes from outside the Middle East has been difficult for the Middle East to tolerate as they were once and still are the religous center of the world and were at one time the dominant world culture.e Middle East to tolerate as they were once and still are the religous center of the world and were at one time the dominant world culture.	2002-02-10
US	52754940	R3198TTM7LTW9R	0820312290	805829013	Lee's Tarnished Lieutenant: James Longstreet and His Place in Southern History (Brown Thrasher Books Ser.)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Best Book on Longstreet: Lee's Dependable Field Commander	This is a very objective and informative book on General Longstreet who, had he died at the battle of the Wilderness instead of surviving his very severe wounds,  may have had a monument on Monument Ave. in Richmond in spite of not being a Virginian. Longstreet fought all the major campaigns of the Army of Northern Virginia from Manasas up to the Wilderness returning after a recovering from severe wounds to command the Richmond theater during the siege and the final stages of the war. Piston points out well that Longstreet was a steady hand for Lee as he called him my \\"Old War Horse\\". Enlightened in that he thought of the war in broad strategic fashion suggesting using the railroad and interior lines to reinforce the west with eastern soldiers and he even offered to go himself which he did in time for the battle of Chickamaugua. Longstreet's role in Gettysburg is well discussed particularly the Lost Cause syndrome led by Jubal Early who pins the entire war on Longstreet at Gettysburg. Ironically, Early's original memoirs make no mention of any criticisms of Longstreet until after Lee's death when Early finds a niche to match his abrasive leadership style. Often critics suggest that Longstreet failed in Suffolk, Knoxville and East Tennessee; however, Piston notes that in Suffolk and Knoxville he was laying siege to forces equal or larger than his own that stayed within their works. The attack at Fort Sanders was a severe failure and in the East Tennessee campaign Longstreet performs well but the low point was Longstreet's  dealing with personnel in difficult circumstances. Piston demonstrates how Davis micromanaged when he writes of Davis' interference with Longstreet personnel issues. Impressive that after his wounding Longstreet returns for any command that Lee will give him. Piston quickly covers Longstreet's post war career as a businessman, a republican who enters Louisiana's controversial political scene, leads the Police on horseback against a mob only to be attacked himself, his Republican connections and maneuvering for political plum jobs and his final days as a hotel owner and vineyard grower in lovely Gainesville, Georgia. Longstreet's post war writings are covered which had Longstreet been more accurate in his views or memories, his legacy may have stood taller and less challenged.<br />His criticisms of some of Lee's decisions and turning Republican cost him dearly in the south but he steadfastly refused to change to suit others. The most endearing part of the book is Piston's telling of Longstreet and Dan Sickles after a joyous round of spirits, they walk each other repeatedly back to each others door refusing to end the night of the two most controversial generals who were at Gettysburg.ttacked himself, his Republican connections and maneuvering for political plum jobs and his final days as a hotel owner and vineyard grower in lovely Gainesville, Georgia. Longstreet's post war writings are covered which had Longstreet been more accurate in his views or memories, his legacy may have stood taller and less challenged. <BR>His criticisms of some of Lee's decisions and turning Republican cost him dearly in the south but he steadfastly refused to change to suit others. The most endearing part of the book is Piston's telling of Longstreet and Dan Sickles after a joyous round of spirits, they walk each other repeatedly back to each others door refusing to end the night of the two most controversial generals who were at Gettysburg.	2002-02-05
US	52754940	RQHLIR6AHUZ63	0684849445	28979746	The Longest Night: A Military History of the Civil War	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Great Overall Book on the CW:East, Middle and West	Although I have read many books on the Civil War, this book is perhaps the best single volume (actually big enough for two) book on the Civil War. This book will appeal to someone who has not had the opportunity to appreciate the complex nature of the war that spread completely across the country from not only Virginia in the East but to Fort Craig, New Mexico in the far west, from Robert E. Lee to Kit Carson. While their may not be new ground for the seasoned CW veteran reader, there is no doubt that this book will appeal to an aspiring CW historian that wants the total picture of what occurred during the war. Eicher provides detail on virtually every major battle down to substantial skirmishes including the identification of every major general down to the division level with short biographical sketches on the main participants. The detail is somewhat overwhelming but for seasoned CW readers, there is some useful material as one can actually follow the names of generals that disappeared or were banished from the eastern theater such as Magruder, Slocum, Hooker, Rosecrans, Butler, Pleasonton, Loring, Colquitt, D. H. Hill, Holmes etc. In addition, Eicher clarifies the true rank status of generals, provides historical updates such as the recent discovery of the Hundley and maintains an objective point of view particularly on Grant, Sherman, Longstreet, Forrest and many others. Although descriptions of the major battles are somewhat difficult due to the compressed nature of this single volume, as all CW books would benefit from maps galore to understand troop movements, the best part of this big book are the descriptions of raids, small battles such as Ball's Bluff and interesting actions such as the daring sinking of the ironclad ram the Albemarle by Lt. Cushing with his nighttime mission involving a small sleek boat with a torpedo as a spar. Even includes detail on the Vermont bank raids by Confederates, the attempts to burn NYC and Confederate attempts to spread yellow fever. There may be some small mistakes such as the author sites Booth's death near Port Tobacco which I think he meant Port Royal (or maybe that was the original name) and there may be others,  I wasn't aware that Picket had 19,000 men at Five Forks (with a number that large it seems that A. P. Hill should have commanded it). This is a huge book that takes some patience to read and it sometimes is tedious in detail but even for a veteran CW buff it can be rewarding. For the CW veteran it may be like a referee rereading the rules to see if you really do know it all.llow fever. There may be some small mistakes such as the author sites Booth's death near Port Tobacco which I think he meant Port Royal (or maybe that was the original name) and there may be others,  I wasn't aware that Picket had 19,000 men at Five Forks (with a number that large it seems that A. P. Hill should have commanded it). This is a huge book that takes some patience to read and it sometimes is tedious in detail but even for a veteran CW buff it can be rewarding. For the CW veteran it may be like a referee rereading the rules to see if you really do know it all.	2002-02-04
US	52754940	RU2P7VKVR6K2D	0192853430	107255155	The Bible: A Very Short Introduction	Books	4	18	22	N	Y	An Intellectiual essay on the Bible	Mr. Riches writes an essay on the Bible that I think presumes you have at least a basic familiarity with the bible. Those that do not will struggle at various points particularly if their history of the Middle East or the world is limited. Mr. Riches discusses the development of both the old and New Testaments, who wrote them, when and for what purpose. He notes that the bible was virtually a written guide for the sharing of community values. He notes that while the new testament concentrates on Christ and his meanings the old concentrates on Abraham while discussing the effects both had on their cultures. The former looks to the defeat of their oppressors while the latter looks to a  return to Israel. The book also covers the effect the bible has had on modern culture, the bad such as exploitation of the Indians of South America because of their alleged inferiority and the good where Desmond Tutu utilizes the teachings of the bible to communicate to the Afrikaners that black Africans deserve to be treated as men, equals. Not a simple book, its challenging and  a little too brief about the origins of the bible which I think is the most fascinating part of the book. But the again, it's a brief introduction.	2002-01-24
US	52754940	R2EIUD22Y5X478	0385413726	244095611	From Beirut to Jerusalem	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Great Personal Picture of the Middle East	Excellent view of the Middle East from a man who lived in both Beruit during the Civil war of the 80's and later in Jerusalem.<br />Friedman punctuates his description of Beirut as the once Switzerland of the Middle East with personal descriptions of events that unfolded before his own eyes. Friedman gives a living testimony of the destruction of a once tolerant City that in spite of multiple religious groups and tribal factions thrived on its diversity only to be shattered by Civil war between Christians, Moslems, Druse and at times the Palestinians. Friedman gives a great history of the region including the incredulous brutality of regimes virtually typical in the Arab world and not only intolerant of religious differences but intolerant based on tribal association. The name of the game is not just revenge but brutal revenge to stop future acts. Sad to think of the cultural opportunities that a peaceful Beirut offered and besides its destruction the pulling of The US Marines into the conflict inadvertently aiding one side only to be attacked by the others. Friedman also discusses Israel and the great dilema caused by the intoxicating success of the 67 war and capture of the Sinai and the West Bank. The great success took Israel from security within to hosts in land occupied by Arabs who may have been better off that in other Arab countries but disadvantaged compared to the rights of the Israeli occupiers. Friedman discusses how the occupation was like festering sore to the Palestinian people causing virtual loss of self-esteem that erupted in violence like spontaneous combustion. Friedman tackles the political conflicts between the Israeli parties and among the various religious groups. Additional conflicts are between secular and non-secular Jews and extreme orthodox and conservative Jews. Additional conflicts are the American Jew's perception of Israel versus the Israeli's view of what is right Israel but also differences in who qualifies as Jew in reference to the extreme conservatives in Israel. Also fascinating chronicle of Yassar Arafat's constant rise and fall whom in spite of failures and differences and lost opportunities survives as the face of the Palestinians. He is their billboard good or bad. This is a large but very readable,  reflective book.e extreme conservatives in Israel. Also fascinating chronicle of Yassar Arafat's constant rise and fall whom in spite of failures and differences and lost opportunities survives as the face of the Palestinians. He is their billboard good or bad. This is a large but very readable,  reflective book.	2002-01-10
US	52754940	R39F0Q1VPDLTZ2	0939009366	680875283	Balls Bluff: A Small Battle and Its Long Shadow	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Small battle with Great Political Significance	After reading this very well written book about a small battle shortly after the first battle of Bull Run, I had to visit the battle site in Leesburg, VA., which is on the Potomac River just northwest of Washington D.C. The site is breath taking as it fits Farwell's description of this seemingly lonely site very well. The reconnaissance assignment led by  Colonel Baker, a close friend of Lincoln and Senator from Oregon, becomes a total military failure. The military amateur is not at the battle front early on but over time, Baker commits virtually his complete force up the high bluffs from the river to a virtual open plain to be picked off by the unseen enemy hidden in the woods, which included forces commanded by the infamous Confederate General Evans of the later famous Tramp Brigade. Baker is picked up off early after arriving on the field in the late afternoon, virtually contributong to a full-scale rout as the Union soldiers panic to the bluffs and the river, shot down as they try to escape. Bodies fall into the Potomac and many actual float down river to Washington. This total failure after Bull Run has great political and psychological fall out for Lincoln and the government. The commanding officer, Stone,  that sent Baker across the river is not at fault but he quickly becomes a scapegoat and the Committee for the Conduct of the War is born. The committee ruthlessly imprisons General Stone, whose failure to recognize the seriousness of his charges and his abandonment by the self serving McClellan (better you than me) contributes to his harsh treatment. The committee lives on to Court Martial Fitz John Porter at second Bull Run and terrorize numerous Union Officers in the future. Farwell presents a well written and readable book opn this small battle that, so shortly after Bull Run, shocked the Union and the politicians of the north.	2001-12-24
US	52754940	R2FQHWAEXYZM1V	0807104744	793992291	The Marble Man: Robert E. Lee and His Image in American Society	Books	5	40	48	N	N	A Hard Look at Lee and The Lost Vause Syndrome	This book is not just a revisionist look at Robet E. Lee but also an objective evaluation of the Southern Lost Cause Syndrome that utilzed Lee as their flagship for a just cause. Thomas Connelly is a great writer of the western theater notably the history of the Army of the Tennessee and of the western Confederate cabal that had conflicts with Jefferson Davis. Connelly offers what southerners and partiucularly Virginians may find as a harsh evaluation of Lee during the war. This book also includes some psycho-analysis that offers some reasoning for Lee's very formal demeanor which is in far contrast's to Joe Johnston whose troops would pat him on the head on occasion but not dare approach Lee in such an informal manner. In my opinion the book demonstrates that Lee was simply not infallible like amy man who has overall responsibility, he must accept some of the blame for failure. There is also the question of whether Lee was too aggressive with limited manpower (Gary Gallagher has referred to this as crucial, that the Confederacy was in serious need of military victories for morale). The Lost Cause contingent made up of Jubal Early and company always gave Lee total credit for victory but not in defeat, Early &amp; company always made someone other than Lee a scapegoat in their version of history. Gettysburg serves as the grand indictment of this philosophy where Longstreet becomes the total goat at Gettysburg in the 1870's while one of his accusers, Early, covers his own lackluster performance by publicly hanging Longstreet. Early raps himself with the cloak of Robert E. Lee to deflect criticism of his own actions and post war exile. To my mind, Connaly expolores better than anyone else the self serving relationship of Jubal Early to the Lost Cause syndrome in Early's attempt to rewite history. Connelly brings out that Jackson was the south's great hero until Lee's death and the emergence of Lee's rise among southern writers. He also argues that Lee lacked a national picture of how to best serve the Confederacy by his opposing transferring troops west to bolster those failing armies with limited resources. He argues that Virginia was Lee's first and main focus. Highly reccommend this book, whether you agree or not, Connelly makes you look at the facts presented and while not meaning to destroy Lee's image of a competent and charismatic general, it tends to show him as human and mortal who like everyone made some mistakes. We all have to look at historians presentations carefully, even Douglas Freeman in Lee's Lieutanents slightly diminishes Jackson's role and he makes Longstreet shorter, fatter and a plotter of self grandization. This is an intellectually challenging book best appreciated by those that have an open mind. This book most likely helped foster Alan Nolan's &quot;Lee Considered.&quot;picture of how to best serve the Confederacy by his opposing transferring troops west to bolster those failing armies with limited resources. He argues that Virginia was Lee's first and main focus. Highly reccommend this book, whether you agree or not, Connelly makes you look at the facts presented and while not meaning to destroy Lee's image of a competent and charismatic general, it tends to show him as human and mortal who like everyone made some mistakes. We all have to look at historians presentations carefully, even Douglas Freeman in Lee's Lieutanents slightly diminishes Jackson's role and he makes Longstreet shorter, fatter and a plotter of self grandization. This is an intellectually challenging book best appreciated by those that have an open mind. This book most likely helped foster Alan Nolan's &quot;Lee Considered.&quot;	2001-12-09
US	52754940	R2TEI42B4JCD6S	0679738886	5543089	General A.P. Hill: The Story of a Confederate Warrior	Books	5	6	9	N	N	New Information on Lee's Impulsive General and Petersburg	Dr. Robertson the historian teams up with VA. Tech's former atheltic physician Dr. Bullock to determine the cause of AP Hill's famous decline after promotion in regards to health and action after he was promoted to Corps Commander after Jackson's death. While many though of Hill as a case of the &quot;Peter Principal&quot; it is apparent from the descriptions of Hill's physical decline and symptoms that Hill was slowly dying of syphllis. The inability of his kidneys to function properly caused Hill sleepless nights and left him virtually unable to command. This book is the first to determin ethecause of Hill's physoical collapse. Some very good descriptions of the impulsive Hill who starts the 7 Days campaign prematurely when Jackson is late or lost, his famous role at Harpers Ferry, his mercruial temperment with Longstreet and Jackson and his severe failure at Bristow Station where he launches his corps into a virtual ambush without any reconnoitering. His role at Gettysburg is somewhat of a mystery but his illness may have contributed. Best parts of the book center on Hill and his corps at Petersburg where his divisions would swing out of the trenches and into the woods and hit Grant's probing left flanks from vitually any angle. Interesting fact that Hill was burried four times after death due to some unique circumstances. Hill's legacy survives with  less criticism than Lngstreet because the south was always kinder to their dead heroes than the living.	2001-12-08
US	52754940	RVWBPLTUSIJ4D	0872236250	830181093	Marty Liquori's Guide for the elite runner	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Very Good Guide on Being a Competetive Distance Runner	Maryt Liquori, the former 5000 meter Americam Holder and one of the great American Milers (he was in the thick of the race that first broke Jim Ryan's record), writes a very good guide on how to become competetively fit. He makes the comment that some runners try to improve by milage but quality is what makes you faster. That of course includes track work, speed and particularly intervals. I appreciated reading this while in my 30's Liqouri's comments that as an over 30 runner he found the need to run hard every three days versus every other day. It's important to know how fast your intervals are but Liqouri makes a good point, if you are not in shape, lay off the watch until you have made some progress. No need to discourage yourself. Works for older runners too, no watch that is. Very good coaching guide for high schoolers.	2001-12-08
US	52754940	R2FLMPY5NTOE38	0316516724	926012698	The Self-Coached Runner	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Tough Workouts That can make you faster	This is a book with a series of planned distance runner workouts<BR>to get you in shape for the time you want to run. If you want to run a 40 minute 10K or a 34 minute 10K, the author has got the workouts for 7 days a week that run for months until you are ready to peak. Lots of track workouts, tempo and distance runs. I got in great shape following the workouts for my goal; however, the workouts are tough. I used to do the workouts for a goal a minute slower than my true goal because the workouts were a little too tough.  I think the workouts set for specific times were really keyed to make you faster than the time you were training for. If you want to have a planed training program and run your optimum, this is it.	2001-12-08
US	52754940	R2850774R64J9V	093607003X	310217114	Galloway's Book on Running	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Best Book on how to Train, Recover, Eat and Run Again	A very easy to follow guide book on training for your particular event. Not over whelming in minutia but covers the facts in straight forward communication. I particularly enjoyed Galloway's approach to marathon training; however, I could not bring myself to run over 26 in training as he prescribes, but it makes sense to finish the race psychologically and phsyically strong. Nice large pages with diagrams that covers a variety of topics including injuries, how to recover and how to avoid them. As a distance runner, Galloway is careful with speed workouts as too much stress in a speed workout can lead to quicker path to injury. Very approachable book by runners at all levels by a guy that represented the U.S. in the 1972 Olympic 10K. One of the famous Florida Track Club members that included Frank Shorter and Jack Bachelor.	2001-12-08
US	52754940	RV491VLIM2AIF	0813909074	304264828	Civil War Sites in Virginia: A Tour Guide	Books	5	23	23	N	N	The Greatest CW Tour Book on Virginia	This absoloute Civil War site traveler book is fantastic in helping you locate and enjoy virtually every Civil war site in Virginia. Robertson smartly divides VA. into geographic regions<br />where he maps out the locations of famous CW sites with not only directions but brief description sof the events. With this book I found the famous Drewry's Bluff defense site located above the James river 7 miles below Richmond where the Confederates stopped the monitor and it's fleet and in 1864 played a key role in stoping the Union advance to take Petersburg and Richmond. A remote and beautiful earthwork over the river. Obviously, the great sites of Manasas and Richmond are noted but<br />off the beaten path locations are best. The site of Turner Ashby's death putside of Harrisonburg off a dirt road into the woods, the site of the Rifle pits and trenches of the North Anna campaign, the star shaped eathern fort in Smithfield, the remote twin on the opposite side of the James in Fort Eustis Army Base, Fort Early an earthwork in Lynchburg, the huge trenches in Newport News City Park, the Jackson valley Campaign and on. A great road trip book and I hope he will have an updated edition with more off road sites. Caution is needed regarding areas that have been developed since the initial printing. Original access roads may have been changed or renamed such as at Yellow Tavern where the connecting street, now called Old Francis Rd., no longer crosses U.S. 1. Now you must go further north and take a right (east) on VA. Center Parkway (North of 295 overpass)  from U.S. 1 to old Telegraph Road, then travel south, .1 mile past Old Francis Rd to find Stuart's death site.	2001-12-08
US	52754940	R1FRKXOUVU4RWP	080613187X	604477713	Return to Bull Run: The Campaign and Battle of Second Manassas	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Best Book Ever on 2nd Bull Run: Great maps and writing	Hennessy does the best job to date in detailing the 2nd Manassas or otherwise known Bull Run campaign then any writer to date. As a National Parks historian who served on these fields combined with guidance by the renowned Robert Krick, Hennessy provides a well-written, well-researched and organized detail of the entire campaign. From Pope's arrival with his \\"take the war to the civilian's\\" proclamations and his coming to grips with a dysfunctional army made of McClellanites, Hennessy gives a great description of this Union Army of Virginia. In contrast, Lee has organized his army into two wings, Jackson the maneuvering striking force and Longstreet the reliable front man and heavy counter puncher. Great description of Jackson's great flanking march behind Pope to Manassas and his attack at Groveton that started the battle and sets the stage for Pope's obsession to crush Jackson.  Hennessy notes the frustrations that accompanied Pope in shuffling McClellan's former divisions forward after they just recently left the Peninsula. One of the most interesting segment deals with Pope focusing so much on Jackson that he leaves Thoroughfare Gap lightly defended allowing Longstreet to arrive on the scene in time to strike during Jackson's critical need for relief. The other part of this drama is the mistrust that Pope has for Union General Porter who is posted on Pope's far left. Porter reports Longstreet's arrival and implores Pope that he cannot attack Jackson as ordered. Pope's failure to believe that Longstreet is on the scene leads to Longstreet's famous mass attack that collapsed the Union army into another rout except for rear guard stands along Henry Hill. Pope later charges Porter, who was not completely innocent in attitude, of insubordination resulting in one of the most famous Conduct of the War trials, Porter is court-martialed and the ruling sends a chilling message to the military supporters of McClellan. Great detail on movements with very much appreciated maps and excellent descriptions of the commanders and their decisions. A facinating chapter deals with Union General Sigel's attempts to attack Jackson that are hampered by Kearney's reluctance to support him in battle based purely on personal reasons. As a great plus, Hennessy is a gifted writer making this book a joy to read.ps and excellent descriptions of the commanders and their decisions. A facinating chapter deals with Union General Sigel's attempts to attack Jackson that are hampered by Kearney's reluctance to support him in battle based purely on personal reasons. As a great plus, Hennessy is a gifted writer making this book a joy to read.	2001-11-24
US	52754940	RHK6PXU2UCX2C	0807847224	835980474	Fighting for the Confederacy: The Personal Recollections of General Edward Porter Alexander (Civil War America)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	The Original Manuscript For Military Memiors: Excellent	A tremendous historical find, this book is the original manuscript for Alexander Porter's great Civil war cornerstone book &quot;Military Memoirs of a Confederate&quot;. The original manuscript was edited into Military Memoirs so this book is essentially the uncut version of the original containing more personal views of the Confederate who was a great witness and participate Longstreet's First Corps and thus Lee's Army of Northern Virginia. He was in charge of Longstreet's artillery barrage at Gettysburg's 3rd day and he had to make the judgment call when it was most advantageous to advance Picket's (actually Longstreet's) charge, he was in the west at Chattanoga, Chickamaugua and the relative disastrous Tennessee campaign, he was with Lee at Appomattox venturing the comment to Lee that they fight on as a guerilla force which was disdained by Lee and he made the accurate and most famous appraisal of the Seven Days battles where Lee struggled to get his divisions to cooperate by expressing that the Confederates knew as much about the lay of the land &quot;as they did about Africa&quot;. Unusual post war Confederate autobiography in that Alexander is objective, relatively free of ego and offers his opinions on the whys and how comes without personal animosity. Plus, he was a major participant, close to Longstreet and in turn he had a great vantage point in observing Lee. The book belongs on every Civil War collector's shelf.	2001-11-24
US	52754940	RNLVULI9DVARA	0533117984	11186548	The Custer Controversy: A Critical Analysis	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Pennington: Well familiar with the LBH	I have just read Jack Pennington's most recent work, A Comprehennsive Study of the LBH which is more thorough then the Custer Controversy. However, Pennington offers the most thorough analysis of all the testimonies made by the participants and does not fall into the trap of taking the Reno<br />Court of Inquiry as the bible. Pennington recognizes that a central contingent of the Officers were covering their own failings particular the bitter Benteen who never moved into the support position as designated and he covered himself by deprecating Custer's ability to formulate an attack plan. Reno is a part of the cover up which includes Lt. Wallace the intenerist. Spectacularly, Reno states he never saw or was aware of Custer's gray horse troop marching across the opposite ridge getting into a position for the flanking support attack. Testimony from a number of Reno's men indicate they saw Custer manuvering along the ridge; however, Reno was not inclined to admit such at his inquiry. In Benteen's case he admits to receiving several messages from Custer but never identifies any return messengers sent on his part to notify Custer of his whereabouts or dwadling.<br />Since Custer's first messengers were killed, Benteen has only to deprecate the intelligence of Trumpter Martin as an &quot;idiot&quot; Itallion and Kanipe as a limited messenger. Pennington theorizes that Custer moved early to his flanking position only to be killed at the Medicine Trail Coulee which caused disorganization of his battalions leading to their destruction. He also builds a case that Reno and Benteen misrepresented the timing of events to cover a much longer time delay in finally moving to support Custer. Part of that misreprepresentation is to misrepresent how far the pack train was behind Benteen. How unfortunate that Martin was not allowed to testify fully and that more enlisted were not allowed to testify at the Reno Court of Inquiry. After reading Pennington, you have the impression that the Inquiry was a Gentlemen's Club affair.iry was a Gentlemen's Club affair.	2001-11-23
US	52754940	R2ZP7WQ71NVPYW	0684862360	819251496	Now, Let Me Tell You What I Really Think	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Good Mini Bios along with Mathew's, limited depth	An entertaining book on several great political leaders such as Nixon, Kennedy, Bush, Gore, Clinton, Carter, O'Neil, Reagan and Churchill. They wet the appetite and provide interesting capsules that are noteworthy. The regrets on these bios is that they lack more depth and detail to give the reader a full appreciation of each man's statue. In addition, when Mathews brings up an interesting point, he fails to provide enough detail to fulfill the readers interest. Examples include his desciption of how Clinton constantly readjusted his political stance on issues to serve politics of the moment and how he let Paul Tongas carry the reality issues of the Democratic party in 1992 only to blundgeon him in the primaries. Another is his referencing his announcement shortly after the famous Quale-Bentsen, &quot;...you're no Jack Kennedy debate&quot;  as a technical win for Quale without offering why? He's right when he says all anybody remembers is Bentsen's one liner. So remind us of what else happened! Even a footnote indicating his source of information would have been helpful. Although some of Mathews'<br />biographical sketches of himself are interesting, the book would have been better served if he limited his own bio and expanded on his primary subjects. A book that will appeal to people who don't require historical depth but disappointing to historians.	2001-11-10
US	52754940	R3O7U80F0V9TZ4	070061088X	691821969	The Union That Shaped the Confederacy: Robert Toombs and Alexander H. Stephens	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Narrow and personal focus help ruin the Confederate Govt.	Toombs and Stephen examplify the problems within the Confederate<br />government. These incredibly close friends of the strong Georgia delegation were powerful national political figures whose bitterness over personal issues, Toombs, and Stephens' strict constitutional views undermined the Davis administration. Stephens never seriously worked with the dominating Davis and was later  opposed to the administration over constitutional issues in the face of bigger war emergencies. Toombs loses the opportunity to become the first President by his bellicose enthusiams for the office coupled with drink which lowers his place in the new government and raises Stephens' star. Excellent description of both men including Toombs rise as Secretary of State, his anti-Davis stance and his mercurial and short military career. The author also covers the end of the era of both men including Stephens' attempts to rewite history in a light more favorable to him then his actions were in reality. These two powerful men and closest of friends could not see the big picture of the war seeking their narrow views in spite of the war effort. Together with Governor Brown of Georgia, they represented a crisis of independence within the Confederacy that no doubt contributed to the fall of the Confederate government.	2001-10-22
US	52754940	R2NLOD4RVY4PAB	0679781390	344485885	Not War But Murder: Cold Harbor 1864	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent Description of the Campaign and It's Aftermath	Furgurson continues with his study of eastern battles by moving on to Cold Harbor. The early part of the book gives a brief review of the previous battles since Grant took on as commander of the Armies traveling with Meade and the Army of the Potomac. On the Union side he explains well Grant's strategy of utilizing pressure from multple points such as the Shenandoah valley, Petersburg and calavary raids to reduce Lee's thinning army. Excellent detail on the initial troop movements and calvary fencing in feeling out each others troop placement and the race to Cold Harbor. Sad description of the artillery heavies pulled from the forts of Washington to be used as inexperienced infantry to assualt the unseen but dug in Confederates and the use of untried commanders for the Confederates and succesful forces from Florida (Finnegan's brigage) and from the bastions of Charleston.<br />Also fascinating detail of the strained relationship between the Commander of the Army of the Potomac, Meade, and Grant. Their failed ability to communicate effectively may have contributed to the high losses at Cold Harbor. Also, interesting is the relationships of the Corps commanders particularly the Old Army of the Potomac commanders such as Hancock who will eventually lose the ability to continue. The book also covers the aftermath of the battle and Ferguson discusss the campaign effect on the Army, relationships of generals (Lee and Beauregard) and the effect it had on Lee, reducing him to fighting in trenches.<br />The description of the actual climatic attack is relatively short<br />because the huge losses were sustained in only 20 minutes. Although, the attack seemed futile, the Union left under Hancock broke through temporarily on June 1st two days  earlier and with more support may have crushed Lee as he had no additional reserves. It's worth taking this book to the battle site because the maps are excellent and the scene of the breakthrough is on private property that is still owned by the original family. The National Park Service in Richmond gives a great tour explaining the battle beyond the actual compact battlefield park. Also, Gaines Mill battlefield (1862) is just across the street hidden appropriately in the woods, also worth seeing.by the original family. The National Park Service in Richmond gives a great tour explaining the battle beyond the actual compact battlefield park. Also, Gaines Mill battlefield (1862) is just across the street hidden appropriately in the woods, also worth seeing.	2001-09-23
US	52754940	R7JK2VU1Z1AUW	0151005648	68905596	An Honorable Defeat: The Last Days of the Confederate Government	Books	5	19	22	N	N	The Unraveling of The Confederacy Without Rational Peace	I have always wondered why in spite of catastrophic military failures and the capture of major cities of Atlanta and the virtual disintegration of the Army of Tennessee at Nashville why the Confederate government continued the fight risking the destruction of Richmond and unnnecessary casualties particularly after the failure at Fort Steadman (east Richmond) and the total collapse at Five Forks (southwest Richmond). William C. Davis describes in an easy and enjoyable read the incredible perserverance of Jefferson Davis to fight to the very end even if the only thing left was Texas far to the West. Breckenridge the former Vice President of the US and current Secretary of War diplomatically tries to orchestrate a calculated peace to prevent the disintegration of orderly civilization in the south that can only result in guerilla warfare where the southern population fears its own soilders as they must live off  any means possible to survive including their countrymen. The author describes the disintegration of the government, its dwindling authority and its virtual hopeless cause to keep Confederacy alive while the remaining central government officials try to flee to the west. The author describes the cabinet officials in great detail, their relationships to Davis and their own  late actions to sway the President into the final reality that hope is lost.<br /><br />An increduluous story how one man , Davis, wielded so much authority over a weak congress and a cabinet made up of sycophants particular Judah Benjamin. Benjamin's need to please the President appears to have bolstered Davis' driven and unreal need to keep the Confederacy alive in spite of the destruction all around him. A fatalistic story particular as Davis sets up the March peace talks for failure and his attempt to make Johnson's inevitable surrender an impossibility. In spite of it all, Breckenridge attempts to form a legal coalition to challenge Davis into finally understanding that the war is virtually over. Incredible detail of the collapse of Richmond and the descriptive detail of the eventual impovished travel of the cabinet. A particular haunting passage incudes the  seven paroled Confederate soldiers who push themselves onto Jefferson Davis' and the cabinets' train car roof. They put wet blankets on the stove exhaust pipe to catch the heat exiting the stove  to warm themselves in spite of the fact that the smoke now returns to the train car choking Davis and his cabinet. Irony that the General that Davis detests the most, Johnston, almost with glee tells Davis and the cabinet that the war is lost and that he must surrender.<br /><br />Riveting descriptions of Davis continuing to argue that the south continue while passing through towns that eventually become fearful of even housing him. Exciting stories of the escapes of Breckenridge and Benjamin and the attempts by others.<br /><br />How sad that when the war was logically over, the southern leader continued on while Richmond burned and with the useless loss of live. The author explains why it happened and how Breckenridge tried to usher a quick end to the war to preserve what remained of the south.Incredible detail of the collapse of Richmond and the descriptive detail of the eventual impovished travel of the cabinet. A particular haunting passage incudes the  seven paroled Confederate soldiers who push themselves onto Jefferson Davis' and the cabinets' train car roof. They put wet blankets on the stove exhaust pipe to catch the heat exiting the stove  to warm themselves in spite of the fact that the smoke now returns to the train car choking Davis and his cabinet. Irony that the General that Davis detests the most, Johnston, almost with glee tells Davis and the cabinet that the war is lost and that he must surrender.       Riveting descriptions of Davis continuing to argue that the south continue while passing through towns that eventually become fearful of even housing him. Exciting stories of the escapes of Breckenridge and Benjamin and the attempts by others.    How sad that when the war was logically over, the southern leader continued on while Richmond burned and with the useless loss of live. The author explains why it happened and how Breckenridge tried to usher a quick end to the war to preserve what remained of the south.	2001-08-16
US	52754940	ROR5SUWN5C83X	0060670215	563255474	In Quest of Gold: The Jim Ryun Story	Books	4	20	20	N	N	The Great Miler's Word on his Career	An enjoyable read on the former world record holders running career particularly his HS phenomenal success to his tragic fall at Munich. Wish that Ryun could have experienced the atheletic sponsorship of today instead of being forced to bag groceries to train and to go pro in the failed pro track venture. He also talks of his religous experience and his self critique which is hard to ever buy that Ryun was ever a bad person. Got mine autographed at the Shamrock Marathon in VA. Beach. I still love the an exciting &quot;Jim Ryun Story&quot; by Coorder Nelson. That book is exciting read of the competetiveness of younster Ryun running against the great Peter Snell, Kip Keino and the American Jim Grelle. The action photographs are thrilling. Would be great to have both books.	2001-07-31
US	52754940	R2EBDZ6ZR8AULE	080613156X	723710194	To Hell With Honor: Custer and the Little Bighorn	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Great Focus on Benteen, Reno, Lone Tepee with an Argument	This is an enjoyable book to read because whether you like all of Sklelnar's points of view he does assemble a total picture of the campaign. He particularly captures the whereabout of all the military participants very well such as Benteen's loop, Reno, Custer and to my delight the movement of the advance scouts partricularly Lt. Varnum.<br />High points include a focus on Benteen whose hatred of Custer and pouting may have contributed to his delay in supporting the attack. Just a review of his private letters summerized by the author that are available in Graham's Custer Myth are evidence of a very bitter man. Also includes discussion of Custer's attack plan on the Lone Tepee village that went awry but also explains best why Benteen went to the left to support the two remaining columns other than Benteen's later court testimony that he was to go valley hunting to infinity. Custers use of scouts is very entertaining and the author follows Varnums testimony very closely. Also a very good description on what may have happened to Reno in the valley and his abrupt abandonmment of his position and the rout retreat that he termed a charge. The numbers lost in the retreat and the 20 or more men that were abandoned in the woods not including the wounded and those shot down in the rout speaks poorly of Reno's decision when compared to light loses in the skirmish line and in the cotton woods. This is evern more interesting when witnesses report seeing Custer, moving in position across the river on the bluffs. Reno's actions did leave Custer in the bag no matter what you think of Reno. Like Gray, the author follows that Custer did a demonstration in front of the village to take the heat off Reno and evovle some kind of a plan that may be challengable but is cetianly possible. I enjoyed this book greatly because it added some new information and analyzes the Reno - Benteen relationships and battle actions that are fascinating and provides a great geographical perspective. One shoud never critize a book that adds a spin on an interesting topic and this is a good spin.shoud never critize a book that adds a spin on an interesting topic and this is a good spin.	2001-07-28
US	52754940	R8A6DPYYYH1NI	0425122123	629388832	Clear and Present Danger (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Riveting Story of Drugs War &amp;  Covert Military Introvention	Great and sometime gruesome story starting with the horrid scene of the president's friend and family tortured and then murdured  by a drug lord's thugs. The extreme method of payback by the drug lord that in this case is in South America set the stage for a President initiating a covert operation against the drug lord. He does this through the use of a crack special forces unit that works in the jungle virtually alone to accomplish their mission with only radio communications to high tech aerial support that pinpoints and hits targets with missles from far away. Into the midst of this political turmoil and covert operation is thrust Jack Ryan. From the initial murder scene that is hard to forget, to the Coast Guard cutter crew's uinique method of forging a confession to the dark political compromise that leaves the forces to survive on their own, the book never stops with fast paced adventure including Clancy's ever detailed but helpful explanation of the military support systems from ground troops to aerial support. The realism of drug wars, hard behind the scenes politics and detailed explanation of military high tech hardware makes this Clany's best book.	2001-07-15
US	52754940	R35HOIH6KN0JJJ	0803295618	682527318	Custer and the Great Controversy: The Origin and Development of a Legend	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	Series of Essays on Why Custer Became a Legend	Early book by the great western writer Robert Utley provides a brief description of the Indian situation that evolved before the LBH and then he provides an abbreviated but well described  sequence of battle events. Utley then describes the press' role in developing the story that caught General Sherman and Sheridan off guard as Sherman provides Terry's second controversial report to a reporter by accident. Utley describes the fireworks that arises between Custer supporters such as his old classmate Confederate Rosser and Reno and other military men such as Colonel Hughes, Terry's adjutant and relative. The controversy is even made even more complex by the chapter spent on the Indian's version of events that has elements of truth combined with confusing facts or half truths perhaps aggravated by poor translations and the Indians unique individualistic versions of battle that lack time and spatial realities. Finally, Utley tackles a number of the mythical stories about Custer and the LBH including Frederick Whitacker's quick print and fanciful book on Custer that became a best seller. The best part of this chapter is the discussion about the last four crow scouts to see Custer particularly the debate over when Curley departed from Custer. An excellent book that frames the controversies about Custer's battle which also explains the fascination, nothing is totally certian but amongst all the testimony and physical evidence, somewhere lies the truth.	2001-07-15
US	52754940	R29IFMKPU6NKGY	0807821934	464647817	The Fredericksburg Campaign: Decision on the Rappahannock (Military Campaigns of the Civil War)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	ritcal essays by the Foremost Experts on Lee's Best Battle	A great collection of essays by those historians most familiar with the Battle of Fredericksburg. Burnsides excellent biographer, Wiliam Marvel, writes a very balanced essay on Burnside and his high command that was still full of McClellan political generals and some that were inept. Burnside shares blame for failed opportunities but was primarily let down by Franklin who proved to be incapable or neglectful in providing a strong attack on the Confederate right  that was necessary to attack the heights of the town on the confederate left. The objective critic of Lee, Alan Nolan, writes an essay substantiating why this battle was Lee's greatest and how Longstreet was so capable that his great critic Douglas Freeman had to praise him. A. William Greene who spent many years with the park service at Fredericksburg (he's now at the new Pamplin Civil War Museum in Petersburg) writes of Burnside's last and lost attempt at continuing the campaign, the mud march.  Difficult in bad weather but made worse by the political generals who contributed willingly to his failure. The other essays contribute to the realities of war, the carnage and the effect on Civilians and how the virtually destroyed Pennyslvania Division were later to shout &quot;Remember Fredericksburg&quot; at Gettysburg.	2001-07-14
US	52754940	R1SNQTJ0LWZN0N	0806132922	889883406	Archaeological Perspectives on the Battle of the Little Bighorn	Books	4	39	40	N	N	Fascinating facts on the battle after the 1983 Fire	This a great reference book for those interested in the mystery of the LBH. The digs followed a grass fire that provided an opportunity for archaeological excavations. Helps lend credence to the accuracy of markers, IDs the 40 odd bogus markers with Custer and indications of cause of death and mutilations based on skeleton remains. Also lends proof that the latter burials were haphazard at best and guess work at identifying the dead. Great gems in the possible identification of the scout Mitch Bouyer and a trooper skeleton far from the field that may have been trying to escape. Great detail on weapons used and provides evidence that the Indians had significant fire power with repeaters. Also, covers Reno-Benteen field and provides detail on possible military and Indian positions. Deep ravine is still a mystery, why couldn't remains of the 28 fallen troopers be found? If you have a Custer library, this is a great book to have.	2001-07-13
US	52754940	RC4P85X575GIT	0807825522	557407417	The Richmond Campaign of 1862: The Peninsula and the Seven Days  (Military Campaigns of the Civil War)	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Fascinating Detail on Key Battles , Leaders and Politics	Great book to read after Stephen Sear's Penninsula Campaign (even noted by the editor). This great collection of CW historians take the leading characters and events of the 7 days campaign and provide insights to this fascinating series of battles that set the Union back three years. Fascinating writing of John Bankhead Magruder, the hero of the lower Peninsula, whose prewar reputation for drink and ladies combined with lack of sleep, stress, illness and improper medical treatment created a magnifyer for his failures particularly at Malvern Hill. Lee's desire to rid himself of Magruder who was a hero just weeks before is in stark contrast to his retaining of Stonewall who as R. K. Krick writes was virtually ineffective for a multitude of reasons, primarily due to sleep deprivation. Also, great essays on McClellan whose grandiose ego was not able to stand upright on the battlefield and his engineers who could build anything he needed but were used as scapegoats just like anyone else to excuse his own conduct. Additional essays are on the great importance of the seven days battles to lift southern morale and the enhancement of the radicals position contributed to by McClellan's failures during the campaign. Superb article on the artillery duel on Malvern Hill and confederate attack that collapsed under murderous and accurate union artillery fire. The Union's artillery devastated their southern counterparts in short  order. R.E.L. Krick highlights Whiting's Division (with Hood) breaking the Union line decisively at Gaines Mill. No one knows the battlefield better than Krick. Longstreet may have wished he never picked up a pen after Krick writes of Longstreet's post war confusion of facts over his command of Whiting, \\"It appears an unusually early example of the gasconade for which Longstreet is now famous\\". That commentary would have made \\"Old Jube\\" proud.	2001-06-01
US	52754940	R2M6DBBGLVZZZF	081170453X	223788028	Legend into History (The Custer Library)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Detailed & opinionated by a great researcher & Historian	This is a great book by one of the classic researchers on Custer. Interesting to note that Kuhlman was a historian by profession whose deafness caused him to retire eventualy living near Billings a short hour drive from the Little Bighorn. Kuhlman probably spent more hours on the field than any other Custer writer which is quite a contrast to one of the greatest Custer writers of the early to mid 1900s , Colonel Graham who never visited the field. Kuhlman lacks the more recent knowledge of the archeological evidence and the story behind the accidental placement of the extra 40 grave markers but his reasoning of what and why events unfolded is fascinating. Bold opinions supported by facts in most cases make the book a pleasure, Kuhlman acknowledges that Benteen never had a good word for anyone and that he exagerated for his own benefit but states honestly that Custer respected him as a soldier and expected him to close up and support him. As Pohanka writes, Kuhlman conflicts with modern contemporaries in reasoning that Custer sent three companies south to Calhoun Hill to create a bridgehead to Benteen only after sighting him at Weir Point (as opposed to having stopped their much earlier while Custer and E & F moved forward). However, the thought that Custer slowed and stayed on the eastern side of the River after Reno's collapse makes good sense particularly if a reunification was expected. Kuhlman describes the Indian way of fighting extremely well and like another contemporary, suggests that the main attack ocurred near Custer Hill to it's west versus nearer Calhoun Hill as others state. Strong defense that Custer did not disobey his orders and he proves that General Terry's protective staff officer and relative exagerated the length of forced marches that Custer took and he demonstrates how Custer not sending a Scout to Terry made littl difference in the broad perspective of the events. More detail maps would have helped Kuhlman's finite description of the field as he provides minute details that a map would have conveyed much clearaer.s he provides minute details that a map would have conveyed much clearaer.	2001-05-20
US	52754940	R25SI8WXK2ALHV	080505989X	143046422	A Life Wild and Perilous: Mountain Men and the Paths to the Pacific	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	Trappers, Indians, Grizzley Bears and US West Exploration	True story of the perilous exploration of the American West  by Trappers from Lewis and Clarke's time up through the end of the era with Jim Bridger and Kit Carson. A catalogue of the trappers that follow the rivers to find beaver and crossings to the west coast. Outcomes with Indians particularly tribes that were once powerful before the effects of smallpox and the incursions of man were evident, the dominant tribe being the Blackfeet who killed many trappers and contacts with the numerous tribes throughout the west. A virtual history of the beaver trade, how the trappers lived, encounters with Grizzly bears, western emigration, contacts with Mexican authorities, the Fremont explorations, Brigham Young led to the salt lake by Bridger. An enormous book that tells you almost the story of the rivers of the west and how important they were to the development of the US. The main question that stays with me after reading this book is how could these men endure such hardships so far from civilization dealing with hostile tribes, limited provisions and particularly medical emergencies? You also learn about the less known trappers that opened the west like J. Smith and the early explorers with Lewis and Clarke. Breaks a great myth that trappers trapped alone but instead traveled in brigades that offered some protection until the glorious rendezvous. Big book but a great reference on the west and all the major historical contributors of westward expansion.	2001-04-05
US	52754940	R1EP00Z3JGOOPG	0806132817	973820816	In Custers Shadow: Major Marcus Reno	Books	4	13	15	N	Y	Great Detail on Reno the Man:A Psychological View would Help	Very interesting and great detail on the life of Marcus Reno from his roots where he lost his father and mother at a young age; however, through work and dedication ended up at West Point. There may be more than irony that in his West Point years, Reno had great difficulty with demerits and ended up graduating after two suspension and 6 years at West Point. Although no severe incidents occur at West Point they were enough to suspend him twice as is much the case in his post Little Big Horn (LBH) years resulting in a final court martial.<br />The impact of losing his wife and mother of his child while escorting a survey party with a portion of the 7th in the area of North Dakota and NOT being able to return to his family had to have had a severe impact on Reno. Particularly after his post LBH episode, Reno seemed to have trouble adjusting to bachelorhood.<br />Nichols covers the LBH well except in cases where he buys completely that Benteen was to scout to the left to infinity as Benteen reported and where he speaks in brief detail on Reno's retreat from the LBH valley. Besides vacating his position, the issue of whether all his men were notified of the sudden retreat  seems a little weak (company commanders were alleged to be at fault) and more discussion on the lack of a rear guard in the retreat is critical but lacking. In the Reno Court of Inquiry, Lt. Varnum, Dr. Porter, Girard and George Herendeen describe the retreat termed a &quot;charge&quot; by Reno as an uncontrolled rout. Perhaps there was no way to stop the men for a rear guard but that does not seem to be explored in great detail. There also is the controversy surrounding lack of ammunition as being a need to retreat; however, testimony by witnesses on Reno-Benteen Hill note that Reno's battalion took little from the ammo boxes provided by the pack train.<br />Although not ventured by the author, the effect of having the scout Bloody Knifes brains splattered about his face may have caused Reno's abrupt retreat without a rear guard. I say abrupt since over  20 plus men were left behind, some killed and the majority hiding in the brush until they could make it across when the Sioux shifted to Custer's field.<br />This book is very interesting and a final chapter by a psychologist analyzing some of Reno's writings (such as his threatening letter to Former President Ruthorford Hayes) and history may have revealed something more about a man haunted by the LBH. A retired Marine Colonel told me recently that the mere suggestion of cowardice even unproved is severely damaging to a military man's career. Perhaps the same occurred to Reno.brupt retreat without a rear guard. I say abrupt since over  20 plus men were left behind, some killed and the majority hiding in the brush until they could make it across when the Sioux shifted to Custer's field. <br />This book is very interesting and a final chapter by a psychologist analyzing some of Reno's writings (such as his threatening letter to Former President Ruthorford Hayes) and history may have revealed something more about a man haunted by the LBH. A retired Marine Colonel told me recently that the mere suggestion of cowardice even unproved is severely damaging to a military man's career. Perhaps the same occurred to Reno.	2001-04-01
US	52754940	R19KBDP7YTZAE4	0395867606	329852487	Controversies and Commanders of the Civil War: Dispatches from the Army of the Potomac	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Fluent Read of the Army of the Potomac Cabals, and More	Sears knows about General McClellan better than anyone including his strengths and his severe shortfalls. A great organizer that failed when his line cames close to the enemy. He orchestrated intense loyalty that creates a cabal that undermines future commanders such as Pope, the naive Burnside and of course Hooker. Splendid highly readable detail on the conspiracies and standout chapters on the wars most controversial Generals of the Army of the Potomac such as the political court martials of Fritz John Porter at Second Manasas and Stone at the Ball's Bluff fiasco. Includes great chapters on  Dan Sickles' controversial forward line at Gettysburg, General Warren's relief of command at Five Forks and a new look at Hooker at the critical moments of Chancellorsville. Would like to have had more detail on why Hooker thought Sedgewick failed him and why his calvary failed him also. If you thought the south had prickly egotistic leaders such as Johnson, Beuraguard and Davis; Sears makes it clear that the Army of the Potomac's early generals were virtually Lee's greatest asset.	2001-03-19
US	52754940	R360GLBMUOR828	0807819832	145101701	Burnside (Civil War America)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Honest Picture od Naive Burnsides: Great Ideas and Failures	This is a true honest work of a General who had some excellent ideas but was often too naive with initiating action or from truly evaluating his staff. He was politically inept in being aware of the political cabal of McClellanites that undermined his command of the Army of the Potomac and contributed to his failings at Fredericksburg. Marvel does an excellent job demonstrating Burnsides successes at Roanoke Island with amphibious landings, perhaps the first in American war, and his occupation of coastal N.C. Marvel explains that Burnsides beat Lee to Fredericksburg but was held back by Halleck's failure to organize the pontoon train needed to cross the Rappahannock. The author's most interesting part of the book is his explanation of Burnsides' battle plan at Fredericksburg and his misunderstanding of the terrain features of Marye's Heights. In addition, one of the cabal generals commanding the left wing failed to execute his flanking movement properly yet communicated success causing Burnsides to unleash full scale attacks on Marye's Heights. Another fascinating piece centers on Burnsides' plan of the &quot;crater&quot;, blowing up a confederate section of line and exploiting the breach with specially trained African American units. Unfortunately, the plan was severely hindered by Grant's and Meade's last minute disallowance of the black units to execute the plan resulting in untrained units commanded by an intoxicated officer. In between Burnsides does well keeping Longstreet out of Tennessee but inflames Sherman by providing Sherman a feast upon his arrival. Sherman misunderstood the meal as evidence that Burnsides' needed no relief. Burnsides is depicted as a very intelligent man that invented a breech loaded rifle but was politically naive particularly that even his alleged friend, McClellan undermined him for his own purpose without Burnsides being aware of it. Hard to defend Burnsides' limited action on McClellan's left flank at Antietam where any early action could have resulted in defeat of Lee. Regardless that McClellan didn't not ask Burnsides to attack earlier but any initiative by Burnsides would have made for a different outcome. Also, if Burnsides was aware or more personally involved with the crater attack, he should have recognized that the officer in charge of the attack was unfit and when the attack was misdirected, perhaps organized a better follow-up of troops although Meade aborted support. One of the last McCellan's generals of the Army of the Potomac to resign, only Warren lasted longer until his encounter withh Sheridan. The book leaves one thinking that if Burnsides had just a little of Sheridan in him and a little less of Burnsides, he would have been more successful. From a biography standpoint, Burnsides seems to havea lot in common with Confederate Genenral Ewell whose failures were also more pronounced than his victories.on could have resulted in defeat of Lee. Regardless that McClellan didn't not ask Burnsides to attack earlier but any initiative by Burnsides would have made for a different outcome. Also, if Burnsides was aware or more personally involved with the crater attack, he should have recognized that the officer in charge of the attack was unfit and when the attack was misdirected, perhaps organized a better follow-up of troops although Meade aborted support. One of the last McCellan's generals of the Army of the Potomac to resign, only Warren lasted longer until his encounter withh Sheridan. The book leaves one thinking that if Burnsides had just a little of Sheridan in him and a little less of Burnsides, he would have been more successful. From a biography standpoint, Burnsides seems to havea lot in common with Confederate Genenral Ewell whose failures were also more pronounced than his victories.	2001-02-19
US	52754940	R7GELC7IIV8DV	0807823341	878105596	The Wilderness Campaign (Military Campaigns of the Civil War)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Gems of Information: The Unappreciated Wilderness Battle	Gallagher and company always add an extra dimension to previous books on their subject matter that are not normally mainstream but important events and they give you the full detail. Fascinating highlights are (Carmichael) the controversy of Hill's corps on the second day, who was at fault for  not digging in or straightening the lines? Who delayed Gordon's attack on Grants exposed right flank and how effective was it? The true story of the &quot;Lee to the Rear Event&quot; by R. K. Krick as well as an excellent description of Sheridan's first full blown attempt to use the Calvary in full force doing it &quot;his way&quot; that contributed to Meade's (with Grant) blind march through the Wilderness by Rhea. Another gem is R.E.L. Kick's description of Longstreet's and the First Corps' finest hour, stopping the hemorrhage on the confederate right and the storied shock flank attack by R.E.L. Krick. Reardon write a remarkable history of the Vermont Brigade that stood in the eye of the storm first against Hill and then Longstreet. The first few essays discuss Grant and the health and description of the two armies. Gallagher's sounds familiar to his book &quot;The Confederate War&quot; and the others are written well enough (Hennessy shines on the Army of the Potomac); however, I would have preferred more gems on the battle itself. More detail on the rest of the command such as Burnsides' unique role as a semi-detached corps commander and his whereabouts during the battle, why the Union forces could not exploit the gap between confederate units between the Orange Plank Road and the Orange Turnpike and a larger overview map of the battle to see virtually all the units on the field to get a better feel for distance, time and terrain. Always interesting to read R. K. Krick's comments on Longstreet, he does say a few things positive about his march. Hope he writes a book on Longstreet, possible title &quot;Longstreet and his Thorns&quot;.	2001-02-18
US	52754940	RMANANQ0U0LIL	0395701015	509709654	To the Gates of Richmond: The Peninsula Campaign	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Clear  and Informative Description of the 7 Days Battles	Sears brings facts and a clean writing style that provides an informative and flowing read on the battles of the Seven Days. Each description of the battles and the leaders are written in not too much minutia so that they are easy to follow while providing the major personnel conflicts and battle movements, strategy and tactics. Each battle is accompanied by straight forward maps that make easy reference to Sears' accurate descriptions of the battle. Sears' long study of McCllelan provides insight that many historians may not have been aware such as his personal abandonment of the battlefields of Glendale and Malvertn Hill. Sears also has some scoops such as finding that their were two bridges at issue for Jackson in his approach to Savage Station not just the Grapevine Bridge. The detail is so well done that one can envision Stonewall falling asleep with a biscuit in his mouth while the pivitol battle of Gelndale is coming to a close just a mile or so to the south. I took this book with me while taking a wonderful Richmond National Park service guided bus tour and although the maps were not as detailed as the historians, I always had a quick reference to the lay of the battlefield. The famous artilery officer for Longstreet, General Porter Alexander has said that the confederates &quot;knew as much about the battle terrian as they did about Africa&quot;; however, Sears' book gives you a far greater advantage.	2001-02-11
US	52754940	R2KG87Z1S792CP	0803297750	985634571	Nelson A. Miles and the Twilight of the Frontier Army	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Complete Story of the Last Great CW and Frontier General	When I read this book, I really wanted to focus just on Miles and his contributions to the Indian Frontier since he virtually closed it out. I learned far more about Miles, a highly skilled and brave field commander who rose all the way to command of the  Army by the Spanish American War, than I expected. I  was aware of his tremendous ego but I learned more about his political intrigues, compulsion for rank, rivalries with other officers and attraction to crowds and newspapermen. Wooster takes you rather quickly through Miles' youth and astounding CW achievements and spends a good portion on Miles and the Indian Frontier. He outlines quite in impressive detail Miles constant maneuvering for command and reforms, his controversies with Generals and Presidents including Teddy Roosevelt. Miles was involved in the Sioux campaigns, Sitting Bull, Grey Beard, Cheyenne, Nez Perce and Geronimo and the Spanish American War. After reading the book you will have a mixed feel for Miles. Did he want to be in the midst of the action just to participate in an intense challenge or was it always to as a platform to achieve rank? His politics later in life were anti-Catholic and anti-immigrant but he later worked to get the Indians a better deal and he preferred the emancipation of the Philippines after the Spanish American War. He is an important read, he was even in over all command but not the field officer at Wounded Knee. Miles saw many of the most famous Chiefs at their peak and literally escorted them to their final homes, the reservations. Wooster writes an incredibly objective book on a person who contributed tremendously to our history from 1860 to 1910.	2001-01-24
US	52754940	R3FZMHE5PX64RC	0306803941	906675617	Geronimo (Da Capo Paperback)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent detail on Gernonimo, Apaches and Conflicts	This is a very thorough book on Geronimo, the Apaches, their hard life in the southwest, relations with whites, their many army oppoenents, reservation life and and atrocities on both sides including relations with Mexicans. The book starts with an explanation that Apaches actually stand for a generic name for many tribes such as the Warm Springs Apaches, the Chiricahuas, Mescaleros, etc. The author discusses the great Chiefs before Geronimo such as Cochise and Mangas Coloradas. Surprising to learn that initially the Apache got along well with the stage line until an incident ocurred involving a young Lt. attempting to get the return of a hostage by seizing Cochise and and others as hostages. This was primarily because of the Army's  inability to distinguish one group of Apaches from another. The book recalls the bloody total war between whites and the Indians, the efforts of agents such as John Clum, frustration with the selections of reservations and poor rations, problems with alcohol (Tiswin), the capture and frequent escapes to freedom by the Apaches and their incredible ability to survive in what appears to be hostile land. Geronimo takes the lead in resistance with his tribe of Chiricahuas that over time is pared down due to constant battle and pressure from both north and south of the border. Great detail on General Crook's use of Apache against Apache and the rise of Lt. Gatewood who is the frequent contact of Geronimo. Incredible description of Geronimo's stronghold in the mountains of the Sierra Madre. Total war on both sides with bounties up to $100 for each of their scalps and no quarter by the Apaches. Tremendous book on Geronimo who is finally defeated not by his admirable adversary Crook but by the egotist General Nelson Miles and the reduction of Geronimo's band to 35. Miles caps it all off by not recognizing Gatewood's accomplishments and sending Geronimo packing for far longer than he agreed to. You will be surprised to learn where Geronimo is buried.ied.	2001-01-13
US	52754940	R1VS97OW839AL3	080782402X	220044065	The Spotsylvania Campaign (Military Campaigns of the Civil War)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The Best CW Historians Essays on this Brutal Battle	Gallagher hits homeruns with this wonderful series of books on the critical campaigns of the CW. Not a continuous retelling but Gallagher and company get into specifics of the campaign through separate essays that allow greater detail on controversies, personnel, mistakes, and many subjects that prior to this were limited in detail. An example is Krick the Younger's detailed essay on the little known battle of Yellow Tavern that cost Jeb Steuart his life. The other essays all offer new detail and great insight. I was particularly fascinated by Gallagher's own essay on Lee's grappling with command erosion through the  loss of Longstreet, Ewell's collapse and Hill's physical erosion. Show's Lee as a great commander much like a coach that loses star players but still manages a great game. All the essays are excellent by Matter, Reardon, Blair, Rhea and Carmichael but Krick senior's feature on the Mule Shoe exhibits great detail on one of the most horrid portions of any battle of the CW involving endless hours of close up fighting in the salient. The fighting involves trench warfare, attacking and shooting from just a few feet apart, hand to hand combat, continuous rain and a continuing of a struggle with death that seemed to have no end. After you read Krick's Mule Shoe, you recognize how the war changed dramatically from Bull Run to an incredible desperate struggle of all out war. Read closely Krick senior's dig at Longstreet who was not present after being shot down in the wilderness. Krick, a legendary critic of Longstreet, cannot leave him alone even in his absence.	2001-01-13
US	52754940	R1PX396PJP6XZ5	0807821187	761125926	Gettysburg--Culp's Hill and Cemetery Hill (Civil War America)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Confederates Lost More than Picket's Charge at Gettysburg	If you don't like detail than this is not your book . This book pinpoints all the key occurrences and strategies and major participants and their units. Without being judgmental, Pfanz lays all the facts before Ewell at the time he received Lee's order to take Culp's Hill. It's more plausible to understand why he didn't particularly with a phantom enemy on his northeastern front. Keys well on the Generals involved, who was really the smart General who choose Cemetery Hill and Culp's Hill to make a stand, Howard vs. Hancock. A wonderful description of the retreat through the town, the combat around the town, the valiant attacks by Johnson's corp and near success and all the skirmishing that occurred in front of the key hills and to the north and east.  After reading about the stoic charges by the confederates uphill, across open fields and the strong defense by the Union it is a wonder that the Confederates could limp away the evening of July 4. Pfanz also brings out how frustrated Lee was in attempting to consolidate his line and move Ewell's corps further south/west without success. The role of Ewell and Early in this failed attempt is discussed. Also, notable that Rode's attack with Johnson on the second day was difficult to coordinate due to the town and geography. This failure looms very large and demonstrated how difficult it was to move large forces of men around terrain with impediments (lots of fences) and moving against artillery. If Lee's left  wing could not coordinate it's own  attack with success on the second day across fields and into artillery on Rode's side of the field, it seems too impossible for Longstreet's attempt the next day. The controversies of Longstreet's Charge (misnamed Picket's) have often over shadowed the great controversy of the Ewell and his generals problems taking the hill's the first day and Rode's disaster and poor timing of the second. The timely union movements that won the battle of the hills told together with accidental movements that almost lost the hills is told so well had you not known the outcome, you would be on the edge of your seat. By identifying the units on the field, Pfanz demonstrates  that north and south maryland units actually fought each other.  Pfanz's telling demonstrates how hard the war was, the advantages of concentration, the geography of the land and tremendous courage on both sides. P.S., any CW book that Gary Gallagher (editor) is involved with is a collectable.vements that almost lost the hills is told so well had you not known the outcome, you would be on the edge of your seat. By identifying the units on the field, Pfanz demonstrates  that north and south maryland units actually fought each other.   Pfanz's telling demonstrates how hard the war was, the advantages of concentration, the geography of the land and tremendous courage on both sides. P.S., any CW book that Gary Gallagher (editor) is involved with is a collectable.	2001-01-13
US	52754940	R2HQIX6FUHVALJ	0806121521	286000669	Centennial Campaign: The Sioux War of 1876	Books	5	20	20	N	Y	A Total Picture of The Sioux War: Before and After Custer	This is a great book to learn everything about the 1876 Sioux War from the political and economic situations that fueled the conflict (gold and the Black Hills, dissolving the 1868 Peace Treaty), the behavior of the independent Sioux, Grant's ultimatum, the Sheridan three prong attack on the Sioux, the political (Custer and Grant) and weather problems hindering he start of the campaign and General's Crook and Terry's frustrating attempts to catch the Sioux and Cheyenne who fragmented into smaller groups after the Little Big Horn. Also covers Crook's March campaign that resulted in a controversial but failed battle on the Powder River and the critical battle of the Rosebud in June 30 miles southeast of the Little Big Horn which occurred just 8 days prior to Custer's annihilation. Crook, the great Indian fighter with twice Custer's number, becomes displaced out of the Sheridan attack plan due to the furious attack by the Sioux and Cheyenne. Gray also documents how the winter roamers left the agencies to join the summer roamers (Sitting Bull, Gall, Crazy Horse, Two Moon) which peaked with one of the largest villages ever on the North American continent at the time of Custer's attack. The book completes the story by detailing the aftermath of Custer's battle with Crooks and Terry's joint and separate campaigns and the addition of General Nelson Miles. Not a total story on Custer, for that you should read Gray's &quot;Custer's Last Campaign&quot; but start with &quot;Centennial Campaign&quot; to get the complete picture.	2000-12-30
US	52754940	RT5QLAL26ECE5	0912783117	179329768	Battle of the Rosebud: Prelude to the Little Big Horn (Montana and the West Series)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	A Total Picture of a Critical Battle of the Sioux War	Mangum, the Superintendent of the Little Big Horn (LBH) battlefield writes a portrayal of the Crook's campaign against the Sioux that culminates in the Battle of the Rosebud 8 days prior to Custer's attack. Since the LBH is roughly 30 miles southeast of the LBH, Mangum is extraordinarily familiar with the battlefield that still looks like it did 134 years ago. The book covers Crook's earlier March campaign where he was first in the field which peaked at a failed attempt to destroy a predominately Cheyenne village which also included some Sioux on the Powder. Crook again restarts in June with almost 200 Shoshone and Crow allies. As Mangum expertly retells the battle, Crook is surprised while encamped leisurely along Rosebud Creek on June 17. Mangum notes that Crook was similarly surprised also with great consequences in the battle of Cedar Creek in 1864 where he was surprised by Jubal Early. In the description of the battle, Mangum points out that if it wasn't for the Shoshone and Crow who spotted the Sioux and Cheyenne first relatively distant from camp while also absorbing the initial attack, Crook's command may have been destroyed. The allies gave Crook's troopers a chance to prepare for the attack. Crook's forces, which included mule mounted infantry and miners, stemmed the attack but as Mangum points out, the Sioux seemed to come at Crook from three sides from the high ground to the north. After Crook seems to control the battle, Colonel Royall with his calvary battalion rolls up the Indian right so successfully, his enthusiasm isolates himself from Crook allowing the Sioux and Cheyenne to consolidate against him requiring a furious battle of retrograde movements causing the most severe casualties of Crook's forces. Mangum states that Crook was in peril with Royall's potential collapse because Crook sent off another battalion to the Indian's left in search of their village that was not in the immediate area as perceived. Only the recall of Mills saves the day but the Sioux and Cheyenne have initiated enough casualties and psychological harm to cause Crook to retire and take over a month to retrofit his command. I was at the Rosebud site in 1999 and had I read Mangum's book with the terrain maps, my tour would have been far more beneficial. The battlefield today is a State park and the modest valley that Crook stopped in on June 17 looks is framed with high hills and interesting landmarks like Conical Hill. This is a great book about a key battle that indicated that the Sioux and Cheyenne were agressive in defending their village which was overlooked by all of Sheridan's generals. This battle besmirched Crook's otherwise great post Civil War career.t the Sioux and Cheyenne have initiated enough casualties and psychological harm to cause Crook to retire and take over a month to retrofit his command. I was at the Rosebud site in 1999 and had I read Mangum's book with the terrain maps, my tour would have been far more beneficial. The battlefield today is a State park and the modest valley that Crook stopped in on June 17 looks is framed with high hills and interesting landmarks like Conical Hill. This is a great book about a key battle that indicated that the Sioux and Cheyenne were agressive in defending their village which was overlooked by all of Sheridan's generals. This battle besmirched Crook's otherwise great post Civil War career.	2000-12-30
US	52754940	RVLCGVQTRS2FM	0806128887	477991475	And Die in the West: The Story of the O.K. Corral Gunfight	Books	5	4	8	N	N	A Picture of theReal West: The Golves Come Off	Ms. Mark's paints an authentic picture of Wyatt Earp and the citizens of Tombstone. The greatest point that Ms. Marks makes in her book is that in the frontier towns there were no white hats or black hats, in fact there was a lot of gray. Wyatt Earp besides being a Marshal was also involved with gambling casinos with a vested interest. He was a businessman who also was a Marshal. In some ways this book entertains the conflicts between the frontier urbanites and the western country or western suburbia folk. This is great and exciting social history in that it tells the bare facts as they were known. Wyatt's mistress to be wife had a somewhat bawdy past but as Ms. Marks notes these were different times and social judgements of today did not necessarily apply in the western frontier towns. The book climaxes the Clanton and Earp feud, the fact that gunfights out in the street were rare in fact Ms. Marks tells the tale of how Wild Bill Hitchcock would stick a gun in the slight front ribs of a tough to gain the technical advantage of not shooting him in the back. And Earp would crack a skull many times more often with his pistol then use it. Also covers the tragic post OK Corral gunfight of Earp's family, the assassination of brother Morgan and his older brother crippled from the OK corral. The book even follows Earp's post Tombstone life where he forever is literally looking for the gold at the end of the rainbow (the gold was at his side, his wife). Earp's exciting period as Marshal of several towns over what appears a short time was enhanced by the writings of friend Bat Masterson who was famous himself and later became a great sports writer. After reading this book, I had a greater appreciation for Clint Eastwood's movie, &quot;The Unforgiven&quot; which also had a lot of gray hats in a frontier town.	2000-12-30
US	52754940	R19D77I2YGA63L	0945575351	913255524	Jubal: The Life and Times of General Jubal A. Early, C S A, Defender of the Lost Cause	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Lee's Canterkerous General and father of the Lost Cause	For those well familiar with the Civil war, this is a great biography of Early in that it concentrates on Early the person and the General while assuming that you have the basic facts down on the Civil War. The author does not spend too much time on minute detail on troop movements that has been covered many times before but provides in-depth insight to \\"Old Jube\\" and his actions. A tough and controversial fighter, until reading this book I didn't know that the former Commonwealth Attorney and life long bachelor from Franklin County sired four children refusing to marry his companion because she was beneath his station. Great historical highlights such as Early's controversial role on Lee's left at Gettysburg, his great assignment defending Fredericksburg against great odds while Lee  takes the rest of the army to Chancellorsville, his zealous and dictatorial  grip on the Lost cause syndrome, and his public branding of the ill equipped Longstreet (not a lawyer and politically naive) as the cause of Lee's defeat at Gettysburg.  Wonderful that it highlights the second battle of Fredericksburg and how the Federals found out the heights were lightly defended. In addition, the author makes an excellent case that when defending the valley after Jackson, Early did as well as Jackson until Grant sent Sheridan and a 40,000 man army to defeat him. The author notes that aside from poor use of his calvary and his  negative tongue-lashing, Lee's \\"bad, old man\\" was a tough fighter and a major player in the Army of Northern Virginia.	2000-12-30
US	52754940	RVS563YKHLBC7	0393319865	145203288	The Dahlgren Affair: Terror and Conspiracy in the Civil War	Books	4	6	8	N	N	The Infamous Dahlgren Raid and Condfederate Espionage	A book of parallel stories, one of the infamous Dahlgren Raid  captained by the egotistical Kilpatrick and the story that I was less familiar with, Confederate espionage efforts in the north by way of Canada. It also includes information on Elizabeth van Lew and other Union sympathizers in Richmond. Although familiar with Dahlgren's attempted raid on Richmond and Libby prison I was less familiar with Hines'attempts to free Confederate prisoners in Chicago. Brings up a lot of information I was not aware of such as the loss of Dahlgren's body, how the attempts to free Confederate prisoner's in the north were orchestrated, the depths of Kilpatrick's failure to attack Richmond and support Dahlgren, Dahlgren's own turn at espionage, Libbey Prison escapes and life inside and life in Canada among escaped Confederates. Well written and the book motivates me to read more about the Dahlgren affair which is still a raging controversy.	2000-12-22
US	52754940	RF5MNAE26L0TZ	0803295588	479621417	Billy the Kid: A Short and Violent Life	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Civil War in the West and Billy the Kid	Robert Utley writes an excellent history of a young man virtually parentless (a surviving but perhaps neglectful father) that becomes involved with petty crimes and eventually winds up with a gang of semi-outlaws in Lincoln County, New Mexico. Fascinating descriptive of life in this county where cattle rustling and other related crimes did not seem to have the mark of a criminal as they would in our day. Utley documents how young William graduates to a member of one of two cowboy armies in Lincoln, each supporting rival businessman in the Lincoln County war where control of rival business interests involve murder, gun battles and massaging of the legal authorities in the State. Billy earns his nickname the Kid during his benefators losing battle with the other business rival resulting in the death of his benefactors plus Billy's involvement of the killings of several men including a well liked Sheriff. Utley chronicles the story of the Civil War, the causes, the Armies feigned attempt at neutrality that  actually defeated the Kids forces, Billy's testimony at a trial, chance for a pardon from Governor Lew Wallace, his continued participation in crime, arrest and bloody jail break and his refusal to leave the State after being declared an outlaw. Utley tells an amazing story of an apparently likable young, man who was popular with the senioritis and in spite of the legal authorities attempts to apprehend him he continued to live almost openly in a neighboring town only to be caught by Pat Garrett an acquaintance of his. Utley writes a real story of the west where a not so innocent youth gets caught in a social Civil War and with an opportunity to leave it all behind, stubbornly or playfully decides to continue to live in his home neighborhood which cost him his life. Utley's book leaves you thinking that at 21 years of age, the Kid was truly too immature to know when it was time to move on and actually grow up. Utley's description makes you wonder if with the right mentor other than gunman, the likeable kid would have been a popular citizen with a family if he every developed something of an honest vocation.entor other than gunman, the likeable kid would have been a popular citizen with a family if he every developed something of an honest vocation.	2000-12-21
US	52754940	RXNCS56OAUM1B	0828102023	741327998	Indian Wars (American Heritage Library)	Books	5	38	48	N	N	The Complete Story of Every US Indian/Anglo Conflict	This is the book you want if you want a highly informative history of Indian Conflicts starting from Jamestown all the way to Wounded Knee. I virtually felt embarrassment reading about the early trends of the colonists to take advantage of Indians through the kidnapping and killing of chiefs to exploitation of their land and the constant pressure to move them west. From  Bacon's (Bacon's Rebellion) attack of any Indians peaceful or otherwise in the 1600's to every conflict in the northeast to the west including King Phillip's War, Red Cloud, Sitting Bull, Crazy Horse, Mangas Colorado, Cochis, Commanche's, the Murdoc war. Includes the causes of war, the problem with reservations, Indian agents and the Armies strategies and commanders. A concise and thorough book that is your gateway for more detailed reading on the Indians of North America and their conflicts with manifest destiny.	2000-12-21
US	52754940	R27933ENAA5BTN	0912783087	358836547	Benteen's Scout-To-The-Left, the Route from the Divide to the Morass\June 25, 1876 (Custer Trails Series, Vol 1)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The Defenitive Book and Map on Benteen's Scout	Roger Darling has done such an excellent job that it makes one wish that you could saddle a horse and ride across the bluffs as Benteen and his battalion did after leaving the divide.  While touring the LHB I was personally able to see where Benteen turned to the left on his scout on what appears to be pretty broken county. Darling's logical determinations finds the three lines of bluffs that Lt. Gibson and his platoon crossed including his final viewing point on the thrd bluff before returning to Benteen and the Battalion in a valley and starting the oblique to the right to join Custer. Excellent four page fold out of a detailed map of the route indicating landmarks,  and the geography of the land including elevations, streams, valleys, the morass etc. Although Custer sent messengers to Benteen authorizing him to advance to the next bluff, Darling makes an excellent case that Benteen the expert soildier failed to inform Custer by courier that he found no Indians in the LBH valley to the south or that he was progressing for a return to Custer. Darling notes the land is not as rough as generaly perceived and the book continues to make one think that Benteen could have been a major contributor to Custer's final scene whether the conclusion would have been different is a major question. Short book in pages but concise detail with lots of pictures and the outstanding map.	2000-12-09
US	52754940	R11H46S0HR81C4	0878423494	287349391	Lakota Noon: The Indian Narrative of Custer's Defeat	Books	5	45	46	N	Y	A New Look at the LBH from the Victors Point of View	One of the great books on the Little Big Horn because it offers a fresh approach from the Native American point of view by consolidating their testimonies through time motion studies. Michno's book offers a different point of view that Custer stayed on his side of the river to stay in some visual contact with Benteen and Reno after the latter's retreat. That Custer hoped that he would draw the Indians to him while the rest of his command would appear in his rear to trap the Indians between two attacking units. He also demonstrates a new spin on Custer's movements that Yate's Battalion of E &amp; F troops joined Keough's Battalion (C, I and L) on Nye Cartwright Ridge instead of Battleridge, that Yates went futher north and west than originally thought, that the Cheyene Lame Whiteman's backbreaking attack ocurred below Custer Hill and  not against Company L on Calhoun Hill to the Southwest and that Keough's Company I's collapse caused the destruction of the south of Battleridge leading to the destruction of Custer's battalions. Mincho also adds disturbing insight that Reno and Benteen may have witnessed the destruction of Calhoun's command but not Custer's that was further north and still fighting when the two commands turned away. A lot of detail and testimony that makes  Mincho's appraisal more believable because many of the testimonies substantiate each other and isolate those that appear to be exaggerations. And the  testimonies trace the whereabouts and actions of Gall, White Bull, Sitting Bull, Wooden Leg, Two Moons, Crazy Horse, Lame Whiteman and many more participants.A good book to go with Utley's, Fox's and Gray's. They all cannot be right in every detail but reading them all brings you closer to narrowing the possibilities.	2000-11-01
US	52754940	R1N384RV1XEXYY	0811703479	997942651	Custer Myth (The Custer Library)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A Vast Collection of Testimonies amd Letters on Custer &amp; LBH	This is Graham's great collction of testimonies about Custer and the Little Big Horn from the Sioux, Cheyene, Rees, Crows, scouts, officers, soildiers and others. An incredible collection of material laid out in  categorical chapters. Graham lays this often quoted collection out without  prejudice and although he questions the Indian participant's accounts due  to their lack of perception of exact time and spatial realities, he  presents it all the same. What is quite fascinating are the virtual raw  letters of Benteen  to William Goldin. The letters show Benteen's bitter  side particularly toward Custer and demonstrates that Reno was also not  held highly on his list, if anyone was. Also, has Godfrey's great history  of the battle and the book even includes challenging letters from Grahams  critics to his personal responses. A great book for those that want to know  all from multiple perspectives of the participants.	2000-07-28
US	52754940	RTS92NZVIUKEU	0865475105	53679096	Son of the Morning Star: Custer and the Little Bighorn	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The Book that Helped Custer Get a Post Vietnam Look	When this book first came out it seemed to resurrect Custer from the post 1960's &amp; 70's perception that Custer was simply an ego maniac and eradicator of Native Americans. The book is a bit rambling and disjointed  but it provide good biographies of the main characters and the descriptions  of the campaign are generally good. The problems among the command,  particularly the wing commanders Benteen and Reno, are well brought out.  This is a great book to wet your appetite for more as it provides a great  source of information yet you realize there is more out there so it spring  boards you to read more detailed books on the LBH. A great start for Custer  novices who want to start somewhere and get propelled into studying the  mysteries of the LBH.	2000-07-28
US	52754940	R2Q7SLFIMX4QPV	0962148822	309817579	General Custer's Final Hours: Correcting a Century of Misconceived History	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	A virtual research paper on Custer's alleged fatal errors	This is a virtual 40 page mini-thesis on the mistakes Custer made from the Crows Nest to his final rest. Darling raises good points that Custer's continuous fractionalizing of his force; leaving the pack train, sending  Benteen to a left scout at the divide, sending Reno forward at Lone Teepee,  Custer's turn to the north all led to his demise in the face of a  concentrated enemy. The main premise is that Custer did a wonderful job of  proceeding cautiously and professionally in his search for the Sioux until  he got within 15 miles. The most damaging charge against Custer is that  Darling states that Custer never fully believed his scouts that a large  village actually existed on the LBH. The other charge is that Custer  ordered Reno to attack only the small village refugees at Lone Teepee (Reno  Creek) which was a small collection of 70 - 90 indians with families. And  the most serious charge, Custer turned north perhaps only guessing that  Reno would go north to chase the Lone Teepee village escapees.<br /><br />Issues  that could be argued against these theories, Custer's Chief of Scouts saw  the smoke from the large village at the Crow's nest and the Crow scouts  said they could see a large pony herd on the LBH. In effect, it would be  hard to argue that Custer totally disregarded the village being on the LBH  and that his turn to the right along the bluffs was a calculated guess.  Benteen was told to scout on the left but not go indefinitely in that  direction to infinity as Benteen later charged. Darling fails to mention  that Custer sent Benteen two messengers to keep abreast of Benteen's  progress and he was expected to rejoin the main column after his scout.  Reno's alledged order to only attack just the Lone Teepee village seems  hard to swallow since Custer said he would support Reno with the whole  outfit which would be a greater need than chasing 70 - 90 Indians. Besides  Scout Gerard, riding with Reno, came back to Custer's adjutant Cook to  report the LBH village size and that the Sioux and Cheyene stopped running  and were fighting. Custer certianly knew this after Cook reported. Also,  Darling fails to mention that Boston Custer, the civilian younger brother,  passed Benteen watering his horses on his liesurely pursuit of Custer's  trail and that Boston reported and died with Custer . Thinking that Benteen  would soon catch up with his battalion, most likely impactd Custer's  decisions perhaps causing a delay. Finally, Custer had four Crow Scouts and  Mitch Boyer with him that knew the territory and most of which were at the  Crows Nest. They knew the terrian and probably offered alternatives to  attack the Sioux and Cheyenne using the geography of the land. In Darlings  great book \\"A Terrible and Sad Blunder\\" Darling offers that Reno  strayed from his ordered reconnaissance to determine the direction of the  Sioux but also because the scout Mitch Boyer offered an alternative trail  to follow. Why isn't it reasonable to presume that Boyer did the same for  Custer? If Boyer did the same for Custer providing an alternative attack  approach and Reno held and Benteen rejoined the command perhaps the outcome  would have been different, perhaps not a Custer victory but survival of  much more of his command. Darling invokes a good argument but leaves out  some critical points but it is a good read and at times a relatively  reasonable argument. Perhaps if Custer had the advantage of hindsight, he  wouldn't have made the decisions that he had but in the midst of fast  moving action he did so with the information and history that he had at  present.illage size and that the Sioux and Cheyene stopped running  and were fighting. Custer certianly knew this after Cook reported. Also,  Darling fails to mention that Boston Custer, the civilian younger brother,  passed Benteen watering his horses on his liesurely pursuit of Custer's  trail and that Boston reported and died with Custer . Thinking that Benteen  would soon catch up with his battalion, most likely impactd Custer's  decisions perhaps causing a delay. Finally, Custer had four Crow Scouts and  Mitch Boyer with him that knew the territory and most of which were at the  Crows Nest. They knew the terrian and probably offered alternatives to  attack the Sioux and Cheyenne using the geography of the land. In Darlings  great book \\"A Terrible and Sad Blunder\\" Darling offers that Reno  strayed from his ordered reconnaissance to determine the direction of the  Sioux but also because the scout Mitch Boyer offered an alternative trail  to follow. Why isn't it reasonable to presume that Boyer did the same for  Custer? If Boyer did the same for Custer providing an alternative attack  approach and Reno held and Benteen rejoined the command perhaps the outcome  would have been different, perhaps not a Custer victory but survival of  much more of his command. Darling invokes a good argument but leaves out  some critical points but it is a good read and at times a relatively  reasonable argument. Perhaps if Custer had the advantage of hindsight, he  wouldn't have made the decisions that he had but in the midst of fast  moving action he did so with the information and history that he had at  present.	2000-07-22
US	52754940	RMW4ZNNUS0ZWQ	1580970257	377955546	The Little Bighorn Campaign: March-september 1876 (Great Campaigns)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	An Objective Up to Date Complete History of the LBH	Wayne Sarf has researched all the master historians in the past and present to provide a fascinating well written history and objective book on the LBH and Sioux Campaign. The book tells the complete history of the  campaign from its inception to its finale, Custer's and the Sioux's as a  free people. Sarf quotes both the participants concerning their actions in  the campaign as well as perspectives of major historians. He also offers  his own views based on the historical record and logic. An important  example is his evidence and commentary concerning General Terry's June 26th  rendezvouz which is pure fiction and self serving. As Sarf well proves,  Custer acted judiciously and appropriately based on the information,  circumstances and the expectations provided to him in synch with all the  military commanders . Unfortunately for him, the circumstances changed once  he was committed to the attack. Wonderful perspectives including side bars  on the military participants, weapons and Native Americans. Also includes a  readers guide for additional reading including critiques and some cheeky  comments.	2000-06-30
US	52754940	R3SB5MNZ0T6VQY	0140131701	186430703	Great Plains	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A Charles Kuralt View of the Plains, People and History	Starting with a chance meeting with a Sioux native American and somehow leading to an exhaustive visit to the Great Plains, Ian Frazier travels just like Charles Kuralt meeting people, places and history along the way.  He doesn't see everything but he describes what he sees just like anyone  else that travels the backroads and highways. He adds tremendous history  about the places such as the history of the west from Custer, Sitting Bull  to Billy the Kid to the 20th century to Bonnie and Clyde to the present  day. Vivid historical perspectives such as Brents Fort a once major  rendevouz for trappers and now for reenactors, pictures and grand detail on  the Sioux Indians particularly Crazy Horse. All told vividly with wonderful  dots of humor. All taken from the vantage point of a man traveling in a  rusty van who often sleeps by the side of the road. Like his off road trip  to Sitting Bull's last lodge site, it's not a tourist book, it's a  excursion through the plains that's strictly freelanced. This book is the  the springboard to &quot;On the Rez&quot;.	2000-06-24
US	52754940	R3MEM4YMR4A3GK	0140131701	186430703	Great Plains	Books	5	19	22	N	N	A Wonderful Modern Day Ride Through History	On the Great Plains is a great look at the land and it's history by a  vagabond traveler that initially hooks up with a Sioux indian by the name  of Le War Lance in New York and suddenly transports himself in a rusty van  to travel the lonely highways of the Great Plains. While rambling through  the country side Frazier provides a history of the land and a description  of its present day state with  a description of the people as well. Stories  of Custer, Bonnie Clyde, Crazy Horse ( a particularly long fascination),  Billy the Kid and the descriptions of the places that made them famous.  Also fraught with humor such as a descriptively long ride to Sitting Bull's  former cabin site located beyond the middle of nowhere with a guide that  has to study intently a fuel additive bottle before believeing its not the  right kind of alcohol.  The history and stories of people and places are  endlessly fascinating such as  the inhabitants of Nicodemus, a black  pioneer town that never completely died and that has an annual festival  attended by the whole county, the story of Lawrence Welk and how he was  once hit by a thrown brick, a description of a present day rendezvous at  the site of Brent's Fort, a visit with the future and controversial  Superintendent of the Little Bighorn Battlefield Gerad Baker and many more  descriptions and historic story telling. More poignant in that Frazier  travels as a modest man that sleeps frequently in his van while listening  to the land outside including the ocassional vehicle that goes by in the  night. A precursor to &quot;On the Rez&quot;.	2000-06-06
US	52754940	R3EOO3K4OOQ1YH	0962148814	21093231	A Sad and Terrible Blunder: Generals Terry and Custer at the Little Big Horn-New Discoveries	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	The other prespective: General Terry's Role and Advance	A true revelation on what General Terry actually planned in his two point attack of pinching the &quot;hostiles&quot; between two columns and how the plan was poorly executed. The book provides an excellent overview of the  campiagn along with Custer's trials and tribulations. But more importantly  the roles of Gibbon and the Terry are discussed in detail. From Gibbon's  failure to report the location of large villages that could have saved  weeks of useless campaigning/scouting for the hostiles for Terry to Terry's  incompetent ability to direct  the blocking Montana column into  position.  This book provides a totally new perspective on the LBH battle. It also  reveals the failure of Terry from the drawing of his plan to his hands on  field decisions. Routes taken by Terry are covered in detail with excepts  from diaries, areial photography  and wonderful terrain maps. Darling  presents well that Terry carefully planted total blame on Custer through  indirect statements that leads one to believe that Custer failed entirely  and &quot;paid the price&quot;. Terry never mentions how he took a long  detour through rough country without obtaining information from his true  scouts, his engineering officer who knew the land or the crow scouts that  lived there. How he marched only four miles in one day, lead the column to  a dead end, and lost his gatling guns in a night march. However, he states  in his report that Custer turned down gattling guns as if Custer could  expect them to keep up with them while they failed to keep up with Terry's  infantry.  Some of Darlings critque on Custer's decision making from the  divide to the LBH could be challenged but they make  the book more  interesting. Whatever mistakes Custer made, he received his punishment not  just from his own but from many others starting with the command. It  appears the campaign for Terry was not just a battle against the Indians  but one of a war hero's battle with character.	2000-04-22
US	52754940	R1G2E285Z1Q3QN	0806122927	489108827	Cavalier in Buckskin: George Armstrong Custer and the Western Military Frontier (Oklahoma Western Biographies, Vol 1)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The Best Custer Primer	To read about Custer this is the best place to start. Utley gives a great frame work of Custer's life from his pre-cadet days, courtship, Civil War days (noticed by McClellan which starts it all) and captures his post war  duties of reconstruction duties, Kansas-Nebraska-Oklahoma campaigns, court  martial, Battle of Waschita, hobnobbing in New York and Washington,  Yellowstone Survey of 1873, the Black Hills exploration, political  conflicts, Washington and Grant episode and of course the LBH. Also reveals  perhaps a weakness in frontier military life such as the remoteness  followed by extended leave for officers including Custer. Objective in that  Utley traces some questioning financial aspirations of Custer that may even  have involved sutlers on a small scale while later he serves, perhaps as a  patsy for the democrats, as a political foil against the Grant  admnistration in reference to malfeasance with military supplies and sutler  relations. Only wish their was even more material on Custer but you do get  a good picture of the man including his racuous fun loving side. The book  also demonstrates that Custer treated friends and family well and that  those that were not were not fond of him. Supports the often quoted  &quot;loved or hated&quot;.	2000-03-18
US	52754940	R1CE9ADR08TRBA	0374226385	289107622	On the Rez	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A thoughtful, Unjudgemental Review of Life on a Reservation	In a follow up to his book the &quot;Great Plains&quot;, Frazier returns to the Oglala Sioux Pine Ridge Reservation to visit his friend Le War Lance and Le's friends and family. The book is an interesting intertwining of  history of the Oglala Sioux as it describes their former life as a proud  nomadic society that virtually died with Wounded Knee, which is on the Pine  Ridge Reservation, and whose current life is racked by alcohol, car  crashes, poverty, a high suicide rate and poor health care. Many parts of  the book are funny and endearing but at the same time disheartening to know  that life on the reservation can be entrapped in poverty without a strong  motivation for change. On the one hand Le War Dance talks of being an  independent He Dog Soldier yet sadenly when Frazier wakes him and his  brother for a planned sunrise hunt for muledeer, the hunt does not  materialize because Le's brother hocked the gun the night before. There is  also a lengthy tribute to a young girl, Suzanne Big Crow, who was a HS  basketball star. Lenghy probably because she became a role model for the  tribe and was a positive force that died like many of the young in a car  crash (fell asleep on the way to an awards ceremony). A funny but sad  rejioner that paraphrases life on the reservation is a comment by a local  DJ on the radio that states on a snowy cold morning &quot;Okay you men, be  good to your women today and get up and warm their car up so they can have  a warm ride to work in the snow&quot;. The inference being that the men  normally do not work or get up... Best part of the descriptions of the  people and their life is that Frazier does not judge or offer philosphical  explanations of their behavior. Many of the people are very admirable  particularly in how they preserve their cultures, others with deep pride  appear to perpetuate poverty. Highly recommend reading Frazier's  &quot;Great Plains&quot; first as it's the beginning where this book is his  destination.	2000-03-17
US	52754940	R39Q18BP04TBJF	0803270402	597602640	Custer's Last Campaign: Mitch Boyer and the Little Bighorn Reconstructed	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Accurate History with Elaborate Time Motion Studies	Outstanding detail on the LBH battle. References cover virtually all the important facts associated with the campaign. Extraordinary study of movements by all those key participants associated with the battle and  timing of such. An example is the study  of Benteen's movements (3rd wing).  Boston Custer leaves the pack train, passes Benteen watering his horses and  joins his brother in death as Benteen remains over an hour behind. Great  detail on Custer's final battle and possible plan. The first half of the  book is dedicated to Mitch Boyer, the half Sioux and white scout who was  adopted by the Crows. He elects to stay with Custer until the final end and  the story of his life is told in admirable detail. Boyer was quite a brave  an independent man who expertly knew the plains and Indians. Perhaps the  best book on the LBH.	2000-02-21
US	52754940	RXU8WX2OX6O9P	0812932560	190608184	Little Bighorn Remembered: The Untold Indian Story of Custer's Last Stand	Books	3	34	37	N	N	Beautiful Book Marred by Debatable Crow Scouts Testimony	Viola's book is a coffee table book sized, beautiful rendition of photographs of participants, Indian art picturing the LBH battle, a good recap of the Sioux war and injustices done to them and some very  interesting oral histories presentd by several tribal descendants of all  the tribes involved. Unfortunately the book includes a summary of  photographer Edward Curtis' 1907 interview with the three Crow scouts that  left Custer as he went north to attack the village. Curtis claimed that  White Man Runs, Goes Ahead and Hairy Moccasion witnessed Reno's rout from  Weir Point and they claimed Custer saw Reno's collapse. The scouts  indicated to Curtis  that Custer ignored Reno's circumstances and  uncaringly moved to the north. Although the book takes the Crow scouts  testimony to Curtis as fact, it has been well documented that the Crow  scouts left Custer early enough when they turned back that they met  Benteen's battalion (3rd wing) before Reno's retreat could have crossed  their path. In other words they were seen by Benteen's entire battalion  several miles south of where Custer was when Reno collapsed. See Walter  Camp's interviews with participants and note John Gray's fine book on  &quot;Custer's Last Campaign&quot;. It has been well documented that after  meeting Benteen, the three scouts stayed with Reno and Benteen briefly and  then abandoned them later reporting all dead. The last crow scout to see  Custer alive, Curley has often suffered from White Man Runs Him's  statements. This unchallengable portrayal of the Curtis testimonies mar the  book presenting it as fact other then what appears to be sensationalized  testimony that cannot be accurate. The biographies of many of the brave  Native American participants is interesting particularly thier post battle  life summaries. The articles on the archeology of the battle sites is  fascinating along with Swanson's story of the recovery of Lt. Reily's ring.  Langeiller 's essay on the Custer Myth brings out Custer's warts but is an  informative read.uster's warts but is an  informative read.	2000-02-12
US	52754940	R12ZT3TFT6NZ2P	0826318851	777226591	A Road We Do Not Know: A Novel of Custer at the Little Bighorn	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Truely Brings Historic Characters to Life Accurately	Chiaventone's research had to be extremely thorough to bring the key historic characters to life from the LBH. Seen  through the eyes of the young Chief of Scouts Lt. Varnum and major participants such as the acerbic  Captain Benteen, Reno, Gall, Sitting Bull, Scout Mitch Bouyer, Crazy Horse,  Captain Keogh, Charlie Reynolds, and on. Benteen's dialogoue particularly  captures the spirit of Benteen for anyone that has read Benteen's sarcastic  and bitter sounding letters in reference to Custer. The final battle scenes  of Custer's battle ridge seem as probable as anyone else's theory. The  portrayal of the actions of Keogh's company is particularly fascinating and  could explain their unique groupings (headstones) where &quot;I  Company&quot; fell. Recommend reading a few excellent Custer books first  like Utley's or Gray's to fully benefit from this engrossing action  oriented book that is framed with historical accuracy. As another reviewer  stated, it's on par with &quot;Killer Angels&quot;, the other best well  researched and plausible historical  fiction book.	2000-01-29
US	52754940	R22WTO5S2ISIJB	0811703460	621060935	Story of the Little Big Horn (The Custer Library)	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Straight Foreward Review of LBH: Reno held Objectively	Classic account by Graham who appraises the LBH battle objectively in one sense but clearly seems to favor Reno's and Benteen's actions over Custer.  The Reno Court of Inquiry testimony which Graham obtained in the 1920s in a  limited release fueled much of the book.What was most interesting was a  lengthy letter from a member of General Terry's staff officer who wrote the  letter just after Terry's death. The letter is a defense of Terry who is  characterized as a kind man who did not want to criticize Custer after  death too harshly. The letter details how in the opinion of the staff  officer, how Custer disobeyed orders particularly in the lack of use of  scouts that were suppose to contact Colonel Gibbon's column prior to  attacking. Fuels more fire in the controversy. The Custer Myth is the  better of the two Graham books.	2000-01-15
US	52754940	R24T6IOI0QFL2P	0803263937	766976974	Custer and Company: Walter Camp's Notes on the Custer Fight	Books	4	13	13	N	Y	Interviews Add New Light on Several Topics	Reading Camp's intervies makes you wish he had a chance to write the definitive book on Custer and the LBH. The accounts are a little rambling because they are based on Camp's original notes. The interviews highlight  conflicts between some of the notable but challengable LBH testimonies. The  interviews also reveal information about the retreat from Weir Point, the  mystery rider in C Company found miles from the battlefield on the Rosebud,  first hand accounts of the death of Crazy Horse, information on &quot;White  hat&quot; (Lt. Phillo Clark) and a virtual biography on Luther North who  demonstrated great success utilizing Pawnee tribesmen as soildiers and  scouts. The footnotes provided by the editors provide a terrific resource  of information that more than adds to the Camp's notes, almost like having  two books in one.	2000-01-08
US	52754940	R32VVIQOSCRLO2	0811714160	316216087	The Reno Court of Inquiry: Abstract of the Official Record of Proceedings	Books	5	19	21	N	Y	Benteen, Reno, Varnum Come Alive: Great for Custer Pros	A surprisingly good read. W. A. Graham's well edited book of testimony is fascinating. The inquiry report was supressed for many years until Graham came along.  The Reno and Benteen passages are quite revealing of the men  themselves. Reno reveals what he really thinks of Custer and Benteen's  sarcasm concerning Custer's order for him on that day is so apparent one  wishes he was challenged more on the stand. Benteen's reasons for his delay  are quite astonishing. Those well  familiar with the LBH will appreciate  some of the between the lines testimony of the officers. Varnum (chief of  scouts) and civilians describe the retreat from the valley as a rout and  but the other officers are reluctant to critizise. Graham's editing and  Pohanka's introduction enrich the book by providing more background  information.	2000-01-07
US	52754940	R7C9Q6BBRHHL7	0803272421	666619111	The Custer Reader	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A Great Collection of Custer Material: A Truely Fun Read	This book is unique in that it provides essays on the numerous facets of Custer's life not only by the participants that knew him but from Custer himself including notable historians that know Custer best. It also covers  fascinating facts such as Custer's First Stand at Trevillian Station, a  Civil War Battle where Custer was surrounded by Confederate Calavary.  Hutton, himself a notable Western Historian, is one of a number of  well  written essays on the Custer Myth including a critical look at how movies  and art portrayed Custer over the years representing the pathos of the  nation at that time. The change of view from Erol Flynn's &quot;They Died  with Their Boots On&quot; to Richard Mulligan's portrayal in &quot;Little  Bighorn&quot; takes a well versed explanation. One of my favorite parts of  the book is an essay by Hutton where he explains why in movie director John  Ford's &quot;Fort Apache&quot; version of Custer's last stand, John Wayne's  character Captain York praises the gallant loss of Colonel Thursday  (Custer,) who he actually hated, because York &quot;realized that society  understands little of the true motivation of heroes but still needs to  idealize them as figures to emulate&quot;. This is just not an interesting  read but a reflection of how changes in society change perceptions of men  and history. By the way, its a fun read!	1999-12-30
US	52754940	R35II1HLTZ54TC	0806124962	14871685	Archaeology, History, and Custer's Last Battle: The Little Big Horn Reexamined	Books	5	41	47	N	N	Archaelogical Findings &amp; Literary Research Are Fascinating	After reading this book I only wish that I had read it before I visited the LBH this past September. Dr. Fox provides great detail to properly explain  how the excavations and laboratory findings were done and in  explaining what they mean. This detail is neccessary to understand Dr.  Fox's explanation of what he thinks ocurred at Custer's battleridge. After  reading the evidence first, then his well researched literary quotes, his  conclusions on the Custer portion of the battle are very believable and fit  well with the Indian oral histories. I found it very revealing and  immensely stimulating. The early chapters may seem slow to someone who does  not appreciate archaelogy but it picks up speed as Fox moves to his  conclusion which is virtually a climax of the battle. I have reread several  sections and it's a mainstay in my Custer library.	1999-12-18
US	52754940	R2ZD4C7C03GGHC	1883522005	692025653	Season of Fire: The Confederate Strike on Washington	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A very good synopsis of the 1964 valley campaign.	Mr. Judge does history a great justice by writing the history of the Invasion of Washington from its inception. He covers the early phase from a confederate defeat at Cloyds Mountain in Pulaski County just south of  Blacksburg (VA. Tech), takes you to Lynchburg and Early's arrival and the  subsequent journey to Washington D.C. Gives the reader the complete field  of study of the campaign. Wonderful description of future Baltimore Police  Chief Harry Gilmore who was a colorful confederate calavary leader as well  as a vivid description of the hidden valley of the Shennodoah, Fort Valley.	1999-05-29
