US	52757296	R14ATMQ92NX1SV	0743247442	120358955	The Corporation: The Pathological Pursuit of Profit and Power	Books	4	23	26	N	N	A manual for the people	Bakan has written an important book for citizens of the modern world, especially Americans.  It is similar to Tom Paine's _Common Sense_ (1776), in that it argues its case forcefully with reason, facts, and a clear urgent voice calling for change.  What the book argues is that the corporation has become a dangerously dominant institution.  Dangerous in that its for-profit motive precludes it by nature from any genuine social responsibility, and the individuals who subsist within it are forced to adopt its shark-like, selfish system of values to survive.  Dominant in that the corporation, in its relentless need to accrue more profit, is pushing out into every nook and cranny of society, privatizing formerly public spheres like the US education system, and in the privatization sacrificing public interest for private gain.<br />At 167 pages, it's a quick, informative read packed with real and convincing evidence that corporations, because of their sole mandate from shareholders to maximize profit in whatever way works best, are evil by nature (or at best, amoral) and need to be regulated.<br />The book does address alternative viewpoints and contains snippets from an interview with the celebrated conservative economist Milton Friedman; while this adds great value to the book, I would have loved to have seen even more of such dialogue between Bakan and Friedman's polarized attitudes toward the corporation.  I may pick up a Friedman book to compliment this one.<br />Before I tell you the reason why I docked this book a star, let me say that I think the book fills a much needed gap in mass-marketable volumes commenting on the corporation and its effect on the individual citizen.  &quot;The Commanding Heights&quot; is a wonderful economic book for non-economists covering global, macro trends in the economy, but it does not address the institution of the corporation and its impact on the average citizen as this one does -- in showing with many examples how corporate malfeasance harms the individual I think this book is particularly strong.<br />The disappointment is this: on the back flap, the book claims &quot;Bakan believes change is possible and outlines a far-reaching program of concrete, pragmatic, and realistic reforms through legal regulation and democratic control.&quot;  Well, this is something Bakan probably wrote in his query letter to the publisher as a selling point of the book; it sounds good, and it was the pumpkin pie I was looking forward to at the end of the meal.  As it turns out, Bakan has no real solutions.  He actually wastes paper saying, &quot;Though solutions to this problem must ultimately be democratically fashioned by 'the people,' not by a law professor sitting in front of his computer, I do want to conclude with some general thoughts about how we might move forward.&quot; ...And these thoughts are very obvious and very general and very unvisionary.  It felt like the end of the book, which should have been the best part, the real opportunity for substantive critical meat, was finished off in a flurry and rushed to the publisher.  Too bad -- for, though it is a provocative report, this book joins the rest of the mediocre multitudes that point out problems but offer up no real solutions for the present.<br />But am I being fair?  *Are* there any immediate solutions to so vast a problem of the now-engrained corporate infection plaguing society?  Probably not.  And though the text itself acknowledges this, the back flap is misleading and shouldn't have made the claim (I was really salivating over that promise of good pie).feasance harms the individual I think this book is particularly strong.<br />The disappointment is this: on the back flap, the book claims &quot;Bakan believes change is possible and outlines a far-reaching program of concrete, pragmatic, and realistic reforms through legal regulation and democratic control.&quot;  Well, this is something Bakan probably wrote in his query letter to the publisher as a selling point of the book; it sounds good, and it was the pumpkin pie I was looking forward to at the end of the meal.  As it turns out, Bakan has no real solutions.  He actually wastes paper saying, &quot;Though solutions to this problem must ultimately be democratically fashioned by 'the people,' not by a law professor sitting in front of his computer, I do want to conclude with some general thoughts about how we might move forward.&quot; ...And these thoughts are very obvious and very general and very unvisionary.  It felt like the end of the book, which should have been the best part, the real opportunity for substantive critical meat, was finished off in a flurry and rushed to the publisher.  Too bad -- for, though it is a provocative report, this book joins the rest of the mediocre multitudes that point out problems but offer up no real solutions for the present.<br />But am I being fair?  *Are* there any immediate solutions to so vast a problem of the now-engrained corporate infection plaguing society?  Probably not.  And though the text itself acknowledges this, the back flap is misleading and shouldn't have made the claim (I was really salivating over that promise of good pie).	2004-06-23
US	52757296	R80A6RRYKYDH9	0140447180	126824467	The Autobiography of Benvenuto Cellini (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Wild times in a wild time	Benvenuto Cellini was a great sculptor of the 16th century.  He was not, by trade, a writer, and his rough prose and sprawling narrative testify to that.<br />But what he lacks in writing skill, he more than makes up for in personality, so much so that his brilliant life and gusto for living bursts through the awkward form.<br />Cellini, it is clear, loves life -- he leaves nothing out when telling it, and so he represents very well what it must have been like to be one of the great artists of the Italian Renaissance in the patronage of the papacy, the great Medici family, and Francis I (who supported Da Vinci in his last years).<br />We meet Lorenzo de Medici, Cosimo, Francis I, Cosimo's wife who needs Cellini to help her get a pearl necklace, competitors, thieves, Popes, and beautiful women, whom Cellini kept for modeling and for \\"company.\\"<br />And we get to hear Cellini discussing the design and creation of classic works that still exist today, like the salt cellar, the Nymph of Fountainbleau, and his masterpiece, the statue Perseus, which he describes as so astonishing to the people of the day that they composed sonnets about it and posted them up all over Florence.<br />Cellini recounts his many affairs, duels, scrapes, imprisonments, and commissions, one adventure after another, so that his whole life sweeps by in a grand and vibrant portrait.  He always seems to come out on top too, which makes you wonder if he's telling the whole truth, but nonetheless Cellini's autobiography is a thrilling read and filled with life in a time when all the world was stirring with art and passion.	2004-06-23
US	52757296	R3JXDRUKVQPZZU	0156007460	738065609	In Search of the Miraculous (Harvest Book)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Expect the unexpected...	This is that once-in-a-lifetime book, the kind you'd like to find in that ancient, out-of-the-way used bookstore that you wish existed.  Every chapter in this book, every page, unfolds a new enigma, and Ouspensky writes so well, like a master suspense novelist, that you find yourself drawn to read on no matter how unusual some of the teachings get.  Indeed, some of the material in the book seems nonsensical--but if you're patient, the nonsense is immediately followed by a watershed of wisdom, wisdom of a kind I've never read before.  Highly rewarding, rich with unique insight, I eagerly recommend this to any seeker of Truth who keeps an open mind.	2004-03-18
US	52757296	R9CN36H2904KU	019283715X	765769414	Lord Chesterfield's Letters (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	That Right Honourable Lord...	Lord Chesterfield is the 18th-century English father I never had.  In these letters to his son, he gives stern but fair lessons in how to conduct oneself as a gentleman in society.  Chesterfield, with his classical learning and lifelong service to the monarchy, is superbly qualified to give such social advice.  His dry wit, strong-mindedness, and discerning eye make him entertaining to read, and, though repetitive (\\"the graces, boy, remember the graces!\\"), much of his advice is still very apt today.  Taking us through the prime of his career to the twilight of his life, these letters show Chesterfield as the ultimate politician--keenly aware of humanity's selfishness, and always ready to use that selfishness to his own benefit.  There is something endearing in this open devilishness.	2004-03-08
US	52757296	R2YJATDN8D44D8	0880884347	955212662	A Message to Garcia	Books	3	45	57	N	N	The virtue of submission--	In Hubbard's booklet lies the secret of service.  It sounds simple, but so few people are able to swallow their giant egos to do it.<br />Using the true story of a messenger in the Spanish-American War as an example, Hubbard teaches this lesson: when a superior asks you to do something -- no matter how difficult or crazy or impossible it may sound -- just go get it done.  Don't say anything; don't make any funny faces; don't look to others for help -- just go and do it.<br />In a society where authority is too often degraded, Hubbard's old-fashioned-radio-editorial-style essay reminds us that conformity can be good.  I would qualify this by saying that any conformity should be conscientious conformity (you must not do something that goes against ethical principles).<br />To anyone really considering buying this really, really short, really, really over-priced book: you can find it online for really, really free.	2003-09-05
US	52757296	R1Q2MSJRMKVFA	0879100362	979736969	Harpo Speaks!	Books	5	1	1	N	N	What a life!	Harpo Marx is one of the funniest men of the depressing twentieth century.  But the funniest part is, his own life was even funnier than the character he played on stage.<br />My mom gave me this book when my grandmother told her it was the funniest book she had ever read.  Now, having read it, I can say its comic value stands the test of time.<br />Though Harpo himself never made it past the second grade, his autobiography is a classic work of literature: his warm personality draws you in immediately, and you're introduced to so many formative figures and events of the times.<br />Whether it's espionage under Stalin's nose, sitting in on the legendary Algonquin Round Table, having clothes ripped off by George Bernard Shaw, or pulling practical jokes on William Randolph Hearst in his own castle, Harpo's entire life, full of love, laughter, and meaning, is one giant anecdote--the perfect stuff for an autobiography!	2003-08-01
US	52757296	RKI6TYW6DH7U4	0062700367	992667023	Asimov's Chronology of the World: The History of the World From the Big Bang to Modern Times	Books	5	25	25	N	N	The blood, the sweat, the HUMANITY!	Isaac Asimov was a man of amazing intelligence, curiosity, humor, and encyclopedic knowledge.  He wrote over 465 books (easily the world record), including the popular sci-fi Foundation series, but the \\"Chronology of the World\\" is perhaps his greatest monument.<br />Spanning the entire duration of the universe (until September 2, 1945), this astonishing history sweeps across the whole of human existence, covering vast amounts of material from the spheres of politics, military history, science, mathematics, art, music, literature, even athletics.  If it has defined humanity, Asimov, a one-man publishing house, throws it in, somewhere in this massive volume.<br />This book is not another pedantic purgation of history--it's  very exciting to read.  As a professor of biochemistry and author of thousands of scholarly essays, Asmiov certainly has the intelligence to write this book.  But as a writer of popular science-fiction stories, he also knows what it takes to make the book  fun and compelling to read.  This rare combination of brain wits and communicative wits make Asimov a great guide through history.  His accounts of the outstanding people and wars are gripping--especially his treatment of Genghis Khan and the Mongol raiders, the rise and fall of Greece and the rise and fall of Rome, and the climactic battles of World War II.<br />While I am astounded by the breadth and the depth and the insight and the sheer achievement of this book, I cannot pretend that it's perfect.  Asimov chose to structure it purely chronologically, country by country, from start to finish.  The result is one massive block of near-continuous text, making it difficult to grasp the big picture, and difficult to review the major events.  There is a timeline at the beginning and an index at the end, to try to compensate for this flaw.  Also, there is nary a map to be found in the entire book.  This was a disappointment and I often found myself referring to a world map to see what in the world Asimov was talking about.<br />Even with the flaws, this is an amazing achievement and a fantastic read.  In few other books does humanity, at its worst and best, unfold so brilliantly as in this one.orld Asimov was talking about.<br />Even with the flaws, this is an amazing achievement and a fantastic read.  In few other books does humanity, at its worst and best, unfold so brilliantly as in this one.	2003-08-01
US	52757296	R1QB7R8DWEQ8EX	0553213997	627065254	The Odyssey of Homer (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	44	53	N	N	Hear the Sirens sing.	When I was a younger lad, I bought Richard Lattimore's translation, which is a grandiose bore.  Then I had the good fortune to read Mandelbaum's Aeneid, which shines.  This brought me to Mandelbaum's Odyssey. And it is the ideal Odyssey for scholarship and pleasure:<br />-The language is simple and strong.  Mandelbaum knows his job--he tells the story simply and brings the ancient genius of Homer through with vigor and clarity.  Occasionally Mandelbaum goes on a stint of rhyme and that's distracting, but overall the translation is beautiful.<br />-There's a well-drawn map of Ancient Greece in the beginning that really sets the scene for the wild sea adventures.<br />-One of the complaints I often hear about epics is that the many characters are difficult to keep straight. Mandelbaum solves this by giving us a comprehensive glossary in the back of the book that explains who everyone is and lists the page numbers of where they occur in the book.<br />-Another thing makes this a swift read is that, at the beginning of each book, Mandelbaum gives a quick summary of what's about to happen (a fantastic feature for reference and review).<br />Thus, with the book summaries, the glossary, and the map, you always know where you are in the epic--so while Odysseus wanders, you are never lost.	2003-06-25
US	52757296	R1F1VTX7XK6F4Y	0679723935	750143058	The Uses of Enchantment: The Meaning and Importance of Fairy Tales	Books	5	10	15	N	N	Behind the Locked Door...	It is the mark of brilliance when something commonplace, approached from a new angle, becomes a world of startling insight and fascination.  Such is the case with Bruno Bettelheim's masterwork, The Uses of Enchantment (1975).<br />Bettelheim's book is a key to the apparently simple world of fairy tales, taking us deep inside the inner workings of many popular tales (Little Red Riding Hood, Hansel and Gretel, Jack and the Beanstalk, and Cinderella, to name a few) and unlocking the powerful psychological contents hidden within.<br />Fairy tales, the author shows us, are actually powerful psychological messages for children, carefully packaged into a sweet-tasting pill of enchantment.  Over thousands of years, Bettelheim says these stories have evolved into the best experiences (next to good parenting) that a child can have in its arduous struggle to mature into a successful adult.<br />I often use a pen to mark the most significant ideas and discoveries I encounter while reading; in this book, I found myself squiggling, starring, check-marking, and exclamating all over the place--the pages are chock-full of surprising revelations and sudden bursts of light around dark corners.  Essential for parents, storytellers, psychologists, or any student of humanity, this book is a genuine classic, a fairy-tale come true.	2003-06-05
US	52757296	R2BSQQ220WMRS	0679734031	63098678	The Art of Fiction: Notes on Craft for Young Writers	Books	4	21	24	N	N	Intimidating but Useful	John Gardner, I imagine, was a man who buttoned his shirts to the top.  If he was a father, he would have been cold, stern, aloof, and a strict disciplinarian. He must have been a fierce little man.  His words are as dry as the white page they're printed on.  He lectures mainly with reason and abstraction.  Writing, he says, should be approached with the &quot;utmost seriousness.&quot;<br />His tone is not encouraging; on the contrary, it is often daunting, threatening the reader with the occasional possibility that he or she may not have what it takes to be a writer.<br />Still here?  Good.  Because for all of the forceful rigidity that Gardner impresses upon the reader, he has a reason for it.  He has tremendous respect for the art of fiction, and he's taking your interest in the art seriously.  That is, he is going to tell you what it takes to be a writer, in the highest sense of the word.<br />While some of the principles in this book were just too abstract for me to be useful, many of the ideas put forth were helpful and gave me new perspective on what it means to write fiction.<br />The writing exercises in the back are (as expected) exceedingly challenging; and yet I suspect they may be exceedingly helpful as well, if I'm ever up to pressing through them.<br />Although Gardner feels comfortable calling his book, &quot;the most helpful of its kind,&quot; I don't recommend this as a first book on fiction writing.  Something encouraging like Bradbury's &quot;Zen in the Art of Writing,&quot; or fundamental like Burroway's &quot;Writing Fiction&quot; will serve that purpose much better.<br />I do recommend this book as a set of essays that will help you in your continuing struggle to learn what it means to write (and then to write) true literature.	2003-05-28
US	52757296	R38XALTCM81RJN	0440351839	317933585	Man and His Symbols	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Easy Intro to Jung	In Man and his Symbols (1961), Jung's last book, Jung and four of his disciples (Von Franz, Henderson, Jaff&eacute;, and Jacobi) team up to introduce the world to the collective unconscious and its manifestations in mythology, art, dreams, and even science.<br />Jung suggests that man's greatest adventure lies in the exploration of the inner world of the psyche.  By getting in touch with the unconscious (especially through dreams), one is supposedly able to activate latent guiding powers that will help him become a stronger individual.  Jaff&eacute;'s essay details a case where a Jungian anaylsis is successful, and it convinced me.<br />For a basic grasp of the collective unconscious and the archetypal symbols and how they relate to you, this book serves.  It's very easy to understand, and its simple language and many illustrations make it easy to work through.<br />The only disappointment is that the book is too simple.  Given only a taste of the basic concepts, you are left wanting more depth and a wider discussion of Jung's ideas.  As Ms. Von Franz says in the closing essay, \\"This book sketches only an infinitesimal part of his [Jung's] vast contribution to this new field of psychological discovery.\\"	2003-05-25
US	52757296	R9FL3HOOAVVZ9	0345409817	462337382	Star Wars: The Annotated Screenplays	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Ahhhh... Dagobah!	With all three screenplays from the original Star Wars trilogy, this book pays for itself.<br />But more than just screenplays, this edition takes you behind the scenes of the movies, giving you lots of information about how the series came to be.<br />In the beginning of each script, you get a rundown of the drafts and revisions the screenplay moved through.  Intercut between the scenes, you get lots of commentary from the creators (George Lucas, Lawrence Kasdan, Irvin Kershner, Phil Tippet, and more), plus notes about how the story evolved from earlier drafts.<br />What really adds value to this edition is the exclusive commentary from the creators.  Hearing George Lucas talk about mythology and how he came to invent the Star Wars universe; hearing Irvin Kershner talk about the directorial innovations he brought to Empire Strike Back; or hearing about how the story of Return of the Jedi came together--this stuff is priceless.<br />And the stories--they're as fresh and exciting as ever in screenplay form.  A definitive resource for film students, fantasy fanatics, and Jedis-in-training.	2003-05-23
US	52757296	R6OMZGTWVU6IZ	0380010003	740600050	Interpretation of Dreams, The	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Authoritative and full of Insight	Dreams are some of the most mysterious, most enchanting, and most sacred experiences in all of human existence--and yet they are also some of the most elusive, and so their meaning has been scrutinized by every culture of the human race, for thousands and thousands of years.<br />In all of these inquiries, perhaps none has been more thorough, more scientific, and more systematic than Dr. Sigmund Freud's &quot;Interpretation of Dreams&quot; (1900).  In his book, Freud surveys the scientific research on dreams put forth so far (a remarkable achievement of scholarship in itself), and then puts forth his own theory of dreams.<br />Dreams, Freud claims, are nothing more than a fulfillment of an unconscious wish.  He supports his theory with analysis from a selection of actual dreams from his patients and from his own experience.<br />Much of this book is entertaining and enlightening.  Freud's good taste in literature is reflected in his own engaging style, and his sense of scholarly adventure is catching.  Plus, he doesn't shy away from the big questions.  How can we interpret dreams?  How does a dream come about?  What is the purpose of dreams?  Why are all dreams wish fulfillments?  What are the meaning of typical dreams, like losing teeth?--all these questions are tackled here.  This is the book where Freud first puts forth his Oedipal theory.<br />Freud's theory is always insightful, if not totally accurate.  He seems to try too hard to make all the data jive with his &quot;wish-fulfillment&quot; theory, and when it doesn't, he resorts to ludicrous arguments reminiscent of Anselm's ontological catastrophe.  For example, when a dream is clearly not a wish fulfillment, Freud asserts that it has actually fulfilled a wish--a wish that his theory is wrong.  Poppycock.<br />Despite these occasional stretches of reasonability, you'll come away from this book with a much greater understanding of the nature of dreams and the mental processes that bring dreams about.  Highly recommended.<br />This is a good intro to Freud; consider also &quot;Introductory Lectures on Psychoanaylsis.&quot;y recommended.<br />This is a good intro to Freud; consider also &quot;Introductory Lectures on Psychoanaylsis.&quot;	2003-05-19
US	52757296	RIJVAOXNHV6HE	0486298981	854345501	The Insidious Dr. Fu-Manchu (Dover Classic Mysteries)	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	INSIDIOUS!	I must say that I blush in confessing that reading this book gave me the chills.<br />One way to gauge a story is by the force of antagonism raised against the hero. In this book, the force of antagonism is perfectly ominous, artfully deadly, and rancidly horrific--the Insidious Dr. Fu-Manchu rouses high expectations, and chapter after chapter it exceeds them. Everything that you would want from a mystery/suspense/action/adventure novel is here in this book, and it is here in high doses.<br />Brimming with intrigue, romance, mystery, murder, mayhem, zaps, traps, pitfalls, poisons, hair-breadth escapes and miraculous revivals, the 'Insidious Dr. Fu-Manchu' grabs you from the start and doesn't let you go 'til the end, and by that time you're so intoxicated from the deep pleasure this book has provided that you either A: Read this book again, and/or B: Yearn to get your hands on copies of the next books in the series (which, unfortunately, are hard to come by these days).<br />Have I mentioned that this book gave me the chills? Chills, thrills, and the greatest of heart-pounding, nail-biting, deviously sublime episodes of reading you'll ever have.  Great fun!	2003-05-12
US	52757296	R24V3BY8ED0MR2	0812916352	856719132	Our Marvelous Native Tongue	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Classic.  Essential.  Marvelous!	Where does English come from?  How did it become the many-mouthed, thousand-eyed, saw-toothed, hulking gut-beast of expression that it is today?  What is the real meaning of the phrase &quot;Grand Tetons&quot;?<br />In an extraordinary display of scholarly acumen and tireless gusto, Robert Claiborne gives us a complete history of the English language.  And he makes it fun.<br />Starting 8,000 years ago with the Indo-Europeans, Claiborne traces the English tongue as it wriggles its way through the mouths of aboriginal Baltics, Roman traders, Latin monks, Dutch pirates, Norman knights, Italian poets, Arab alchemists, Spanish conquistadors, Native American victims, and much more.  Hundreds of actual roots and actual words are used to vividly illustrate each developmental stage of our language.<br />Claiborne pulls from an impressively broad range of sources to supply his account.  From literature, we see how Chaucer, Shakespeare, Johnson, Webster, and other titanic literary figures revolutionized our tongue.  From history, we see how the Norman invasion of England nourished the language.  From politics, we see how the English Revolution made English the tongue of the free.<br />The story of Pidjin English and the origins of American dialects is particularly engaging, as well as the surprisingly foolish reasons for those arbitrary rules that grammarians cling to.<br />Highly recommended for writers, word lovers, philologists--hey, even proctologists might want to give this fascinating book a try.	2003-05-10
US	52757296	R3BB4R2TB39QEM	0691017840	638703862	The Hero with a Thousand Faces (Bollingen Series, No. 17)	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	Mythological Gold!--and some dirt...	The premise of this book is amazing.  Pulling from a wide selection of ancient world myths, Campbell identifies features common to the Hero, like the Virgin Birth, the Call to Adventure, Crossing the Threshold, Trials, and the Return.  If this stuff seems obvious now, it's only because Campbell's book has been so influential.<br />Parts of the book are great.  \\"Once having traversed the threshold, the hero moves in a dream landscape of curiously fluid, ambiguous forms, where he must survive a succession of trials.\\"  Doesn't that make you want to read more?  Campbell is at his best when he is talking about the journey of the hero.  But he tries to do a lot more than that in this book.<br />First, he gives too many examples.  A few examples are helpful; a lot of examples obfuscate, rather than illuminate, the subject.  I wish he had said more and shown less.<br />Second, when Campbell shifts focus off the hero, the book loses steam.  The chapters dealing with the \\"Cosmogonic Cycle,\\" where the mythology of the universe is covered, just don't fit in here.<br />I recommend this book.  If you have the patience to sift through its dirt, you will find some gold.	2003-05-04
US	52757296	R1YVZ4DB0TM0SX	0192100335	416640209	Robinson Crusoe (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	9	16	N	N	Necessity is the mother of Exploitation	Written in 1719, Robinson Crusoe is one of the first adventure novels, and its clear action and detailed portrayal of a man stranded make it a classic.<br />The book gets off to a fast start, with a series of storms and escapes that make you think the action will never stop-but then it does.  For about a hundred pages, or twenty-four years of Crusoe's life, we suffer a dry spell of isolation right along side the narrator.<br />Now here's what bothers me about this hundred-page dry spell: Crusoe turns out to be an absolutely ingenious handy-man, perfectly suited for island life.  We're never in suspense of whether our man will live or die from day to day.  He turns out to be an able carpenter, cook, hunter, builder, farmer-whatever he needs, the hero has the uncanny ability to whip up out of the convenient natural abundance of the island.<br />This combination of the flawless man in an unlimited environment becomes incredibly annoying after a while.  The only real obstacle is loneliness, and the narrator's psychology is so cheery that even this seems trivial.  I would have much rather heard a few curses at fate than the disgustingly admirable optimism that pervades the book.  And that's why I think the time spent alone on the island-what many consider to be the essence of this book-is abominably boring.  About the midpoint of the book, however, something unexpected happens and the action picks up again, diverting us from the irritating perfection and complacency of the hero.<br />There are lots of rumors going around that this book is politically incorrect.  I'll just say that if you're not put off by: animal mutilation, British Imperialism, Native American massacres, proselytizing, religious fanaticism, portrayals of other races as brutish and uncivilized, cannibalism, exploitation of Africans, exploitation of Native Americans, exploitation of Muslims, tobacco farming, kidnapping, selling children into slavery, or just plain subjugation of others and the natural world-I say, if you can get past these things and accept them as part of the times (18th century England), then you might consider giving this a read.world-I say, if you can get past these things and accept them as part of the times (18th century England), then you might consider giving this a read.	2003-05-02
US	52757296	R38P2JNA0SPDBZ	0060391685	291664871	Story: Substance, Structure, Style and the Principles of Screenwriting	Books	5	27	30	N	Y	Success Story	On the surface, Robert Mckee appears to be one of those slick Hollywood types who trounces across the globe, charging hundreds of dollars a ticket for his seminars and rousing the masses into thinking that yes, they too can sell the next million dollar screenplay.  I don't like those types.<br />Fortunately, I suspended my judgement long enough to read Robert Mckee's &quot;Story,&quot; and I realized that this guy really seems to know his stuff.  Moreover, I got the impression that he was holding nothing back in his attempt to help me, the reader, to write a better screenplay.  &quot;I've written Story,&quot; Mckee says, &quot;to free you to express an original vision of life.&quot;  The book goes a long way toward fulfilling this promise.<br />I've read several other screenplay books (Linda Seger, Lew Hunter, Ronald Tobias), and this is the clearest, most complete screenwriting guide that I've found.  Unlike many of the others, this one spends the most time answering that most difficult question, &quot;What makes a good story?&quot;--and it answers it in ways that are entertaining and easy to follow.<br />You may be wary of the length (at 400+ pages, it's a hefty tome to lug), but I assure you--the length is a good thing.  Mckee uses the space to explain each concept in great detail (the list of films he uses as examples takes up 33 pages at the end of the book), and in many cases this extra explanation makes a big difference.  I had more &quot;Ah-ha!&quot; moments of understanding in this book than I've had in all other film books I've read combined.	2003-04-29
US	52757296	R10QOZYLGO4GY1	0062508113	135418128	The World's Religions: Our Great Wisdom Traditions	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Many Religions, One World	Some people know that they believe in their religion, but they don't really know what their religion believes in. Some are wholly devoted to their own religion, but they couldn't care less about what others believe. And some people despise the idea of religion altogether.<br />Huston Smith is here to show us the importance of religion, and the increasing importance of understanding each other as technology links us closer and closer together. He takes us on a grand tour of seven of the world's most popular religious traditions (Hinduism, Buddhism, Confucianism, Taoism, Islam, Judaism, and Christianity), but he does this in a special way that makes his book one of the single best volumes we have for understanding the religions of the world.<br />First, notice the order in which he treats the religions: Hinduism first, Christianity last. He wants to challenge you, the Western reader, by starting with the most esoteric of faiths and working his way back toward the familiar Judeo-Christian perspective that most of us grew up with.<br />Next, he focuses on the best part of religion--the ideas. Society, in its money-guzzling, war-mongering ways, has kidnapped religion and done some pretty terrible things in its name. By examining religion apart from the grunge of society, Smith shows us that, in themselves, our world religions contain some of the most meaningful insights into human nature that human beings have ever had.<br />Finally, Smith brings out the beauty of each religion. You know how an artist tries to render his subject in its best light? That's what Huston Smith does with each religion. Whether he's describing Lila, the Cosmic Dancer of Hinduism, shocking us into selflessness in the Buddhism chapter, or warming our hearts with the idea of love in Christianity, page after page Smith turns out passages of keen intellect and breathtaking beauty.<br />Smith has such a way with words that, as I read each chapter, I found myself saying, \\"Hmm... maybe I should become a ---\\" [complete the sentence with any one of the religions covered in this book]. And I think that's Smith's idea. To make us proud of the several unique and beautiful visions of the universe that our religions have given us, and to make us see that each one contributes something of great value to humanity.a ---\\" [complete the sentence with any one of the religions covered in this book]. And I think that's Smith's idea. To make us proud of the several unique and beautiful visions of the universe that our religions have given us, and to make us see that each one contributes something of great value to humanity.	2003-04-25
US	52757296	R3AO4DXMYPHWYM	0140150706	13033756	The Portable Jung (Portable Library)	Books	4	110	111	N	Y	Adventures in the Human Psyche	I am not a psychologist. I am a curious reader who wanted to know more about Jung's psychology. I had not read any of Jung's work before, and now, having read the book, I feel I have a good grasp of Jung's major concepts.<br />Joseph Campbell edits this volume and writes a nice introduction, explaining briefly Jung's major achievements. At the end, he's included an outline of Jung's complete works, which catalogs the amazing fecundity of Jung's mind. I was hoping that Campbell, hero of mythology that he is, would have included some of Jung's mythological work in this book, like a clip from \\"Symbols of Transformation,\\" but he didn't. What a pity.<br />After Campbell's intro, the book consists of three parts: one focusing on Jung's theory, one on Jung's application of his theory, and the third part contains some curiosities that demonstrate the range of Jung's thinking.<br />(Part I) Introduces Jung's Big Ideas. The collective unconscious; archetypes; the psychological types (introversion/extroversion and all that jazz). Most of this section is easy and stimulating to get through, until you hit the psychological types, which get very technical. If you think about how the types apply in real life to people you know, it makes plowing through Jung's dry descriptions a little easier.<br />(Part II) Jung in action. Campbell gives us a healthy serving of Jung's dream analyses, which I recommend skimming, unless you're really into alchemical symbology. The two essays on contemporary life are still fresh.<br />(Part III) The essay on synchronicity is a mind-bending read, and it makes you suddenly aware of all those little coincidences in life. \\"An Answer to Job\\" starts off as a playful, almost Nietzschean essay where Jung performs a psychological deconstruction on the god of the Old Testament. Then it degenerates into a discussion of the psychological development of the idea of god as traced through the Bible, which turns out to be not exciting as it sounds.<br />Even if Jung occasionally crosses the boundary of credibility, you get the sense that he's a true scholar, dedicated first and foremost to seeking the truth. This volume is a good peep into the mind of one of the twentieth century's most daring thinkers exploring the uncharted depths of the human psyche.<br />Another good intro to Jung that's easier to get through is \\"Man and his Symbols.\\"occasionally crosses the boundary of credibility, you get the sense that he's a true scholar, dedicated first and foremost to seeking the truth. This volume is a good peep into the mind of one of the twentieth century's most daring thinkers exploring the uncharted depths of the human psyche.<br />Another good intro to Jung that's easier to get through is \\"Man and his Symbols.\\"	2003-04-25
US	52757296	R2NL4UYL1U7EWU	0375713549	835531493	Fletch	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The Sam Spade of the '80s	I recently read that Fletch, the movie, was a terrible adaptation of Fletch, the book. Well I liked the movie, so naturally I got curious about how much better the book could be.<br />The book turned out to be very close to the movie. It's really more like a screenplay than a novel: mostly action and dialogue, it lays down the facts and lets you do your own musing about what's going on. Like a good screenplay, you can really see the story coming to life in your head.<br />Fletch, the character, is the typical wandering man. A drudge-reporter, twice divorced, dodging alimoney, sliding from romance to romance, hardly earning enough to get by but good at what he does, Fletch is a modern noir hero. He's always going undercover, pretending to be other people, perhaps because he's searching for who he is.<br />For the lonely searcher, or for the average reader, Fletch is good entertainment in book or movie form.	2003-04-22
US	52757296	R1ZBZ7GGNBNLER	0374505322	336875477	The Golden Ass: The Transformations of Lucius	Books	4	31	39	N	Y	Four Gold Stars for the Golden Ass	I consider myself a connosieur of the classics, so when I heard of an ancient novel concerned with sex, illicit sex, and illicit donkey sex, I decided to take a closer look.<br />And I'm glad that I did.  At the back end of the classical Western literary tradition of silliness, which includes such hallowed humorists as Chaucer, Bocaccio, Rabelais, Cervantes, and, in its divine form, Shakespeare, we find the one tale that may have excited them all--Lucius Apuleius's Golden Ass.<br />The Golden Ass is filled with adventure, suspense, humor, and nonsense.  I had a grin on my face most of the way through, and I got the feeling that the author did too.  Tip o' the hat to Robert Graves for delivering an authentic translation that brings us Apuleius in his bawdy best.<br />The only thing I found occasionally irritating was that, like Cervantes, Apuleius has a tendency to digress.  Big time.  He inserts the entire myth of Cupid and Psyche right into the middle of the narrative, for example.  Does this add to the mythological message of the whole?  Probably, but it subtracts from the fantastic flow of the story.  My urgent plea to Apuleius, were he alive today, would be, \\"Stick to the ass!\\"<br />There are a number of reasons that traditionally bring people to this book: to study Classical Rome, classic literature, mythology, psychology... maybe you're curious about the intimate lives of donkeys.  Whatever has brought you to this novel, now that you're going to read it, perhaps the best thing to do is to take the advice of the author himself, who says, \\"Read on and enjoy yourself!\\"	2003-04-14
US	52757296	RTEG6FDGI4VA2	0375759050	137753044	She: A History of Adventure (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	20	23	N	Y	Into the fire of pure desire...	Oh, thou-who-hast-not-read-this-book, you know not what you're missing!  H. Rider Haggard's &quot;She&quot; is one of the best adventure novels of all, and it is one that inspired some of the best adventure stories of all, like, say, the Indiana Jones series.<br />A mysterious iron box that cannot be opened for twenty years... a 2,000-year-old quest for revenge... a lost civilization in the depths of Africa... and a mysterious queen called &quot;She.&quot;<br />The story covers a vast landscape that will delight your imagination, and the main characters are distinct and likeable, sturdy partners in this most thrilling of adventures.<br />The story is so exciting and full of action, it's tempting to write it off as pure pulp fiction, hacked out with little intellgence or deeper meaning.  You can read the book this way and still come away having a good time.  But, if you're looking for that rare adventure novel with a meaningful subtext, &quot;She&quot; delivers on this level, too.  I won't give too much away, but I think it's one of the greatest books ever written that demonstrates the total control desires have over man.  Arthur Schopenhauer would approve.<br />Sigmund Freud called it a book &quot;full of hidden meaning.&quot;  C.S. Lewis and J.R.R. Tolkien read it and loved it.  Give this one a try, and you, too, might become forever fascinated with &quot;She.&quot;	2003-04-14
US	52757296	R2XRP9LLGIOWZV	0380002930	498635851	Watership Down	Books	2	3	22	N	N	This Ship goes Down like the Titanic...	Having heard many opinions that this is a \\"great story,\\" a \\"classic epic,\\" and a \\"thrilling adventure,\\" I had to read it for myself--and boy, was I let down.  Here's why.<br />1. The book is contrived--not a seamless integration of parts and whole, but a series of raw, abortive events hammered into the mould of an epic.<br />2. The book is predictable. If you were an alien from another planet, who had never read a human-authored story before, you might approve. But, being someone who has actually lived on the planet for a little while, I can confidently say that there is almost no originality here.<br />3. The rabbit gimmick falls flat. The idea of substituting rabbits for humans seems to have exhausted the author, and he seems to think his gimmick of dressing up a bad story in rabbit fur is enough originality for one book. It's not.<br />4. I don't care about the characters. The rabbits' characters are never developed enough to make me want to care. They're two-dimensional, simple, predictable, cookie-cutter, and, like a coloring book, the author always stays within the lines (yaaaaawn).<br />5. This book is too long. Cheers to the author's work-ethic for dragging this out to fit the \\"epic\\" genre. Jeers to the author's aesthetic sense for not recognizing that his rabbit tale is not strong enough to be an epic.<br />On the plus side: having read the book, everytime I see a rabbit, I get an uncanny sense that I've visited their world. Adams does have a way of emulating the tiny minds of rabbits.  But then, why would you want to cram your human intelligence into the mind of a rabbit, anyway? It's like trying to force yourself inside a mailbox--it may be exciting at first, but then it just gets silly and painful.	2003-04-10
US	52757296	R2X4OCC68R1M96	0671201581	635633775	A History of Western Philosophy	Books	5	33	36	N	N	Crave knowledge?	If you've ever wanted to understand the greatest thinkers in the history of Western Philosophy, here's some simple advice: read all of them and all of their books.  No problem, right?  Start with the Pre-Socratic fragments, then onto Plato, Aristotle, up through the Philosophy of the Church, then into the Renaissance, the Reformation, the Enlightenment, British Empiricism, Romanticism, German Idealism, Pragmatism, Logical Positivism, and the list goes on.  Oh, by the way, if you really want to understand this stuff, you'll have to know a bit about the historical context in which these thinkers thought, too.<br />The reality is that, if you're reading speed doesn't reach 2,000 words-per-minute, and if you don't have the desire to go to college for that doctorate in Philosophy, you're probably not going to be able to cover all of the greatest Western thinkers in their deserved depth.<br />This is where Bertrand Russell comes in.  Bertrand, an early twentieth century thinker, educated at Cambridge, does the incredible: he provides a comprehensive history of Western thought, that is not only easy to understand, but amazingly hard to put down.  Even if you're not usually interested in philosophy, Russell's lively account will pull you in.  It's filled with history, humor, ancedotes and fascinating lives, but, most of all, it's filled with great ideas that will cringe your brow and make you ponder.<br />The History is easy to get through.  It's written in quick, easy-to-digest chapters, usually about 10-15 pages in length.  Want to know about Aristotle's Ethics?  Read the chapter.  Want to know about Christianity During the First Four Centuries? About Mohammedan Culture and Philosophy? About the Italian Renaissance?  About Machiavelli, Descartes, Locke, Hume, Rousseau, Kant, Hegel, Schopenhauer, Nietzsche, or Marx?  Read the chapters.  If you're eager for knowledge, your excitement will lead you quickly through this book, and Russell's intelligence and humor will not let you down.  He's a great teacher.<br />A few criticisms.  Because Russell is not afraid to give his opinion of all the philosophers, sometimes you wonder if you're getting the real picture.  For example, he paints Jean-Jacques Rousseau as the arch-villain of history; this is certainly an intriguing perspective, but I can't help but question the author's implicit conclusion that Rousseau is almost singularly responsible for the ills of the world.  Also, while the content is generally well-balanced, Russell gives an undue amount of attention to Locke (40+ pages), and two modern philosophers, Bergson (20 pages), and Dewey.  As John Dewey is Russell's contemporary, Russell seems to have a keen desire to ingratiate himself to the man, and such toadying doesn't play well in a History of Western Philosophy.  On the whole, though, the book sings.<br />You may think you're going to use this as a reference, but, like a good bag of potato chips, once you taste a bit of it, you'll want to finish the whole thing and your hand will be at the bottom of the bag, scraping out the crumbs and yearning for more.t you down.  He's a great teacher.<br />A few criticisms.  Because Russell is not afraid to give his opinion of all the philosophers, sometimes you wonder if you're getting the real picture.  For example, he paints Jean-Jacques Rousseau as the arch-villain of history; this is certainly an intriguing perspective, but I can't help but question the author's implicit conclusion that Rousseau is almost singularly responsible for the ills of the world.  Also, while the content is generally well-balanced, Russell gives an undue amount of attention to Locke (40+ pages), and two modern philosophers, Bergson (20 pages), and Dewey.  As John Dewey is Russell's contemporary, Russell seems to have a keen desire to ingratiate himself to the man, and such toadying doesn't play well in a History of Western Philosophy.  On the whole, though, the book sings.<br />You may think you're going to use this as a reference, but, like a good bag of potato chips, once you taste a bit of it, you'll want to finish the whole thing and your hand will be at the bottom of the bag, scraping out the crumbs and yearning for more.	2003-04-06
US	52757296	R1PTE2IG1A5TSG	1882412184	561085005	ODYSSEY, THE CD PACKAGE (Odds Bodkin Musical Story Collection)	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	Hear the Odyssey	Your English teacher was wrong: Homer did not write the Odyssey. He sang it. Actually, scholars are still debating whether the blind mythic poet called Homer ever existed at all, but they do generally agree on two things: the Odyssey is one of the greatest stories surviving from Graecian antiquity, and it was originally meant to be sung, not read. Ancient bards, called rhapsodists, wandered through the hoods of ancient Greece, chanting their stories to all who would listen. Hundreds of generations later, we're still listening. Just two months ago, I listened to Odds Bodkin's rendition of the 2500-year epic on my car CD-player.<br />Homer's Odyssey depicts the 10-year wanderings of Odysseus, as he tries to go home after he and the Greeks successfully sacked the city of Troy. Bodkin's version pares down these 10-year wanderings to a 4-hour audio presentation, but many of the signature adventures are retained (Included are: the Lotus-Eaters; Polyphemus; the Lystrigonians; Circe; Scylla & Charybdis; Calypso; Princess Nausicaa; plenty of storms and waves, crashes and crushes, and a lot more).<br />What I don't like about this recording is that Bodkin has about three different voices that he uses for scores of characters; after a while, things start sounding familiar... Also, his attempts at female voices are a misfire; they all sound like Ms. Piggy with a sore throat.<br />What elevates this recording beyond puppet-show drama, I think, are three things: Bodkin's enthusiasm, the musical track, and his sense of story. The soundtrack, a combination of 12-string guitar and harp, is soothing, mystical, rejuvenating, otherworldly; it could be sold separately. And, while most of the drama is shallow, I still have to admit there are moments when I was truly moved by this story.<br />Know this -- Bodkin's version of the Odyssey is an adaptation, meaning he may skim here and embellish there, but he has full poetic license to do so, because he is adapting the work for children (and adults who love a good story), and for listening. As for the critics who bash this because it's not \\"true to the original,\\" they, I would say, are missing the point.<br />Some people just like to hear a good yarn. If you're in the mood for a funny and talented storyteller to make an ancient story sing again, check this out.nd adults who love a good story), and for listening. As for the critics who bash this because it's not \\"true to the original,\\" they, I would say, are missing the point. <br />Some people just like to hear a good yarn. If you're in the mood for a funny and talented storyteller to make an ancient story sing again, check this out.	2003-04-04
US	52757296	RC1UJA9USHQAZ	0440234654	171420156	Why Am I Up, Why Am I Down?: Understanding Bipolar Disorder (A Dell Mental Health Guide)	Books	4	30	31	N	N	Straight Answers...	Doctors, whose heads are cluttered with statistics, case studies, and theoretical jargon, often write books that are too heavy, boring, and technical for the average person to want to understand.  My sincere thanks go to the Dell Publishers, who have had the intelligence to create a series of easy-to-read guides for educating the public about mental health.<br />Having experienced Bipolar Disorder for several years now, I finally decided it was time to accept that I have this disease and to begin to understand it.  \\"Why Am I Up, Why Am I Down\\" is a fast-paced, accessible book that tells you what you need to know.<br />The main idea that runs through this book is: Bipolar Disorder is a serious illness and needs to be treated by a psychiatrist.  Having the disorder can mean a significant impairment in life functioning and, though it is not curable, it is treatable.<br />The book is written like a big brochure.  It's organized into eight chapters covering aspects of identifying and learning to live with the disease: (1) Definitions/Overview; (2) Symptoms/Diagnosis; (3) Causes; (4) How to Get Help; (5) The Role of Psychotherapy; (6) The Role of Medication; (7) Alternative Therapies; (8) Coping.  Each chapter is broken down into a friendly question-and-answer format, asking questions like, \\"What is the typical day like for someone in a hypomanic state,\\" and then answering them.<br />While there is a chapter on alternative therapies, one of the main ideas in this book is that, if you have Bipolar Disorder, you'll probably be taking medication (combined with other therapies).<br />What this book drills over and over again is that Bipolar Disorder is a serious medical condition that needs to be treated.  \\"Bipolar disorder is the leading cause of suicide in the country,\\" the book says.  ...	2003-04-03
US	52757296	RB5BJ2IPHCSSY	0812563123	27779639	The Hunchback of Notre-Dame (Tor Classics)	Books	4	20	25	N	N	A Book for the Lonely	I don't know why this is, but classic books are often bound into heavy, dark tomes and printed in the tiniest print with almost no space between the lines.  Perhaps the publisher imagines these books will not actually be read anymore, but instead are supposed to serve as fillers for the large shelves in aristocratic libraries and behind lawyers' desks.<br />Well, for those of us who still like to dust off the classics and read them, TOR's edition of the Hunchback of Notre Dame serves nicely.  It's bound in a modern style--small, with an intriguing cover, with easy-on-the-eyes print.  And, it's complete and unabridged (accept no substitutions on this point, otherwise you're depriving yourself of the grand vision of the artist).  Also, TOR's 458-page mass market paperback is only [$]--when was the last time you got so many hours of entertainment for so little?<br />The Hunchback of Notre Dame is a dark, desperate novel, filled with mist and moonlight and echoes in the lonely streets of 15th century Paris past midnight.  In the main, it tells the intersecting stories of three lonely characters, each aching in their own way.  There's Claude Frollo, archdeacon of Josas, who's spent his whole life cloistered in the tight garb of Catholicism.  There's La Esmeralda, an enchantingly beautiful gypsy who's searching for her long lost mother.  And, of course, there's Quasimodo, the malformed, hunchbacked figure haunting the shadows of the Cathedral of Notre Dame.<br />Hugo knows how to tell a story--there is plenty of irony, a few good surprises, and some excellent characterization.  He paints the dark places of humanity: people struggling to survive, to find hope in the midst of horror, each clinging in some way to a dream that can never be realized.<br />One drawback of the book is its pacing, which, at times, slows to a crawl.  For example, there is a long chapter on the layout of Paris in the 15th Century, which, if you're not a city planner or fastidious historian, can get pretty long and boring.  Even Hugo seems to know it becomes boring, because he recaps so often.  Also, Hugo often breaks the fourth wall and directly addresses the reader, which can be distracting and anti-dramatic at times.  Thirdly, I would have liked to spend some more time with that loveable wretch, Quasimodo.  He has a big part in the end, but not much more.  But don't let these minor annoyances stop you from reading a great story.<br />If you have patience, The Hunchback of Notre Dame will rebuild the gothic Notre Dame of stone in words; if you have imagination, it will acquaint you with the adventures of some extraordinary characters; and if you have a heart, you will shed a tear for Claude Frollo, La Esmeralda, and Quasimodo.get pretty long and boring.  Even Hugo seems to know it becomes boring, because he recaps so often.  Also, Hugo often breaks the fourth wall and directly addresses the reader, which can be distracting and anti-dramatic at times.  Thirdly, I would have liked to spend some more time with that loveable wretch, Quasimodo.  He has a big part in the end, but not much more.  But don't let these minor annoyances stop you from reading a great story.<br />If you have patience, The Hunchback of Notre Dame will rebuild the gothic Notre Dame of stone in words; if you have imagination, it will acquaint you with the adventures of some extraordinary characters; and if you have a heart, you will shed a tear for Claude Frollo, La Esmeralda, and Quasimodo.	2003-04-02
US	52757296	R30T679SZ73J2L	080501246X	51063647	The Glass Bead Game: (Magister Ludi) A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Awaken in this World of Crystal Thought	With biblical simplicity, Hesse tracks the awakening of an intelligent man constrained by society.  The book pits yin against yang: reason against passion; social responsibility against individual needs; abstract against  concrete; past against future.  Hesse's hero lives an inspiring life and  dies a fitting death.  Poems and three short stories add to the beauty and  wisdom of the work.  This book will change your life and as Joseph Knecht  awakens, so will you.	1999-03-25
