US	52754824	RWLWSAQTMJH81	0465054803	818578640	A Mathematician Plays The Stock Market	Books	2	8	9	N	N	Off Base	I read both Innumeracy and Beyond Numeracy, the books for which John Allen Paulos is best known.  Beyond Numeracy was presented as sort of a sequal to the first book, but they actually were quite different.  Innumeracy, a polemic on our society?s butchery of numerical concepts, was a book with a theme.  Beyond Numeracy was simply a collection of essays on mathematical topics.  <br />Paulos has returned to bigger concepts with A Mathematician Plays the Stock Market.  Here he dissects financial markets, along with the pundits and stock tips which have blurred the line between analysis and entertainment (...P>The author?s stated motivation for writing this book was to examine the losses he suffered from investing in WorldCom, the once high flying internet services company which in 2002 filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history.  Paulos doesn?t wallow in the details of his disastrous flirtation with day-trading, but it appears that as the stock tanked he continued to purchase more and more shares, and eventually lost all of the money that he invested.  <br />Paulos? examples and puzzles are clever and amusing, but unfortunately few of them yield real insight into the workings of financial markets.  He aims to examine the conceptual mathematics of the markets to examine qualities such as efficiency and randomness, but most of the vignettes that he presents miss the point.  The fact that a mathematical mind like Paulos can get caught in this wave of irrational hysteria shows us that there is a lot more to financial markets than cool-headed logic.  <br />In most cases Paulos? examples are entertaining but simplistic, but unfortunately they occasionally veer into the territory of being incorrect and downright dangerous.  The most egregious example that pops to mind is his treatment of insider trading.  He treats this phenomenon is being largely harmless, arguing that in a market in which an investor may be either long or short shares he or she is equally likely to profitor lose through an insider?s manipulation.  Insider trading, in Paulos? eyes, is simply one of many variables which move the market.  <br />This examination misses the point entirely.   Publicly traded companies are run by professional managers who have the specific mandate of maximizing value for the shareholder (individual investors, pension funds, etc.)  CEO?s and CFO?s who take profit from manipulations of the stock price are violating the trust that is placed in them, and are destroying value for the shareholder and society at large.  It?s not just through moral indignation that we want to see these guys in handcuffs; it?s because a free market economy cannot prosper when the CEO?s to which we entrust our corporations are running them as short term investments designed to fill their bank accounts.  <br />There is a real danger in trying to write a book about an area in which you?re not an expert.  What?s next, Paulos on International Affairs?	2004-04-08
US	52754824	R3ECAL4V1TZ458	0060080841	868613530	The Stepford Wives	Books	2	6	15	N	N	Entertaining, but bad	The fact that the term \\"Stepford Wife\\" has somehow made it into our collective cultural vocabulary intrigued me enough to pick up this slim novel and give it a try.  <br />I tried to look through the clumsy, artless prose and the dated references and give the book credit for some sort of quirky satire, but to no avail.  Reading the Stepford Wives emphasizes to the reader that creating truly timeless fiction requires an author with subtlety and depth, qualities which Levin sorely lacks.  <br />Perhaps in 1972 the book's plot represented some sort of progressive social commentary, with its daring rejection of the woman's role as stay-at-home housefrau and the brave female protagonist's who is interested in creative photography (she can even use a tripod!) and who befriends a Black person.  An interesting but unintended revelation from the Stepford Wives is how far the women's liberation movement has actually come since this novel was published.  Yesterday's shocking denouncements are today's norm.  <br />That said, however, I have to admit that I did actually read the entire book (not a serious investment; it's short).  There's something entertaining about bad faction from the early seventies, but if you're in public you might be tempted to conceal the book's cover with a newspaper so no one knows what you're reading.	2004-03-30
US	52754824	RVVLQG69Z872Q	0805073205	885405767	Oracle Night: A Novel (Auster, Paul)	Books	2	7	13	N	N	Disappointing	A novelist with writer's block (Auster) writing a novel about a novelist with writer's block (Orr) struggling to write a story about a man who walks away from his life (Nick).  If you think this is a clever premise, you won't once you've read Oracle Nights.  Auster hooks the reader with a compelling start, but that only heightens the disappointment once you realize that you're on a rollercoaster to nowhere.  <br />Auster is now on auto-pilot; there's nothing in this novel that he hasn't done more effectively in other works.  Marco Fogg walks away from his life in Moon Palace, as Nick does in this book.  Ed Victory's compulsive and seemingly senseless cataloguing of phone books mirrors Flower and Stone's wall in Music of Chance.  Stories within stories and New York vistas feature prominently as always.  This novel reads like assorted threads of Auster-isms randomly assembled, some of which are pulled together in a flat, unsatisfying conclusion and some of which are left dangling.  Not recommended.	2004-01-14
US	52754824	R3STDNQTLRW6LF	0312422156	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Excellent	In this modern Greek tragedy Cal Stephanides must contend with the sins of not one but two generations of fathers.   Fleeing the Turks in the 1920's, Cal's grandparents and parents make their way from provincial Greece to suburban Detroit, and through their choices inadvertently pass to Cal an errant gene which results in his being born a hermaphrodite.  <br />A coming-of-age story which opens with a European massacre and concludes with a teenage hermaphrodite coming to grips with his sexuality is one of the more ambitious plotlines that you're likely to read, but Eugenides pulls it off with grace.  Middlesex is never lurid, often funny, and always engrossing.  Cal is an excellent protagonist, probably one of the most fully developed and believable characters that I have recently encountered in contemporary fiction.  The fact that Eugenides creates so much empathy for such a unique character is this novel's biggest accomplishment.  <br />Middlesex is more than just a character study, however.  The event filled story moves quickly, and the plot twists are outlandish enough to be consistently surprising but never require the reader to suspend disbelief.  Along the way I got a new perspective on the Greek American community, prohibition bootlegging, industrial Detroit, medical ethics, and a host of other issues which Egenides seamlessly blends into the novel.   <br />Middlesex is the best novel that I read in 2003.  Highly recommended.	2003-12-31
US	52754824	R10TJKN6AS00GV	0375700706	445103025	An American Dream	Books	2	7	11	N	N	Doesn't quite work	An American Dream is occasionally compelling, but it ultimately proves to be a messy train-wreck of a novel.   Mailer heaps lurid details on top of a convoluted plot and an eccentric cast of characters who cross paths in unlikely ways, but the threads of the story never manage to pull together.  <br />Stephen Rojack is an ex-politician, war hero, and public intellectual who murders his wife, and who in the aftermath goes on a bizarre rollercoaster through the gutters of Manhattan, a journey which leads him to some surprising revelations.   <br />In reading An American Dream I often felt that the novel was a sort of experiment in Mailer's eyes; several elements appear that he would revisit in other novels.  He again looks through the eyes of a killer in Executioner's Song, and he writes about spies, gangsters, and JFK again in the Harlot's Ghost, his excellent epic fictionalized story of the CIA.  <br />There are a couple of sterling moments in which Mailer's skill as a writer shines.  In the first, Rojack, the protagonist, recounts an experience rushing a German machine gun nest.  Mailer does a perfect job of painting the out-of-body otherworldliness of the moment.  The second occurs when Rojack approaches a woman in a bar and ends up in a tense standoff with the gangsters who are accompanying her.   Both instances are excellently drawn sketches of violence, one carried out through action, the other threatened but unrealized.  <br />A few strong passages notwithstanding, this is an unfocused under-edited novel full of opaque philosophizing and flat characters.  An interesting experiment, but it doesn't quite work.	2003-12-17
US	52754824	R1KQYY3A31RD59	0060935936	770654209	Losing the Race: Self-Sabotage in Black America	Books	3	36	41	N	N	Insightful.  Flawed.	McWhorter maintains that the African American community has internalized a culture of victimology, separatism, and anti-intellectualism.  McWhorter acknowledges the history of racism in America and the fact that racism continues to linger.  However, he argues that it is the culture of the African American community, not racism, which is the prime factor which currently stagnates the progress of African Americans.  <br />McWhorter's argument is fairly consistent with the one which Shelby Steele presents in a Dream Deferred, except that whereas Steele emphasized the disingenuous motives of White liberals in promoting a philosophy of Black people as victims McWhorter emphasizes the Black community's willingness to accept this label.  Losing the Race is, in my opinion, a superior work to a Dream Deferred, but lacks much of the statistical rigor of Thomas Sowell's writing on race and culture.  <br />Losing The Race is not a research project.  McWhoter sites enough factual data and statistics to give the book an objective foundation, but he relies on his own observations to reach his conclusions.  A frequent criticism of this book has been that it relies too heavily on anecdotal evidence.  In my opinion this is an unfair criticism; what McWhorter does is reinforce the statistics that he sites with real-world examples that he's experienced as a Black man growing up in America.  In many ways this is what makes the book an engaging read.  <br />There will be readers who, like myself, have noticed some of the cultural attributes that McWhorter discusses in the book.  I'm a 35 year old African American male, and many times while reading this book I felt that McWhorter was on to something.  Unfortunately, I was also all too frequently mindful of the McWhorter obnoxious tone, which at times made me suspicious of the observations which he chooses to report.  The book's primary failure, therefore, is that it is unlikely to convince anyone who has not already independently reachedthe same conclusion which the McWhorter presents.  I agree with much of what McWhorter says, but that generally is how I felt before I first picked up the book.  <br />In the end, McWhorter appears to be more interested in demonstrating that he's right (and that liberal conventional wisdom is wrong) than he is in presenting a convincing argument that will change the opinion of a skeptical reader.  And that's too bad; McWhorter has some good ideas that expressed by a more subtle author might have changed some minds and opened some eyes.  As it is, this book's main accomplishment will be to further reinforce the \\"Black conservative\\" label which McWhorter claims to dislike.	2003-12-15
US	52754824	RRUOQQK3DH9M	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	2	58	66	N	N	Sappy	Upon reading the cover blurb and the glowing reviews I was looking forward to enjoying Bel Canto. I am both a music lover and an enthusiast of Latin American culture, having spent the past three years living in Bogota Colombia. <br />Fifty men and one woman are taken hostage in an unnamed country (a thinly disguised Peru, with elements of Colombia and Guatemala thrown in). The lone woman, Roxanne Coss, is the world's most famous opera diva. The men are rich and powerful Westerners: diplomats, barons of industry, politicians...and through some bizarre quirk of fate they all happen to be rabid opera fans. The captors are made up of fifteen armed-to-the-teeth teenagers led by three veteran guerrilla warriors. <br />The hostage situation (an early death, a pistol whipping) quickly devolves into some sort of egalitarian fantasia. A Japanese business executive reveals himself to be a classically trained soloist; he and Miss Coss fill the house with beautiful music. The country's vice president rolls his sleeves up and waxes the floors. A guerrilla leader plays chess with the hostages. The French diplomat doubles as a gourmet chef, and puts the knife wielding terrorists to work chopping vegetables. Even these young gun wielding teenage boys discover all sorts of latent talents: one becomes a chess master after watching a few games, and another reveals himself as the next opera great, reeling off arias in perfect Italian. <br />Even though her subject is a hostage situation, Anne Patchett has managed to write a novel without an ounce of tension. The situation's sorry end is so heavily foreshadowed that the conclusion creates no sense of surprise. It is almost as if Patchett willfully disregarded all of the elements that might have made Bel Canto a gripping read. The hostages are powerful men from societies as diverse as Russia, Japan, and Italy, but the sole cultural clash in the entire novel arises from a Latino hostage asking Miss Coss to help with the cooking (she politely explains that she does not know how to cook.) Even the obvious racial and class conflict is utterly avoided. By the novel's end rich hostages and poor terrorists are playing soccer in the garden and making plans for the future. <br />Bel Canto was a disappointment, especially given the accolades that have been heaped upon it. Patchett can write, and the novel's opening passages are smooth and captivating, but the reader is soon pulled into a syrupy soap opera full of unrealistic situations and unbelievable characters. Patchett appeared to have attempted a quirky love fable, but Bel Canto ends up as a soupy mess in which teenage guerrillas and wealthy western barons of industry all find their common humanity. I found myself waiting for Roxanne Coss to burst into an a capella version of We Are the World.<br />Not recommended.	2003-09-05
US	52754824	R15C4Q114RDRYR	0679742115	826671409	Vox	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A light, guilty pleasure	Nicholson Baker deserved credit for trying something a bit new in his freshman outing, The Mezzanine.  Everyday objects and events may appear mundane, but that is simply because we don't look at them with enough attention and imagination.  <br />This time around he applies the same formula to sex.  Actually, he applies it to the idea/concept of sex; the book is a transcript of a telephone conversation between Jim and Abby, and the two characters never meet.  Vox is an interesting an amusing read, entertaining in a voyeuristic sort of way, and occasionally insightful.  This isn't a novel in the conventional sense; it by design lacks elements such as plot and significant character development.  Vox is more of an experiment in writing.<br />Largely, it's an experiment that works.  The narrative has a believable rhythm that allows the reader to eavesdrop on this couple as they fantasize and tell stories.  The book's sexual imagery is tame enough that it shouldn't scandalize many readers.  Its eroticism arises mainly from watching these two strangers take risks by making themselves vulnerable to each other.<br />The book's primary flaw is that Baker doesn't do a particularly convincing job of creating new characters.  Both Jim and Abby are largely indistinguishable from the narrator of the Mezzanine; both of them are Nicholson Baker clones.  They're so similar that, at any point in time, it is fairly easy to lose track of who is speaking.  No wonder they hit it off so well.  <br />Vox is a fun, forgettable book that should appeal to the voyeur in most readers.  A quick read.	2003-07-07
US	52754824	RQ0BHF6PMSL6I	015100692X	990216712	The Crimson Petal and the White	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Detailed, flowing period piece	Michael Faber's well researched The Crimson Petal and the White turns the Victorian romance novel on its head.  His unflinching, detail oriented writing pulls 19th Century England out of realm of soft-focus sentimentality and shines a harsh light on the hard life of the novel's hero, of a class-hopping prostitute named Sugar.  <br />Faber's unique narrative style pulls the reader breezily through the first part of the novel; the action hops from character to characters as they cross paths in an intricate weave that comes together elegantly as the story unfolds.  <br />This is a period piece, and Faber does a good job of looking at the era from various angles.  He captures the flirtatious sexuality of the prostitutes in their elaborate dresses gossiping in Trafalgar Square while licking sugary cakes out of paper cones, then moves seamlessly into the damp confines of their boardinghouse rooms.  These scenes are seedy and flatly lit, a world of chamber pots, barbaric contraception, and boorish, dangerous clients.  Faber avoids wallowing in the lurid, but the novel harbors no illusions that the story of a prostitute can be written without some ugliness, some of it quite grim.  <br />Faber spent twenty years writing The Crimson Petal and the White.  Faber's meticulous attention to detail creates a sense of authority and authenticity; the downside to this is that the novel at times feels more like a laboriously crafted project than an inspired work of literature.  The characters are bright, interesting, and well drawn, but as the narrative unfolded I got the feeling that Faber couldn't quite figure out what to do with some of his creations (an excellent example being Henry Rackham, a complex and compelling character whom Faber takes out of the action before he gets the chance to do anything interesting.)<br />In my opinion the novel's most significant flaw dealt with the development of the main character, Sugar.  She's likeable, believable, and sympathetic, and I was pulled through the novel's 850 pages out of genuine interest in what was going to happen next in her adventure.  Looking back, however, I realize that I knew little more about her at the novel's conclusion than I knew when her character was first introduced.  We learn nothing of why this unique woman, forced into prostitution at the age of 13, has developed such a remarkable intellect.  What is the root of her sophisticated appreciation of literature?  Why is she able to absorb and master the concepts of economics and business negotiation merely by flipping through some accounting ledgers?  These things are never explained; we're just expected to accept them.    We learn a little about what makes Sugar tick through her increasingly codependent relationship with William, and she displays the potential to love through her interaction with Sophie, but at the core she remains a mystery.  <br />These points notwithstanding, the sense of timing in the novel's main narrative thread is perfect.  This is an expansive, entertaining, intelligent novel that largely succeeds in its ambitions.	2003-07-03
US	52754824	R1NJ3Z6AL71QGX	0553348973	579811820	Still Life with Woodpecker	Books	2	18	29	N	N	Thin stuff...	It would appear that Robbins set out to create an instant cult classic when he released Still Life with Woodpecker.  Thumbing through some of the customer reviews on this page it would appear that he's had some degree of success in achieving this goal, and when I bought the book the red-headed girl at the cash register positively beamed when she saw me carrying it to the counter (proclaiming it the *best* novel ever!)  <br />Woodpecker does have its funny moments, and Robbins manages to make a few insightful observations (one that pops to mind is his discussion on the ideas of visionaries being reduced to dogma when embraced by unimaginative zealots).  Unfortunately, Robbins buries these nuggets of insight in so much drivel that you have to sort through a lot of nonsense in order to get to them.  <br />As literature Woodpecker is a very thin offering.  The characters are one-dimensional outlines that speak and think in clever but unrealistic riddles.  A list of the novel's characters reads like a casting call of a bad B-movie: the naïve idealistic red headed princess; the brooding, narcissistic terrorist (also idealistic and red headed); the cuckolded rich Arab; the exiled King and Queen and their wacky servant; the bumbling CIA agent...  <br />It seems that Robbins' goal was to weave these characters into an irreverent, quirky fable.  Unfortunately what emerges are a bunch of hollow caricatures that are never given anything interesting to say or do.  Robbins flirts with a number of themes that might have been interesting: creating a lasting love, societal pressure to conform, responsibility to self vs. responsibility to others.  He raises these themes by inserting them sporadically into the characters' various diatribes and hair brained conspiracy theories, but unfortunately fails to develop them into any sort of idea or concept.  He, for instance, goes on ad infinitum about \\"making love stay\\" but says nothing interesting on the subject and reaches no conclusion.<br />As a novel, Woodpecker is all sizzle and no steak.  Readers who manage to look beyond the flash and complexity will realize that there is nothing here but a bunch of dreamy confusion.  Robbins' clever wordplay caught my attention through the first 50 pages or so, but in the end it makes for a pretty hollow diet once you realize there's no substance underlying.  <br />Yes, it is possible to write a funny novel which also has both weight and intelligence.  Try Tristan Egolf's Lord of the Barnyard, Paul Beatty's Tuff, John Kennedy Toole's Confederacy of Dunces, or Joseph Heller's Catch 22.	2003-03-25
US	52754824	R3GT4Y2PAHTK8E	0375413634	70225414	The Emperor of Ocean Park	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Intelligent, entertaining	I haven't read any of Stephen Carter's non-fiction work, but having just finished Carter's debut novel I feel as though I have.  His opinions on everything from affirmative action to religion are tightly woven into the story, elegantly articulated in the thoughts, actions, and words of the characters that populate the Emperor of Ocean Park.  Just as telling, the opposing viewpoint is voiced by characters who at best are portrayed as out of touch ivory tower academics (in one scene such a character waxes poetic at a dinner party about a theory on the unconstitutionality of marriage and is so hypnotized by the sound of his own voice that he is blind to the blank stares with which his argument is greeted.)  And that's nothing; wait till you get to the conclusion.  <br />The story follows Talcott Garland, a law professor at an elite university that bears an uncanny resemblance to Yale, and whose father is a disgraced former Supreme Court justice who bears an uncanny resemblance to Clarence Thomas.  Mysterious things start happening once the old man dies, and Garland is hot on the trail, while simultaneously trying to salvage his marriage and prevent his academic career from derailing.<br />Ocean Park is a thoughtful and entertaining page-turner.  Carter sketches the characters and scenes with confident authority, and it's clear that he's writing about a world with which he is intimately familiar.  There's much more than a mystery here, and though he wraps the story in a fast-moving fictional plotline Carter often turns his attention to the weighty societal issues of our time; race, politics, money, family, love and community.  <br />At one point in the book Garland rails against being described as \\"clever\\" by another academic, this term being something less than \\"intelligent\\" and inferring some sort of animal cunning rather than true mental capacity.  This very well may be a sentiment that Carter has himself felt in his academic career, and it is clear why this would raise his ire; Ocean Park is a book which is dripping with intelligence.  The irony here is that a bit more cleverness might have been just what the novel needed.  Carter has the intellectual firepower to construct a complex and coherent imaginary world, but what is lacking is the literary instinct that would have allowed him to edit this 670 page tome into a tighter, more elegant novel.	2003-02-17
US	52754824	R3I8GQF9OZG6AM	0375413634	70225414	The Emperor of Ocean Park	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Intelligent, entertaining	I haven't read any of Stephen Carter's non-fiction work, but having just finished Carter's debut novel I feel as though I have. His opinions on everything from affirmative action to religion are tightly woven into the story, elegantly articulated in the thoughts, actions, and words of the characters that populate the Emperor of Ocean Park. Just as telling, the opposing viewpoint is voiced by characters who at best are portrayed as out of touch ivory tower academics (in one scene such a character waxes poetic at a dinner party about a theory on the unconstitutionality of marriage and is so hypnotized by the sound of his own voice that he is blind to the blank stares with which his argument is greeted.) And that's nothing; wait till you get to the conclusion. <br />The story follows Talcott Garland, a law professor at an elite university that bears an uncanny resemblance to Yale, and whose father is a disgraced former Supreme Court justice who bears an uncanny resemblance to Clarence Thomas. Mysterious things start happening once the old man dies, and Garland is hot on the trail, while simultaneously trying to salvage his marriage and prevent his academic career from derailing.<br />Ocean Park is a thoughtful and entertaining page-turner. Carter sketches the characters and scenes with confident authority, and it's clear that he's writing about a world with which he is intimately familiar. There's much more than a mystery here, and though he wraps the story in a fast-moving fictional plotline Carter often turns his attention to the weighty societal issues of our time; race, politics, money, family, love and community. <br />At one point in the book Garland rails against being described as 'clever' by another academic, this term being something less than 'intelligent' and inferring some sort of animal cunning rather than true mental capacity. This very well may be a sentiment that Carter has himself felt in his academic career, and it is clear why this would raise his ire; Ocean Park is a book which is dripping with intelligence. The irony here is that a bit more cleverness might have been just what the novel needed. Carter has the intellectual firepower to construct a complex and coherent imaginary world, but what is lacking is the literary instinct that would have allowed him to edit this 670 page tome into a tighter, more elegant novel.	2003-02-17
US	52754824	R2GRQWFJMLXMAQ	0345449347	990748107	The Fourth Hand	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Flat	Visitation rights for a hand?  I soldiered on through this book hoping that it would get better, but to no avail.  <br />Irving is a good storyteller, and there are several entertaining passages in Fourth Hand.  Unfortunately, this time around Irving doesnt manage to bring the quirky elements and offbeat characters together into a coherent novel as he had succeeded in doing in previous efforts (Garp and Owen Meany jump to mind).  I read almost the whole novel on one long round-trip flight; had I not been a captive audience strapped into my seat at  30,000 feet I would have aborted the effort and selected something else form the bookcase.   Ill give the book two stars for a couple of funny scenes, but overall not recommended.	2002-12-07
US	52754824	R2KQBEFCPD54PO	0805054081	156310833	The Book of Illusions: A Novel	Books	5	9	14	N	N	Excellent	Fresh from churning out a couple of misfires (editing a collection of NPR listeners stories, and writing a novel narrated from a dog's point of view) Paul Auster is back in form with Book of Illusions, a work which combines the best of his talent for storytelling with his ability to elegantly weave complex plot elements which hop effortless back and forth in time. <br />The story-within-a-story is a familiar characteristic of Auster's novels (an excellent example is Thomas Effing's tale in Auster's excellent novel Moon Palace); to his credit he manages to employ this device without allowing it to become clichéd.  In Illusions, Auster spins a new variation on the theme by creating a silent picture era movie star whose story is uncovered by the novel's protagonist David Zimmer, a Vermont intellectual who is trying to recover from a devastating personal tragedy.  <br />Hector Mann is an enigmatic Latin American immigrant who made a small splash in the 1920's by producing a series of clever two-reel silent comedies and then disappeared without a trace.  The character which Mann played was sort of a white-suited haberdasher Charlie Chaplin with a dash of Don Juan, an unlikely mix and all the more compelling because of the way that Auster manages to bring him to life by describing the thin plots of his comedies.  Perhaps not surprisingly, a Hector Mann two-reel comedy much like a typical Paul Auster novel writ small: a simple story becomes complicated as elements are introduced one by one and the charismatic protagonist is left to fend for himself.  <br />An example is The Teller's Tale, in which Mann is trying to count a stack of money, deal with some workmen, keep his suit clean, and all while attempting to flirt with a pretty secretary.  Auster writes \\"At first, it looked as though nothing could distract Hector from completing his task in record time.  Then, ever so gradually, little streams of sawdust began to fall on his jacket, and not so many seconds after that, he finally caught sight of the girl.  One element had suddenly become three elements, and from that point on the action bounced among them in a triangular rhythm of work, vanity, and lust: the struggle to go on counting the money, the effort to protect his beloved suit, and the urge to make eye contact with the girl.\\"<br />Auster has a fine appreciation for the artistry of film, and the Mann character shows his reverence for elegant mix of conflict, timing, and slapstick that went into the golden age of silent pictures.  This, however, is just the inner circle of a nested series of stories.  From the black and white comedies we zoom out to Mann the actor and the story of his flight from Hollywood.  This story itself is nested within a story which occurs decades later as Zimmer sets out on the trail to uncover Mann's disappearance.  <br />Book of Illusions compares the best of Auster's novels (New York Trilogy, Leviathon, Moon Palace).  Auster somehow manages to create compelling three-dimensional characters and put them into fantastic situations in a believable and elegant way.  Highly recommended.	2002-11-29
US	52754824	R2KGRGKTAYG7F4	0792264983	957149510	National Geographic Photography Field Guides: Landscapes	Books	2	52	52	N	N	Buy the original	National Geographic's original Field Guide was a big hit for a wide audience of photography aficionados.  There was plenty for beginners, such as advice on equipment selection, basic subjects such as the relationship between shutter speed and aperture, and film selection.  More advanced readers could benefit from the excellent essays contributed by Geographic's veteran staff photographers.  <br />Unfortunately, Geographic appears to be trying to turn the formula into a franchise.  In this most recent volume, Landscapes the focus is on, well, landscapes.  The problem is that there is very little in this book that wasn't effectively covered in the first one.  Yeah, use a tripod.  Yeah, don't let snowy scenes fool your lightmeter.  And no, the art of photography does not become clearer if you repeat the same points over and over for 150 pages. <br />If you don't have the original Field Guide then get it; I found it to be both informative and inspirational.  If you already have it then don't buy Landscapes; it doesn't add any meaningful new material.  Not recommended.	2002-10-07
US	52754824	R116VPFAXG4RTS	0679463348	952782573	Step Across This Line: Collected Nonfiction 1992-2002	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Excellent Anthology	Rushdie manages pour his considerable intellectual firepower into every line that he writes; his work is so full of veiled references, wordplay, puns, and double entendres that almost any passage can be read and re-read and still produce some sort of new meaning each time.  These gymnastics never fail to impress, but ironically they don't create the optimal framework upon which to construct a coherent novel.  Literary flash abounds, but in my opinion Rushdie often moves important elements (like, say, character development?) to the back burner.<br />However, all of the features of Rushdie's style that I occasionally consider to be ill-suited to long fiction I find to work perfectly in this collected anthology of short nonfiction.  A little focus is a wonderful thing, and in Step Across This Line Rushdie dissects thoughts and attitudes in the real world with laser-like lucidity and precision.  <br />These essays and columns range in subject matter from Arthur Miller to the rock band U2 to his struggle with the infamous Iranian fatwa.  Both the weighty (example: a reevaluation of Ghandi's legacy) and the trivial (example: the relevance of the aging Rolling Stones in the world of rock music) are examined with wit and depth - and even the trivial themes are used to shine a light on not-so-trivial aspects of our modern society.  <br />Most importantly, I left each essay with a new opinion and point of view - with many of which I agreed and all of which I found in some way illuminating.  In the long essay Step Across This Line he examines the way that borders and frontiers shape the evolution of cultures.  In summary: an excellent collection of thoughtful and concise essays.  Highly recommended.	2002-10-07
US	52754824	R317VG2EK045Z1	0452282098	322992187	City of God	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A partial success	E.L. Doctorow's sprawling City of God doesn't qualify as an epic in word count (it weighs in at fewer than 300 pages) but it does fill the bill in terms of scope and breadth. This is a far more ambitious work than Doctorow's excellent novel Ragtime, for which he is best known, and admirers of the previous novel will recognize much of the same pacing and style in City of God - concurrent storylines and shifting points of view, and the appearance of the occasional historical figure (this time around look for Ludwig Wittgenstein and Albert Einstein). As a novel, however, City of God does not compare favorably; there are flashes of brilliance and some passages of true beauty, but it lacks Ragtime's coherent elegance. <br />The base plot involves an Episcopalian priest and a female rabbi who collaborate to solve an unusual crime. A troubled novelist follows their efforts, documents their deepening relationship, and contributes a wide range of his own ruminations. Various threads take us to an ongoing poetry reading, a Jewish slum during WWII, and some amusing thoughts about cinematic movie as an intelligent life form. <br />In my opinion Doctorow relies too heavily on some key speeches by the novel's main characters to deliver the weight of his message, instead of communicating this message though the flow of the plot and the action of the characters. Notably Father Pembroke's remarks to the Bishop's examiners and Rabi Blumenthal's address to the Conference of American Studies in Religion are used as mouthpieces to deliver Doctorow's message on the shifting nature of the relationship between God and man and the crises of agnosticism that are befalling these two characters, society, and presumably Doctorow himself. City of God is an impressive piece of fiction and is a thoughtful and very personal novel, but doesn't quite meet the ambitious goals that it sets out for itself.	2002-10-06
US	52754824	R3SYB88V8JFZ2D	0374129983	647099960	The Corrections	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Excellent	Sure, the dysfunctional family has been done before (see Richard Ford, Philip Roth, Russell Banks, or any number of other talented contemporary authors) - but this is like saying that the war novel has been \\"done\\"; writers will never run out of things to say about relationships within the family.  Franzen does a great job of doing just that - this is an excellently written novel, clever and perfectly paced, in which Franzen uses expertly crafted characters to sketch a wildly inventive portrait of an imploding American family. <br />The characters in The Corrections wallow in their flaws and shortcomings, make mistake after mistake, and in general are recognizable and human.  The novel essentially is a snapshot of the lives of three siblings, and the plot (insofar as there is a traditional plot) revolves around their mother's effort to get them all back to the Midwest for one last Christmas.  For a book without a traditional storyline, however, this novel covers a lot of ground.  Franzen captures the various settings with authority: from Wall Street to the smalltown Midwest to Eastern Europe on the shadow of the fall of communism.  Franzen's prose is rich, inventive, effortless, and complex - and occasionally laugh-out-loud funny.<br />The issue of Alzheimer's is not handled with sepia toned sentimentality, but instead in the harshly lit, cruel, tragically comic style that is much closer to reality.  In my opinion the passages which chronicle Alfred's decent into senility are among the most effective in the book.  This isn't a guidebook for handing Alzheimer's with dignity; it's a novel which instead sets out simply to reflect the disease's terrifying effect on the afflicted, and its impact on loved ones.  This isn't a self-help book; don't expect to be consoled.  <br />Then there is the hype.  Franzen's prickly views on the literary high road didn't originate with the flap over The Corrections getting the nod as an Oprah pick; several years ago he'd panned the booming book club phenomenon for \\"treating literature like a cruciferous vegetable that could be choked down only with a spoonful of socializing.\\"  Perhaps Franzen should stick to writing novels and leave the PR work to someone with better social skills, but a look at some of the reviews on this very website might lead one to believe that his comments weren't far off-target.  There exists the perception that the Oprah crowd has been conditioned to expect uplifting stories with easy-to-follow linear plotlines and inspiring protagonists.  I can't claim to have enough first-hand experience to verify that this is or isn't true, but it is clear that much of the criticism that is heaped on The Corrections comes from dissatisfied book club members who can't understand how such a complex and boring book ended up on the list.  <br />Yes, The Corrections is complex, but it is not boring.  Franzen has accomplished something extremely rare in contemporary fiction: he has written a novel that will be remembered as great.  Highly recommended.	2002-06-19
US	52754824	R350XANYDDY5FT	0385503954	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	5	42	47	N	N	Among McEwan's best	I´ve read most of McEwan's novels, and Atonement is among the strongest.  <br />Unlike some of McEwan's work that starts out strong and then loses momentum (Enduring Love and The Child in Time stand out as examples) Atonement grows in weight and tension as the novel unfolds.  <br />The book's long and somewhat slow opening - a homecoming at the Tallis manor in the 1935 English countryside - sets the stage for all that follows and paints a picture full of McEwan's familiar threads: class in English society, love and jealousy.  The most important theme concerns the complex and ultimately terrible nature of a child's psyche - passionate and conflicted but unsophisticated due to lack of experience and therefore dangerous if given a moment to exercise its power.  The 13 year old Briony Tallis is precocious and self absorbed, but to a degree so are all children - the tragedy in this situation is that via a series of coincidences, blunders, and misunderstandings, an opportunity is created for Briony to wield her power over the adults around her.  This is a wrong which can never be undone and destroys the lives of two of the people closest to her.  <br />This opening section, heavily detailed and expertly staged, is in my opinion among the best that McEwan has written - all of the many details contribute to the scene's conclusion and build toward the rest of the novel.  From there the book changes gears considerably; we're taken through WWII both via the battlefield in France and hospitals in London, and ultimately back to the Tallis country manor in 1999. The pacing is brisk and eventful.<br />The London section work less well than those of the other sections, and some of the hospital scenes struck me as overly melodramatic while adding little to the plot and the development of the characters.  Overall, however, Atonement is a masterful piece of storytelling.  This is a better novel than McEwan's Booker Prize winning Amsterdam which preceded it.  Excellent.  Highly recommended.	2002-06-19
US	52754824	R1SVJBLDUNRLSZ	031242051X	539004866	Strong Motion: A Novel	Books	3	34	40	N	N	Ambitious, experimental, messy	I read Strong Motion after reading Franzen´s excellent The Corrections, a much more complete novel that is superior to this one in almost every aspect.  That said, there is a lot to like in Strong Motion.<br />Louis Holland is a complex and well defined character; he's not completely likeable, but the reader ends up caring about him despite his shortcomings.  His introspectiveness perpetuates his isolation and strains his relationships with those around him - his parents, sister, and romantic interests.  The one person that he does make an effort to extend himself to rejects him so completely that he sleepwalks though the one subsequent relationship that might have had the potential to have made him happy.  <br />The plot is based on some premises that I found a bit difficult to swallow (large-scale seismic activity prompted by pumping waste into deepwater wells?), but if you can suspend your disbelief in the concept of a big evil corporation trying to cut costs and inadvertently moving around tectonic plates then the plot does a nice job in steering big business, academia, and religious fundamentalists on a collision course.  <br />The novel often feels quite experimental.  At one point we're looking at the world from the vantage point of a solitary raccoon, whose superior intelligence doesn't quite make up for the fact that he doesn't move in a pack like other night creatures - dogs and rats (the raccoon might mirror the man-in-isolation Louis Holland character).  At another point we look through the eyes of a computer program.  Emotions fly as earthquakes toss characters around.  All of this is interesting and masterfully written, but some of it ends up being fairly extraneous to the heart of the novel.  <br />This is an ambitious, structurally messy novel - but with flashes of brilliance.  I could have just as easily given it four stars.  Recommended.	2002-06-19
US	52754824	R6F3N50ADIYFE	067974472X	908754395	The Fire Next Time	Books	5	110	116	N	N	A powerful snapshot of America in the 1960's	I was born in 1968, six years after The Fire Next Time was published - I lived the period that Baldwin chronicles vicariously through my parents.  There are few essayists who equal Baldwin's gift for finding the right phrase to communicate a concept, both intellectually and emotionally.  Indeed it's the emotion that Baldwin so effectively weaves into his prose that gives The Fire Next Time its impact.  At its core, this essay is a plea.  <br />Baldwin dissects the nature of Black-White relations in the early sixties.  He rejects the both the pandering of White liberals and the separatist rhetoric of Black radicals as simplistic; the former as condescending and insincere and the latter as unrealistic and reactionary.  The conclusion that he reaches is that Blacks and Whites, whether they realize it or not, are locked in a symbiotic relationship, and destruction for one will mean destruction for both.  Put positively, however, the key to their salvations are linked.  No one is free until all are free.  <br />Baldwin focuses on two important anecdotes.  The first deals with his seduction by the church, his brief career as a child minister, and his subsequent rejection of Christianity.  The second deals with an encounter with Elijah Muhammad, then leader of the Nation of Islam.  Both show religion as an escape mechanism, and both are told with a convincing immediacy and a sense of candor.  <br />Baldwin's rejection of Christianity appears to be a crucial step in his awakening, and in his rejection of the beliefs that 60's White society expected Black people to hold.  The church for Baldwin was an escape mechanism, but having been consoled he soon fled the church, overwhelmed by its hypocrisy and abuses, both historical and current.  He concludes \\"...whoever wishes to become a truly moral human being...must first divorce himself for all of the prohibitions, crimes, and hypocrisies of the Christian church.\\"  In the end Baldwin refuses to accept Christianity's (and, by implication, White society's) definition of him as the descendent of Ham, cursed forever.  <br />Baldwin turns the same critical eye on the Nation of Islam.  He's sympathetic to the emotions and suffering that have pushed Black people into internalizing the NOI's separatist rhetoric, but he recognizes that this will not be the salvation of the Black community.  Baldwin writes \\"...the Negro has been formed by this nation, for better or for worse, and does not belong to any other - not to Africa, and certainly not to Islam.  The paradox...is that the American Negro can have no future anywhere, on any continent, as long as he is unwilling to accept his past.\\"  <br />Despite his cutting commentary on 60's White society, Baldwin in his heart is an integrationist.  His rejection of the Nation of Islam and their philosophy is his rejection of the idea of adopting the very tactics that Whites have used against Blacks; \\"Whoever debases other is debasing himself\\", he states emphatically.  Baldwin understands imitation and aggression as a tactic, but he finds awe not in an eye-for-an-eye, but in a community who's dignity has produced children of kindergarten age capable of walking through a mob to get to their schoolhouse.  <br />Not every metaphor which Baldwin uses in this essay works, and he does at time stray in his musings, but as a snapshot of the state of America in the sixties The Fire Next Time is a powerful piece of writing.  As I read this book there were passages with which I identified personally; sentiments that I myself have felt but could never have articulated so effectively.  There were other passages in which I was an outsider looking in.  As a Black American reading this essay some forty years after it was published, this gives me a good yardstick as to how far America has come, and in what areas we are still lacking.	2002-02-26
US	52754824	R1PZ364Q9YXN4Q	0679744711	216030075	Another Country	Books	3	42	51	N	N	passionate, gripping, muddled	In my opinion the first third of the novel contains some of the best writing in contemporary American literature: urgent, and gripping. This is the story of Rufus, a Black jazz musician living in New York City. Once this tightly written character makes his exit, however, the novel loses its momentum.<br />Baldwin does not create a gradual buildup of tension and emotion. Instead he leaps almost immediately into a bellowing peak and stays there all the way through the conclusion, an ungraceful pace that brings to mind a recording by Celine Dion or Michael Bolton. This is a novel that could easily have descended into kitschy melodrama, and it's a tribute to Baldwin's talent as a writer that he somehow weaves enough subtlety and complexity into the characters and events to maintain some sort of balance. <br />Some themes are reoccurring: knowing and seeing vs. willful blindness, friendship vs. betrayal, art as a profession vs. art for its own sake, and the impassable chasm of the racial divide. Other themes are less clear, especially when it comes to love. All of the characters in Another Country burn bright, and they love in a way that is all-consuming. No one writes love and sex like James Baldwin, and these scenes make an impact. The contradiction comes in the casual disregard for fidelity that these same characters show. Is Baldwin making the point that love, when so passionately felt, is an overwhelming burden that chases the lovers into other arms? Is it that we as humans are afraid of happiness and that we seek to destroy situations in which we truly would be happy? Is it that love is a weak bond next to the relentless persecution of the outer world? Looking at the characters and their actions, none of these explanations seem to stick; the reader simply ends up feeling jerked around, in that the emotions and passions narrated in the thoughts of the characters are so very often directly contradicted by the same character's actions in the very next scene. <br />Theone theme that seems to clearly emerge is one of victimization. Baldwin paints a world in which no one is responsible for their own actions, and all of the characters see themselves headed towards their destruction. The characters feel helpless to steer their own fates, even to control their own violent and destructive actions (towards themselves and others). This isn't just a self-fulfilling prophecy - they don't destroy themselves simply because they believe themselves destined to fail; Baldwin actually seems to create a world in which no one can win. This conclusion struck me not only as bleak, but as a bit wrong-headed. <br />Another Country has a five star opening and a three star follow-up. There are passages of brilliance throughout the book, but I finished this wishing that Rufus's story had been told as a novella or a short story, and that the exploits of the other characters in the last two thirds of the book were left to the imagination of the reader.	2002-02-13
US	52754824	R1QDODGN080ELZ	0671510053	357229344	The Shipping News	Books	3	4	5	N	N	An acquired taste	I picked up the Shipping News after a recent trip to Canada, where I listened to some Newfoundlanders debating as to whether or not the novel captures the spirit of the life and people there.  <br />Proulx's writing style has a strange rhythm to it, which takes some getting used to.  Once I got accustomed to the strange sentence fragments and occasional run-on I had an easy time getting into the mood of the novel.  This is not a plot-driven story, nor is it filled with eventful scenes or dynamic characters.  However, in my opinion this quiet-ness is an appealing quality; Proulx does a good job in fleshing out characters that, despite their ordinariness, I found to be compelling.  <br />One character that Proulx does seem to have a bit of fun with is Petal, the protagonist's wife whose unexpected death sets him off on his adventure.  She's neither the deepest nor the best developed character in the novel, but Petal does make a good villain and the reader cheers her demise. <br />That said, the book's pacing is slow.  It hooks you just enough to keep you turning the pages, wondering where all of this will lead.  In the end this works because Proulx takes some risks with then conclusion.  If the plot's quiet uneventfulness had simply coasted through the final pages I would have been frustrated with the Shipping News, but in the end Proulx saves the novel.  <br />Not everything works.  Near the end there is a clumsy bit of foreshadowing (a dream which predictably turns to reality) and at times Proulx's poetic style can be distracting.  I haven't read other work by her, but one supposes that her style might be more suitable for poetry or short stories.  Shipping News is not a must-read, in my opinion, but I found it to be interesting and, at times, compelling.  And like most poetry - either you'll like it or you won't; depends on your taste.	2002-02-07
US	52754824	R375JDTLBHVYXU	0060938382	244301179	Rope Burns	Books	4	35	37	N	N	On-target	The prose in Rope Burns is so accurate, so precise and so \\"right\\" that it's difficult to believe that this collection of shot stories is Toole's debut.  What is clear, however, is that Toole is writing about a subject that he knows intimately and about which he has a real passion.  As a former amateur-level boxer I recognized the characters and scenes in this book as realistic and insightful.  <br />Toole gets it right.  He slips effortly from ghetto dialect to Irish brogue to South California Spanglish, and perfectly captures the sights, sounds and smells of the gym.  The stories here are all anchored in the ring, but vary somewhat in scope.  There are dramatic elements of tragedy, death, gunfights - but in my opinion the most effective of the stories is \\"Fightin in Philly\\", in which Toole focuses the action entirely in the ring.  <br />As an author Toole has a fighter's timing.  His to-the-point delivery and almost complete lack of foreshadowing will take many reader's off-guard; these stories take tragic twists on a dime.  Like a good fighter Toole keeps the reader off-balance.  He's less effective when the storylines stray into social issues, and I found his handling of the Rodney King riots as a backdrop to one of the stories to be a bit ham-fisted, but when he sticks to what he knows these stories couldn't be better.  <br />This is a great collections for boxing aficionados and for those who have no interest in the sport.  Toole captures the \\"sweet science\\" as being far more than a contest of force.  He does this through his ability to quickly and effectively develop the characters who compete in the ring, and those who shape them into fighters.  Interestingly, he at one point quotes the Spanish existentialist philosopher Miguel de Unamuno, saying:<br />\\"To make a point about believing in God with one's whole being, Unamuno described fighters as being capable of throwing punches with such economy of effort that they are able to focus the force they unleash andthereby knock out their opponent by suing only those muscles necessary...that a blow delivered by a nonprofessional may not have as much effect on an opponent...but that it would have more effect on the nonpro who threw the punch, since it caused him to bring into play almost his entire body and energy....Unanumo's point was that one blow was that of a professional, the other of a man of flesh and bone - and that when a man of flesh and bone believed, he did so with his whole being.\\"<BR> <BR>So Toole, a first time author in his sixties, takes us from the details of being a ringside cutman to Spanish existentialist philosophy in one short volume of short stories.  And it all works - this guy can write!  Highly recommended.	2002-01-13
US	52754824	R35NQZE9BPJ1T	0060929871	949556910	Brave New World	Books	4	32	34	N	N	Still Relevant	It's useful to keep in mind that Brave New World was first published in 1932.  This is not the most subtle novel that you'll have read, nor the most lyrical, but in my opinion much of what makes this novel a classic is it's originality.  Orwell's 1984, to which Brave New World is often compared, was more than fifteen years from being published,.  This was before Ray Bradbury, Phillip Dick, or Isaac Asimov.  Some of these comparisons are more relevant than others, but the point is that the genre of futurism and science fiction had not yet been born.<br />Brave New World can be read as a critique of the direction in which our civilization is headed, but on another level it can be interpreted as a critique of where we already are.<br />During the tour of the Central London Hatchery and Conditioning Centre, the scene which opens the book, the Director Mr. Foster states that the secret of happiness and virtue is \\"liking what you've got to do...making people like their un-escapable social destiny.\\"  Those of us who through luck of birth have grown up in Western free market economies have embraced the concept of creating our own destinies, but for the vast majority of the inhabitants of our planet life's reality is much different.  The concept of an \\"un-escapable social destiny\\" is not a futuristic nightmare, but a reality of the present; workers don't have their growth stunted through alcohol in their decanting fluid, but through malnutrition and disease.<br />Perhaps Huxley's clearest statement is in favor of being awake and aware of society's ills, rather than blinding ourselves.  In Huxley's brave new world, individuals achieve Foster's goal of embracing their destiny largely by staying busy, avoiding any reflection, denying their mortality, and drowning themselves in the drug soma whenever a problem arises.  Brave New World carries a heavy anti-drug message, which is ironic in that Huxley would later become heavily involved in the psychedelic drug culture and would be considered one of the godfathers of the hippie movement .<br />Huxley is a bit heavy handed in suggesting that society much pick one of two extremes (either the madness of the savage or the sterile soul-less utopia of the controllers) but in the end he uses this device to show us that there are choices to be made.  An interesting observation, and one that is rarely noted, is that in the closing debate between the World Controller Mustapha Mond and the Savage, it's Mond's argument Huxley makes more convincing - or at least that is articulated more clearly.  In the end the reader accepts neither, in that both represent an unacceptable extreme, but Huxley makes the point that the emotions of passion, ambition, love, and glory come with the costs of jealousy, violence, and suffering.<br />This is a clever novel, and at times unexpectedly funny, but in my opinion I'm not sure that Brave New World ranks as great literature.  In the areas of character development, dialogue, and structure it's in many ways forgettable.  What makes the novel interesting is its timelessness.  We now face new threats, from terrorism to nuclear war, but the novel's core message is a relevant today as it was in 1932.d be considered one of the godfathers of the hippie movement .   <br />Huxley is a bit heavy handed in suggesting that society much pick one of two extremes (either the madness of the savage or the sterile soul-less utopia of the controllers) but in the end he uses this device to show us that there are choices to be made.  An interesting observation, and one that is rarely noted, is that in the closing debate between the World Controller Mustapha Mond and the Savage, it's Mond's argument Huxley makes more convincing - or at least that is articulated more clearly.  In the end the reader accepts neither, in that both represent an unacceptable extreme, but Huxley makes the point that the emotions of passion, ambition, love, and glory come with the costs of jealousy, violence, and suffering.  <br />This is a clever novel, and at times unexpectedly funny, but in my opinion I'm not sure that Brave New World ranks as great literature.  In the areas of character development, dialogue, and structure it's in many ways forgettable.  What makes the novel interesting is its timelessness.  We now face new threats, from terrorism to nuclear war, but the novel's core message is a relevant today as it was in 1932.	2001-12-25
US	52754824	R3RDCRGXWPPHVW	0684865777	884714885	The Great Disruption: Human Nature and the Reconstitution of Social Order	Books	2	14	14	N	N	Nothing new here	Fukiyama's End of History was a bit overwritten, but it contained some original and provocative ideas which he convincingly defended. The book caught my attention to the degree that I've bought Fukiyama's subsequent books: Trust, and now The Great Disruption. <br />Trust, Fukiyama's middle book, explored some of the links between what he calls \\"spontaneous sociability\\", circles of trust, and productivity. Not exactly the sweeping scope of End of History, but he did promote some new ideas. <br />The Great Disruption, in many ways, reads like \\"Trust Lite\\". This time around Fukiyama focuses on the relationships between rules, social order, and economic growth. He offers some empirical data (and nifty line charts) on statistics like crime, out of wedlock births, poverty, etc. There is some good information here, but I reached the end of the book without having acquired any new ideas or concepts. <br />The book's conclusion is strange. First, he puts in a plug for his End of History theme: that liberal democracy is the only viable alternative for the advancement of society. He then goes on to contradict his Hegelian theory of historical directionality by concluding that history in the \\"social and moral sphere\\" is not in fact directional in nature, but is cyclical. Finally, he concludes that the future of mankind depends on the \\"upward direction of the arrow of History\\", contradicting his previous point and again promoting his idea of the \\"directionality\\". Huh?? <br />In the end, Fukiyama runs us around in circles (280 pages worth) without reaching any real conclusions at all. There wasn't really enough material here for a book, and as I read Disruption I felt that I was just getting bits and pieces that he'd forgotten to include in his previous two releases. This is recycled material. Not recommended.	2001-11-22
US	52754824	R2F146GQ285VN	0679767398	231777935	South of the Border, West of the Sun: A Novel	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Not particularly interesting	There are some nice elements in this novel and more than a few hauntingly elegant passages. Overall, however, I found South of the Border to be disappointing. <br />This is a character study in which the characters fail to captivate. The protagonist Hajime a successful bar owner who is struggling to reconcile a childhood decision to allow his one true love to slip out of his life. She reappears twenty five years later and sends his life into a tailspin. <br />Hajime's reflections start out interesting, but become increasingly cliched. Shimamoto, his mysterious childhood flame, briefly captured my attention but soon became tiresome; I eventually started to hope that she'd simply stop coming around. <br />Many of the elements that I found so captivating in Murakami's excellent Wind Up Bird Chronicle show up in this novel as well - most notably his use of multiple story lines that don't all come together by the novel's conclusion. In Chronicle I felt that these threads formed a fascinating tapestry, but in this case I simply found them distracting tangents. Hajime's business dealings with his father in law and the subplot about Izumi a former girlfriend are examples; they're neither interesting stand-alone elements, nor do they add to the story. Murakami is a brilliant author and there are some effective scenes in South of the Border, but in my opinion, this is not one of his stronger works.	2001-11-20
US	52754824	RXD081RG269VJ	080504776X	300902371	Richard Wright: The Life and Times	Books	4	7	8	N	N	thorough, well written, compelling	Wright undoubtedly is one of the most interesting figures in American literature.   He was among the second generation of post-slavery African Americans and received only the most rudimentary education in the segregated South, but went on to be one of the most celebrated literary figures of his time, trading wits with Albert Camus and Jean Paul Sartre at the height of the French existentialist movement in Paris.  In 1941 the eminent sociologist Robert Park summed it up upon meeting Wright, asking simply \\"how in hell did you happen?\\"<br />Rowley's biography is well written and thoroughly researched, and the subject matter is a fascinating one.   Wright is probably more interesting as a personality and sociological phenomenon than he was as a writer (it's been argued that Native Son was his one and only true work of genius) but the story of his life makes for riveting reading.  Wright's life is a study of contrasts and ironies.  He grew up in the injustice and grinding poverty of Jim Crow Mississippi, spent time as a Communist immersed in Marxist doctrine, and after achieving fame and fortune went on to live in bourgeoisie luxury in post-war Paris surrounded by impoverished White Europeans.  <br />This is an excellent biography: thorough, well referenced, and compelling.  I give it four stars instead of five simply because it is somehow missing that element that is present in the best of biographies which allows the reader to look into the motives and inspirations of the subject.  Rowley includes a lot of facts about Wright's early life (his influences, who gave him his first books, etc.) but I never felt like I understood the reason that this particular Black youth from the Deep South ended up reading Mencken, Chekhov, and Maupassant in his spare time and dreaming of fame as an author.  In short, I'm not sure that Rowley's biography succeeds in answering Robert Park's question.  <br />Overall, however, this is an outstanding book.  Rowley is an objective and unbiasedbiographer.  Rowley covers not only Wright the author, but also the age in which he lived.  Wright was a truly original voice in the history of American literature, and was among the fist to bring the Black experience to American readers.  He deserves to be remembered, and Rowley does a fine job of telling the story of his life.  Highly recommended.	2001-11-17
US	52754824	R1S847T1GF23FS	1883403499	158908449	Part-Time Glamour Photography: Full-Time Income	Books	1	17	20	N	N	Not at all useful	The corny cover photo of a swimsuit model in mirrored sunglasses holding a seashell should have warned me to steer clear of this one.  <br />If you're looking for a book to help you take better portraits then you'll find no useful information here.  The book is full of large glossy photos, few of which have any artistic merit, and *none* of which contain any technical information whatsoever (no aperture settings, shutter speeds, film types, camera/lens information, lighting configurations, filter selection....nothing.)<br />Even the business advice is so watered down as to be almost useless.  The author's advice on computer equipment and peripherals is already outdated, and the section on running a home office lacks any real information content.  Readers with even the most basic business savvy will find themselves rolling their eyes at this chapter.  There is nothing here that you didn't already know via common sense.    <br />Both photographers who aspire to improve their work and those who aspire to improve their income will be disappointed.  There is no material of value in this book.	2001-09-24
US	52754824	R2BJGBVQC08BDI	0140178139	317388917	Leviathan	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Clever, ambitious, entertaining	An excellent novel from one of the best writers in contemporary American literature. <br />The protagonist Benjamin Sachs, ex-con war resister turned brilliant novelist, is one of Auster's most creative characters. At times the relationship between Sachs and the book's narrator Peter Aaron reminded me of Kerouac's Dean Moriarty and Sal Paradise. I often find it annoying when novelists choose writers as their protagonists, but Auster pulls it off. <br />In his novels, Auster manages to follow a pattern without becoming formulistic. As is often the case in his other work, Leviathan features wild coincidences, cat-and-mouse detective chases and oddball characters who struggle to understand the motives for their own actions. <br />The main flaw in this novel, in my opinion, is the development of Reed Dimaggio. Although he only appears in one scene, he is an important character that hovers like a ghost over the final third of the novel. Auster sketches the outline of a fascinating character, but never gives us enough information to fill in between the lines, and we're never able to understand why he reacts the way that he does in that one fatal scene. Dimaggio is a vital link in the bizarre chain of events that brings the novel to its conclusion, but in that we're never able to make sense of his behavior the rest of the pieces don't quite fall into place. <br />That said, I found Leviathan to be a entertaining and remarkably intelligent novel which I read in 100 page gulps. Auster does not have many equals in current American fiction. Leviathan is clever novel with big themes, in which everyone is a little bit crazy, we're all a random mishap away from true madness, and isolated though we may be in this world we find that we're all connected in ways that we least expect. Highly recommended.	2001-08-29
US	52754824	R2MYT3RNVP37T4	0140282025	132792490	The Age of Spiritual Machines: When Computers Exceed Human Intelligence	Books	3	20	24	N	N	Take the timeline w/ a grain of salt	Back in the '50s artificial intelligence researchers Newell, Shaw, and Simon created a program called the General Problem Solver which succeeded in finding solutions to some hard problems in mathematics, to include a completely original proof to a theorem from Principia Mathematica that had never previously been solved. This led Simon and Newell to predict that by 1985 that machines would be able to perform any task that humans can do. <br />Simon and Newell were brilliant thinkers, but also were gravely mistaken in their predictions.  Their optimism has ever since embarrassed the AI field. Fast forward to 1999, the year in which Kurzweil wrote The Age of Spiritual Machines. Deep Blue has defeated chess champion Gary Kasparov, the world wide web is everywhere, and virtual reality image technology has improved. All marvelous technological achievements, but reading this book I can't help but think that Kurzweil is falling into the same trap into which Simon and Newell fell half a century ago. Extrapolating current progress to predict the future is a tricky business. <br />Kurzweil is at his most persuasive when he discusses the recent past and present. Spiritual Machines is filled with interesting insights on how we think and how our brains work, and his discussions on emerging technologies strike the right balance between technical detail and general readability. <br />His predictions for the future, however, come across as outlandish. Kurzweil predicts that within 100 years that machines themselves will claim to be human, that humans will universally use neural implant technology that will allow them to immediately understand information, and that those humans that don't use this technology will be unable to meaningfully participate in dialogues with those who do. <br />I'm puzzled by readers who find this outlook to be optimistic, and I recognize that it is possible that I reject Kurzweil's predictions simply because I find them unpleasant. I'm no technophobe, butI do find that I enjoy holding a book in my hand, struggling to learn a new language, and assimilating information and communicating using the carbon-based brain that I was born with. <br />That said, Spiritual Machines is interesting and thought provoking, and often entertaining. The reader simply needs to consider the author's enthusiasm for AI when evaluating his conclusions. At any rate, seeing that Kurzweil is at the cutting edge of the technology that he discusses in this book, perhaps it's not reasonable to expect him to keep his enthusiasm in check.	2001-08-22
US	52754824	R34561YDDJ8Y9I	0316779237	383741816	Holidays on Ice: Stories	Books	4	14	18	N	N	SantaLand Diaries	Sedaris shines when his essays focus on real characters and events.  His pieces on family life and French expatriate living in Me Talk Pretty One Day stand out as examples.  <br />Holidays on Ice features fewer such gems.  Most of the stories here are fictional, and in my opinion do not work nearly as well. The standout exception, however, is the hilarious SantaLand Diaries, one of the funniest things I've ever read and which in itself is well worth the price of the book.  This is the real-life story of Sedaris' stint as a Macy's SantaLand elf.  Sedaris focuses on our collective stupidity, but as always he mixes in just the right amount of self-depreciation to make the piece come off perfectly.  <br />I believe that it was Tom Clancey that said that the difference between fiction and reality is that fiction has to make sense.  The figures in SantaLand Diaries (elves, Santas, and the Great American Public) behave just irrationally enough that the story has to be true.  Ironically, aside from being hilariously funny Sedaris uses all of this illogical behavior to give us an interesting look at human nature.<br />This is a two star book that is saved by a five star story.  Buy it and read the last thirty pages.	2001-08-22
US	52754824	RBGKFL6MPGTJB	0060930314	261656203	Identity: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Unsettling, unpredictable	A short novel, and for Kundera uncharacteristically focused. This time around, Kundera focuses on the theme of identity. Who are we and why? What do we really know about the people around us? <br />Jean-Marc and Chantel are lovers who are the story's two protagonists and struggle with these themes. Jean-Marc can only identify with victims of tragedy if he superimposes in their place the woman that he loves. He connects with the world through her, and fears that she will someday transform into someone that he doesn't recognize. Chantel, for her part, wears &quot;two faces&quot;, and transforms into another person when she is in the office - complete with new gestures and a new voice. Everyone manages to act without quite understanding his or her own motives, and Jean-Marc and Chantel manage to involve themselves in a masquerade that ends up going terribly wrong. <br />As usual, Kundera's presence as narrator/novelist hovers heavily over the novel, but unlike his lengthier works like Unbearable Lightness and Immortality he allows the characters to communicate the novel's message via their statements and actions, rather than halting the narrative periodically to interject his trademark philosophical lectures. This, along with the novel's short length, gives Immortality a tightness of plot and coherence that exceeds some of Kundera's other works. <br />The two protagonists are three-dimensional and convincing, but I sometimes get the impression that they're reading from a script. I can't get over the fact that I often find myself thinking &quot;people don't talk like that in real life.&quot; <br />Identity doesn't rank among Kundera's finest, but it is an inventive and intelligent novel that tells an entertaining story while offering some interesting insights.	2001-08-10
US	52754824	R212ZV27S4X8M7	0451147952	325358008	Capitalism: The Unknown Ideal	Books	1	28	71	N	N	Capitalism *is* in many ways an ideal...	...but this book does a terrible job of expressing it.<br />This compilation of essays, including contributions by young (read: pre-Fed) Alan Greenspan, supposedly extols the virtues of capitalism. Unfortunately, this ain't what Capitalism is about.<br />I am a very strong believer that democracy, coupled with capitalism and a free market economy, is the most stable platform yet devised for economic growth and equitable distribution of wealth. Francis Fukiyama's well known book The End of History and the Last Man is repetitive and verbose, but it does a good job of developing this idea.  Capitalism works.<br />Unfortunately, in this book Rand takes positive, solid concepts like free markets and trade and takes them to a lunatic fringe extreme that turns them into nutty anti-government caricatures.<br />The most disturbing, perhaps, are the essays written forty years ago by Alan Greenspan, who is now chairman of the Federal Reserve' arguably the most powerful man in the United States of America. In an article entitled 'The Assault on Integrity' he argues (correctly) that reputation is an important competitive advantage for corporations, and that they will act responsibly in order to protect this competitive advantage. He then takes this simple concept and extends it to the unsupportable conclusion that regulation by government entities in *any* fashion is unnecessary.<br />Oh what a difference a few decades makes; as the chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve Greenspan has now grown up to be the most powerful regulator in the world.  We also know, of course, that the views which he espoused in the Integrity essay are pure nonsense. Left to their own devices for-profit corporations will often choose short term gains even if by doing so they take the risk of damaging their long term reputation. Corporate management reports to the shareholder, and the shareholder is focused on quarter-to-quarter performance. If a drug company can release a new product, or an oil giant can initiate a new project, they'll do so if they think it will boost the stock price. If the product turns out to be faulty, or an oil spill results ' well they'll cross that bridge when they come to it.<br />The situation becomes even more problematic when you consider the fact that the shareholders - the true owners of any corporation - don't actually run the business.  Day to day operations are entrusted to a cadre of professional managers.  Greenspan's thesis states that any entity will do \\"the right thing\\" because of a natural desire to maintain their reputation, but this theory obviously falls apart when the owners aren't truly calling the shots.  Obviously Ken Lay (Enron) and Dennis Kozlowski (Tyco) weren't worried too much about running their respective companies' reputations into the ground; they were too busy enriching themselves at society's expense.  Even Jack Welch, GE's highly regarded CEO and Wall Street's icon of managerial responsibility, has suffered some unflattering attention as of late.  Yes, society needs to establish some rules, and make these guys follow them.<br />Okay, okay: hindsight is 20/20 and yes it is easy to debunk old theories as wrong based on new information.  Greenspan did not have a crystal ball forty years ago, and to his credit he's changed his tune.  Indeed we could all stand to learn a thing or two from Alan; old theories need to be reevaluated, and when events prove them wrong they need to be discarded.<br />Capitalism and free trade are both concepts that are positive for society. Unfortunately, this book is awful - full of outdated and incorrect ideas. If you want a book which gives a rational treatment of the many virtues of capitalism, Rand is an author to avoid. I can only hope that if/when Greenspan looks back at these essays that he contributed back in the early sixties that he gets a shudder of embarrassment. Ayn Rand has a fiercely loyal following and I know that this review won't make me any new friends, but capitalism and free markets are good concepts that get a bad treatment in this book. Bad economics. Bad science. Bad philosophy. Rand's devout might enjoy it, but readers simply looking for a balanced treatment of capitalism will want to skip this one.but capitalism and free markets are good concepts that get a bad treatment in this book. Bad economics. Bad science. Bad philosophy. Rand's devout might enjoy it, but readers simply looking for a balanced treatment of capitalism will want to skip this one.	2001-08-04
US	52754824	R1ULHUPVNZYPXE	0817450416	69582238	The Complete Guide to Night and Low-Light Photography	Books	4	26	28	N	N	Useful	This is a superb guide for non-professional photography aficionados who want to improve their work.  Frost covers a variety of topics: push processing, filters, flash photography, color temperature, florescent and tungsten lighting, reflected vs. incident light metering, reciprocity law failure, film, as well as a variety of chapters on different subjects and techniques.<br />The prose is chatty and informal, often to the point of being corny (the same applies to some of the photos). American readers will note the frequent British idiomatic expressions.  But overall this book is packed with useful information and photos which illustrate the concepts being discussed.  <br />At one point the author comments: &quot;It took several hours of watching and waiting before this stunning picture was taken.&quot;  And a stunning picture it is (a sunset shot of a seaside town) but hobby-level photographers might find somewhat daunting the idea of waiting all day for clouds to break.  Nonetheless, there is a lot in this book for enthusiasts who use photography to document their travels, instead of traveling for photography.  <br />Summary:  very useful, lots of charts and information, a good guide that will inspire you to go out and try some of the ideas presented.  A good overview of night and low light techniques, aimed at amateurs who are interested in learning more about the subjects and themes I listed above.  If you fall into this category then you'll benefit from this book.	2001-07-28
US	52754824	RN9B17A1B1QWR	0060928417	387056977	Slowness: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A short, fun, insightful novel	A bit lighter than standard Kundera fare, both in word count and in tone, but in Slowness fans of Kundera's more traditional work will find much of what they expect: quirky protagonists, a blurred line between novelist-narrator-character, and Kundera's usual existentialist meditations.  <br />The pace of life (slowness vs. haste) is the primary theme this time around, and to explore this idea Kundera tells the story of two seductions that are separated by two hundred years.  In the present we have all the features of modern society (media, communication, technology) that keep us so focused on the destination that we forget about the journey.  In the past we have the vagabonds of yesteryear who with their easy indolence symbolized the leisurely pace of their era.  <br />Sex, as always, offers an opportunity for an interesting analogy.  The present-day narrator discusses an woman who mentions the word \\"orgasm\\" forty seven times in a lecture about sex, reducing the physical act of sex to \\"...an obstacle to be got past a quickly as possible in order to reach an ecstatic explosion...\\"  Several passages later, the 18th century lady who is a character in the parallel tale practices seduction as the \\"...art of staying as long as possible in a state of arousal.\\"<br />There is lots of silly stuff too.  Irreverent characters, comical situations, politics, and at one point the narrator has a discussion with a character's penis.  Other reviewers have accused Kundera of laughing at us in this novel, and while I can understand how one might come to this conclusion I don't agree.  I found the novel to be entertaining and, occasionally, insightful.  And at 132 pages you'll get through the whole book in a sitting or two.	2001-07-16
US	52754824	RT5Y7QEGC7EXL	0345404475	978657248	Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?: The inspiration for the films Blade Runner and Blade Runner 2049	Books	3	9	15	N	N	Interesting concepts, but doesn't deliver	There is some good stuff here, but Dick doesn't manage to pull the threads together to form a coherent novel.  <br />The characters in Electric Sheep, both the humans and the androids, never manage to evolve beyond the level of caricatures.  This is probably the book's greatest weakness.  In Electric Sheep the androids either try to blend into society, or they huddle together like pack animals (sheep, perhaps) and wait for Deckard to come along and blast them.  They're uninteresting figures, demonstrably sub-human, and merely serve as stage dressing for Dekker's ruminations about life and death.  Perhaps this is the point, but it makes for bland reading.<br />Ridley Scott, in my opinion,,  significantly improves on the material in using Dick's novel as the inspiration for Blade Runner (see the excellent director's cut, not the studio release with the corny voice-overs and the cut-and-paste ending).<br />In the movie the roles are reversed.  It is Deckard, the human, who is the tired has-been, and who up until the very end sleepwalks through his life.  The androids, on the other hand, are the passionate ones.  They are the ones trying to answer the big questions: &quot;How much time do I have left?&quot; &quot;What is my relationship with my creator?&quot; &quot;How can I extend my life?&quot;  It is through watching the androids and their passion for life, killing, and finally mercy, that Deckard begins to ask what it means to be &quot;alive&quot;.  <br />Electric Sheep was published in 1968, but the writing already comes across as dated, which would keep the novel from ranking high as literature (timelessness being a prerequisite).  In the end Dick's capacity to invent an interesting concept far exceeds his ability to deliver.  The prose reads, largely, like drugstore pulp.  The action scenes are anti-climatic and unbelievable, and the characters are flat.  There are some interesting ideas here: Mercerism as a controlling shared-experience technology based religion; empathy as the most valued of human emotions; the conversion of the class system and prejudice against &quot;specials&quot; - but those ideas just float around and are never really developed.	2001-07-07
US	52754824	R1IZKQ6SWTWSOC	0374140162	488374722	Dirty Havana Trilogy	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Sordid tales from the gutters of Havana	A first-person tale from the slums of Havana. This almost-pornographic loose collection of short stories is fascinating in the manner of a bloody car wreck, and holds the reader's attention in much the same way. <br />The violent, misogynist, overtly racist exploits of the protagonist Pedro Juan in Dirty Havana Trilogy are in many ways a morality tale about the depths to which we sink when forced to cope with grinding poverty. Gutierrez doesn't glamorize Pedro Juan's racist and sexist attitudes and actions; readers won't mistake them for anything but the vices that they are. <br />Pedro Juan's sexual exploits are repetitive to the point of being predictable, and perhaps that's the author's point. This isn't the story of Cuba, this is a look at a character that has fallen through the cracks and his interaction with those around him. The tropical climate is interwoven into the tales, but aside from this fact Dirty Havana Trilogy could have as easily been set in any slum around the world.<br />This isn't great literature and I suspect that must readers will find it to be forgettable, but as an unflinching snapshot of a weak human being pushed past his limits it is interesting. And ironically, occasionally funny.	2001-07-06
US	52754824	R1D2I6YIBO978L	0345379659	717495154	Harlot's Ghost: A Novel	Books	5	49	53	N	N	Impressive epic story of the CIA	This sprawling 1,000+ page epic about two generations of CIA officers is difficult to characterize: part history, part period piece, and part fiction.  Mailier mixes the comings and goings of historical figures and real events with a well-developed cast of fictional characters in a way that reminds the reader of E.L.Doctorow's masterpiece Ragtime.  <br />Harlot's Ghost impresses as an authentic and comprehensive glimpse inside the inner workings of the CIA.  The book's strongest message is that this infamous organization of spooks and bogey-men is no more than the sum of it's parts - the officers and agents - and by giving us a view of their motivations and desires we understand a bit more about how and why the CIA does what it does.  <br />The protagonist, Harry Hubbard, is a second generation CIA officer who bounces around the globe from assignment to assignment, managing to land in each hotspot long enough for us to see the Agency's role through his eyes as events unfold - from Cold War Berlin to the Bay of Pigs and the Cuban Missile Crisis.  <br />Enjoyable though this novel is, not everything works.  Hovering as a backdrop to all the action is the idea of deceit and duality: East vs. West, intelligence vs. counterintelligence, information vs. misinformation, the means vs. the ends, idealism vs. pragmatism.  This theme is captured by the theory of Alpha and Omega - a theory developed by Kitterdge Montague, CIA research psychologist and love interest of Harry Hubbard.  The theory, in brief, states that there are two fully formed and competing personalities trapped within every individual, and that the key to human nature is to understanding the relationship between these two personalities.  In an early scene a soon-to-be-wed Kittredge offers an elegant explanation of this theory while flirting with Hubbard.  The problem is that over the next thousand pages the same theory pops up every ten pages or so, until the reader feels beaten over the head with this particular bit of symbolism.  Enough already.  We get it.<br />But overall, this is an immensely enjoyable novel.  Mailer creates realistic three-dimensional characters that mingle seamlessly with real historical figures and actual events.  Mailer has taken on a hugely ambitious task and manages to pull it off.  This is not only a definitive view of the CIA, but an excellent piece of literature as well.  Through Hubbard's first person accounts, thoughts, and letters the reader experiences an amazing range of events and environments - from seedy Berlin safe-houses to luxurious Uruguayan villas to combat on the Cuban beachhead.  <br />The book's thousand pages notwithstanding, there are huge questions which Mailer leaves unanswered.  Harlot's Ghost would have benefited from a more aggressive editor, but my final analysis is that I'll be the first in line to slog through the sequel to learn the resolution to the questions that the book's &quot;to be continued&quot; ending leaves.  Highly recommended.<br />Note:  In the final pages Mailer includes a glossary of names, code-names, events, and places.  Very useful for keeping track of the acronyms, aliases, and code-words.  I didn't discover the glossary until I was a third through the book; don't make the same mistake.	2001-06-21
US	52754824	R246ITKBFGLRZC	0345350685	780069179	The Autobiography of Malcolm X: As Told to Alex Haley	Books	5	203	212	N	N	An unparalleled autobiography	The Autobiography of Malcolm X belongs on the short-list of any compilations of best biographies/autobiographies for two reasons.  First, the fact that among all the public figures that American history has to offer, Malcolm is undoubtedly one of the most complex.  Secondly, Alex Haley does an amazing job of transporting the reader into Malcolm's thoughts and feelings.  Praise of this book is not simply praise of the subject; this is also a powerful literary work and a sharp piece of history.<br />Autobiography is a classic American tale of one of the most misunderstood figures in American history.  Malcolm has been and is viewed as everything from an evil racist hate-monger to the champion of modern day militant pro-Black radicals.  What he was, in reality, was a remarkably intelligent and charismatic leader who reflected the ills of the society around him, changed throughout his life, and gradually evolved from ignorance to anger to enlightenment.  Autobiography should be required reading for anyone who claims to have an opinion on Malcolm.<br />My strong recommendation is not simply praise for Malcolm; certainly it would be possible to write an uninteresting book on a compelling figure.  My recommendation for this particular biography comes for the power and precision of Alex Haley's writing.  Haley puts us in Malcolm's schoolroom, amongst the petty criminals of his youth, in the penitentiary, amongst the militants of the Nation of Islam, and in Mecca and Africa, where he underwent his final transformation.  We see what Malcolm sees, and we feel what Malcolm feels.  This is a critically important element in the success of this amazing biography.  Malcolm started as an empty vessel into which the American Black experience was poured - with all of the racism and violence that this implies - and Malcolm reflected his experiences in his convictions and deeds.  In that Haley brings the reader face to face with Malcolm's experiences we understand how and why Malcolm became the person that he became;  he truly was a mirror to American society.<br />The great tragedy is that Malcolm's rift with the Nation of Islam brought resulted in his early death, just at the time that he was realizing his true purpose.  Commenting on his experience in Mecca, shortly before his assassination, Malcolm comments &quot;I have never before seen sincere and true brotherhood practiced by all colors together, irrespective of their color.&quot;  In this statement, and others, he acknowledges that his former view on race was merely a reflection of the American racism which surrounded him, and these are the views that he had internalized.<br />I'm actually not sure whether to call this book a biography or an autobiography.  It's a purely first-person tale, but as a literary work Haley shines.  Either way, the mark of a great autobiography/biography is that it allows you to understand the subject - his or her thoughts and motives.  This is a daunting task for a subject as complex as Malcolm, and this book brings it off brilliantly.  Very highly recommended.	2001-06-13
US	52754824	ROO4G2URZBGWG	039332169X	997615053	The Twilight of American Culture	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Interesting intellectual musings, short on useful proposals	Some interesting points, but don't expect too much in the way of practical suggestions in Morris Berman's The Twilight of American Culture.  <br />When reading books like this, I can't help but note that each generation of scholars feels that popular culture is springing up from scratch in his or her time.  It appears to me that a more accurate analogy is that there is nothing new under the sun, and that popular culture simply reinvents itself anew every generation or so.  <br />Berman recommends a course of action which he calls the &quot;monastic option&quot;, by which enlightened individuals take small steps to preserve meaningful culture, which will keep the seeds of intellectual thought alive through the coming dark age of pop culture into which the United States is about to plunge.  <br />It seems that the main virtue that Berman promises from this approach is that it is a contrast from the feel-good dumbed-down instant-answers spirituality that is being passed these days as recipes for social reform.  Some of Berman's criticism is on target, in this regard, but the problem is that Berman's theory is not really any more useful.  Granted, he eliminates the glibness of the instant-gratification set, but his own recommendations are so gradual and pessimistic that they have no potential to motivate anyone to do anything at all.  Don't expect your monastic efforts to yield fruits in your lifetime, Berman concludes, or the lifetimes of your great grandchildren, for that matter.  Or maybe even ever...<br />So much for social reform.  Interesting as an intellectual exercise, but don't go looking for anything practical.  Policy wonks will want to avoid this one.	2001-05-24
US	52754824	R23IZ19A7KV6M3	1581150113	431456745	Travel Photography (Second Edition)	Books	2	16	19	N	N	Not very useful	If you're interested in tips on how to approach buyers and sell photographs, then this book will have some interesting insights for you.  However, if you're simply interested in taking better pictures then you will find very little of interest.  The book is sparsely illustrated (no color photographs at all and very few b&amp;w), and there is very little useful technical information.  <br />Certainly Ms. McCartney has had many varied experiences, but there is not enough material here to create an interesting book; she discusses the many places that she has visited (an impressive list), but fails to discuss any particular area in any meaningful depth.  <br />If you want advice on selling stock photos to XYZ company then this might be the book for you.  If you want to improve your photography skills or are looking for artistic inspiration/guidance then you'll be disappointed.  Much more highly recommended in National Geographic Photography Field Guide, which contains everything that this book lacks.	2001-04-06
US	52754824	R22Q1GZG1E83GW	0140115854	429506696	Moon Palace (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	4	21	24	N	N	Complex and entertaining	This is one of Auster's strongest works.  Moon Palace is difficult to summarize, and it would almost be easier to use a Venn diagram or a chronogram to describe the plot than to try to put it in words.  Roughly speaking, the novel covers the curious life of M.S.Fogg, from his youth as an orphan to his strange days as a Columbia University graduate to his experience as caretaker of the eccentric Thomas Effing.  <br />But the novel is actually a series of stories and antecedents, all woven together through a tangled web of improbable coincidences and interactions.  Many of the sections are virtually self contained.  The tale of Fogg's inward retreat as an undergraduate culminating in his descent into homelessness in itself could be a well formed short story or novella.  Likewise Effing's bizarre tale of adventure in the wilderness of Utah is story in itself.  The links between these sections are a haphazard series of coincidences and connections, some which are seemingly intentionally suspect.  <br />Perhaps one of the most interesting stories-within-a-story literally *is* a story - Fogg's summary of a book written by Effing's long lost son, who in my opinion is one of the most interesting characters in the book.  <br />Auster's eye for detail and appreciation for the absurd is in top form in Moon Palace.  More than one passage made me laugh out loud.  This isn't conventional humor, Auster amuses through his sheer audaciousness - he is an author that takes risks and the reader appreciates this.  <br />The characters are an interesting mix.  I found Effing to be fascinating, and his unpredictability largely mirrors the unpredictability of the novel itself, but he ultimately reads much like a caricature.  The protagonist Fogg is complex and introspective, and it is a great success that Auster manages to allow the reader to connect with such a character.  <br />You'll find all of the characteristic Auster trademarks in Moon Palace: elements of mystery that border on pulp, unlikely characters bound by a web of coincidences, a study of connectivity vs. isolation, and all wound in Auster's amazing ability to depict the emotions and energy of New York City.  Highly recommended.	2001-04-05
US	52754824	R2Y2Y80M8F3FKV	0385315147	373503319	Smilla's Sense of Snow	Books	2	10	14	N	N	Don't be fooled	This novel that I wanted very much to like, and which came highly recommended by readers whom I respect.  However, even though I tried and tried again, I simply could not get into Smila's Sense of Snow.  <br />At first I thought I just wasn't getting it so I redoubled my efforts.  The slow pacing, the symbolism, the endless philosophical musing - is there a point?  Or am I just missing it?  But in the end, this is a novel that tries to be everything at once but simply ends up spinning its wheels.   <br />Hoeg tries a bit of everything, from veiled psychological motives to philosophy to action scenes complete with fiery explosions, and even a bit of sci-fi - but the net effect is simple boredom.  It was sheer determination that kept me turning the pages.  Summary:  boring, pretentious, overwritten, unbelievable.  Hoeg tries to pull the wool over our eyes hoping we'll mistake the glacial pacing and opaque philoso-babble for profound thought.  Thoughtful readers won't be fooled.	2001-02-19
US	52754824	RSKBOT99ZSFT8	0452279070	956761338	Ragtime	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Excellent	A short, entertaining novel which captures the spirit of the United States in the early 1900's.  Ragtime captures the chaos and sense of change of the period: rags-to-riches, riches-to-rags, shifting classes, colliding cultures, anarchists, communists, and capitalists old (J.P.Morgan) vs. new (Henry Ford).  An outstanding novel.<br />Some have commented that the coincidences and interconnections in Ragtime are tortured and convoluted.  Not so!  The fact that Doctorow manages to elegantly weave these storylines is the true genius of the novel.  Many of the coincidences occur subtly without barging into the plot; for example when the family meets Tateh and his daughter on the beach, they never become aware that they're connected via the fact that he and younger brother had a link with the Nesbit.  There never occurs a final \\"ah-ha!\\" in which the threads all tie together, as in life some circles come to closure while some loose ends remain.<br />Consider that three steps separate Booker T. Washington and Matthew Perry, two real-life characters who probably never met: Washington =&gt; Walker =&gt; Father =&gt; Perry.  Likewise, four steps separate the fictional racist Firechief from the Archduke Ferdinand: Firechief =&gt; Walker =&gt; Family =&gt; Houdini =&gt; Ferdinand.  Some steps are coincidental brushes (Houdini stops by the family's house) and some are deeper, but Doctorow's theme is that we're all more connected than we think.  The reader is aware of links that never are revealed to the characters.  <br />This is not a historical novel, but a period piece, and one of the major themes of the period was that the world was becoming smaller.  Newspapers, Ford's motorcars, flying machines, newspapers, exploding immigration, these are all phenomenon of America in the early 1900's which would bring a hick firechief leaps closer to a European aristocrat.  <br />Scott Joplin hovers over the novel throughout, both through Doctorow's writing style and through Walker's references, but interestingly only enters as a character (briefly and indirectly) when friends of the terminally ill composer threaten to sue when newspapers tie him to Walker.  <br />Briskly paced, entertaining, with interesting characters.  Note that in movies like as Robert Altman's Short Cuts or Paul Thomas Anderson's Magnolia you'll see a reflection of Doctorow's mosaic style.  An excellent novel, highly recommended.	2001-02-16
US	52754824	R2DDQ0ZCDXGEU3	0792274989	330614385	National Geographic Photography Field Guide: Secrets to Making Great Pictures	Books	5	56	57	N	N	An excellent guide	The National Geographic Photography Field Guide strikes a perfect balance in its approach.  Beginning photographers will find this an effective reference, and the more experienced will benefit from advice from National Geographic's greats.  And the book manages to cover this range without being either condescending or talking above the heads of newcomers.  <br />Sure, you'll get advice on how to avoid under-exposing a subject with a light background, and how to use a ceiling flash bounce to give your portrait subject a flattering illumination, but the main value of this book is the inspiration it gives to readers who aspire to take better pictures.  The photographers' first-hand accounts of experiences and techniques are invaluable.  <br />The book itself is beautifully printed and is full of beautiful color photos.  Just like the National Geographic Magazine, one buys this book in part simply to look at the pictures.  <br />An excellent book that will help you take better photographs.  Covers everything from equipment to composition.  Very highly recommended.	2001-02-08
US	52754824	R22GKXVZ3VGD4I	0060168234	547841085	A Dream Deferred: The Second Betrayal of Black Freedom in America	Books	3	9	16	N	N	Repetitive, unsatisfying	Steele's premise in this book is that the social programs of the left are engineered by White liberals who are not truly interested in the welfare of African Americans, but have as their motive the redemption of America's shameful history of racism and segregation.<br />An interesting theory, and a perhaps a valid one.  The problem with the book, however, is that Steele has about enough material to fill a long essay.  By the time you've gotten to the end of the 180 pages of A Dream Deferred you will have read the theory above (which I expressed in about forty words) two or three dozen times.  Enough, already.  <br />Shelby does not do a stellar job in developing this idea, but it's a good idea nonetheless.  If you approach it with an open mind the premise rings very true.  Listen to the rhetoric of many White liberals and it will strike an objective listener as a show to demonstrate the speaker's \\"humanity\\" rather than a true concern for the issue at hand.  <br />Okay, in the previous paragraph I didn't develop this thought and didn't back my suspicion with any evidence, empirical or otherwise.  The problem is that in A Dream Deferred, Steele doesn't, either - and he has 180 pages to work with!  I just have a few lines of this amazon.com review.<br />An unsatisfying work.  Hopefully someone will come along and do a more thorough job of developing what, in my opinion, has the potential to be a solid theory.	2001-01-30
US	52754824	R19WPM4EGD8QBA	0553580930	101241499	A Man in Full	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Ambitious but imperfect; Wolfe entertains	Wolfe changes the scenery from New York to Atlanta, and the rich \\"masters of the universe\\" become the super-rich Southern plantation owners (anybody who is anybody has their own Leer Jet), but many of the elements of this sprawling novel will be familiar to fans of \\"Bonfire of the Vanities\\".<br />A Man in Full is a fun novel - ambitious, sometimes silly, always audacious.  Did I mention that it was a fun novel to read?  It easily kept my attention through its 700+ pages.  <br />The conclusion is just somewhat far fetched as Wolfe struggles to bring this wild ride to a close.  The mix of philosophical musing (thinly spread) and anti-greed in the conclusion is a bit hard to swallow; the reader finds himself saying \\"wait just a minute, who is this rich white-suited haberdasher Tom Wolfe to be lecturing *me* on the vice of greed?\\"<br />But these comments notwithstanding A Man In Full was a novel that I enjoyed.  This is storytelling at it's best, sprinkled with social commentary with which the reader is free to agree or disagree.  Looking for spiritually whole characters to give you some wise insight on how to live your life?  Then you should probably look elsewhere, you won't find role models here.  My favorite character is Raymond Peepgas, a Harvard MBA stuck in middle management who can't quite manage to make ends meet on his six figure salary.  <br />Wolfe impresses as a courageous writer who isn't bashful about sticking his neck out; the breadth of characters and scenery is almost ridiculous.  We're taken from a frozen foods warehouse to a prison to grand plantations of the Old South to Atlanta's freaknick of the New South.  This novel has its detractors (who have made some valid points) but at the end of the day this novel entertains.  And according to Wolfe's philosophy on novels, that's what it's all about, isn't it?	2001-01-29
US	52754824	R1Y557JBALMN8K	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	3	2387	2763	N	N	A strong theory convincingly argued, but marred by bias	According to Diamond, four factors are responsible for all historical developments:  1) availability of potential crops and domestic animals, 2) the orientation of continental axis to facilitate the spread of agriculture, 3) transfer of knowledge between continents, and 4) population size.      Diamond states that \\"those four sets of factors constitute big environmental differences that can be quantified objectively and that are not subject to dispute.\\"  Fair enough, but what *is* subject to dispute is that there might be some other factors at work.  Thomas Sowell in Race and Culture does a good job of developing the thesis that the exchange of information among European cultures, facilitated by Europe's plentiful navigable rivers, was the key to Europe's technological and economic rise.  David Landes in the Wealth and Poverty of Nations attributes China's conscious decision in the 1400's to isolate itself form other nations as the key event (decision) that caused it to lose it's technological advantage and fall behind Europe.  (Diamond briefly touches on 15th Century China in the final chapter, but manages to boil this as well down to an accident of geography.)    This is unfortunate, because the book contains a wealth of excellent material which is excellently explained.  Many of the core causes which Diamond explores ring very true, and his points are persuasively argued.  The connection between the development of agriculture and the subsequent unequal rise of military capability worldwide is very convincing.  But convincing though they may be, reading these theories one can't shake the sneaking suspicion that Diamond is selectively presenting evidence which he's has found to support his previously drawn conclusion, and neglecting evidence which runs counter.      Diamond plants these doubts through his sometimes-careless prose.  Consider the following statement, which he includes in the introduction to his chapter on the rise of food production:    \\"My fellow farmhands were, for the most part, tough whites whose normal speech featured strings of curses, and who spent their weekdays working so that they could devote their weekends to squandering their weeks' wages in the local saloon.  Among the farmhands, though, was a member of the Blackfoot Indian tribe named Levi, who behaved very differently from the coarse miners - being polite, gentle, responsible, sober, and well spoken\\"    I thought for a moment that I'd wandered into the script for \\"Dances With Wolves.\\"  Note that had this statement been turned on its head - had he, for example, recounted an unflattering anecdote about Native Americans or Hispanics -my instincts  would immediately warn me that the author's biases might be influencing how he chooses to present the evidence.   I myself am a Black American, I'm all too painfully aware that we've had to wade through some pretty grim stuff penned by authors clutching at straws to support their racist white supremacist views of the world. In this case Diamond does the reverse by aiming his negative bias towards Caucasians, but if I'm truly interested in unbiased science then my skepticism should remain the same.      That I lead with these criticisms is evidence of my disappointment in what could have been an excellent book, and indeed much of it *is* indeed excellent.  This is a book that taught me much and has indeed changed my view of world history in many ways.  I do recommend this book - the details are good and many of the theories ring true, but in the same breath I would warn against accepting Diamond's conclusions in their entirety without a bit of skepticism.      In summary, Guns, Germs, and Steel contains an important feature which David Landes's Wealth and Poverty of Nations so conspicuously lacks: a grand unifying theory which links the disparate growth rates of diverse societies worldwide.  But Diamond's tidy conclusion that world history is simply a deterministic result of geography and nothing else is not entirely satisfying, especially in that it might cause us to be complacent about the future.  I accept that accidents of geography have had a huge effect on mankind, and Diamond convincingly argues this.  But culture and human decisions do matter.  Diamond argues that human ingenuity is simply the result of the accident of having a larger population from which to draw innovations - but societies that internalize this philosophy do so at their considerable peril.	2001-01-24
US	52754824	R32FLM7IXQRG54	0380720027	218105535	The End of History and the Last Man	Books	3	31	38	N	N	Verbose, repetitive, but sprinkled with insights	The main problem with Fukiyama's End of History is simply that it is badly written; Fukiyama's prose is verbose and redundant - the reader ends up reading the same points three or four times.<br />That said, much of the criticism that the book has received is, in my opinion, misplaced. Fukiyama is not claiming that the capitalist system is some sort nirvana, but simply that history is a directional force that has delivered us to a point in which free market economies have reached a state of efficiency and harmony with human nature and therefore in large part won't be replaced by competing systems.  This is not a value judgement, as has been accused by many critics; it's simply a matter of natural selection.<br />Is Fukiyama saying that a free market economy is *better* than competing systems?  Well what he's saying that it is better at *doing certain things*, and this is an important distinction.  Fukiyama claims not a moral superiority (\\"best of all possible worlds\\") but a functional superiority in which the occasional backtrack (a military coup here, a revolution there) will be shown to be mere blips.  History, according to Fukiyama, is asymptotic, and we're approaching the end state.<br />Much of Fukiyama's argument is philosophical and at such lacks empirical data.  So be it; I see this book as more than anything a discussion piece and many of its claims are essentially can't be proved (or will be proved or disproved over the next century or so).<br />This is a flawed work, but one which makes some interesting points.  Fukiyama's discussion on Thymos and the &quot;desire for recognition&quot; as the dividing line between slaves and masters is interesting, but in that I'm not a scholar on Hegel and haven't read the original works I don't know if they've simply been lifted from previous writings.<br />In the end, reading this book is a lot of work for a little insight, therefore it is with a degree of reluctance that I recommend it.  On second thought, a better idea would be to go to your local library and dig up the original 1989 National Interest article; you'll get essentially the same main ideas without having to slog through hundreds of pages of wordy and repetitive text.  In some ways this book has changed the way I look at the world, but some of the conclusions I've taken with a grain of salt.	2001-01-16
US	52754824	RUGJZXLOGWBHS	0618059458	301023145	The Human Stain	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Big themes and great characters	Coleman Silk, the central character of The Human Stain, is a classics professor at Athena College who is forced into retirement as a result of a comment in the classroom which is misinterpreted as a racial slur (readers will be reminded of the real-life Washington D.C. bureaucrat who in 1999 was briefly forced from his job for saying the word \\"niggardly\\").   Silk in some respects brings to mind David Lurie, the protagonist of J.M. Coetzee's Booker Prize winning novel Disgrace.  Both men hurl themselves into a sort of self-imposed exile from academia by stubbornly abandoning pragmatism and refusing to bend to the politically correct forces that confront them. <br />There is a lot going on in The Human Stain.  Roth takes on academia, political correctness, race, identity, the Vietnam War, and family, all against the backdrop of Clinton's impeachment proceedings and our country's headlong rush into a culture of puritanical condemnation.  In the end Roth asks some big questions.  What is an individual's responsibility to community?  What is the community's responsibility to the individual?  When these links fail, Roth asks the reader to challenge his or her beliefs about where the blame lies.<br />The non-linear style of Roth's storytelling is captivating, but I found the change of viewpoint to be at times distracting.  Sometimes the reader is inside the head of the characters, tracing his or her thoughts and motivations.  Other times we're an outsider looking purely through the eyes of the narrator (Roth's alter-ego Nathan Zuckerman).  It's not until the end of the novel that we understand why this is.  <br />In my opinion some of the big questions are convincingly addressed, and most of the elements tie together.   Some don't.  The novel is set in 1998, which makes one wonder why Roth decided to incorporate post-traumatic stress of Vietnam veterans as a competing plotline, given that Saigon fell some 23 years earlier.  <br />In the end Roth leaves some strings dangling, and I suppose it's a testimony to the richness and depth of the characters that we read the last page wanting to know a bit more.	2000-12-18
US	52754824	R1EATJJYDH4D9T	156584288X	787553495	Paul Robeson	Books	4	39	41	N	N	The definitive biography	Duberman's biography of Robeson is excellently researched and well written.  A balanced handling of the subject was not a straightforward task; Robeson rarely committed his thoughts to writing and aside from periods of depression in later life he wrote few letters.  Duberman relies largely on the writing of his wife Essie, who was a meticulously diarist.  As the author points out this is a dangerous strategy; Robeson and his wife had personalities which couldn't have been more different, therefore rely on her descriptions of Paul's thoughts and feelings would be suspect at best.  Duberman tackles this challenge by conducting a wide range of interviews with those who knew Paul, thereby presenting a more balanced account of his emotions and motivations.  <br />As far as the factual/chronological points are concerned, Robeson's FBI files, ironically, provides a detailed record to which Duberman refers frequently.<br />It is a testimony to the ruthless effectiveness of the McCarthy Communist witch hunt that a man like Robeson is not better know to recent generations in America.  A linguist, actor, athlete, singer, intellectual, and humanist there are few figures in 20th century America who are his equal.  The ironies of his life are striking.  Robeson was valedictorian of his Rutgers class, and All-American actor, played Carnegie hall, and toured Europe in an age in which Blacks in America were denied the most basic civil rights.  Had his affinity for Soviet culture and socialism not put him at odds with the America's post WWII anti-Red hysteria, Robeson would likely have been one of the giants of the Civil Rights movement.  Robeson truly was a man ahead of his time - a radical in a time in which the Black elite was promoting patience and working \\"within the system\\".<br />Was Robeson a Communist?  He certainly identified with his own idealized view of the \\"people's struggle\\" which was occurring in the Soviet Union (a view which, as Duberman describes, was often at oddswith the facts.)  To call Robeson a Communist in many aspects would be correct; he sympathized with the cause and was vexed that Black American soldiers would fight against the Soviet Union while at home they were denied their basic rights.  But even the FBI's decades-long effort to link Robeson formally with the party met with failure.  We have no evidence that Robeson a card-carrying member of the Communist Party.  <br />Robeson's Communist leanings are a complex part of his story.  When Nikita Khruschev declared to the world the crimes of Stalin's purges Robeson was undoubtedly greatly effected.  However, Robeson never commented, even in private to those with whom he was intimate - we don't know what he thought or how he felt.  Duberman is unable to fill in the blanks and resists the temptation to do so; he simply chronicles Robeson's subsequent decline into clinical depression and ill health. <br />A well written biography of one of 20th century America's most interesting figures.	2000-12-18
US	52754824	RFUP1WRTTUCMC	0802135765	937401692	Great Apes (Will Self)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Would have worked better as a short story	All of Will Self's works come across as a bit self-congratulatory, which is probably why his short stories/novellas are a somewhat easier to swallow than his novels.  Great Apes is no exception.  This is a clever novel but it would have worked better as a short story.<br />That said, Great Apes is entertaining and at times quite funny, as long as you're not squemish.  And before you've finished the novel you will likely have learned a bit both about psychology and about primate society.  An interesting combination.  Another amusing point is seeing characters and events from Self's previous work popping up, but in ape form. <br />To get to these bright spots, however, the reader has to wade through a fair dose of sophomoric humor and a good deal of unnecessary plot filler.  Is it worth it?  For those fans of Self's previous work who have a bit of patience, perhaps so.  Some of the social commentary in Great Apes works - parallels between human society and the &quot;primitive&quot; apes - but by the time you get to the conclusion you will feel beaten over the head with the novel's symbolism.	2000-12-02
US	52754824	R3TDUGXGQE8D2U	0316472239	860970260	Sonny Liston Was a Friend of Mine: Stories	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Disappointing	The title story and \\"Fields of Purple Forever,&quot; are the only bright spots in this otherwise dreary collection, and even these stories don't work with the power and precision of stories from Jones' previous two collections.<br />Jones is an author who writes about what he knows.  He is a former marine and an ex-boxer, and therefore marines and boxers feature largely in his stories. However, this collection unfortunately shows that this is not a formula with unlimited longevity.   His previous two collections of short stories were masterpieces, but in _Sonny Liston_ Jones runs out of gas.  <br />If you appreciated the clever originality and gritty authenticity of _Cold Snap _ and _Pugilist_ you will likely be disappointed with this book.	2000-12-01
US	52754824	R3O7VJZVYB93G2	0060809779	146114302	Native Son	Books	5	5	7	N	N	An American Classic	In Bigger Thomas, Richard Wright has created the classic tragic figure - a character swept along by forces beyond his control who contributes to his own inevitable demise through his self destructive behavior.  <br />Wright's remarkable and complex novel works on many levels.  At the broadest level it is a novel about free-will vs. determinism - why do we do the things that we do?  On a societal level it is the story of racism in America and the interaction between blacks and whites in the 1930's.  On an individual level it is the story of Bigger, Bessie, Max, and the rest of the characters that Wright develops.<br />This novel has been criticized and praised alike.  In Bigger Wright has created a complex character.  He is not a mindless robot, as some critics of Wright claim, but a well drawn character who in some part of his being has dreams and aspirations, but is firmly defeated by the situations in which he finds himself.  Perhaps the most memorable part of the book comes in the opening, as Bigger watches an airplane flying overhead and realizes that flying is an option which has been closed to him.  <br />Bigger is a human being, and a glimpse through the headlines even today in the year 2000 (perhaps *particularly* today) reveals our fallibility as humans.  Children born in ghettos are not genetically predestined to end up criminals, but a disproportionate number of them do end up that way.   Wright tells us the story of one of these individuals.  <br />Those who have characterized the novel as a racist or one-dimensional portrait of Black Americans have missed the point.  Bigger is not a proxy for all Blacks living in America.  Bigger is one individual, and is presented as such.  The assumption that any literary work which includes a negative portrayal of a Black person is racist is, in itself, in a way racist.  African Americans, like all human beings, are individuals, and it is a simplistic assumption to project the portrayal of one individual upon the whole group.  We look around us and see that there are indeed individuals, who like Bigger, are not strong enough to bear the weight which society forces them to bear.  The question which Wright poses is to what extent is society responsible to the ills provoked by the evil of racism, and to what extent are we as men and women responsible for our own actions.  An excellent novel; should be required reading.	2000-12-01
US	52754824	RGNZSP6F6A4XU	0805053093	270992916	The Satanic Verses	Books	5	99	109	N	N	Brilliant, lyrical, creative	An incredibly original and creative novel.<br />Many readers have been drawn to this novel by the provocative controversy which surrounds it.  If you're reading Satanic Verses looking for a shocking denouncement you will likely be disappointed.  Unless you're a scholar of the Islamic faith you likely won't understand what all the fuss is about.  <br />I read this novel over ten years ago and have re-read it in bits and pieces many times since.  Aside from the imaginative interwoven plot the most compelling feature of Verses is Rushdie's amazing lyrical writing style.  Love him or hate him Rushdie is undoubtedly one of the most brilliant authors writing in the English language, and practically every section of prose could be enjoyed on it's own independent of the story.  There is more word-play and double meanings is Verses than you could find in a dozen readings; every time you read a chapter you'll find something new.  <br />Aside from a general interest in the various religions of the world I profess no great knowledge of the Koran, therefore undoubtedly there is symbolism in Verses that I missed/didn't understand.  Some elements of this book that won't be accessible for the lay reader.  But based purely on its creativity and masterful prose this book is a worthwhile, entertaining, and challenging read.<br />(A background note: Satanic Verses was the first Rushdie novel I read, and I promptly fell in love with his work.  I subsequently read The Moor's Last Sigh and East West, and promptly feel right back out of love.  Satanic Verses was the novel that Rushdie was born to write; in his lyrical prose, humor, and surrealistic mix of realism with the fantastic he creates an amazing work of art.  Nothing he has written comes close.  Unless you're a die-hard Rushdie fan, a scholar of Indian society and the interrelation between East and West simply read this novel and skip the rest.)	2000-12-01
US	52754824	R28HF07K7WZ41Y	0316472573	696326869	Cold Snap: Stories	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Outstanding	Like _Pugilist At Rest_ which preceded it, _Cold Snap_ is an excellent work and should be considered and one of the most consistently outstanding collection of stories in contemporary American fiction.  <br />Jones is an author who writes about what he knows.  He is a former marine and an ex-boxer, and therefore marines and boxers feature largely in his stories.  Jones' disappointing follow-up, _Sonny Liston Was a Friend of Mine_, unfortunately shows that this is not a formula with unlimited longevity.  This collection, however, works splendidly.  <br />I have a great appreciation for Jones' authenticity.  He gets it right.  The closing story \\"Dynamite Hands\\" is a masterpiece.  Not a word out of place, a perfectly crafted gem.   Jones depicts perfectly the complexity of boxing, and manages to successfully capture an amazing range of emotions in and out of the ring.<br />Another notable standout is \\"Way Down Deep in the Jungle\\" about a New Zealand doctor on an aid mission in Africa, and his unlikely companion: a pet baboon.  Surrounded by death, AIDS, corruption, and despair, the baboon (vilified by the native staff) is his sole distraction.  <br />Not pretty stuff, much of what you will find here; _Cold Snap_ is a blend of death, drug abuse, suicide, and various other dark elements of the human condition.  But somehow Jones manages to craft some likeable characters and put them into situations which shed some light on our humanity.  An excellent book.	2000-12-01
US	52754824	RE7XW0XWAG9KR	0385492081	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A gripping tale	Krakauer is both an excellent storyteller and a experienced outdoorsman who participated in a doomed Everest expedition and lived to tell the tale.   A tragic situation, and ironically the perfect formula for a great adventure tale.<br />Many things went wrong on the climb, for which many of the expedition's members share the blame.  This is to be expected on a dangerous climb which encounters an unexpected obstacle, in this case the killer storm.  In the book Krakauer goes to great lengths to make it clear that he himself is culpable,  but his self-flagellation gets a bit tiresome after a while.<br />Overall, Krakauer handles the material well.  There are a lot of elements here besides the thrill of the climb.  The personalities, motivations, and responses to crisis are the most gripping parts of the story.  But Krakauer resists the temptation to beat us over the head with a lot of psycho-analysis and opinion; he just recounts the events and lets the story speak for itself.  <br />Into Thin Air is a gripping tale of adventure and danger.  One wonders what effect the book will have.  Will readers take Krakaur's tale as a warning and avoid \\"unnecessary\\" perils like climing Everest, or will every stairmaster jock with $65k to blow head to the Himalayas looking for adventure?	2000-12-01
US	52754824	R33SD2UPMM28O4	0060173963	870542673	The Angel on the Roof: The Stories of Russell Banks	Books	3	13	17	N	N	Lacks the strength of his longer work	Some of the stories in Angel on the Roof are clever snapshots and therefore compelling.  All all are thoughtful and well written.  However, this book failed to engross me like Banks' other works.<br />As a fan of Banks' novels, this book to me was interesting and useful as an insight into his writing.  The reader will find characters and situations that pop up in Banks' longer fiction.  Another interesting element is that some of the characters pop up in multiple stories - sometimes as principles and sometimes as background figures.  This gives the book an interesting sense of continuity.  <br />However, Banks' prose is much more effective in the form of a novel, in which he has a bit more space to develop the characters.  Banks in my opinion is the very opposite of Hemingway, who's short work was lauded but has been criticized for unfocused novels.  Banks' novels never ramble, not even the 700+ page novel Cloudsplitter - but his short stories, while interesting, are definitely weaker than his longer works.  Don't expect to find any memorable gems here; none of the stories made an impression on me. I'll go to my grave remembering Hemingway's \\"The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber\\" but I've already forgotten almost all of the stories in Angel on the Roof.<br />Granted, Hemingway is a tough measuring stick, but Banks as one of the finest American authors merits tough comparisons. <br />Well written but forgettable.   However, true Banks fans will find Angel on the Roof worth the read simply for an insight into the author.	2000-12-01
US	52754824	R2J0M38UG4VY94	0316777722	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Irreverent; a very funny book	The one and only real measure of success for a book like Me Talk Pretty One Day is whether or not it makes me laugh.  And this book made me laugh.<br />The tales are autobiographical and many are so outlandish that you wonder how much artistic license Sedaris takes in his tales of family life.  But the result is consistently on-target, in a strange random kind of way.  I found myself zipping through the lines of text eagerly awaiting the next irreverent insight that would crack me up.   <br />Among my favorite characters: the abusive French teacher (who comments \\"every day spent with you is like having a caesarian section\\") and Sedaris' foul mouthed rap music loving brother who calls himself  \\"the Rooster\\" (many funny Rooster quotes, but none suitable to post in a this review.)<br />There are few books that I've read that have truly made me laugh out loud, and this one ranks among the top.   There is a bit of filler, but overall I was amazed that Sedaris was able to keep it up for the book's 270 page length.  A very funny book.	2000-11-30
US	52754824	R3GIZMLHA4N92V	0930289234	777411096	Watchmen	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Excellent	I was a freshman away at college in 1986-87 and I still recall as anticipated events the monthly arrival of The Watchmen (which were originally released in twelve issues.) Now fourteen years later my appreciation has only grown; there are elements that impress me now at 32 that I missed as a teenager. This is not a graphic novel that you outgrow; it's one that you grow into.<br /><br />Some of the social issues are outdated, and as a society we're now to an extent concerned with a new set of issues and concerns. However, there are many timeless elements which the series masterfully explores: an individual's responsibility to society, a superpower nation's responsibility for global order, aging, mental illness, and a host of more intimate reflections revealed in the web of personal histories of each of the characters.<br /><br />And on top of all of this, it is a beautiful piece of work to look at. That notwithstanding, you sometimes fail to notice the artwork because it so sea!mlessly tells the story.<br /><br />Note: '86-87was a watershed year in graphic novels in which two Frank Miller series were released as well: Elektra Assassin (with Bill Sienkiewicz's excellent artwork) and The Dark Knight Returns. Both of which I highly recommend as well. In the ensuing years I have not found graphic novels with this depth and originality and have therefore lost interest in the genre, but these three works are still a joy to read!	2000-11-30
US	52754824	RL1BA61FXAP46	0060930861	901054422	Cloudsplitter: A Novel	Books	4	26	31	N	N	Ambitious	A thoroughly meticulously and hugely ambitious telling of John Brown's life, culminating in the bloody rebellion at Harper's Ferry.  <br />Russell Banks strays from his normal storytelling formula in Cloudsplitter; this novel reads like a well researched piece of historical fiction.  Banks concentrates not only on capturing the characters with accuracy and depth (which he accomplishes here as in his other novels) but also on painting the mood and character of the time itself.  This is the story not only of Owen and John Brown, but of pre-Civil War America itself.  <br />At 758 pages it isn't a quick read, and the characters develop more slowly than they do in his other novels, but I never found the book to be needlessly verbose.  We get a picture of John Brown that is comprehensive and complete, warts and all.  And we also get an interesting look at the institution of chattel slavery in the United States, its crushing effectiveness, and the racial norms of the time.  <br />Brown is painted as a man of principle, but a fanatic nonetheless.  His power over his small band of followers is based largely on his overwhelming charisma, not on his vision or his doomed mission.  The novel is based on actual events and therefore the reader knows how the action will end before it even begins, but Banks manages to keep the suspense building.  <br />Banks employs some strange tactics in this novel, including a risky \\"out of body\\" experience that mixes an element of fantastic into his otherwise literal and meticulous storytelling (you might think you've wandered into a Rushdie or Gabrial Marquez novel).  But somehow it all works.  In summary: an interesting and challenging novel.	2000-11-30
US	52754824	R32JWQDY5SD002	0553380664	464465760	Barbara Jordan: American Hero	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An effective treatment of an amazing woman	This is a well written and effective biography of one of America's most amazing personalities.  Mary Beth Rodgers tells Jordan's story with the advantage of being an insider; her access to those who knew Jordan well shows in her insightful and complete telling of Jordan's life.<br />Jordan is widely remembered by her public persona, the booming orator from Texas - the intellectual constitutional scholar  who presided over Nixon's impeachment.  But element that makes this biography compelling is Rodgers' depiction of the wheeling and dealing that allowed Jordan to cross barriers and operate effectively in the good-old-boy white male backrooms of the Texas Senate.  We get to see Jordan the idealist armed with the constitution in our nation's capital, but we also get to see Jordan the pragmatist cutting deals over a scotch in Austin Texas.  <br />An effective biography of an amazing American figure.	2000-11-29
US	52754824	R10FCZI7KJL8QG	0385497520	507343445	The Child in Time	Books	2	9	15	N	N	Disappointing	Having read and enjoyed nearly all of McEwan's work, I was very disappointed with The Child In Time, a novel which felt formulistic and paint-by-the-numbers.  The characters are bland and uninteresting, and in that we don't care about the characters we're never really drawn into the novel.  <br />The plot revolves around Stephen Lewis, an author of children's' books who takes his 3-year old daughter to a supermarket where she is kidnapped.  The events which follow concern Lewis' reflection on his life, on time, and on his relationship with his wife.  <br />A premise full of promise for McEwan's signature dark insight, but one which in my opinion never really pans out.  Read instead McEwan's excellent Black Dogs or The Comfort of Strangers.	2000-11-29
US	52754824	R3TTRD7WOK8CXN	0385494335	837058873	The Innocent: A Novel	Books	4	5	7	N	N	McEwan does Espionage?	The Innocent starts out as a meticulously detailed period piece, a marked departure for those readers who are fans of McEwan's previous work.  Protagonist Leonard Marnham is a naïve new addition to a British-American military intelligence team in Cold War Berlin.  Fans of espionage will find lots to like in McEwan's description of tunneling operations, surveillance, and the strange sequence of increasingly restrictive \\"top secret\\" classifications.<br />McEwan shows his versatility here in depicting Cold War intelligence operations, but even though it consumes half of the novel this is merely staging for what will come.  The story eventually (and suddenly) plunges back into familiar McEwan territory of love, sex, and violence as Marnham's relationship with his German lover spins brutally out of control.  <br />The Innocent in some ways lacks the complexity of Black Dogs and the subtlety of the Booker Prize winning Amsterdam, but it is immensely readable.  An enjoyable novel.	2000-11-29
US	52754824	RF2KTD6GQPDXA	0805241728	265926689	The Multiple Identities of the Middle East	Books	4	12	13	N	N	An academic treatment of &quot;Mideast&quot; culture	Lay readers like myself who are simply looking for a new insight on the cultural roots of the Mideast problem might find Multiple Identities of the Middle East a bit heavy (the chapter on \\"nation\\" for example, consists almost entirely of a discussion of the word's origin in the Jewish, Persian, Turkish, and Arabic tradition, tracing the roots back to their linguistic origins.)  <br />But although the book at times delves into a level of detail above and beyond that which will interest the casual reader, it is direct and clearly written, and in its short 160 pages Lewis does provide some valuable insights.  Lewis gives us a concise historical overview which highlights the differences and similarities between Islam, Judaism, and Christianity, and the varied cultures and societies of the region.   And most importantly, he highlights the fact that these different cultures view the world from very different viewpoints.  Within the \\"Middle East\\" (a term which he uses for the sake of familiarity, then quickly discards as being meaningless) both conflict and cohesion arise from these conflicting viewpoints.  <br />An informative read which taught me many things.	2000-11-29
US	52754824	R1CJC8RGRKB5H7	0802116418	139351741	Lord of the Barnyard: Killing the Fatted Calf and Arming the Aware in the Corn Belt	Books	3	16	17	N	N	Audacious debut	Surely not the most polished novel that you are likely to read this year, and literary purist will frown at Egolf's overblown style and dialogue-free prose.  Egolf is often ham-fisted and can be sloppy with the details (upon reading the climax you'll wonder if Egolf has ever even *seen* a basketball game).<br />But those flaws notwithstanding, Egolf has written an audacious jet-fueled debut which is somehow all the more compelling for it's absurdity.  Those reviewers who have criticized the novel have said little which I would directly contradict (no, there is no dialogue; yes, the characters are one dimensional) but somehow the sheer energy and inventiveness of the novel kept me glued throughout its four hundred pages.<br />Lord of the Barnyard is an Appalachian Confederacy of the Dunces on crack cocaine.  Egolf uses sheer creativity and his raw intelligence to muscle his way though a rollercoaster plot that takes us on a whirlwind tour of John Kaltenbrunner's backwoods heroism and larger than life exploits.  <br />And the novel is funny!  It made me laugh!<br />Egolf is a smart writer with talent.  Hats off to him for this gutsy first novel, flaws and all; I look forward to reading his future work.	2000-11-28
US	52754824	R27F44Z8MEAB8P	0684803356	896923	For Whom the Bell Tolls	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A must read � the definitive anti-war tale	For most readers the jury is back on Hemmingway; you love him or you hate him.  For fans of Hemmingway's prose this novel is a true masterpiece, but even those who aren't particularly fond of Hemmingway's sparse style will find lots to like in For Whom The Bell Tolls.  <br />Wrapped in a brisk plot of pre-combat suspense and the ensuing battle Hemmingway has hidden the definitive anti-war novel.  In the three days that we follow Robert Jordan's efforts for the Republic against the Fascists we watch him develop a love of incredible intensity with the girl Maria, then willingly throw everything away for a senseless fight between two equally irrational forces struggling for power in the eve of WWII.<br />The most powerful account of brutality and inhumanity is not attributed to the Fascists, but is Pilar's tale of the early days of the revolution and atrocities carried out by the Republicans - the side for which Jordan is risking his life.  Although moved by the tale and by Pilar's excellent account (indeed as most reviews comment this self-contained story of Pilar's is the strongest part of the novel) Jordan cannot veer from the path that has been set for him, both by his war hero grandfather and by his father; Jordan views his father as a coward because he died by suicide - a them which runs through the novel.  Even his unexpected discovery of Maria and true love cannot deflect him from his course of self-destruction.  <br />As an anti-war novel For Whom The Bell Tolls is elegant and subtle.  Hemmingway, in typical fashion, lionizes the warriors.  The American Jordan and the guerilla leader El Sordo are depicted as noble men of principle.  Even his treatment of the fascist lieutenant Berrendo is sympathetic.  Hemmingway's commentary is an attack on the senselessness of war (or this particular war, anyway) but those who fight that war are largely treated as tragic figures.  <br />The characters are among the most complete that I've encountered in a novel.  In that they're developed using Hemmingway's sparse style makes the feat all the more impressive.  The novel perhaps is a bit long, and there are in my opinion some extraneous elements that could have been omitted, but the conclusion is a masterpiece.  There are not many novels that have had as great an emotional effect on me.  A must read.	2000-11-16
US	52754824	R5SGAXVUWB559	0140189785	70046812	Victory (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Sweeping Narrative	Victory is in many ways more fluid and readable than Conrad's more dense works (for comparison sake I'd previously read Heart of Darkness and Conrad's collection of short stories Tales of Unrest.)  In Victory we have Conrad's standard fare of tragedy and man's isolation, but in this case wrapped in a tale of adventure and swept along by an uncharacteristically eventful plot.<br />Conrad's works have, of course, been reviewed to exhaustion; the only thing that I could hope to add would be my emotional response to the novel as a reader.<br />Personally through the majority of the novel I found Heyst to be the only truly well defined character.  Much of what we learn of him is revealed indirectly through the observations of others, but somehow Conrad manages to use this method to flesh out a complex and intriguing figure in Heyst.  The remanding characters, while interesting, serve mostly as scenery.  The villains Jones and Ricardo, while interesting, struck me not so much as human characters but as forces of impending doom; they could have as easily been an approaching storm or a plague or any other brand of natural disaster.  The girl Lena in the end is the one exception; perhaps the one thing that I found most gratifying is the way in which her character developed as the novel neared its climax.<br />The Penguin Classics version is well footnoted for those of you (like me) that would have missed some of the more obscure Biblical references and allusions to Paradise Lost.  The notes also comment on the narrator's shifting viewpoint, and on revisions Conrad made to subsequent editions.  For those readers interested in an insight into Conrad's thinking I'd recommend this version.	2000-10-12
US	52754824	R3VKGT2WAUNWR8	0385720793	424209838	Copenhagen	Books	5	11	16	N	N	Original, clever	A fascinating work which explores, as the cover notes point out, &quot;how we can ever know why we do what we do.&quot;<br />This is a study of Nazi era European politics, human nature, free will, and a refresher course on nuclear physics wrapped up in one thin volume.  I haven't seen the work performed, but the work relies almost entirely on dialogue so I enjoyed reading the script even though I haven't seen it in person.<br />The plot revolves around a fanciful posthumous dialogue between Werner Heisenberg, Niels Bohr, and Bohr's wife Margrethe.  The subject of their conversation: Heisenberg's 1941 trip to visit Bohr in Copenhagen when both men work working on the atomic bomb - Bohr for the Allied forces and Heisenberg for the Axis.  An excellent script.....a short but challenging work which examines the uncertainty principle as it applies both in physics and in human affairs.  Highly recommended.	2000-09-25
US	52754824	R2QR8YRC6Z8MI	0312204272	358028755	The Museum Guard: A Novel	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Disappointing	I immensely enjoyed Norman's The Bird Artist and was therefore looking forward to reading The Museum Guard.  This time around, however, I found myself disappointed.  In many ways, this novel is a re-hashing of the previous one, which in effect made the The Museum Guard feel formalistic.  I felt like I had been here before.<br />The formula consists of: a barren landscape, hopeless love, quirky relatives, a looming figure who eventually makes an unexpected entrance, and strange compulsions.  In The Bird Artist the looming figure was the renowned bird artist himself  with whom the protagonist maintains a relationship via mail.  In The Museum guard the figure is Ovid Lamartime, the doomsday radio personality who prophesizes Hitler's quest for world conquest.   Fabian, the protagonist of The Bird Artist, deals with crisis through his strange obsession for compulsively drinking great quantities of coffee.  DeFoe Russet, the protagonist of The Museum Guard, compulsively irons shirts.  <br />Although I continue to enjoy the Hemmigway-esque sparseness of  Norman's prose this novel did not captivate me.  DeFoe Russet is a museum guard who falls in love with Imogen Linny, the caretaker at the local Jewish cemetery.   DeFoe is a character that I never managed to care about, and Imogen is a character that I never managed to like.  I never cared if they got together or not.  <br />Read the excellent The Bird Artist instead.  The Museum Guard is, in my opinion, is recycled material.	2000-09-24
US	52754824	R3UXC9K3VJQZB7	0684800713	781452863	The Sun Also Rises	Books	5	4	6	N	N	It all started with Hemmingway	Writing a reader review of a classic might be considered a fool's errand (what is there to say that hasn't been said) but my re-reading of Fiesta made a sufficiently strong impression on me that I'm motivated to say a few words.<br />I'd originally read this book ten years ago as a college undergraduate; a chore forced upon me as part of a course requirement.  In the years that followed I've become a fan of contemporary writers like Richard Ford, J. M. Coetzee, and Howard Norman for their brutally economical style.  But upon my re-reading of Fiesta I'm reminded of what I perhaps knew all along - it all started with Hemmingway.<br />In Fiesta, as in all of Hemmingway's works, you find yourself concentrating on what is said, rather than how it is said.  This makes the characters compelling and real.  One thing that makes this novel a classic is the fact that the characters are as immediate and relevant now as they were when the novel appeared in 1926.<br />The book has a variety of lively and beautiful settings throughout the Spanish countryside, focusing famously on the bullfights in Pamplona.  Hemmingway brings these sights and sounds to life.  In terms of human nature, however, there isn't much pretty to be seen.  Envy, alcoholism, racism, and despair are the main currents of emotion, consuming a group of rich well-bred expatriates who on the surface shouldn't have a care in the world..<br />A powerful, subtle, novel.  If you, like me, were beaten over the head with this novel as part of your college literature requirements then give it another try.	2000-09-24
US	52754824	R38S3RMBEJ3GZH	0805062912	390089534	The Long Gray Line: The American Journey of West Point's Class of 1966	Books	4	29	33	N	N	Perceptive and accurate	I graduated from West Point in 1991, some twenty five years after the class chronicled in the book.  Atkinson's description of life at the Academy is dead accurate (amazing how few changes twenty five years have delivered) and one assumes that his perceptive reporter's eye extends to the combat scenes in Vietnam.  Therefore, for me this book is one of the definitive accounts of the Vietnam era.  In that my generation has to rely on second-hand accounts to understand this era, The Long Gray Line is an authoritative guide.  <br />Strongly recommended for anyone interested in West Point, the Vietnam War, or the societal upheaval which followed the war's conclusion.	2000-09-24
US	52754824	R2PID9DANLKMSM	0786706589	102554068	Leading the Cheers: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Entertaining, perceptive, intelligent	Leading the Cheers is a quick and entertaining read which manages to cover a lot of bases.  Underlying the plotline is the revelation that we view the world through only one set of eyes - that our subjective picture of reality might be little more than a self-serving illusion.<br />Reviews praise the book as \\"hilarious\\" and \\"funny\\", whereas I'd probably say \\"amusing\\" or \\"ironic\\".  Cartwright has an intelligent and sharp sense of humor, but it is definitely of drier/more ironic nature than is implied by these descriptions; this was not a book that made me laugh.  <br />That said, this was a lively and compelling novel with interesting, well-developed characters and a good mix between plot and introspection.  The storyline involves a successful British ad executive's return to Michigan, his childhood home, to attend his high school reunion.  Although he has never questioned his interpretation of the events of his youth he suddenly finds himself faced with a number of questions.  Things aren't always as they seem.  Along the way we get some sharp insights on middle-American culture, Indian rituals, and the meaning of \\"success\\" and \\"failure\\".<br />A quirky cast of characters includes a lanky descendant of Northern European immigrants who following his nervous breakdown during his freshman year at Harvard channels the spirit of a long dead Native American called Pale Eagle; a serial killer serving a life sentence; and a group of former high school cheerleaders and jocks facing middle age stranded in their small-town environment.  <br />Other reviewers have pointed out some factual inconsistencies, which I honestly would not have noticed.  Regardless, I enjoyed Cartwright's eye for detail and well-crafted descriptions.  A thought-provoking and original novel.	2000-09-21
US	52754824	RC8B8MPXE85XH	0395856981	988344616	A Dangerous Friend	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Excellent novel of the early days of Vietnam	A subtle, perfectly nuanced depiction of the early days of the Vietnam  war.  The tension of combat lingers through the book, but the bombings and  firefights are largely kept to the background.  What Ward Just creates is  an authentic story of the civilians, soldiers and bureaucrats who laid the  foundation for a war that would eventually become a catastrophic failure  for the United States.  <br />Just does an excellent job of showing the  complexity of Vietnam; the bureaucrats vs the military, the new American  imperialists vs the old French colonialists, nation-building vs  firebombing.  <br />The book centers around  Sydney Parade, a sociologist sent  to Vietnam to work with a somewhat mysterious government agency, the  Llewellyn group, which is charged with collecting information and winning  the hearts and minds of the Vietnamese though community projects.  He is  tasked with winning the cooperation of a French rubber planter and his  American wife, relics of French colonialism who are living &quot;between  the lines&quot; in an effort to avoid choosing sides and therefore becoming  involved.  <br />&quot;We went to Vietnam because we wanted to.&quot;   Explains the narrator.  &quot;We were not drafted.  We were encouraged to  volunteer and if our applications were denied, we applied again.&quot;   Just captures the optimism, confusion, bureacracy, and overconfidence of  America's early days in Vietnam, and we soon get a glimpse of the impending  disillusionment.<br />Just covered the Vietnam war as a correspondent, and his  first-hand familiarity with the conflict shows.  An excellent novel.	2000-08-29
US	52754824	R1FSTMLY1KKTOV	0738202401	17076797	The End Of Shareholder Value: Corporations At The Crossroads	Books	3	15	17	N	N	Thought provoking, but not convincing	Managers currently has as their mandate the creation of shareholder value.   Kennedy advocates discarding this benchmark for a new, fuzzier set of  measures that addresses the needs of other stakeholders (employees,  government, environment, suppliers).  <br />This is neither necessary nor  appropriate; shareholder value works - and in effect successfully considers  non-shareholder stakeholders. Kennedy makes some interesting points in this  book, but in the end in his quest to end the philosophy of shareholder  value he is throwing the baby out with the bathwater.<br />Kennedy's  contention is that high paid managers of our public corporations are  running their companies into the ground in the pursuit of, as he repeatedly  calls it, &quot;higher share price now.&quot;  They are, he claims,  mortgaging their companies' futures for profits today.  <br />Kennedy does not  make a particularly strong argument for this view; his examples of current  corporate abuses are weak, and he ducks issues that would contradict his  claim.  <br />The two main case studies Kennedy presents are General Electric  and Cisco.  Both companies, even by his reckoning, are rock solid  companies.  They will continue to grow, both in revenues and probability.   The problem?  A) their stocks are overvalued and B) it is unlikely that  they will continue to grow at the same astronomical rates.<br />Fair enough.   But this is not much of a criticism on management.  Kennedy consistently  fails to show that managers are acting inappropriately, or that they're  actually destroying value.  This book might have more appropriately been  titled &quot;the markets are out of their minds.&quot;  The correction will  come.  In this vein Kennedy's argument is convincing. <br />That's not to say  that I think that Cisco is a bad company, nor that the Cisco managers have  acted inappropriately.  Indeed, they've performed splendidly.  We have  every reason to believe that the company will continue its success.However it is inappropriate that the stock is currently trading at 100+  multiples.<br />An important principle of market theory is that the stock  price is a proxy for long-term profitability.  As we've seen in the Cisco  case, this does not work perfectly all of the time (that is what market  corrections are for).  The market whips around as the speculators move in  and out based on quarterly earnings and other news, but in the long run the  stock price should reflect all available information about the company  which impacts the company's long-term profitability.  <br />Kennedy includes  entire chapters on the destructiveness of the shareholder value movement on  governments, suppliers, and employees.  However, his treatment is  superficial - these interests (those of the shareholders and the various  stakeholders) should in the long-term be aligned.  A company who abuses  their employees will see their intellectual capital flee as employees leave  to work for the competition.  This affects the share price.  A company who  flaunts environmental regulations should in the least be affected adversely  by customers who choose to buy from more responsible firms, and in stronger  cases be sued back to the stone age.  This affects the share price. <br />End  the end companies add value to society by being profitable.  The efficient  market hypothesis tells us that the share price is a proxy for this  long-term profitability, incorporating all available information.  Kennedy  never explicitly addresses this theory; this is the book's biggest blind  spot.  <br />Some of the recommendations are insightful; particularly those  that deal with the composition of corporate boards and with the release of  information.  This is a provocative and though provoking book, but in the  end Kennedy makes a weak case for throwing out the benchmark of shareholder  value as the motivation which guides our corporations.	2000-07-09
US	52754824	R13ZX0GESRG0NK	0375401229	840637172	Tuff	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Outlandish.  Entertaining	In Tuff, Paul Beaty presents us with one of the most unlikely casts of characters you're likely to encounter this year. <br />We have Winston \\"Tuffy\\" Foshay, the 300 pound neighborhood strongman turned politician from Spanish  Harlem.  His father, an aging Black Panther turned Poet.  His  mother-figure, a Japanese concentration-camp survivor turned radical  activist.  Tuffy's multiple sclerosis stricken sidekick.  His mentor, a  dreadlocked black rabi with a taste for easy listening music and imported  lagers.  Toss in the token ghetto white-boy and his bank robbing mother,  Tuffy's street smart wife, a trio of Puerto Rican triplets (who happen to  be cops) and a few of Japanese Sumo wrestlers for good measure and you have  Paul Beatty's latest novel.<br />Not everything here works, but then again how  could it?  But this is an enjoyable novel with a highly authentic voice.   Tuffy is a complex character; a tough-guy from the streets who happens to  develop a taste for imported films.  He is teetering on the verge of  aspiring to higher things, and although he's not an altogether likeable  character the reader finds himself pulling for him.  <br />At times the book  reads like a string of situation comedy episodes.  Here's Tuffy's narrow  escape from a drug hit.  Then we get Tuffy in the City Council debate.   Next: Tuffy sumo wrestles.  Not everything ties together seamlessly.   <br />But to save the novel we have Paul Beatty's excellent eye and authentic  literary voice.  An highly original novel, and entertaining in it's  audaciousness.	2000-06-05
US	52754824	R2IBV5QWNJK7R1	0684863340	245309695	The Catastrophist: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Authentic.  Gripping.  Multi-Faceted	An Irish author, his Italian lover, an American spy, and a host of African revolutionaries compromise an unlikely cast of characters that Bennet amazingly manages to make believable, even compelling.  <br />This is a story  of love lost, art vs. politics, trust and betrayal, all superimposed on the  backdrop of Patrice Lumumba's struggle in the Belgian Congo.  The reader  can't help but be drawn in by the hopelessness of the protagonist's pursuit  of his lost lover.  The characters are complex, flawed, and realistic.   <br />This is a bleak novel of self destruction and situations out of control.   The protagonist is intentionally apolitical (which causes the rift with  his former lover) but his story mirrors the political conflict that  surrounds him.<br />A masterful, well researched, thoughtful novel.  A love  story and a political novel all at once, which manages never to be  pretentious or preachy. Excellent!	2000-05-26
US	52754824	R2PGUW8QY00YYP	0385494149	801233492	Enduring Love: A Novel	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Doesn't follow up on strong opening	The amazing opening sequence is probably the most masterful passage that I've enjoyed from any of McEwan's novels.  A group of strangers suddenly in inexplicably swept up in a tragedy over which they have no control.   Gripping, and not a word out of place.  Disturbing.  McEwan at his dark  best.<br />Somehow, however, the novel never quite manages to follow up.   McEwan touches on a number of things: relationships, psychology, career,  ambition, science - but for me the sum product was never quite satisfying.   <br />The novel centers around the protagonist Joe Rose, a journalist, who is  pursued (stalked) by a man with a psychopathic infatuation that they share  a special link and are bound by love.<br />Although it is obvious that McEwan  had researched the mental condition that he's reporting, I was never quite  caught up by the characters.  Enduring Love never quite puts the diverse  elements together.  In the end it reads like an interesting medical piece,  not like a compelling novel.  <br />More strongly recommended by McEwan: \\"The  Innocent\\" and \\"The Comfort of Strangers.\\"	2000-05-26
US	52754824	R2E4BPYTWZAO1V	0679735879	628163864	The Unconsoled	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A strange experiement in writing; a study in anxiety	This was a maddening infuriating novel that somehow managed to captivate me. <br />The story does not follow what one would conventionally call a \\"plot\\".  A pianist comes to an unnamed Central/Eastern European town to  save the locals from impending cultural disaster.  From the very strange  things happen: we're taken on ten-minute elevator rides, we're lectured, we  face requests and pleas at every turn, we're led down passageways with  illogical beginnings and ends, and confronted with characters who never  quite reveal their hidden motives.<br />This is an experiment in writing.  The  reader feels as if he/she is reading the transcript of a fevered dream  which never quite spins into a nightmare, and we're captivated by the  experience.  This is a study in constructed anxiety.  We know we're on the  path to some sort of impending doom but we can't get out of the way.  <br />I  read The Unconsoled years ago and I still vividly remember the details; the  illogical leaps in time and inexplicable coincidences.  This is a strange  and complicated novel that left me exhausted.  This is not a feel-good  read.  Its strange format notwithstanding it addresses some big issues.   What is community?  What is the individual's obligation to others?  How are  we united and what separates us?  And in the end, what control do we have  over our own lives, much less the lives of those who depend on us.     <br />A  courageous novel.  A strange experiment that, in the end, works quite well.	2000-05-26
US	52754824	R25ODMSCPV4I3D	0684819066	87039745	A Beautiful Mind : A Biography of John Forbes Nash, Jr.	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A fair biography made memorable by an extrodinary subject	An interesting study of a number of subjects: mathematics and economics, life in academia, schizophrenia, Nobel politics, and last but not least the complex personality of John Nash.<br />Nasar's journalistic style does not  make for spellbinding reading, but the subject is himself interesting  enough that the book keeps the reader's interest through it's 450 page.  To  Nasar's credit, she strikes the perfect balance between in presenting the  mathematical themes.  She neither presents too little nor too much, and she  does this in a way that allows lay readers to appreciate the elegance of  Nash's discoveries.<br />Nash is not always a likeable character, but he  always fascinates. Nasar paints the supporting characters with enough  realism and depth that the reader cares what happens next; the pages keep  turning.  A good science biography.	2000-05-26
US	52754824	R38AU72KKKS0ZX	0679736638	158144239	The Confessions of Nat Turner	Books	4	377	391	N	N	Racist?  Decide for yourself.	If William Styron has done us a disservice it's that he's unleashed upon America the concept of political correctness.  The backlash against this book, to a large extent, is what started it all.  Some of the criticism is  on-target, but much is unfair.  <br />Slaves typically have been depicted in  one of two ways: as the simple-minded shuffling watermelon-eating darkie,  or as the noble African struggling valiantly against the tyrannical white  plantation.  <br />One depiction is overtly racist, and the secondly is  unrealistically romantic (and in it's own way demeaning).<br />What Styron  gives us is \\"none of the above\\".  What he tries to depict is a reality that  is often overlooked or not acknowledged: that chattel slavery in the  American South was a ruthlessly and crushingly effective system; so  effective that throughout its history (from the 1600's through the  Emancipation Proclamation) there were only two armed rebellions.<br />Slavery  was obviously a great evil; it is equally obvious that as a mechanism for  suppressing the enslaved it was remarkably effective.   It follows that  this mechanism will have an effect on the suppressed.  Chattel slavery was,  in many cases, a \\"breaker of spirits\\".<br />The depiction of the slaves in  this book is not always positive.  What Styron tries to show (sometimes  successfully) is that slavery was a heavy weight, and that the slaves who  bore this weight were not always noble.  This is what many readers have  found offensive, and why the book has been labeled \\"racist\\".  This was not  my impression (my background: I'm an African American raised in  Texas.)<br />This is a novel full of ugliness and negative characters.  There  is not a single fully sympathetic character in the entire book, black or  white.  In this way, it is an exploration of the evil of slavery.<br />This  novel is not a history lesson; and in that many readers accept the fiction  as fact Styron might have done us an additional disservice.  Styron himself  acknowledges this in the forward of the recent addition.  The controversy  surrounding Confessions is not what it once was, but I'd encourage anyone  who has deliberately avoided the book because they've been told it is  racist to read it and decide for yourself.	2000-05-26
US	52754824	R3G09OB9OHK3TQ	0060997001	824415635	Farewell Waltz: A Novel	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Atypical Kundera fare	This is the most readable of Kundera's works, and is handled differently form his other novels.  The contrast with \\"The Unbearable Lightness of Being\\" is striking; he sticks to the plotline and avoids the philosophical.   <br />Kundera's standard formula is to put the character in a situation that  is profound and offers some insight, then step back as narrator and explain  to the reader exactly why this situation is profound and what is the  insight.<br />This is not a criticism.  Kundera is clearly a master and  Unbearable Lightness is one of my favorite novels.  It is simply that  &quot;the Farewell Waltz\\" is different; those expecting more standard  Kundera fare might be disappointed.  I myself was delighted.<br />The  characters were diverse, irreverent, and interesting.  Despite the farcical  nature of the novel they remain believable.  This is a novel that one can  read and enjoy for the story, the character mix, the black humor, and the  occasional political musings.  Kundera does not beat the reader over the  head with the philosophical points; these are left for you to discover.  A  wonderful book.	2000-05-26
US	52754824	RV4AC1DGT7PJM	0452260116	312810069	Song of Solomon	Books	5	5	8	N	N	A masterpiece	If you read only one novel by Toni Morrison this should be it.  This was the one great work that she was meant to write; her works that follow read like recycled material.<br />This is one of my three all-time favorites (the  other two being Rushdie's \\"The Satanic Verses\\" and Garcia Marquez's \\"One  Hundred Years of Solitude\\" - the three share many similarities.)  There is  already a body of literary criticism on this book so I'll make one comment:   <br />Through what I admit to be an irrational prejudice I tend to read male  authors; one reads novels to identify with the characters and this is  easier done when there is no gender gap.  The incredible thing about  Solomon, however, is the amazing authenticity of the two complex male  leads: Milkman and Guitar.  The internal turmoil, confusion, chaos, search  for manhood, all are perfectly done.  This is a beautiful, complex,  perfectly accurate piece of writing.<br />These characters are developed  against (and as part of) a background of race and racism, society and  clasism, rich vs. poor, North vs. South, frivolity vs. idealism, all woven  in an amazing literary tapestry.  A masterpiece.  Hypnotizing.  Compelling.   I've read it three times.  I couldn't recommend it more highly.	2000-05-26
US	52754824	R2PCDVEWK417T8	0060925744	580597952	Continental Drift Tie-In	Books	5	59	65	N	N	Excellent	This is Banks' finest novel.<br />Bob Dubois, is a powerful and well developed protagonist; a blue-collar worker in snowy New Hampshire who tries to escape the hopelessness of his dead-end existence and fizzling  marriage by traveling south to Florida.  But Bob loses control of his  situation, and his predestined path is dictated by forces outside of his  control, just as plate tectonics dictates the drift of our wayward  continents.  <br />Dubois is a beautifully written character.  He's a moral  man who tries to do the right thing, and in the end it's his morality that   brings the tragedy to its conclusion.  On the other side of this collision  course are two Hatian immigrants with which Bob shares everything and  nothing.  Banks once again shows his knowledge of Caribbean cultures - a  reoccurring theme in his novels.  <br />Love, sex, desperation, hope, good vs.  evil, racism, free-will versus destiny, these are all elements interwoven  into a tightly written story.  An excellent novel.	2000-05-26
US	52754824	R1GNGTJHOE4J6I	0465067972	764075068	Race And Culture: A World View	Books	4	108	112	N	N	Balanced, scholarly treatment of a difficult subject	Race and Culture\\" would more accurately be titled \\"Culture and Race\\".  The book is a masterful treatment of cultural differences worldwide and how they have directed the course that our world's societies have taken.  Race  (the hot-button) get's a less extensive treatment.<br />On this topic of race,  the book is most provocative in Sowell's chapter \\"Race and Intelligence\\".   Sowell is clear in his analysis and the reader comes away feeling that he  has presented a balanced set of findings.   Sowell is careful with his  assumptions; he extensively reports the results of IQ tests worldwide  without going so far as to suggest that these tests actually measure innate  intellectual ability.  Although he unflinchingly points to differences  which fall along racial lines, he also points to the fact that these test  scores change over time (dramatically in some cases, with some American  immigrant groups acquiring 18 points of IQ as their racial group  assimilated into American culture and the academic  tradition.)<br />Differences in test scores, therefore, are presented as  differences in performance.  It is undeniable that some groups, such as  African Americans, consistently score lower on certain standardized tests.   It takes a balanced look at all the data to understand why.  As an African  American who is interested in such issues, I came away feeling that Sowell  had not ducked the hard issues, considered all of the evidence, and reached  valid conclusions.<br />At the end of the day it is clear that Sowell is an  economist; one can almost see supply and demand curves superimposed on the  page behind the wording.  If there is a flaw in the book it is that his  academic viewpoint as an economist skews his view of human nature.  We're  presented with repeated examples of the un-economic results of  discrimination.  While we know that this is true, we also know that people  often make un-economic decisions for emotional reasons.  <br />This, however  is nit-picking (it is easy to bash economists).  Overall this is a balanced  treatment and an impressive work of scholarship that will leave the reader  thinking.  This is a book to which I'll refer in the future.	2000-05-25
US	52754824	R4J0H288I92A8	0060929790	795338322	One Hundred Years of Solitude	Books	5	233	254	N	N	A masterpiece.  Classic	The beginning of the book contains a family tree of the Buendia family, and if you're like me you'll surely mangle and dog-ear this page as you work your way though the book, trying to keep track of the Aurelianos,  Remedios, and Ursulas.  <br />But the struggle is worth it.  This was truly  the great novel that Garcia Marquez was meant to write; to me everything of  Marquez that followed seems like recycled material.  I first read One  Hundred Years of Solitude years ago before moving to Latin America.  Now  that I here and have read it again, many of the messages that before were  inaccessible now reveal themselves.   The Story of Macondo is the story of  Colombia and, to a larger extent, of Latin America.  The reviewers tell us  this, but it is amazing to see it with my own eyes.<br />The literal and the  fantastic are interwoven with a seamlessness that amazes.  One compares his  style with Kafka before and Kundera after, literary voice established in  this novel has withstood the test of time.  It remains unique.<br />The book  is at once funny, sad, tragic; it's history and fantasy.  But overall it is  a marvelous read.  Clearly one of my all time favorites.  There are very  few books that I recommend as highly as this one.  A true classic.	2000-05-25
US	52754824	R2ZI27G2Y298M6	0140274782	38246072	Wobegon Boy	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Entertaining, smart	More stories of the stoic Norwegian Lutherans of Lake Wobegon from America's favorite humorist.  I was amazed that a book with such a straight-man low key sense of humor was able to make me laugh out loud so  many times.  <br />Some of the things (living in New York City, life in  academia) I could relate with; in these areas I found his views funny and  at times even insightful.  More interesting, however, was the fact that I  was so compelled by those things with which I have nothing in common  (Scandinavian immigrant culture, Minnesota in general).  Keillor is a great  communicator who reaches across cultures.  <br />Although I'm familiar with  Keilor from NPR, this is the first novel of his that I've read.  One is  forced to like the flawed protagonist John Tollefson; and I found myself  appreciating the low-key dry humor of Minnesota Lutherans as well.  <br />An  easy, entertaining read.  Funny.  Occasionally insightful.   Recommended.<br />A trivia note:  in discussing Norwegian National Day Keillor  gets the date wrong!	2000-05-25
US	52754824	R2I7I5044KKSM7	0393318885	27174518	The Wealth and Poverty of Nations: Why Some Are So Rich and Some So Poor	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Excellent historical overview	This was a thoughtful and well written book.  Although Landis is an academic and is therefore rigorous in supporting his arguments, he does not shy away from the occasional anecdote that makes the book readable and, at  times, even funny.   This book is a good read.<br />Landis shows an amazing  span of knowledge, showing both geographic and chronological breadth.   I  found myself acquiring a lot of new facts from this book.  This, in itself,  makes the book worth reading.<br />What I found lacking, however, was a theory  to wrap all of these observations together.  A book with a grandiose title  such as this one promises to the reader some overarching grand theory that  links the economic successes and failures of societies throughout the ages;  that offers some insights into the question that he poses on the cover:  \\"...why some are so rich and some are so poor.\\"<br />This, for me, was something  of a tease.  I enjoyed reading the author's observations on various  cultures and their economic successes and failures, however I don't think I  left with a better comprehensive understanding of the fundamental factors  that drive economic success.  <br />I did get some insight, for example, on  why the Japanese were able to become a first-tier techonologica/economic  power despite missing out on Europe's industrial revolution.  I also  understand a bit better how China destroyed their technological/economic  head start on Europe by deliberately choosing isolationism.  And I got  something out of the contrasts between economic growth in North and South  America.  But I'm not sure that I got any understanding of the thread that  binds these diverse successes and failures.  <br />Landis handles facts and  regional analysis masterfully, however, I can't help but feel that I waded  through six hundred pages waiting for the punchline that never came.	2000-05-18
US	52754824	R3MN4LQH1KT3MD	0670887315	929204920	Disgrace	Books	5	37	40	N	N	Elegant, Economical, Complex	This is a work well deserving of its accolades and very likely one of the best books that I'll read this year. <br />\\"Disgrace\\" is a book that, somehow, never allows you to get your bearings.  The charm of this book is Coetzee's   amazing ability to effortlessly shift moods, from dark humor to  interpersonal interaction to political insight.  His writing is light,  precise, never verbose, and always razor-sharp.<br />Disgrace is the story of  David Lurie, a Capetown professor who's middle-aged philandering puts him  into a situation that his pride and confused idealism won't let him  gracefully escape; he therefore loses his job and his reputation.  This  leads him on a journey to rediscover himself, his relationship with his  daughter, and eventually the unfolding chaos of his changing  country.<br />Laurie is a protagonist filled with flaws, but one with whom the  reader ultimately can relate.  We cringe in the beginning as we watch his  self destructive behavior unwind his life, then watch as Cotezee's expert  literary voice takes the novel in unexpected directions.  Indeed, the first  and second halves of the books are like two different novels.  The story of  David Laurie becomes the story of South Africa.<br />In reading this novel one  is hit hard with the complex racial and political reality of modern South  Africa; in many ways this is not a work of hope. Throughout it all Cotezee  avoids being judgmental, wallowing in stereotypes, or ducking difficult  truths. <br />In summary this is a brilliant novel: a well-crafted quick read  with realistic, flawed, sympathetic characters.	2000-05-18
US	52754824	R1Z1JGBI9PFUNA	1559704446	298723638	Europa	Books	2	1	6	N	N	Some interesting points, but flawed with weak characters	Europa is a hodge-podge of philosophical musings, unlikely characters, uninteresting recollections, and un-noteworthy events that left me cold.<br />Jerry Marlow, a college professor, is the main protagonist who with his colleagues sets off on a long-distance bus trip to save their jobs by lobbying with a group of European bureaucrats. He has no interest in doing this, but does so because his French ex-girlfriend is along as well. She's a character that we never manage to like, therefore the reader never wishes that the two should get back together. <br />In fact, the reader never manages to like Jerry; his philosophical pondering comes across more like pretentious self-important whining. The only other character of note is a Welsh speaking Indian born and bred in Wales, a character so unlikely and outlandish that the reader never quite buys the concept.<br />There are some interesting points in the book, and more than one passage that made me laugh. But in the end, one gets the feeling the author is more interested in impressing the reader with his sophistication and cultural breadth than telling a readable story or developing interesting characters<br />Looking for a novel about a man seeking love lost amidst a colorful political backdrop? Try Ronan Bennett's expertly written &quot;The Catastrophist&quot;.	2000-05-18
