US	52757881	R341EF0LQXD95	0441865844	510395498	Voice of Our Shadow	Books	2	9	18	N	N	A weak effort from Carroll	Having begun reading Carroll at the beginning, I found \\"Land of Laughs\\" to be very entertaining, with a natural, gradual, though late-beginning integration of the supernatural element into the story. Surprises encountered along the way only deepened that integration, as if periodically, the reader is made to see, \\"Ok, it's even more than that.\\" The sense of something being wrong is pulled along and twisted this way and that until at the end, with the necessary understanding possessed by the hero (and the reader) at last, the final turns of the story result in what can appropriately be termed a denoument, with an accompanying, bonus twist of sorts added on. <br />Newly impressed by this author whom I'd heard and read much about, and liking authors often grouped with him (and since his books take about two days to read), I picked up a few more novels. What I found, for the most part, and \\"Voice of Our Shadow\\" is the prime example, is what amounts to a bunch of shaggy-dog stories. Notwithstanding the overwhelming similarity of the first-person narrative voices in Carroll's books, whether male or female, the main problem seems to be the sufficiency, for Carroll, in simply revealing a magical element to said narrative. One gets an intimate life story with a supernatural element creeping in roughly halfway through the story, and then there is a big revelation near the end, and that's all. The very existence of the magical element is the sum total of the reason for the existence of the story. In \\"Bones of the Moon,\\" it's \\"Oh, her dream-world impinges on reality;\\" and here, it's \\"Oh, right, if there's one dead person who's 'returned' there can be another.\\" That is all. One couldn't meaningfully say that we are forced to reevaluate what has gone before, any more than we search for deeper meaning once someone has concluded telling us a joke. The twist is just that and nothing more; any reevaluation of what has gone before is one and the same with recognition of the surprise.Most importantly, nothing takes place afterward, so there is no subsequent development of plot or hero, and we are left with only the dull idea that things will be different now. All of this only underscores the shaggy-dog structure of his middle novels. Beyond even this is the fact that in \\"Voice of Our Shadow,\\" the final shock does nothing to change the hero's predicament, it is merely a redundant twist on his story. <br />Some of Carroll's later works, like \\"The Marriage of Sticks,\\" which is even more similar than usual to \\"Sleeping in Flame,\\" at least are wrapped more vividly in a package of self-revelation, with a more gradual, suspenseful working-out of the mysteries surrounding the hero's (self-) discoveries. But the stories, and problems with them, remain. The heroes are flawed, emotionally needy people, and are magically taught a lesson about who they are. It is unfortunate that someone who showed as much promise as Carroll, and who, it must be fair, still shows flashes of his ability, has essentially become a factory for \\"product,\\" churning out increasingly familiar and redundant work. So do not read this one, and instead begin with \\"The Land of Laughs\\" and proceed cautiously from there.	2002-03-29
US	52757881	RLTQV9TT7NYKM	067400633X	936848573	Public Intellectuals: A Study of Decline	Books	4	6	10	N	Y	Interesting, and fun, but somewhat muddled in approach	On the whole this is a very good and entertaining book by an extremely intelligent, widely-read, fair-minded writer. Posner here continues his pragmatic, Gary Becker-influenced economic approach to issues, and while some might find his quantitative methods inadequate (largely Google searching) I think they are as good as anything else one might come up with for such an awkward and hard-to-define topic, and in light of the increasing size and importance of the shadow-intellectual-sphere aspect of the web, including but not limited to the blogosphere, it seems particularly apropos. <br />Others have noted that Posner spends some time taking shots (well-earned) at various members of his target (pardon the pun) group, and while it may seem capricious of and unbefitting a supposed serious study, in most cases these shots are in keeping with at least the \\"humanities\\" aspect of this work. My main quibble is that a good deal of what goes on in the public intellectual sphere is talk-show punditry, of the \\"Crossfire\\" and \\"Hardball\\" ilk, and much of what's left is commentary in magazines and newsapers. What is communicated through these venues is more akin to legal advocacy than reasoned discussion, and obviously this environment selects for those participants most willing and able to display passion and often a loose use of what those of us who have not yet turned our backs on the classical tradition like to call \\"facts,\\" instead deploying illogic and easily-refuted (if there was time) claims, or shifting to another argument. The point is that while Posner in the first, \\"social science\\" half of the book points out the entertainment (as opposed to educational, or information-disseminating) nature of the public intellectual market, he strains to avoid using examples from this end of the public intellectual arena, while overall still seeming to want an accountability superimposed on that world. Posner tries to avoid saying this, but clearly that is what he is aiming at. <br />Anexample:  some kind of internet scorecard would be welcome for academics' legitimate writings and speeches, and if it helped to shut up the next Paul Ehrlich or Lester Thurow, great, but most people in academics know Thurow is a bonehead, and if Posner is disappointed at some influence Thurow might have on the public, why isn't he more concerned with those intellectuals who more overtly interact within the public sphere?  I think that clearly Posner is aware of this, and knows that to in any way expect that scorekeeping would ever have any effect on the true entertainment segment of the public intellectual world is wishcasting, and disingenuous as well, so he avoids saying it.  <br />And that gets to the real issue, that even if we could somehow force the appropriate intellectuals on to the carpet to account for their statements, they'd just say \\"Hey, it's entertainment,\\" or  \\"I'm being political,\\" or quietly slink away. And they'd get away with it, because we all know, and don't care (or not enough) that ultimately it is not serious in the way academic work is. And as infuriating as the quality of much public intellectual content is, it is awkward at best to in any way group things like television appearances with serious publications. This would have been a better book if Posner had made it a main point of his book to emphasize this discontinuity, and wash his hands of it, but he can't resist trying to judge the former by the hoped-for standards of the latter, and it is simply silly to do so. And if he is not, then the entire book is a bit of a sham, because in this day and age any public intellectual worth worrying about operates via the mass media, and I don't mean the occasional book.  Alan Dershowitz' books sell well, but only because people know him from his work as a TV pundit; and it is only because of this aspect of his public personality that he can, in the supposedly more serious world of books, get away with writing in a very heated, partisan fashion and at the same time sell in large numbers.  Posner could have outlined his book with the idea that the farther one gets from the academic world, and the more \\"public\\" an audience one reaches, the lower the quality of discourse, which is certainly true. One can be an irresponsible pundit and a highly respected scholar. It is perhaps unfortunate, but it isn't going to stop being true overnight.  One possible corrective is the blossoming \\"web\\" of professional and amateur commentary found on the internet, alluded to above, which in a sense is a bottom-up, decentralized version of what Posner proposes.  We can only wait and see.	2002-03-29
US	52757881	R380QATYFOM5EZ	0440222680	557216593	Fade Away (Myron Bolitar)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Best of a not quite first-rate series	This Bolitar novel, #3 is pretty clearly just a little deeper than the others, while still maintaining all the peripheral features that make the series so fun.  Typical characteristics include lots of characters, very intricate plotting, a few startling revelations, a great deal of generally dry humor, and ongoing relationships which Coben is careful to add to and change a little within each installment.  That's all here, and the basketball angle which dredges up Bolitar's past is more compelling than the personal angle of the other books in the series - with the exception of the most recent, where it's pretty heavy.  My two quibbles with the series are (1) that Win, the sidekick, extends the Hawk/Meyer tradition even further out into the realm of total implausibility, and (2) one gets the impression that Coben uses substantially the same diagram for the plots of all his books, particularly the later ones.  Still, much fun.	2001-07-23
US	52757881	R2OV7FKHBA66J2	0449224600	473764357	Pale Gray for Guilt (Travis McGee Mysteries)	Books	2	5	11	N	N	Very poor McGee	I'm sorry, but I completely disagree with the other reviewers.  I found this book to be shockingly bad.  While other McGee books sparkle with Travis' commentaries on social trends and peripheral characters, and possess intricate plots, this book was a straightforward revenge story, with McGee and his sidekick Meyer confidently and flawlessly triumphing over the evildoers.  There is no suspense, and the book is written in a rather haughty style, glorifying the abilities and righteousness of McGee.  I was nauseated by the final third, just trying to finish it up, shaking my head at the lack of suspense and the wooden tone.  I think one has to have a simplistic devotion to the series and/or character to see this installment as among the best of the series, because it comes off as sort of a love letter from MacDonald to McGee.  Try &quot;Long Lavender Look&quot; for a McGee with all this series has to offer, and don't read this one until you're thoroughly immersed in the series.	2001-07-23
US	52757881	R8LY0LHSINB44	0964849399	671187525	Champions: The Lives, Times, and Past Performances of the 20th Century's Greatest Thoroughbreds	Books	5	32	32	N	Y	A must-have for fans who appreciate the history of racing	This is a big coffee-table book for the parimutuel bettor in your life, in my case, me.  There is a chapter for each decade of the 1900s, recounting a few horses' careers and several memorable races, accompanied by pictures of horses in action and at rest.  Most of the photos are in black-and-white, and while many are simple side shots of great horses, some of the race photos are stirring, and anyway, the reason for the book's existence is to celebrate and honor the greatest achievements of the thoroughbred bloodline.  The bast part of the book, then, is the list at the end of each chapter of the full, career past performances of each of the horses mentioned.  And that alone is worth the price of admission.  For those of us who appreciate  the illustrative, succinct, descriptive nature of the Daily Racing Form, what better use for the power of a single entry than as a vessel for recounting the career of a great thoroughbred?  And there are hundreds of them here.  We all know how amazing it is to look at the sadly abbreviated line for Ruffian, say, or the now more nostalgic one for Man O' War, but there are so many other great horses here to get reacquainted with.  And through them, and the decade summaries, the history of racing.  Well done, DRF.	2000-11-09
US	52757881	R3SBYUU4J8Z00X	0151006091	814475128	A Small Death in Lisbon	Books	5	43	45	N	N	Works as history, mystery, straight fiction	I found this to be truly outstanding in every way.  The murder plot was complicated, with many legitimate suspects and storylines converging on the victim.  The other main story, beginning in 1941 and slowly accelerating toward the time of the murder, is interesting in its own right, and involves a lot of history - SS &quot;financing&quot; activities during and after WWII, and the history of Portugal pre- and post-Salazar.  The convergence of the two stories is very well done; I kept thinking how controlled and synchronized the pacing was.  We are shown how each of the main characters is affected by history's imprint upon their lives, the creeping backstory eventually overtaking and in a sense consuming the main plot.  This is the richest, best fictional work I have read in at least a year.	2000-11-09
US	52757881	R21T7GDU0IH8DF	0395735238	154164085	Beyer on Speed (.)	Books	5	22	24	N	Y	Beyer's third entry is as indispensable as the first two	Reading Andrew Beyer is at once informative and entertaining, which anything on handicapping has no excuse not being.  While his first book introduced speed figures, and his second mixed the application of them with an appreciation of other aspects of handicapping, this book revisits the holistic approach - always emphasizing speed figures - in an era when everyone has access to more information than ever, and many even know how to use it.  What makes reading Beyer so fascinating is that one is made to see, vividly, the endless testing and working out of new ideas and approaches, in the stories - one might call them lessons - he recounts (the chapter on turf betting is a classic of sports writing).  Beyer, like Bill James, is a scientist, and thinks like one, to the edification of all who choose not to keep recycling the same old bromides, and making the same old mistakes.  People like Beyer and Steve Davidowitz are largely responsible for the ever-escalating arms race which parimutuel bettors are fighting amongst themselves.  It's a wonderful game, but if you don't want to get left behind, better read this.	2000-10-10
US	52757881	R2Q0XFZHXLS82U	0262024624	44699037	Public Finance and Public Choice: Two Contrasting Visions of the State (CESifo Book Series)	Books	4	22	24	N	Y	Worth reading, but avoids the underlying disagreements	I had high hopes for this book; the transcript of a symposium featuring a back-and-forth dialogue of sorts by two leading thinkers in the area of public choice and finance would seem ideal, and as an introduction to the field, it was quite good.  Where it fell short is in offering an analysis of the ideas on which the differences between the participants' views lay.  Rather, one tended to offer his outlook on, say, the proper redistributive function of a government, or whether brakes on power are best set at the constitutional level, and the other would offer his views.  So there was very little in the way of attacking the weak points of each other's arguments directly.  Put simply, Buchanan does not trust people in positions of power, while Musgrave does.  Buchanan's work usually involves modeling how things work, while Musgrave looks at how he thinks things should be.  But there is little exploration of the basis for, for instance, Musgrave's frequent assertions that, well, things tend to be this way and we aren't happy with that so you see we need government intervention.  He just goes on, and then when it is Buchanan's turn, he goes on.  And the book is rather philosophical in nature; while there is a lot of economics jargon throughout, the overall level is general.  It all just seemed a bit too civil.	2000-09-26
US	52757881	R22WUM8Q4OA8P0	0515119520	489468096	Come to Grief	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Very disappointing Edgar winner	Given that for virtually every book one can purchase, there are at least a dozen excerpts from reviews somewhere inside stating &quot;never better&quot; and &quot;top of form,&quot; one needs other avenues to discern which books are indeed a given author's best.  Normally for crime novels the Edgar (and other) Awards is a good reference point.  With this one, though, one has to wonder what happened.  Sid Halley, the star of two previous first-rate novels, is here not only a saint, a giant among men, but in the second half of the book, is relentlessly referred to as such by the other characters, for no reason having to do with the story.  There is little mystery; instead the structure follows the prove-he-did-it format.  In addition, the story is driven forward by one wild, implausible mistake made by the culprit, and a fight (also unnecessary) in which Halley, effectively zero-armed, uses judo to defeat a couple security guards.  I have never been the least bit disappointed in an Edgar-winner before now, but this one is a head-scratcher.  Perhaps Francis was very ill at the time.  Read Whip Hand and call it a day for Halley.	2000-09-21
US	52757881	R3MO54T4DFP945	0691006679	606966237	From Subsistence to Exchange and Other Essays	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Good, yet repetitive	This book serves as a good introduction to the work of a leader in the  field of economic development.  Bauer would definitely be called a  right-wing economist by those who need a simple classifier, but he might  also be called libertarian or, like Amartya Sen is sometimes called,  post-libertarian.  As with so may economics books, the material is  unbelieveably repetitive, being culled from articles and reworked speeches  over about 20 years.  The main points deal with the foolishness of foreign  aid programs, the workings of collective guilt in promulgating said  programs, the disregard and obfuscation of the results of these programs  and other economic facts, and basic factors involved in the actual  development of less-developed countries.  Very good for someone interested  in the literature of development, or someone who favors a more  laissez-faire approach and has not read anything on development economics,  a topic not often addressed in popular economics books.	2000-09-18
US	52757881	R1VL4CAE2AC4AN	0380713748	982640796	A Dance at the Slaughterhouse (Matthew Scudder Mysteries)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	All the best Block/Scudder qualities are here	Among Block's fifteen or so Scudder novels, and about sixty books overall,  many are not worth reading, but some stack up quite well against the top  output of other mystery novelists. Here, the plotting is relatively  complicated, with Block using to good effect the common trick of having two  separate cases come together. Scudder's history and present life situation  are as usual made integral to the story, and many of the peripheral  characters get time in the spotlight, with TJ, who's a lot of fun, being  introduced here. Hell's Kitchen is vividly brought to life here, and the  story is dark enough to - almost - invite comparison to Andrew Vachss.  Sometimes the Scudder novels are mostly about his journey through life,  sometimes they tend to degenerate into a series of conversations, sometimes  the plots are simple, linear, and seemingly designed to give Block enough  reason to crank out another book. This one is very solid. Along with  Boneyard and Tombstones, this amonts to something of a renaissance for the  series.	2000-09-08
US	52757881	RDN7LEF1J0VID	0312974205	950173382	Dead Souls: An Inspector Rebus Novel (Inspector Rebus Novels)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Almost up to the level of the last two Rebus novels	Since &quot;Black and Blue,&quot; Rankin's novels have had very tight,  complicated plots, with about four independent strands coming together (or  not).  Here the plot lines are more thematically linked than anything else,  further illuminating the character of DI Rebus, one of the most interesting  characters in crime fiction.  He's hard-boiled, he smokes and drinks, he's  too wrapped up in his work to have satisfying relationships, yada yada, but  he's always trying very hard.  He comes away from the stories if not  changed, at least recognizing something and working at some aspect of  himself.  He's not a forever constant, Marlowian hero.  In this one, novel  #9, the crimes are of a personal nature, no business dealings, no crime  syndicates, so the story inevitably is more about Rebus, and less about the  puzzles to be solved.  It's a matter of personal taste, perhaps, but  probably for that reason I felt this one wasn't quite up to the level of  the last two (B&amp;B, and &quot;The Hanging Garden&quot;).  Rankin should  be better known, and would probably be compared to Michael Connelly if he  was American and writing about a cop in a US city.  He remains one of the  best writers of police procedurals out there.	2000-08-09
US	52757881	RR7837FTI6YVT	0375704930	819334435	A Sleeping Life	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Yes, probably the best Wexford mystery	Rendell is a difficult writer to pin down; while, working as she does within the mystery/crime genre, her books inhabit different areas of that particular literary country.  The Wexford series has always been best  classified as police procedural, while the othe books are more  psychological, plotted less closely along conventional crime novel lines.   Within the Wexford series, Rendell has of late been injecting a lot of  social commentary into her books and the plotting - Rendell fans must admit  that her puzzles are easier to figure out than most - has fallen off.  Her  best crafted Wexford mysteries (as opposed to &quot;novels&quot; or  &quot;literature,&quot; which came a bit later) were from the 1970s (here,  1978).  Rendell's best, most prominent characteristics are all here; the  emphasis on psychological makeup and motive, the ability to draw characters  and relationships with only a few lines of dialogue or interior monologue,  the presence of details that few other writers put to such good use in  delineating said characters, the use of dead ends, mistakes, and wrong  assumptions and guesses by Wexford in the exposition.  While Rendell is  outstanding at what she does, not all crime fiction fans like her stuff.   One would do worse than to begin here to find out where you stand.  If you  like this, moving on to other Wexford books, or the darker, non-series  classics like &quot;A Dark-Adapted Eye&quot; is only a small step.  If not,  forget it.	2000-07-12
US	52757881	R199JN34L5FHRY	1569471304	436616762	The Perfidious Parrot (Amsterdam Cops)	Books	5	89	90	N	Y	An excellent coda (?) to the series	As I have read the entire Amsterdam Cops series (well out of sequence), and this latest novel is among the best, I thought I would post one review instead of 15, in hopes that it will help others navigate this collection  of quirky, charming police procedurals.  Starred = esp. recommended.<br />1.  Outsider in Amsterdam (`75) -  What one expects from the first of a series.   Some characteristics are there, but not all, and not as pronounced, and  the characters are only beginning to take shape. The commissaris has only a  brief appearance; the chief inspector, who disappears after this, is more  prominent. An adequate story, with a few very good scenes.<br />2-4.  Tumbleweed ('76), The Corpse on the Dike (`76), Death of a Hawker ('77) -  Progressively more - and smoother - integration of the philosophical  themes, and the characters continue their fleshing-out process. The  relaxed, Buddhism-and-psychology-tinged nature of the series is becoming  evident here.  The three stories are about equally complex.  Of a  piece.<br />5*. The Japanese Corpse (`77) - Stands out in that the Buddhism  theme gets much more play than usual; the cops travel to Japan.  Very  linear and simple in terms of the plot/police work.   The commissaris here  begins to carry much of the philosophising theme, and by now has become an  intellectual leader of sorts to G&amp;dG.<br />6*. The Blond Baboon ('78) -  The best puzzle of them all, the pacing is good, and the book is solid in  all other respects.  Van de Wetering has really hit his stride by now, and  the rest, if often not as well-rounded as this one, usually have some extra  dimension added to them.  This would be a very good one to start with.<br />     7*. The Maine Massacre ('79) - De Gier and the commissaris travel, and a  lot of the fun is in their observations of their new surroundings, and  interactions with the locals.  Better, of course, if you already know the  characters and the series, but it is very good anyway.<br />   8.The  Mind-Murders ('81) - Really two linked psychology-tinged novellas.  Mostly  G&amp;dG here, lots of joking, sarcasm between them.  By now the cops are  fully formed characters and here the interactions between them are  emphasized, like the way a good sitcom runs familiar characters into  situations that allow them to play off one another.  Not bad, but  constitutes a bit of a lull in the series.<br />    9. The Streetbird ('83) -  The plot deals with black magic, but it's not all that hokey, since it fits  in a way with van de Wetering's philosophising.  One might guess the  villain midway through, but it doesn't matter.  Better than #8, but not  quite as good as the others in this stretch.<br />10*. The Rattle-Rat (`85) -   Notable for clever banter between the cops, several running jokes, a few  chaotic scenes with overlapping dialogue.  Very amusing.  Plot threads  spring out of nowhere, eventually drift together.  Again, one should know  midway through who the culprit is. The oddest of the odd, and among the  best.  <br />11*. Hard Rain (`86) - A noir, van de Wetering style.  Here the  cops untangle police corruption linked with several murders.  We, and they,  know who the bad guys are - and here they are genuinely bad - right off, so  it is a matter of the cops navigating the situation and bringing the  criminals to justice.  The cat-and-mouse games combined with the series'  usual touches makes for tremendous entertainment.    <br />12. Just a Corpse  at Twilight (`94) - The three have been retired for two years.  Grijpstra  is a PI, de Gier is living easy in Maine after traveling, and the  commissaris is at home.  A good, but slight, story; it's more about how the  characters are getting along, and re-does the fish-out-of-water thing,  especially amusing here because Maine is new to Grijpstra, and not to de  Gier.  Slightly inferior to #14, but good.  <br />13*. The Hollow-Eyed Angel  (`96) -  Still cops - this one takes place before #12.  Probably  half-written during the series' hiatus, finished after.  Dominated by the  commissaris, who goes to NYC.  Very reflective in tone, lots of philosophy  and psychology, and the story is better than most. One of the best.    <br />14*. The Perfidious Parrot (`97) - De Gier has joined Grijpstra's PI  &quot;agency.&quot;  As with #12 there is a lot of interaction between the  ex-cops and the (here, exotic) locales, and it is even more overtly about  the characters' lives than the others.  Some back-story in this and #12  about how the cops got rich, and here it is integral to the rest of the  book.   <br />15.  The Amsterdam Cops-Collected Stories (`99) - Take place  throughout the cops' tenure in Amsterdam.  The commissaris is barely  present, and in a few G&amp;dG only pop up briefly.  Quick character and  crime studies, a couple mild puzzles.  For completists only.  The interplay  between characters is missing here.	2000-05-24
US	52757881	RQB0H9GTO8Q4L	0393320081	470778899	Baseball Dynasties: The Greatest Teams of All Time	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Good reference work, entertaining, not penetrating enough	The topic of dynasties is one that had not been the subject of a  sabermetric treatment before, and while this book is a welcome addition to  my baseball bookshelf - and many others', I'm sure - it lacks one or two  qualities that one might hope for from two writers who are in the forefront  of popularizing a more rigorous study of baseball.  While the book contains  a nice mix of stats - including a new application of standard deviations  that is the central contribution of this book - and anecdotal and  descriptive history, the conclusions reached do not hang together  convincingly.  A tension between valuing and emphasizing peak performance  and length of high performance is expected, and often noted by the authors,  but the rankings reveal a commitment to not grapple with the admittedly  difficult question.  Even the issue of which teams to leave out of the book  is handled inconsistently.  In general, I hoped for more thorough and  insistent argumentation, but Neyer and Epstein ultimately seem content with  an informed version of a casual, barroom conversation.  I should emphasize  that I enjoyed the book, and am glad I own it, and encourage hardcore  baseball fans to indeed buy the book.  It is a good reference, but as a  serious study I think it is more of a starting point than anything.	2000-05-23
US	52757881	R22T0E9ZCKCSTU	0156441802	563363980	Imaginary Magnitude	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Indispensable for Lem fans	Whereas with &quot;A Perfect Vacuum&quot; Lem wrote reviews of fictional books, here he writes introductions to different fictional books.  You get some of his more straightforward philosophy with &quot;Golem XIV,&quot;  typical Lem cleverness with &quot;Necrobes&quot; and sheer, amazing,  mind-blowing virtuosity with &quot;Eruntics,&quot; probably his single most  impressive piece of short fiction.  This &quot;story&quot; alone is worth  the price of admission.  Ranking near the Tichy stories, with plenty of  distance between &quot;The Cyberiad&quot; on one side and  &quot;Solaris&quot; on the other, on the fun and ponderousnness scales.   Among his best.	2000-02-10
US	52757881	R2D82AOOSSG0OZ	1891620495	151308161	Government's End: Why Washington Stopped Working	Books	5	22	23	N	Y	Cuts to the heart of the matter	It is hard to express how good a job Rauch does at putting forward his view of Wahington.  He paints a vivid, believeable, coherent picture; he is fair-minded and nonjudgmental to a fault (truly - he is much too kind to many people); his pronouncements on, and advice for the future are measured  and realistic, and not completely unconvincing; and on top of this the book  reads very quickly.  Greider's &quot;Who Will Tell the People&quot; is  comparable in message, but, while very well done, that much larger book  fails to present as clear a testament to what has happened to Washington in  the last 40 years.  Though people who are interested in politics should  already have come to grips with Rauch's thesis, the fact is that most have  not, while the average, relatively apolitical American would no doubt find  this book quite an eye-opener.  As the other reviewers note, Rauch is a  consistently fine writer; here is a good place place to start reading.	2000-01-26
US	52757881	RCQY8Q51GXPJO	0385423756	719500585	On the Origins of War: And the Preservation of Peace	Books	5	20	23	N	Y	Phenomenally good	If you are at all interested in international relations, politics, or war as subjects for study, why haven't you read this book?  Kagan, without ever pressing home some pet thesis, lays out in detail the events leading up to  four wars that were and one that wasn't.  Aside from learning many lessons  from these individual histories - states and individuals almost never truly  want war, &quot;honor&quot; construed as a potential or actual presence in  international affairs (deference, prestige, etc.) often winds up being  crucial in triggering a conflict, wishful and idealistic thinking or a  failure to recognize a threat to a rival nation's security or honor have  often contributed mightily to growing conflicts, and many others - one will  also get a vivid, in-depth account of some critical moments, accounts that  are likely to stick in your mind better than a more general history.  While  some of Kagan's points may seem to lean toward the trivial when taken out  of context and looked at in the clear light of day, it is the very fact  that over many years and many events, a slow buildup toward war involves  these very things - that at the time are much harder to see clearly - that  contribute to movements that end in war.  To see the many missteps in  detail in these cases is fascinating.  With the exceptions of Chamberlain  and some of his cronies, and especially Kennedy, very few of the men in  this book come off as anything approximating downright foolish;  nevertheless, in these pages you will find many men, through many small  mistakes, leading their nations to war.	2000-01-04
US	52757881	R1PHUBM6RL2YLQ	0688079512	737054511	A Conflict of Visions	Books	5	41	45	N	N	To understand the nature of political arguments, read this	Probably the book that best captures the core of Sowell's thought, this will help crystallize the understanding of anyone who has invested a lot of time in observing the back-and-forth, Crossfire-style, argumentation that  usually passes for rational political discussion.  The underlying  assumptions that promulgate the world-views of our pundits and politicians  can be seen here, making for a clearer understanding of how political  figures, past and present, have arrived at the choices they have made.   While reading on the affirmative action debate, say, or the history of  Europe between the World Wars, one can see the opposing visions at work.   Sowell is careful - as always, but here more than usual - not to take  sides, but merely to present the characteristic behaviors and thought  processes of the two &quot;visions.&quot;  As someone who agrees with  Sowell most, but not all of the time, I was pleased with the way he stayed  on message.  A more opinionated book of his is &quot;The Vision of the  Anointed&quot; which I also recommend.	1999-12-27
US	52757881	R27PR1N0JD9YP3	0156837501	74781857	Solaris	Books	5	12	12	N	N	The greatest work by a great author	While Lem's Tichy stories and fictional book reviews and introductions are often amazing, and the Pirx stories and the Cyberiad are more fun, this is almost certainly his best.  Solaris is the prime example of Lem's  oft-visited theme - the difficulty of understanding something alien to us,  illuminating the difficulty of understanding ourselves.  Kelvin's grappling  with his feelings for Rheya, and the &quot;reality&quot; of his situation,  and his ultimate acceptance of them (as opposed to the other scientists'  refusal), is contrasted with the effort to understand the ocean's  &quot;communication.&quot;  As with most of Lem's novels, several  explanations for a situation are put forward, with no definitive  conclusion.  This device works best in this out of all his novels.  In  spite of Lem's style, and the double translation, there are a couple of  beautiful passages in the book, as well as some satire of scientific  explanation.  Worth reading many times.	1999-12-08
US	52757881	RE8OUS9QEO02M	0691058547	350618042	e: The Story of a Number	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	Goes easy on the math; a good companion to books on pi, i	Of the numerical histories you'll find via the links on this page, this is the easiest to read.  Beckman's &quot;pi,&quot; while more a history of ideas through one idea, contains more difficult math than this book, though  not much of it.  Nahin's book on i is very heavy on math, though some of it  is very simple and a lot of it is repetitive in nature.  All three are very  good, and well worth reading.  I enjoyed all in slightly different ways,  but this one was the most, well, fun. The books, by the way, should be read  in the order pi,e,i, as that is the order in which they were  &quot;discovered&quot; and their use popularized.  After reading them all,  I am not sure that e is not a more subtle concept than i.  See what you  think.	1999-12-02
US	52757881	R3699X5BXK4WFF	0684800888	722045239	Whatever Happened to the Hall of Fame	Books	5	26	29	N	N	What Sabermetrics is all about	Back in the 70s, when Tony Kubek was considered a baseball savant, Bill James began popularizing a rigorous statistical analysis of baseball.  In the 80s, when the pedantry of the Elias Baseball Analyst team threatened to  remove the ideas from the study of the game, James kept chugging along with  his yearlies, and the Historical Abstract (another must read).  Later he  produced this, probably his best work.  For anyone who shakes his head at a  player or manager dismissing another's opinion by saying &quot;He never  played the game;&quot; for anyone who is not cowed by the received truth of  an inside &quot;authority&quot; or eyewitness, for anyone who loves  baseball and thinks we can do better by using the tools at our disposal,  Bill James is a godsend.  If you're a big baseball fan and you don't know  who he is, get this for yourself.  It will open up your appreciation of the  game, its history, and the numbers and debates that keep its history alive.	1999-11-29
US	52757881	R1LNZFTFJV8QVC	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Deserves its Reputation	Diamond illustrates over and over again the importance of a few key aspects of the early history of civilization.  In the absence of what we would refer to as culture, or of great differences in cultures from place  to place and time to time, the ability or inability to put at one's  disposal the basic necessities of life go a long way toward shaping the  futures of early societies.  Geographical contingencies, then, have  everything to do with early development.  In spite of what many might wish,  this is an almost entirely apolitical work, dealing primarily as it does  with pre-modern history.  This is a book whose lessons you will long  remember.	1999-11-24
US	52757881	R2LQLR7A5TTIUJ	0702227994	47790437	The Fat Man in History	Books	5	0	1	N	N	What short stories should be	Will Self, T.C. Boyle and Haruki Murakami wish they wrote stories as brilliant as ones written by Peter Carey.  In fact, if you're in the UK, pick up Collected Stories for all-inclusive brilliance.  Not as  self-indulgent or inscrutable as Self, quieter than Boyle, more clever than  Murakami (and I do like these guys), Carey shows his ability here in  different ways than with his novels.  He understands what short stories can  and should be.  Anyone who likes the form, or who often doesn't have time  for a lot of fiction but wishes he/she did, might want to track this down.	1999-11-24
US	52757881	R1WB4DLABYD41H	0393318885	27174518	The Wealth and Poverty of Nations: Why Some Are So Rich and Some So Poor	Books	5	22	27	N	N	An excellent overview of civilizations and progress	How sad it is that people feel compelled to politicize works such as these and Diamond's GG&amp;S. Since Diamond's book ends at just about the point where this one begins, and because they are talking about necessary  precursors to modern civilization on the one hand, and the era of that  civilization itself on the other, one need not choose one view or the  other.  That is, unless everything must be sacrificed to the politicization  of ideas.  Some things are just true, boys and girls, and while both  authors will certainly admit that historical causes are inevitably  overdetermined, this book (and Diamond's) quite simply hits the nail on the  head in comparing cultures that have &quot;progressed&quot; (to use a  politically loaded term) to those that have not.  Many of Landes' points  are not in dispute; for instance, the results in China, and much later,  Japan, due to the closing off of their cultures to outside influences.   Another is the oft-mentioned ties within Islamic culture of religion to  secular knowledge, and the subordination of the latter to the former.  But  no matter; anything can be shamed, at least temporarily, by crying racism,  or accusing one of a lack of concern, or eurocentrism, etc.  For real  scholars, though, the point is in honestly trying to find out what is true,  and in having the ability to use that knowledge.  Just like cultures that  succeed.	1999-11-05
US	52757881	R1T9L70NBBT1Z	0679750940	275784961	The Quantity Theory of Insanity	Books	2	5	11	N	N	Small ideas, lots of showmanship	Clever, but monotonic japes at academic theorizing; the stories descend into anarchic confusion like early DeLillo novels, but with less purpose.  Self is far better later on; try Grey Area.	1999-10-15
US	52757881	RSVS0BBN8GGHC	0380973464	555229230	Cryptonomicon	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Tremendous	Stephenson's earlier books, while finishing abruptly, seemed crammed with ideas, and rushed.  This one is more leisurely, and even more fun to read.  Sure, it's 900 pages, but it reads quickly, and I think you'll find you  remember much of it long afterward (would that it were always so).  The  ending is less of a problem than before, though I never had much trouble  with his other conclusions.  If you are at all into math, do yourself a  favor, and don't be daunted by the heft.  He ain't William Gaddis.	1999-10-15
US	52757881	R1JGVCM0UHGJCI	0684864622	999961074	The Quest for Cosmic Justice	Books	4	18	21	N	N	Lectures summarizing much of his recent work	This book is, while as well thought out, well-organized, and even-handed as one should expect from Mr. Sowell, a trifle.  I can think of no reason why a reader, either familiar with Sowell's work, or new to it, would not  be better off with &quot;A Conflict of Visions&quot; or &quot;The Vision of  the Anointed.&quot;  Both cover more ground in more detail, and are hardly  exhausting reads.  Sowell is writing not about politics here, but ideas,  and while he is relentlessly fair-minded and impersonal, he cannot avoid  making points relevant to our current political scene.  The Kirkus Review  above is laughable for its pointedness, while decrying Sowell's work, which  strives to be far more objective.  If you're a &quot;I care so much, and  you don't&quot; liberal, you won't like Sowell.  No kidding.  Otherwise,  he'll have a lot of interesting ideas for you.	1999-10-14
US	52757881	R2NFGLYOTJC7FC	0714539945	686797694	The Flanders Road (RIVERRUN WRITERS) (English and French Edition)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	A phenomenal experience	With the possible exception of The Georgics, this is Simon's greatest work.  It is hard to describe the experience of reading this book.  It's difficult going, and exhausting to read more than 15-20 pages at a time,  but the effect is like going into a deep trance.  There are only three or  four episodes, repeated over and over in different ways, throughout the  book, but the true subject matter, sex and death (really), is presented  through these events so as to make the reader feel these situations in a  different way.  This is the essence of the nouveau roman style for Simon -  less formally structured than Robbe-Grillet, and more emotional.	1999-10-14
