US	52769995	R9ET3D53LPVVB	0684869128	460969074	The Bible Unearthed: Archaeology's New Vision of Ancient Israel and the Origin of Its Sacred Texts	Books	5	443	483	N	N	Scholarly and Accessible	In &quot;The Bible Unearthed,&quot; Israel Finkelstein and Neil Silberman display a rare talent among scholars--the ability to make specialized research accessible to a general audience.  In this book the authors reveal how recent archaeological research forces  us to reconsider the historical account woven into the Hebrew Bible.  Among the conclusions they draw are:<br />1) The tales of patriarchs such as Abraham are largely legends composed long after the time in which they supposedly took place.  This is seen in anachronisms such as the use of camels, not domesticated in the Near East until nearly 1000 years after Abraham's time, in many of the stories.<br />2) There is good reason to believe that the Exodus never happened.  Had migrants to the number of even a small fraction of the 600,000 claimed in the Bible truly sojourned in the Sinai Peninsula for 40 years, archaeological evidence of their passage would be abundant.  In fact, there are no traces of any signifant group living in the Sinai at the supposed time of the Exodus.<br />3) The Israelite &quot;conquest&quot; of Canaan, such as there was, was far from the military invasion of the books of Joshua and Judges.  Many of the cities described as being conquered and destroyed did not even exist at the time, while those that did were small, unfortified villages, with no walls to be brought down, by blowing trumpets or otherwise.<br />4) While there is evidence that a historical David existed, and founded some sort of ruling dynasty known by his name, there is good reason to believe that he did not rule over the powerful united monarchy described in II Samuel.  One reason for doubt: Jerusalem, portrayed as the great capital of a prosperous nation, was during the time of David little more than a village.<br />5) Neither Israel nor Judah emerged as organized kingdoms until significantly after the supposed period of the united monarchy.  Israel does not appear as a recognizable kingdom until the time of the Omrides of the 9th century BCE, while Judah does not appear as such until the late 8th century BCE, at the time of kings Ahaz and Hezekiah.<br />Along with their revision of the biblical account of history, Finkelstein and Silberman attempt to explain the origins of the Hebrew Bible, suggesting that the composition of much of the Bible can be tied to the religious agenda of King Josiah of Judah during the late 7th century BCE.  While the origins of the Bible will never be known with certainty--there simply isn't enough evidence--Finkelstein and Silberman definitely provide a plausible interpretation.<br />The authors, as I noted above, do a superb job of making their work understandable to non-specialists; since even college history majors often don't study the ancient Near East, they take care to include sufficient background information for the reader to understand the context of their account.  Anyone with an interest in the subject will find &quot;The Bible Unearthed&quot; to be fascinating reading.  And anyone who thinks the Bible is an accurate history book should definitely read it.	2001-03-12
US	52769995	R3DA7PAWQYVGHH	082567252X	680934554	Musichound Folk: The Essential Album Guide (Musichound Essential Album Guides)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An Invaluable Resource	I've been a folk music fan for years, but only recently have I become fully aware of the incredible range of artists and music that's out there.  I have found this guide incredibly helpful in choosing new albums to purchase, or in deciding which new artists to try (I have it to thank for my love of the music of Nanci Griffith and Tish Hinojosa).<br />While the title indicates a focus on folk music, the guide's definition of &quot;folk&quot; turns out to be quite broad--it includes folk-rock, country, bluegrass, some blues, and Celtic music.  For each artists profiled, the authors identify the best albums (&quot;what to buy&quot; and &quot;what to buy next&quot;).  They also include a fairly complete discography for each artist--the albums included seem to be those that were in print at the time of publication.  Instead of Amazon's stars, the authors rate albums at one to five &quot;bones.&quot;<br />In a work of this nature there are always possible quibbles one can have, either about the critical judgements of the authors (not one Joan Baez album rates five bones?) or their selection of who to include or exclude (Willie Nelson makes it in, but Waylon Jennings doesn't?).  The one inexcusable omission, especially since Pete Seeger's picture is on the cover, is that of the Weavers.  But even that error, grievous though it is, does not detract from this book's value.	2001-03-12
US	52769995	R20WWH0KRL48I1	0452281806	347963130	Devil Take the Hindmost: A History of Financial Speculation	Books	5	52	53	N	N	Superb Introduction to Speculative Bubbles	The heading for one chapter of Edward Chancellor's fine book quotes the investor Sir John Templeton: &quot;The four most expensive words in the English language are 'this time it's different.'&quot;  Templeton's words sum up the most important lesson to be learned from this outstanding history of speculation, which focuses in particular on those manic episodes called bubbles, in which the prices of assets are driven to levels far above those justified by the assets' underlying fundamentals.<br />Chancellor's account, while not a comprehensive study of speculation, thoroughly examines major speculative periods from the tulip mania of the early 17th century, to the Japanese &quot;bubble economy&quot; of the 1980's.  Three repeating motifs characterize these speculative episodes.  First is the irrationality of financial markets, especially the way in which people of all eras are susceptible to the euphoria which inflates a bubble.  Second is the constant recurrence of manipulation of markets by the greedy and unethical, the likes of Jay Gould and his accociates.<br />The third and most important theme is the existence of parallels between past speculative bubbles and conditions in our own time.  Chancellor convincingly argues, for example, that the internet mania of today is similar in many ways to the British railway bubble of the 1840's.<br />I strongly recommend this book to anyone with an interest in financial markets or their influence on history.  The only, slight caveat I would offer is that it helps a reader to have at least some knowledge of the language of financial markets, as Chancellor at times tosses terminology at readers without offering a clear definition.	2001-02-23
US	52769995	R344K827I6JF9U	0805038647	332682680	Beer and Circus: How Big-Time College Sports Has Crippled Undergraduate Education	Books	4	5	7	N	N	What's Gone Wrong at Big Universities	This is a book definitely worth reading, although it doesn't quite deliver all it promises, and though I do find some points of disagreement with the author.  In &quot;Beer and Circus,&quot; Murray Sperber has three main themes: 1) What is wrong with what he calls &quot;big-time college sports,&quot; essentially meaning NCAA Division I athletics, 2) how and why these Division I schools offer undergraduates subpar educations, and 3) the various facets of the problem of excessive student drinking.<br />Sperber provides ample evidence on all three of these points.  He compellingly describes, for example, the ways in which Division I schools short-change their undergraduates--cramming them into massive lecture courses, and relying heavily on poorly paid adjunct faculty and teaching assistants to teach them.  He also dispels numerous myths, such as the claim that top researchers are the best teachers, or the legend that Division I athletes are &quot;student-athletes;&quot; on the latter point, he notes that the long hours athletes must commit to competition and training preclude all but a few from compiling strong academic records.<br />Much of Sperber's book rings very true to me--I was a graduate student at a large, Division I university, and I observed examples of many of the ills Sperber describes.  However, I have three points of disagreement with him.  First, Sperber doesn't quite deliver the explanation--of &quot;how big-time college sports is crippling undergraduate education&quot;--that he promises.  From his own account, it appears that the main culprit is in fact Division I schools' excessive emphasis on research.  For every Division I school, like my alma mater UCLA, that is a legitimately strong research institution, there are probably 10 or 12 UCLA-wannabees that will never reach that status, but will waste uncounted resources in pursuit of the goal.  Sperber does not convincingly demonstrate that athletic programs are more than a minor accessory to the crime against undergraduates that these schools are guilty of.<br />Second, Sperber's discussion of college sports is almost entirely limited to football and men's basketball, but his condemnation appears to extend to all sports.  Since football and men's basketball are unusual in being essentially developmental systems for the professional leagues in those sports, Sperber's case would have been stronger had he presented more evidence drawn from other sports.<br />Third, Sperber ends with a number of prescriptions for improving undergraduate education at Division I universities (many of which would be applicable to other colleges as well).  Most of these, such as basing faculty hiring and promotions primarily on teaching, are excellent.  However, Sperber's recommendation that the Graduate Record Exam be used as a universal exit exam for undergrads should be deep-sixed right away.  One flaw of the US education system, well-documented by Peter Sacks in &quot;Standardized Minds,&quot; is the overuse of standardized tests.  We do not need to make the problem worse.<br />While I don't agree with everyting Sperber writes, I think his book is very good.  It would be especially valuable for any prospective student, or parent of a student, at a large Division I university.	2001-02-01
US	52769995	R2QXPPXI5WHMNC	055337852X	954411323	Bitter Pills: Inside the Hazardous World of Legal Drugs	Books	5	27	27	N	Y	An Important Issue Gets Excellent Reporting	This book begins as a personal story.  One day journalist Stephen Fried was forced to rush his wife, novelist Diane Ayres, to an emergency room, when she suffered a severe seizure.  She turned out to be suffering an adverse reaction to an antibiotic, Floxin, which she had been instructed to take for a minor urinary infection.  &quot;Bitter Pills&quot; grew out of Fried's attempts to understand what had happened to his wife.<br />Fried, and his readers, soon discover that Diane Ayres' case was not unique, or even rare.  Floxin is only one of legions of prescription drugs which can cause severe adverse reactions, which cause at least 45,000 deaths per year in the US (some estimates go as high as 200,000).  It is a tribute to Fried's excellence as a reporter that he is able go beyond his dramatic personal story to give a comprehensive picture of what he calls &quot; the hazardous world of legal drugs.&quot;<br />Fried reviews the history of drug regulation in the US, and ably documents the shortcomings of the current regulatory system, as well as the inordinate influence drug companies have on the process.  Two of the many specific &quot;hazards&quot; he identifies are the desperate need for doctors to have an independent, reliable source of information on the drugs they prescribe (almost all the informatin they currently have comes from drug manufacturers), and the equally crying need for an effective system for reporting and cataloging adverse drug reactions.<br />I put this book down very impressed with Fried as both a reporter and a writer.  He has clearly immersed himself in an important issue long enough, and deeply enough, that he has mastered it.  He has then turned around to convey the complex issues involved to readers very effectively and without losing their interest.  I look forward to work of similar excellence from Fried in the future.	2001-01-13
US	52769995	R4DWTP6TG9AKD	1567510604	29980185	Toxic Sludge is Good For You: Lies, Damn Lies and the Public Relations Industry	Books	5	39	45	N	N	A Guide to Corporate Spin	John Stauber and Sheldon Rampton have set themselves a crucial task.  As editors of the quarterly PR Watch, they regularly report on the often negative influence that the public relations industry has on the debate on public issues, especially PR firms' efforts on behalf of corporations which are battling public interest activists.  This superb and concise book is largely based on that reporting.<br />The ills documented in &quot;Toxic Sludge is Good for You&quot; are too numerous to give any kind of complete summary here--a few examples must stand for the whole:<br />-One approach is the &quot;divide and conquer&quot; method of splitting a coalition of activists, by finding ways to buy some of them off.  For example, Candy Lightner, the fonder of MADD, was taken out of the fray when she became a lobbyist for the American Beverage Institute.<br />-Another fruitful method is the &quot;astroturf&quot; tactic, which involves the creation of a carefully controlled, phony grassroots group to front for corporate interests.  An example is the &quot;National Smokers Alliance,&quot; created by PR giants Burson-Marsteller on behalf of Philip Morris.<br />-We also learn about attempts to cloud debate on scientific and technical issues.  Many corporations have benefitted from the &quot;expertise&quot; of the American Council on Science and Health, a deceptively-named industry front group which can be counted on for pronouncements on the perfect safety of all sorts of chemicals and food additives, and on the nutritional benefits of eating fast food.  Stauber and Rampton document a particularly duplicitous attempt by the ACSH to fudge cancer statistics and make it appear that cancer rates are falling, not rising.<br />-Worst of all are the outright fabrications.  Some readers may recall the aftermath of Saddam Hussein's invasion of Kuwait, when a teenage Kuwaiti girl told a Congressional committee a chilling tale of Iraqui soldiers killing babies in a hospital in Kuwait.  Only much lager was the girl revealed as the daughter of Kuwait's ambassador to the US, and her testimony as a pack of lies scripted by PR giant Hill &amp; Knowlton.<br />So what is one to do in the face of this relentless spin.  Surely part of the solution is to be aware, first, of the existence of the negative influence of corporate PR, and second, of the identities of some of the key perpetrators.  Stauber and Rampton's book will help readers gain that awareness.  It is, as previous reviewers have noted, especially essential reading for environmental and other activists whose efforts may make them the targets of corporate spin campaigns.	2000-11-15
US	52769995	R1FKVU5ESCRCEK	1559635835	944863443	Earth Rising: American Environmentalism In The 21St Century	Books	5	20	22	N	Y	A Political Compass for Environmentalists	This very perceptive book establishes Philip Shabecoff as one of the top journalists of our time.  In it he tries to outline a course for the environmental movement to take in the coming decades.  What makes &quot;Earth Rising&quot; so important is Shabecoff's understanding that modern societies like the US are faced with three enormous and intertwined problems.  Besides the environmental degradation that rightly concerns environmental activists, there is the increase in both social and economic inequality, as well as the dysfunctionality of our money-dominated political system.  Shabecof argues that, since none of these problems can be solved in isolation, it is essential that the environmental movement become involved in dealing with all three--by, for example, working for reform of the political process--rather than focusing solely on their own set of specific issues.<br />If Shabecoff had done no more than make this point, his book would merit 5 stars for the skillful way he presents his case.  But there is much more food for thought in the book.  For example, recognizing that scientific analyses of environmental problems are crucial to understanding and solving them, Shabecoff calls on scientists to follow the lead of those who, like Edward O. Wilson and Richard Leakey, have become strong advocates of the environment and its importance.<br />Anyone who is concerned about environmental issues, or who considers themself an environmentalist, would learn a great deal from reading this book.	2000-11-13
US	52769995	R2OUURPCH7N10Y	0226493644	411166366	More Guns, Less Crime: Understanding Crime and Gun-Control Laws	Books	1	43	140	N	N	Poor Research Cannot Be A Basis For Policy Changes	John Lott's provocatively titled \\"More Guns: Less Crime\\" has attracted enormous media attention and has become a powerful rhetorical weapon in the hands of  gun control opponents.  However, his work is marred by poor statistical analysis and sloppy reasoning, and should not be a basis for public policy.<br />Lott argues that if most adult Americans were able to get a permit to carry a concealed weapon in public, violent crime would fall.  His reasoning is that criminals are calculating people who sit down and work out the benefits and costs of a potential criminal act; therefore, if they know that potential victims are likely to be carrying guns, they will be deterred from committing crimes against persons, and will switch to committing property crimes where they are less likely to encounter an armed victim.  Lott then presents some extensive statistical analysis purporting to show that when jurisdictions around the US pass \\"shall issue\\" laws that enable most adults to carry concealed weapons in public, violent crime falls in those jurisdictions.<br />There are errors both in Lott's reasoning and in his statistical analysis.  Even those lacking the technical training to evaluate the latter can see the error in the former.  Lott looks at criminals from the perspective of the neoclassical economist, viewing people as always rational--they always act in their own self-interest, carefully weighing the costs and benefits of any possible action. But anyone familiar with violent crime knows that much of it is extremely impulsive.  For example, nearly half of all murders take place as a result of arguments or brawls, situations where people are hardly taking rational account of costs and benefits of their actions.<br />Turning to Lott's evidence, you see that he tries to calculate the effect of passing &quot;shall-issue&quot; type laws on crime by using data from every county in the US to conduct what is called a multivariate regression analysis--a technique used by social scientists to analyze complex sets of data.  It is this regression analysis that is the basis for the &quot;more guns, less crime&quot; conclusion.  Such conclusions, however, are valid only if the analysis they are based on is valid, and there are several problems with Lott's analysis, three of which I want to outline.<br />  1. The Robbery Problem.  Lott is studying the effects of &quot;shall-issue&quot; laws, which affect the ability of people to carry guns in public, not to have them in their homes.  Logically, the greatest impact of these laws should be on robbery, which of the four main categories of violent crimes (the others are murder, rape and assault) is the most likely to occur away from the home in a public place, and which is also the most likely to occur as a result of advance planning.  In fact, Lott finds that the impact of shall-issue laws on robbery rates is far smaller than on other violent crimes.  This result is inconsistent with the deterrence theory he is proposing and suggests that there is something seriously wrong with his statistical analysis.<br />2.  The Adult/Juvenile Homicide Problem.  Lott's analysis makes no distinction between murders of adults and juveniles.  His logic, however, suggests that the effect of shall-issue laws should be greater on adult homicides than on juvenile homicides.  Since the laws allow adults only to carry concealed weapons, from the criminal's viewpoint, any adult is potentially defended, but juveniles are protected only when in the company of adults.  However, when Professor Jens Ludwig redid Lott's analysis looking at adult and juvenile homicides separately, he found that shall-issue laws lead to an increase in adult homicides.<br />3.  The Stranger Homicide Problem.  A similar problem exists when homicides are broken down by the relation of offender and victim.  Lott's logic suggests that \\"shall issue\\" laws should have a greater effect on \\"stranger\\" homicides, than on homicides where offender and victimare related, because someone intending to kill a family member will likely know whether their victim is armed, while someone killing a perfect stranger will not.  But Albert Alschuler has found that this is not the case; once again, the data contradict Lott's logic.<br />It is true, as Lott's defenders will protest, that he attempts to respond in his book to some of these criticisms as well as others that I did not have space to review.  However, like his analysis, his counterarguments are unconvincing.  For example, on the adult/juvenile issue, he merely argues that juveniles are protected by the presence of adults in public, ignoring the fact that, as I noted, juveniles are protected only when in the company of a (potentially armed) adult, while adults are protected all the time.<br />Readers may ask why, if Lott's work is so badly flawed, have so many people accepted it.  Part of the reason seems to me to be the psychological effect it has on gun control opponents.  The strongest argument in favor of gun control is, clearly, that it would save countless lives.  Lott's book allows opponents of gun control to pose as the true \\"life-savers,\\" enabling them to feel better about themselves.  This attitude can be detected in many of the favorable reviews of Lott's book posted here.im are related, because someone intending to kill a family member will likely know whether their victim is armed, while someone killing a perfect stranger will not.   But Albert Alschuler has found that this is not the case; once again, the data contradict Lott's logic.<br />It is true, as Lott's defenders will protest, that he attempts to respond in his book to some of these criticisms as well as others that I did not have space to review.  However, like his analysis, his counterarguments are unconvincing.  For example, on the adult/juvenile issue, he merely argues that juveniles are protected by the presence of adults in public, ignoring the fact that, as I noted, juveniles are protected only when in the company of a (potentially armed) adult, while adults are protected all the time.<br />Readers may ask why, if Lott's work is so badly flawed, have so many people accepted it.  Part of the reason seems to me to be the psychological effect it has on gun control opponents.  The strongest argument in favor of gun control is, clearly, that it would save countless lives.  Lott's book allows opponents of gun control to pose as the true \\"life-savers,\\" enabling them to feel better about themselves.  This attitude can be detected in many of the favorable reviews of Lott's book posted here.	2000-10-10
US	52769995	R1YI6BBZL8UHF	0425170349	626650351	Rainbow Six (John Clark Novel, A)	Books	2	14	21	N	N	Definitely Not Clancy's Best	I get a bit of a chuckle seeing the previous reviews that claim Rainbow  Six as Tom Clancy's best novel ever.  In fact, he has never equalled his  first novel, The Hunt for Red October, although Patriot Games and Cardinal  of the Kremlin were quite good.<br />To summarize briefly, Rainbow Six is  Clancy's ninth novel in what I call the Ryanverse.  Jack Ryan is not a  character in this novel, although he is alluded to.  The plot centers  around longtime CIA agent John Clark, the hero of Without Remorse and a  major character in other novels.  In this novel, Clark becomes the head of  Rainbow, an elite, multinational antiterrorist unit.  A group of radical  environmentalists plot to unleash a deadly virus  and kill off all human  life, and the Rainbow team must uncover their plan and stop them.  There  are lots of set-piece action scenes along the way.<br />Rainbow Six represents  an improvement over Clancy's last novel, Executive Orders, in a couple of  respects.  First, Jack Ryan is offstage.  Ryan's possibilities as a  plausible character were pretty much exhausted by the end of The Sum of All  Fears, and since then the Ryan novels have become less and less believable.   Second, the plot is more focused around a single story, rather than the  multiple plot-lines of the last novel.  Unfortunately, these plusses are  more than offset by several serious weaknesses.<br />The strength of Clancy's  best novels was in their combination of seat-clutching suspense and  technical realism (or at least the apearance thereof).  In Rainbow Six,  however, there are signs that Clancy's techincal mastery is slipping.  His  unawareness that the seasons are reversed in the Southern Hemisphere is  laughable, and other reviewers here have noted several technical details  that Clancy gets wrong.<br />Rainbow Six also displays many of the other  weaknesses that have increasingly plagued the Ryan novels.  Once again, we  get a tiresome dose of Clancy's right-wing political views.  In thisbook  we she what he thinks of environmentalists--to a man, they are portrayed as  wackos who subscribe to views that sound like a wild caricature of the deep  ecology movement.  Clancy simply has no idea of what real environmentalists  believe or of the diversity of beliefs across the environmental movement.  <br />We also see Clancy's continuing tendency to recycle plot elements  from  previous novels.  The bioterrorism plot in Rainbow Six is just a rehash of  the almost identical caper from Executive Orders.  We also get at least the  fourth rehash of the &quot;terrorist  threat to loved ones of the  heroes&quot; scenario.  When Clancy first used this storyline, in Patriot  Games, it made sense within the development of the story.  Now it's just a  way to slip another action scene in.<br />In short, Rainbow Six is for diehard  Clancy fans only.	2000-09-04
US	52769995	R3RN3WNKBETQH7	0375406425	123472120	Crucible of War: The Seven Years' War and the Fate of Empire in British North America, 1754-1766	Books	5	102	103	N	N	A Legitimate Classic	Fred Anderson's stated goal in writing &quot;Crucible of War&quot; was to produce &quot;a book accessible to general readers that will also satisfy...historians' scholarly expectations.&quot;  I am pleased to report that he attains that goal as completely as anyone could reasonably  expect.<br />Anderson's subject is a relatively small slice of US history--the  conflict known variously as the French and Indian War or the Seven Years  War, along with the war's immediate aftermath.  His narrative is highly  informative.  He describes how isolated skirmishes on what was then  America's western frontier escalated into a true global war, involving  every major European power.  He convincingly explains how England  eventually came to triumph over her rivals, and to inherit much of France's  erstwhile colonial empire.  Although his focus in on North America, he does  not neglect events in Europe.  He then shows how events like the Stamp Act  Crisis and Pontiac's Rebellion were inextricably linked to the war and its  outcome.<br />Anderson deserves credit for his skillful blend of diplomatic,  military, economic and social history into a coherent whole--he should be a  model for other scholars in this respect.  Also noteworthy is his clear  identification of the interest of the four main groups involved in the  North American conflict--the French and their Canadian colonists, the  English, the American colonists, and the Native Americans--and his  untangling of the conflicts both within and between these groups.<br />While  specialists may end up quibbling with some of the details of Anderson's  interpretations, he seems to me to have amply demonstrated his claim that  the French and Indian War was an extremely important influence on the  revolutionary events of the following decades.  &quot;Crucible of War&quot;  is a genuine classic of historical writing.	2000-05-04
US	52769995	R10G9F4DN9UL3D	026261037X	342822761	Abusing Science: The Case Against Creationism	Books	5	40	46	N	N	Superb Dissection of Creationist Arguments	Philip Kitcher is a professor of philosophy at UC-San Diego.  A specialist in the philosophy of science, he has also authored books on sociobiology and cloning.  This book is a valuable contribution to the evolution-creation debate.<br />In &quot;Abusing Science,&quot; Kitcher's  emphasis is on the logic of creationism--dissecting the arguments made by  creationists, especially Henry Morris and Duane Gish of the  ludicrously-named Institute for Creation Research, and thoroughly debunking  them.  To give one specific example: Creationists are fond of arguing that  evolutionists date fossils based on the ages of the rocks in which the  fossils are found.  But, say creationists, the dates of the rocks are  established using fossils; so, they claim, evolutionists are guilty of  circular argument.  Kitcher shows how this argument is a misrepresentation  of the science: creationists ignore the numerous alternative, independent  methods for dating rocks, such as radiometric or stratigraphic methods.   Throughout the book, Kitcher exposes scores of weak creationist arguments  just like this.<br />It is worth noting that Kitcher quotes at great length  from creationist authors, and cannot validly be accused of any  misrepresentation of their arguments. <br />Kitcher also shows how the  creationist attack on evolution is really an attack on all science:   &quot;If evolutionary biology is to be dismissed...all the major fields of  science will have to be trimmed--or, more exactly, mutilated--to fit the  creationist bill.&quot;<br />While Kitcher's somewhat meticulous style makes  some demands on the reader, it is well worth the effort.  Even though his  book is nearly 20 years old, it is still relevant to today's debates--it is  astonishing how many of the arguments put forward by Philip Johnson, for  example, are just recycled from Morris and Gish.  Anyone who is a science  educator or is concerned with educational policy would find this book  especially valuable.	2000-05-03
US	52769995	R3N6ZSWBNDD1V4	0395759242	966326914	King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror, and Heroism in Colonial Africa	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The Darkness of Colonialism	Adam Hochschild's book is subtitled &quot;A Story of Greed, Terror and Heroism in Colonial Africa,&quot; and all three can be found in his gripping narrative.<br />The greed is largely that of Leopold II, King of the Belgians.  For years before becoming king, Leopold had been obsessed with  colonies and the wealth that could be extracted from them.  When he came to  the throne, he proceeded to grab a large chunk of the enormous basis  drained by the Congo River, much of which was explored for him by the  mercenary journalist Henry Morton Stanley (who does not emerge favorably  from Hochschild's account).  In his Congo Free State, run by a private  corporation, Leopold wielded far more authority than he did as Belgium's  constitutional monarch, and he used that authority to enrich himself for 23  years.<br />The terror was visited on the inhabitants of the Congo.  Forced  labor was used on a massive scale to extract and export the natural wealth  of the region--ivory and rubber being two of the biggest prizes--and the  chicotte, a nasty whip made of hippopotamus hide, was freely used to lash  every last drop of effort out of people who were essentially slaves.   Hochschild carefully documents the extent of the human costs paid for  Leopold's enrichment.  The death toll due to murder, starvation, disease,  etc., amounted to about half the Congo's population over a 40 year  period--some 10 million deaths to lay at Leopold's door.<br />The heroism was  displayed by people who fought to expose Leopold's crimes and puncture his  undeserved reputation as a humanitarian, and who eventually forced him to  at least give up his personal rule of the Congo.  What was one of the first  great worldwide human rights campaigns involved both the famous, like Mark  Twain and Arthur Conan Doyle, and the little-remembered.  Three men in  particular stand out: George Washington Williams, a black American  journalist who was the first to expose Leopold's reign of terror by  chicotte; Roger Casement, an Irishman who became the first British consul  to the Congo, and as such bore powerful, offical witness to the crimes; and  Edmund Morel, an English shipping agent who founded the Congo Reform  Association, which stands as a forebear to humanitarian groups like Human  Rights Watch in our own time.<br />Hochschild is a meticulous researcher and a  gifted writer, and he brings his century old characters, both the virtuous  and the malignant, to vivid life.  Like many books, &quot;King Leopold's  Ghost&quot; is not pleasant reading, but necessary reading.  Only by  confronting and understanding history's darker episodes can we hope to  avoid repeating them.	2000-05-01
US	52769995	R3MENTOQNBZ7GI	0375750339	101645973	The End of Affluence: The Causes and Consequences of America's Economic Dilemma	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Strong Reporting on an Important Issue	While the conventional wisdom is that the 1990's have been a decade of prosperity, every so often undercurrents of discontent surface (in places like Seattle), and suggest that for many people in the United States, this  is not the case.  Jeffrey Madrick's &quot;The End of Affluence&quot; offers  an explanation of why this is so.<br />Madrick begins by noting that since the  early 1970's the US has been in the doldrums economically; starting in  1973, the long-term economic growth rate fell by over 1% annually (contrary  to the previous reviewer, this is still the case).  Madrick notes many of  the consequences  of this slowdown.  He contrasts the present period with  the rapid growth of the past in a concise but informative review of US  economic history--this segment by itself makes the book worth  reading.<br />Madrick then turns to what he sees as the main cause of the  slowdown.  As European and Japanese firms adopted American methods of mass  production and distribution, this increased international competition  eroded much of the US's long-standing advantages.  The slowness of US  firms, such as the automakers, to adopt new methods of flexible production,  and the lagging rate of US capital investment, further aggravated this  trend.  A major consequence of this trend has been a sharp decline in the  availability of well-paying jobs for those without college  degrees.<br />Madrick criticizes the &quot;misplaced optimism&quot; of those  who see our problems as minor or readily solved.  He critiques some  alternative explanations for the growth slowdown, such as our allegedly  insufficient savings rate and supposed &quot;skills shortage.&quot;  While  he offers little in the way of specific solutions, he does give a solid  refutation of the Republican Party's ever-resurrected &quot;solution&quot;  of yet one more round of supply-side, trickle-down tax cuts.<br />Madrick's  analysis is often solid, but he falls short in two respects.  First, he is  too focused on a single explanation for our &quot;end of affluence,&quot;  international competition, and neglects other factors that also are  important--the collapse of the labor movement comes to mind as one.   Second, his vision is centered too narrowly on GDP and related economic  measures, and so neglects issues like environmental degradation, which are  of considerable importance, but are not captured in convential economic  statistics.<br />While Madrick's story is an incomplete one, his superb  reporting makes his book, even though it is somewhat dated, worthwhile  reading.	2000-04-28
US	52769995	R3QTZNXZKWZSHF	0671687425	267532725	Parting the Waters : America in the King Years 1954-63	Books	5	94	101	N	N	An Essential Part of Any Library	This is a book that truly merits the label &quot;must reading.&quot;  It  played a role in changing my own thinking on politics and history when I  first read it in the early 1990's.  During my &quot;College  Republican&quot; days, my view of Martin Luther King, Jr. was not  especially favorable, and I was almost totally ignorant of the history and  background of the civil rights movement.  But after reading Taylor Branch's  book, I could no longer shut my eyes to the hard truths to which he bears  brilliant witness.<br />Martin Luther King is the central figure in Branch's  narrative, but the book is much more than a biography, as befits its  subtitle, &quot;America in the King Years, 1954-63.&quot;  For example,  Branch begins his account with the stormy tenure of Vernon Johns as  minister at Montgomery, AL's Dexter Avenue Baptist Church--at which church  Johns was replaced by a young man still often known as &quot;Mike&quot;  King.  By broadening his account beyond King's own experiences, Branch  accurately conveys how the civil rights movement was far more than just the  activities of a few well-known leaders.<br />Branch's research would do credit  to any professional historian.  He conducted hundreds of interviews and  worked with a vast amount of primary source material.  His writing is  compelling, repeatedly capturing the intensity of both public and private  events.  Even though the hardcover edition is over 900 pages, when I first  read it I found it incredibly hard to put aside.	2000-03-30
US	52769995	RAGVRTI1T04ZQ	0440221420	97116558	No Witnesses	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Superb Tension and Realism	No Witnesses is Ridley Pearson's third novel, of 6 to date, featuring Seattle homicide detective Lou Boldt and police department phsychologist Daphne Matthews.  It is a superb part of one of the must successful and  enjoyable mystery/suspense series going today.  I am amazed that Hollywood,  ever-starved for good storylines, especially when it comes to action films,  has yet to film any of the Boldt/Matthews novels.<br />Pearson's has two great  strengths as a writer.  First, he has the ability to weave a complex plot  while sustaining tension.  Second, he can present the details of police  work, especially regarding forensic evidence, in a manner that is both  realistic and attention-holding. <br />No Witnesses does not disappoint in  either respect.  Someone is blackmailing food conglomerate Adler Foods by  threatening deadly contamination of their products.  As Matthews (who is  romantically linked to Adler's CEO) and Boldt begin a low-profile  investigation, it becomes clear that the blackmailer has the means to carry  out his deadly threats--he seems to be able to introduce poisoned products  right onto grocery store shelves.  While Boldt begins to build a chain of  evidence that he hopes will lead him to the killer, deaths begin to mount,  and some of those who are supposedly on Boldt's side reveal that they have  their own agendas.<br />Pearson creates strong, three-dimensional characters,  none more so than Lou Boldt himself.  Boldt, along with Michael Connelly's  Harry Bosch, ranks among the most interesting fictional cops of the  1990's.<br />Anyone who enjoys a good mystery, especially one centered on  realistic police work, would enjoy No Witnesses.  The Boldt/Matthews  novels, while a series, can be read out of sequence, so if this one sounds  good, don't hesitate to dive right in.	2000-03-20
US	52769995	R1LY5A8XKUTKJR	1859841392	978801677	Whiteout: The CIA, Drugs and the Press	Books	5	79	81	N	Y	A Superbly Researched Account of Some Unpleasant Events	The CIA has always been a very secretive organization, and remains one today.  In 1996, the publication of Gary Webb's &quot;Dark Alliance&quot; series threatened the CIA with unwelcome public scrutiny by exposing its  complicity in the drug trade: the CIA-created Nicaraguan contras were  funding their operations, in part, by selling crack cocaine on the streets  of Los Angeles, with the agency's knowledge.<br />  Alexander Cockburn and  Jeffrey St. Clair's  &quot;Whiteout: The CIA, Drugs and the Press&quot;  jumps off from here.  Wisely, Cockburn and St. Clair do not make Webb's  story the core of their book; Webb's own book does that job admirably.  What they do contribute to this story is a devastating account of the  shameful way that the mainstream press, led by former intelligence officer  Walter Pincus of the Washington Post, turned on Webb in an effort to  discredit him and his story.  Cockburn and St. Clair repeatedly expose the  flaws in mainstream efforts to &quot;debunk&quot; the Dark Alliance series,  and catch many reporters acting as little more than flacks for the CIA,  often writing stories that said little more than \\"we know Webb's story is  false because the CIA told us so.\\"<br />  But the core of  &quot;Whiteout&quot; has a more historical perspective, as the authors set  out to review the underside of the history of the CIA and its precursor,  the OSS.  And an ugly picture it is, too, as we see these agencies:<br />  -recruiting the Mafia to assassinate foreign leaders.<br />  -recruiting  Nazi scientists to conduct experiments (often on blacks) in torture and  mind control.<br />  -helping war criminal Klaus Barbie escape Europe, and  justice, to become a South American drug lord, arms dealer and apparent CIA  operative.<br />  -allying with the opium and heroin traders of Southeast  Asia.<br />  Working with drug dealers and other criminal elements is so  common for the CIA that it would appear from this account to have been  standard Agency procedure.<br />  &quot;Whiteout&quot; is a well-written  and well-researched book.  Helpfully, the authors end each chapter with an  annotated guide to further reading on the subject.<br />  &quot;Whiteout&quot; is not pleasant reading; I could only take so much at  a time before having to put it aside for the day.  But it is necessary  reading. In a democratic society, an agency such as the CIA, if it must  exist, must be under constant scrutiny or it will lapse into lawlessness  (the same is true of law enforcement agencies).  It is clear that the  mainstream media are not going to provide such scrutiny, so we must turn to  independent journalists like Cockburn and St. Clair and others like them  for the accurate information we need.o have been  standard Agency procedure.<br />      &quot;Whiteout&quot; is a well-written  and well-researched book.  Helpfully, the authors end each chapter with an  annotated guide to further reading on the subject.<br />       &quot;Whiteout&quot; is not pleasant reading; I could only take so much at  a time before having to put it aside for the day.  But it is necessary  reading. In a democratic society, an agency such as the CIA, if it must  exist, must be under constant scrutiny or it will lapse into lawlessness  (the same is true of law enforcement agencies).  It is clear that the  mainstream media are not going to provide such scrutiny, so we must turn to  independent journalists like Cockburn and St. Clair and others like them  for the accurate information we need.	2000-03-10
US	52769995	R2DIZ40MQHG7C9	0738202436	515366702	Standardized Minds: The High Price Of America's Testing Culture	Books	5	54	57	N	Y	Suprebly Researched Indictment of Standardized Testing	In today's US it is almost impossible to avoid encountering standardized tests--mass-produced, multiple-choice, fill-in-the-bubble, machine-scored  exams of all sorts.  Standardized tests are used to assess the performance  of public schools, in many systems to determine which students will be held  back a grade, to decide who will get into college, and into graduate and  professional school, and who will get certain jobs.  <br />In  &quot;Standardized Minds,&quot; Peter Sacks delivers a devastating critique  of the use of such tests.  His indictment includes a wide range of  particulars, only some of which can be summarized here.<br />First,  standardized tests are not a source of useful information.  A widely used  reading test given to elementary school students can err by as much as  three grade levels in measuring a student's reading level.  The SAT,  required for admission to most colleges, has no use other than to make  predictions, with limited accuracy, of students' freshman year grades.  The  GRE, required for admission to most Ph.D. programs, actually has a negative  correlation with future success as a scholar.<br />Second, standardized tests  are very biased.  The best known of these biases is that of the SAT against  low-income, minority students.  Sacks shows that this bias extends to other  tests as well.  Another bias identified by Sacks is that standardized tests  are biased in favor of superficial thinking--the ability to rapidly recall  and repeat facts--and against the deeper thinking necessary to solve  complex real-world problems.<br />Third, and perhaps most harmfully,  standardized tests promote &quot;teaching to the test.&quot;  A number of  states have established what Sacks terms &quot;high-stakes  accountability&quot; programs, in which standardized test scores determine  whether students are promoted to the next grade or are allowed to graduate,  and are used to rank the performance of schools.  Sacks documents how such  &quot;high-stakes&quot; programs cause teachers to spend enormous amounts  of time drilling students in preparation for the tests.  Such teaching  practices promote rote memorization and superficial thinking at the expense  of critical thinking skills and genuine understanding--hardly a desireable  educational goal.<br />It is important to note that Sacks is not merely giving  his personal opinions.  He has studied and mastered a great deal of  research.  At the same time, his book is far more than a dry academic  recital.  Unlike the Dinesh D'Souzas of the world, Sacks knows the proper  usage of anecdotes--to illustrate a generalzation, not as the basis for it.   Of the many illuminating stories he tells, one bears repeating.  St.  John's University's psych department requires students entering the Ph.D.  program to take the GRE, which is useless except to make somewhat accurate  predictions of first-year grades.  Students seeking a masters degree only,  while they take the same first-year courses, are not required to take the  GRE.  However, if these students wish, on completing a masters degree, to  enter the Ph.D. program, they must then take the GRE, even though the only  value of the exam is to &quot;predict&quot; their grades in courses they  have already taken.<br />Sacks ends the book by noting some optimistic trends,  such as the growing number of colleges and universities which no longer  require applicants to take the SAT.  However, breaking the tyranny of  standardized testing will not be easy--the political pressures for the kind  of superficial &quot;standards&quot; and &quot;accountability&quot; such  tests provide are enormous.  But reading Sacks' book, and freeing your own  mind from the spell cast by standardized test scores, would be a good  start.	2000-02-27
US	52769995	R26MLDV9Q8TVPJ	0375700994	796011088	Living Downstream: A Scientist's Personal Investigation of Cancer and the Environment	Books	5	32	35	N	N	Poetry and Scientific Precision	It is rare to find a book on a scientific subject that is both accurate and precise in its science and beautifully written.  It is no surprise to find that Sandra Steingraber, author of such a book, is both a Ph.D.  biologist and a published poet.  <br />&quot;Living Downstream&quot; is a  superb blend of rigorous analysis and poignant memoir. Steingraber  documents the increasing evidence of a strong link between rising cancer  rates and environmental contamination.  At the same time she tells her own  story--that of a woman who suffered and survived cancer while only in her  20's.  This book has justly been compared to Rachel Carson's &quot;Silent  Spring&quot; and may, if read widely enough, have the same worldwide impact  that Carson's book had forty years ago.	2000-01-29
US	52769995	R1ZR30I9IHLZBT	0684818868	458361116	Lies My Teacher Told Me : Everything Your American History Textbook Got Wrong	Books	5	21	30	N	N	Why Do Students Hate History?	James Loewen opens this book by noting that &quot;high school students hate history,&quot; rating it last among 21 subjects in relevance.  This can hardly be because people find the subject itself uninteresting--as Loewen notes, novels and movies with historical themes are extremely  popular.  Nonfiction histories by authors like Stephen Ambrose also sell  quite well.  Part of the problem with high school history, Loewen suggests,  lies with textbooks that fall far short of what they could be.<br />In this  book, Loewen reviews 12 US history texts used at the high school level.   The texts are typical of what most HS students see; they account for over  60% of the market.  He finds a number of shortcomings common to all twelve.   Space limits do not allow a complete review of his arguments here; a few  illustrations will have to stand for the whole.<br />One of the most  pernicious tendencies in history texts is what Loewen calls  &quot;heroification,&quot; the process by which flesh-and-blood historical  figures are transformed into &quot;wartless stereotypes,&quot; and, I might  add, extremely bland ones.  Textbooks do this by consistently omitting from  their profiles of people any trace of radicalism (such as Helen Keller's  socialism), anything controversial (such as Woodrow Wilson's imperialist  foreign policies) or any discussion of  the complexity of people's opinions  (such as Lincoln's views on race and slavery).<br />A second common weakness  is the failure of textbooks to adequately discuss the causes and  motivations behind important events.  Examples include the sources of the  Northern victory in the Civil War or the reasons for the Vietnam War, both  topics which deserve detailed discussion.  In place of such depth, texts  serve up such tripe as this account of the origins of the Vietnam War:  &quot;in the 1950's, war broke out in South Vietnam.&quot;<br />The passage  quoted above illustrates another common failing--the usage of the passive  voice to avoid dealing with the responsibility of the US and its leaders  for their actions.  <br />Loewen also discusses the process by which texts are  written and approved, a process which he finds to contribute heavily to the  vapid triumphalism that dominates texts.  He identifies the pressures on  textbook authors from parochial local interests and conservative pressure  groups as negative factors in this process.<br />Loewen concludes with a  valuable discussion of the dangers of teaching history in a way that is  devoid of meanifngul content and that shuns all controversy.  His book is  well written and well researched throughout.  I find it instructive that,  although it has stirred several resentful, angry responses, none of the 1  or 2 star reviewers, have identified a single substantive error in Loewen's  book.	2000-01-25
US	52769995	R35G42YZZ52H1J	1859847188	522926085	Lockdown America: Police and Prisons in the Age of Crisis	Books	5	47	49	N	Y	Extremely Valuable Reporting	Christian Parenti's &quot;Lockdown America&quot; is one of many excellent recent books on crime policy.  As do David Cole and Elliott Currie, Parenti contributes to showing the failures of the one-dimensional crime policies  of the past 20-30 years, during which time the only acceptable variation on  &quot;get tough&quot; has been &quot;get  tougher.&quot;<br />&quot;Lockdown&quot; consists of three parts.  First,  Parenti surveys the development of crime policy over the past 30-odd years.   His account is sterngthened by his placement of crime policy in a broader  context of important social and economic trends such as growing income  inequality and the decline of manufacturing employment, especially in large  cities.<br />The other two segments focus on two groups who are on the front  lines of crime policy--the police and prisons.  Parenti describes a number  of disturbing trends, such as:<br />     -the spread of  &quot;zero-tolerance&quot; policing policies, and the enormous increase in  lawlessness and violence on the part of the supposed keepers of the law.<br />      -the growing militarization of police forces as seen in the  proliferation of paramilitary SWAT teams and similar units, many of which,  again, are responsible for wildly excessive use of force.<br />     -the  rampant degree to which prison guards engage in violence against inmates as  well as formenting such violence among inmates themselves.<br />Parenti's  reporting is first-rate.  While his book is not a complete picture of the  crime issue--he is somewhat short on solutions--his account is a valuable  complement to the more policy-oriented work of Cole or Currie.   &quot;Lockdown America&quot; deserves to be widely read.	2000-01-13
US	52769995	R9ESOKGBJ5YY7	0345424603	867079822	The Masterharper of Pern (Dragonriders of Pern)	Books	4	22	25	N	N	Best Pern Novel in Years	With this novel Anne McCaffrey gets away from some of the weaknesses that have plagued recent novels in her saga of the planet Pern--the excessive number of viewpoint characters and storylines and the rushed quality of the  plotting.  Masterharper of Pern is the story of one of the author's  favorite characters, Robinton, and covers his childhood, adolescence and  early manhood.  In it we learn much of the &quot;backstory&quot; behind the  &quot;Dragonriders of Pern&quot; trilogy, the beginnings of which this book  overlaps with.<br />Lovers of the Pern novels will most likely enjoy this  book--although not the best book in the series, I found it to be superior  to any since &quot;Dragonsdawn.&quot;  If you are new to the series, it is  not the best one to read first--start with &quot;Dragonflight&quot; and  &quot;Dragonquest.&quot;  Read &quot;Masterharper&quot; if you like them.	2000-01-07
US	52769995	R3CQZD0YB66SMK	0805048359	931287047	Crime and Punishment in America	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Currie's Wisdom is Being Ignored	Elliott Currie doesn't seem to understand that you aren't supposed to approach the issue of crime by actually thinking about it and looking at the evidence.  These days crime policy is increasingly  monotone--a  one-note cry of &quot;get tough.&quot;  When crime fails to vanish like the  &quot;get tough&quot; proponents claim it will, the cry simply becomes  &quot;get tougher.&quot;  So we get the death penalty for more and more  crimes, &quot;three-strikes&quot; laws to give life sentences for all sorts  of offenses, huge numbers of people imprisoned solely for posession of  drugs, and states like California spending more on their prison system than  on their impoverished colleges and universities.<br />Anyone who reads Elliott  Curries book will find that these policies do not have a leg to stand on  intellectually.  Currie begins by reviewing what he calls our &quot;prison  experiment.&quot;  For some 30 years we have taken the &quot;get  tough&quot; approach, over which time we have increased the prison  population by a factor of about six.  Over this time, the level of crime  has changed little, as Currie amply demonstrates.<br />Currie then goes on to  demolish what he calls &quot;prison myths,&quot; a whole set of factoids  about crime and the justice system that are put out by right-wing  ideologues like John DiIulio, Charles Murray and Morgan Reynolds, and  spread by pundits and politicians like William Bennett, Phil Gramm, and  Newt Gingrich.  To give one example, Currie shows how Reynolds concocts his  claim that robbers serve an average prison sentence of 23 days (the actual  figure is over 4 years).  What Reynolds does is divide the time served by  convicted robbers by the total number of roberies in a year.   Reynolds  ignores simple facts: over half of all robberies are not reported to  police, many that are reported are not solved, and many robbers commit more  than one crime.  The result is a meaningless statistic.  While Currie is  too well-mannered to say it, it is obvious why Reynolds and his like  manipulate the data the way they do--they are intentionally deceiving  people.<br />If Currie had done no more than debunk the &quot;get tough&quot;  approach, his book would be worthy of five stars for that alone.  But the  second half of his book is even more revealing.  Currie has made a  comprehensive review of solid research on all kinds of social policy.  What  he reveals is dramatic--we know what kinds of policies will reduce  crime.<br />Currie describes a whole set of policies that have been shown,  with hard evidence, to be effective.  A few examples will convey the type  of policies that are needed:<br />    -&quot;Home visiting&quot; programs that  provide support for low-income parents with infants and young children in  the form of regular visits from nurses.  Such programs are proven to be  effective in reducing child abuse and neglect, which are long-term causes  of crime.<br />     -Intensive mentoring programs for juveniles with criminal  records, which involve having caseworkers or therapists meet several times  weekly with the juveniles for an extended period.  Juveniles in such  programs had much lower rearrest rates than other juveniles with similar  records<br />     -Effective drug treatment programs for the 50-60 percent of  inmates with drug problems.  Again, inmates who complete such programs are  far less likely to commit future crimes.  The need is to make such programs  available to all inmates who need them, not just a handful.<br />Currie also  demonstrates conclusively that poverty and income inequality are major  contributors to crime, and that an effective attach on poverty will  significantly contribute to reducing crime.<br />The evidence Currie cites is  so overwhelming that it raises the question of why policies like those he  advocates are not in place.  The conclusion I am forced to is that  politicians like Bennett and &quot;get tough&quot; proponents like DiIulio  and Reynolds do not really want to solve the crime problem.  They want to  keep people scared to get their political support.	1999-12-08
US	52769995	RCBEDIPU6I2OU	0312950489	498818576	The Black Echo (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	323	333	N	N	A Gripping Yarn	This was Michael Connelly's first novel (of 6 to date) featuring LAPD detective Hieronymous &quot;Harry&quot; Bosch.  Matters begin innocuously enough when Bosch discovers that a dead body found in a drainage pipe is a  one-time Vietnam comrade of his named William Meadows.  It appears to be a  simple drug overdose, but Bosch suspects foul play, and when he determines  he is right, he is plunged into  an investigation that develops into far  more than a single murder case.<br />The &quot;iceberg&quot; plot where a  complex scheme is only gradually exposed is a crime fiction standard.   Connelly is, even in his first novel, a master at this type of plot-line.   His characters are three-dimensional and interesting, especially Bosch and  his uneasy ally, FBI agent Eleanor Wish.  Best of all, Connelly knows his  territory--a former Los Angeles Times reporter, he knows LA and the LAPD (I  suspect he still has sources in the department).  The Black Echo is a  superb novel.	1999-12-07
US	52769995	R2BRPGJ9ILGGP	0805044302	710428379	God's Perfect Child: Living and Dying in the Christian Science Church	Books	5	66	82	N	N	Essential Reading on Christian Science	Like Caroline Fraser, I too am a former Christian Scientist. I was raised in Christian Science, joined  the Mother Church in my teens, graduated from Principia College (for Christian Scientists only), was president of a  college &quot;Org&quot; while in grad school, and attended church services  until I was in my early 30's. So I can testify to the spot-on accuracy and  fairness of Fraser's portrayal of Christian Science in this book.<br />Hostile  reviewers have claimed that Fraser's father, described in the prologue, is  some sort of &quot;oddball&quot; Christian Scientist for habits such as not  using the seatbelts in his car. In fact, if you truly believe that  &quot;accidents are impossible in God's kingdom,&quot; as Scientists are  taught, then there is no logical reason to use your seatbelts. Christian  Scientists who do use seatbelts, like previous reviewer Richard Biever, are  tacitly acknowledging that at least some teachings of Christian Science are  ridiculous.<br />After the brief personal account which opens the book, Fraser  devotes about the first third of the book to a review of the life and  career of Mary Baker Eddy, the founder of Christian Science. Her primary  source, contrary to hostile reviewers, is the church-approved biography by  Robert Peel.  Fraser does not set out to write a full biography; rather,  her focus is on clearing away the mythology Scientists have constricted  about their &quot;beloved Leader.&quot; For example, Fraser demolishes one  of the central Christian Science myths, that of Eddy's &quot;fall on the  ice&quot; in 1866, which supposedly led to the epiphanic moment when she  &quot;discovered&quot; Christian Science.<br />Fraser also describes the CS  Church's efforts to suppress any unfavorable treatments of Eddy in print.   For example,  a publisher recently reissued Willa Cather's well-regarded  biography in 1993.  Unable to prevent publication, the Church coerced the  publisher into issuing a vaguely worded \\"disclaimer\\" with the book, which  the church has used to try to delegitimatize it.<br />The remainder of the  book deals with several issues that the Christian Science Church has had to  deal with over the 20th century, such as controversies over church  governance and the church's media activities. The section that has stirred  the greatest hostility among Christian Scientists is Fraser's segment  entitled &quot;Christian Science goes to Court.&quot; Here Fraser recounts  many of the legal challenges to Christian Science over the years. Her  emphasis is on the responsibilities of Christian Science parents to  properly care for their children. In 1974, the church lobbied the Dept. of  Health, Education and Welfare to issue a regulation which effectively  coerced states into passing laws shielding Christian Scientists from  prosecution for withholding medical care from their children.<br />The  consequences were tragic. Fraser recounts several wrenching accounts of  Christian Scientist's children dying, often in extreme pain, from diseases  that were easily curable if medical care had been obtained in time (these  are what Biever calls &quot;alleged failures&quot;). Attempts to prosecute  parents for negligence failed for the most part, thanks to the laws  obtained by the church's effective lobbying.<br />But what of the successes of  Christian Science, say its adherents, such as Richard Biever, who refers  vaguely to &quot;thousands of healings.&quot; You wouldn't know it from  hostile reviewers, but Fraser deals with this issue thoroughly. She notes  that in fact there is NO credible evidence of the &quot;healing power of  prayer&quot; to heal anything other than psychosomatic illness. Fraser  analyzes and debunks church propaganda claiming the contrary. She also  notes research by William Simpson, which demonstrates that Christian  Scientists have significantly lower life expectancies than do comparable  groups who accept medical care. Simpson's findings are hardly what you  would expect if Christian Science were truly an effective &quot;healing  method.&quot;<br />Why, then, do Christian Scientists believe so strongly in  the effectiveness of their &quot;treatments.&quot; I would attribute it to  three reasons. First, as Fraser makes clear, Christian Scientists  deliberately shield themselves from learning how the human body works. (For  example, like most Scientists, I was excused from health education in  school, and I was well past 30 before I even opened a book that had  anything to do with human biology). As a consequence, Christian Scientists  are ignorant of how effective the body's defenses are against  disease.<br />Second, like many people, Christian Scientists commit the post  hoc fallacy: A Christian Scientist feels ill, so they &quot;know the  truth&quot; about their situation. After some time, the  cold/flu/headache/fever/ankle sprain/etc. goes away, and the Christian  Scientist concludes &quot;I've had a healing.&quot; Not understanding that  such &quot;healings&quot; can be attributed to the human immune system  throwing off the cold virus or whatever, the Christian Scientist reaches an  invalid conclusion. <br />Third, Christian Scientists simply ignore or  rationalize away their failures (as do the fans of psychics). Fraser  describes two chilling examples of this tendency. She cites a deposition  given by a practitioner, Thomas Black, in a court case related to a child's  death. Black stated &quot;Whenever Christian Science is properly applied,  it heals.&quot; He explained that the child's death came because  &quot;Christian Science was misapplied&quot; by the parents. Even more  callousness is shown by Ruth Brewster, another practitioner, in a  &quot;testimony of healing&quot; in a church publication. Brewster  described rearing four children, claiming that none of them ever had  &quot;an activity missed because of illness.&quot; However, Brewster had  once had a fifth child, a daughter who died at 7 years old of an untreated  illness, who she simply pretended had never lived.<br />The inability of  Christian Scientists to address their failures is the most important issue  raised by Fraser (though not the only important one). Christian Scientists  are often dishonest with themselves and others. If the Christian Science  movement is ever going to regain the vitality it had early in this century,  Christian Scientists are going to have to start being more honest. Reading  this book and confronting what Fraser has to say would be a good  start.<br />In sum, I think that every Christian Scientist should read this  book with an open mind. Non-Scientists with an interest in the church or  its activities will also find it fascinating.	1999-09-10
US	52769995	R3G5C9NGOMHO0Z	0830813241	403041738	Darwin on Trial	Books	1	23	55	N	N	Completely Wrong in its Fundamental Argument	I'm amazed at the pro-Johnson reviewers here who have complained of negative reivews that allegedly ignore Johnson's arguments.  In fact, previous reviews have dealt with many of Johnson's central points, in  particular his main argument on the subject of naturalism.  <br />To be  scientific, a claim must be testable--it must be possible to demonstrate  with evidence that the proposition is false.  Science must, then, by its  nature, confine itself to studying claims which can be tested with  evidence.  Claims that attribute some event to a supernatural force of some  kind, including all &quot;God did it&quot; claims, are inherently  untestable, and therefore, scientists properly do not examine such  claims.<br />Johnson simply does not understand the centrality of testability  to science.  Therefore, when he observes scientists ruling out supernatural  explanations, he wrongly attributes their action to a quasi-religious bias  in favor of &quot;naturalism.&quot;  This fundamental failure to understand  science invalidates Johnson's arguments.	1999-07-08
US	52769995	R1QLG9ZX7Z9AUE	0060168366	796423640	A History of the American People	Books	1	123	186	N	N	A Seriously Flawed Version of US History	Paul Johnson is a British journalist who also is an amateur historian.  In this book he sets out to write a comprehensive history of the US; however, his book is marred by serious shortcomings.<br />The most obvious failing of  this book is its abundance of factual errors.  Previous reviewers have  noted whoppers like Johnson's conflation of Civil War Gens. Joseph and  Albert Sidney Johnston.  Such errors abound throughout.  Opening at random  to the description of the Constitutional Convention, I quickly found  Johnson erroneously describing Alexander Hamilton as &quot;leading the  federalists&quot; during the convention; in fact Hamilton was absent from  much of the convention and had little influence on its outcome.  In the  same account Gouvernor Morris of Pennsylvania is misidentified as a  delegate from New York.<br />It is true that in a book of such length and  scope, even a professional historian could make errors, but the number of  Johnson's mistakes and the ease with which many of them could have been  avoided suggests that he did much of his writing and research  sloppily.<br />While the factual errors are the most apparent flaw in AHotAP,  other shortcomings are more serious.  Johnson repeatedly displays poor  judgement in choosing which events to emphasize.  He discusses minor issues  and events at great length while giving short shrift to much more important  topics.<br />For example, writing about the Civil War, Johnson gives much  attention to the actions of Col. John Mosby, an irregular cavalry leader  who had little effect on the course of the war, while giving much less  space to Grant's campaigns in the West from Fort Henry to Vicksburg, which  were extremely important, and in some historians' view decisive.<br />Turning  to the post WW2 era, Johnson repeatedly trivializes major social movements,  while magnifying trivial issues.  The environmental movement gets a mere  two paragraphs, and these merely to lament that it &quot;added to  [America's] problems of competing in the world.&quot;  The environmental  degradation which gave rise to the movement is barely noted.  But Johnson  has time to run on for pages about the &quot;political correctness&quot;  issue, a teapot tempest manufactured by right-wing pundits.<br />The civil  rights movement fares a bit better--the entire period from the Montgomery  bus boycott to Martin Luther King's murder gets a whopping two pages.  Even  so, the focus is almost entirely on King; Malcolm X, for example, an  important and complex figure, is summarily, and inaccurately, dismissed as  a &quot;black racist.&quot;  People like Fannie Lou Hamer are non-persons  in Johnson's account.  But he has space for a rhapsody of several pages on  the &quot;power&quot; of Ronald Reagan's humor (humor that was in most  cases, like the &quot;there you go again&quot; quip made much of by  Johnson, scripted by the Gipper's aides).<br />A third weakness is the  incompleteness of Johnson's research.  On many subjects, his notes reveal a  failure to consult major, standard works on the topic.  For example, no  serious treatment of the rise of giant corporations can ignore the books of  Alfred Chandler.  No one could fairly criticize the foreign policy of FDR,  as Johnson does, without at least consulting the standard works on that  topic by Dallek and Divine.  And any treatment of the Cold War worthy of  serious attention must at least take into account the arguments of  revisionist historians like Williams, Kolko, Gardner and Alperovitz.  Yet  Johnson appears never to have read any of their work.<br />Of all AHotAP's  faults, the most glaring are Johnson's dubious interpretations and  judgements.  Events are frequently viewed through an ideological filter,  leading Johnson to conclusions that are almost impossible to justify  rationally.  The Great Depression, for example, would have ended, according  to Johnson, by the end of 1930, had the government not interfered with the  &quot;self-adjusting&quot; abilities of the economy (self-adjusting  abilities which even conservative economists like Milton Friedman now admit  do not exist).  Prior to the civil rights movement, Johnson tells us,  &quot;blacks had failed to participate fully in American political  life,&quot; as if blacks were not voting by choice, not because a mix of  law and terror prevented them.<br />Johnson's most warped judgements, which  border on hysteria, concern President Nixon and his crimes--crimes which in  Johnson's view were, as he says of the &quot;plumbers&quot; illegal acts,  &quot;activities of an entirely justified nature.&quot;  Watergate is  portrayed as an effort by evil liberal &quot;witchhunters&quot; to drive a  good man from office; Nixon's central impeachable offense, that of  obstruction of justice, goes entirely unmentioned.  Also absent is the  famous &quot;smoking gun tape,&quot; which proved that Nixon was complicit  in the Wagergate coverup from the start, and by providing such proof,  caused most Senate Republicans to turn against Nixon, and caused Nixon to  resign in the face of certain conviction and removal from office.  Johnson  simply pretends that this sequence of events never happened, and  misrepresents Nixon as resigning &quot;in the national interest&quot; even  though, as Johnson distorts it, he would not have been convicted.<br />This  book's shrill, tendentious nature make it entirely unsuited as an  introduction to US history, and to anyone with knowledge of the subject, as  I have, it is often genuinely painful to read.  Doubtless many  conservatives will find it congenial reading, since it tells them things  they want to hear (the previous reviewer who acknowledged how glad he was  to see a book that trashed FDR was tacitly admitting this).  But a  historian's job is not to comfort his readers in their prejudices, but to  respect the truth and present the truth as best he can.  Paul Johnson fails  completely at this task.justing&quot; abilities of the economy (self-adjusting  abilities which even conservative economists like Milton Friedman now admit  do not exist).  Prior to the civil rights movement, Johnson tells us,  &quot;blacks had failed to participate fully in American political  life,&quot; as if blacks were not voting by choice, not because a mix of  law and terror prevented them.<br />Johnson's most warped judgements, which  border on hysteria, concern President Nixon and his crimes--crimes which in  Johnson's view were, as he says of the &quot;plumbers&quot; illegal acts,  &quot;activities of an entirely justified nature.&quot;  Watergate is  portrayed as an effort by evil liberal &quot;witchhunters&quot; to drive a  good man from office; Nixon's central impeachable offense, that of  obstruction of justice, goes entirely unmentioned.  Also absent is the  famous &quot;smoking gun tape,&quot; which proved that Nixon was complicit  in the Wagergate coverup from the start, and by providing such proof,  caused most Senate Republicans to turn against Nixon, and caused Nixon to  resign in the face of certain conviction and removal from office.  Johnson  simply pretends that this sequence of events never happened, and  misrepresents Nixon as resigning &quot;in the national interest&quot; even  though, as Johnson distorts it, he would not have been convicted.<br />This  book's shrill, tendentious nature make it entirely unsuited as an  introduction to US history, and to anyone with knowledge of the subject, as  I have, it is often genuinely painful to read.  Doubtless many  conservatives will find it congenial reading, since it tells them things  they want to hear (the previous reviewer who acknowledged how glad he was  to see a book that trashed FDR was tacitly admitting this).  But a  historian's job is not to comfort his readers in their prejudices, but to  respect the truth and present the truth as best he can.  Paul Johnson fails  completely at this task.	1999-03-27
US	52769995	R26G8T03TY6X90	0830813241	403041738	Darwin on Trial	Books	1	103	191	N	N	Slick and Superficial	Phillip Johnson is a law professor at UC Berkeley and an evangelical  Christian who has stated publicly that his conversion to Christianity was  what motivated him to make a crusade out of trying to discredit the science  of evolution.  His arguments in this book are clever, and appealing to  those who have no background in the natural sciences, but they are unsound  and invalid, and anyone with sufficient training can see the gaping holes  in them.<br />Johnson is far more clever than most creationists, so he has the  sense to disavow some of the wackier  claims of the Duane Gish-Henry Morris  crowd, like  dinosaurs coexisting with humans or a universe that is only  6000 years old.  He also comes up with a clever way to get around his  complete lack of scientific training.  He argues that since evolution cuts  across many scientific disciplines,  scientists, who tend to specialize in  one discipline, are not the best equipped people to analyze evolution--a  layman like himself can do better.  Sound plausible?  Imagine if we applied  the same logic to law.  I could argue that since constitutional law covers  cases in a variety of areas of law, while lawyers tend to specialize in one  area, the best qualified person to teach constitutional law is someone with  no knowledge of the law.  Such an argument is no weaker than the claim that  a law professor with no training in science is the best person to critique  evolution.<br />Johnson's other arguments follow the same  pattern--superficially plausible, but invalid once you take them apart. His  central argument is that belief in evolution is not scientific--it is just  as religious as creationism.  He claims that since scientists rule out  supernatural causes when they study natural phenomena, the scientists are  in fact adhering to a religious belief in &quot;naturalism.&quot;  In fact,  scientists confine themselves to natural explanations, not because they are  arbitrarily ruling out the supernatural for &quot;religious&quot; reasons,  but because supernatural explanations are inherently untestable and  unfalsifiable, and scientists must confine themselves to claims and  explanations that can be proven false.<br />Imagine, once again, that we  turned Johnson's reasoning around and applied it to law--suppose we allowed  supernatural claims into courts of law.  &quot;Judge Ito, members of the  jury, it is true that my client O.J.'s blood was found at the scene of the  murder, but he was not responsible for the crimes, because he was posessed  by a demon on that evening and had no control over his body.  Since the  devil did it, you must acquit.&quot;  Johnson and his fellow conservatives  (creationist beliefs are almost entirely confined to the right wing) would  be outraged.<br />While Johnson has disavowed any belief in the extreme views  of the young earth crowd, it is astonishing how many of his arguments are  right out of Gish and Morris.  He claims that the fossil record does not  support evolution (False. See any paleontology text or the talk.orgins  FAQ).  He claims that evolution is not falsifiable (False.  For example, it  would be falsified by findings of modern mammal fossils in PreCambrian rock  formations).<br />Finally, Johnson displays a disturbing intellectual  dishonesty when presenting the arguments of the scientists he criticizes.  For example, he characterizes Richard Dawkins' &quot;the Blind  Watchmaker,&quot; one of the best books on evolution for laymen, as &quot;a  sustained argument for atheism&quot; which is only incidentally about  science.  Johnson supports his claim with one out of context quote.  Anyone  who has read Dawkins' book knows how badly Johnson distorts it, but  Johnson's book is aimed at an audience that has not read Dawkins or other  scientists, so few of his readers will realize how dishonest he is.<br />I  have rated the book at one star, meaning that I think there is no reason  for a general audience to read the book.  The only reason to read it would  be to arm yourself against creationism by learning what its arguments are.  Science educators and others who may find themselves on the frontlines  fighting creationists might find it valuable for that reason only.  Otherwise it is worthless.	1998-09-23
US	52769995	R2I6K7R0XDPGH3	1559634847	4886895	Betrayal of Science and Reason: How Anti-Environmental Rhetoric Threatens Our Future	Books	5	12	16	N	N	A Devastating Rebuttal of the Brownlash	As more and more people worldwide grow concerned about environmental  problems, and have pressured governments to act on these problems, a  countermovement has arisen, which claims that environmental problems are  nonexistent, or at least exaggerated.  Many claims of this  &quot;brownlash&quot; movement are now common parts of public dialogue.   Who hasn't heard views like these: &quot;The US doesn't have a population  problem--our population density is much less than countries like the  Netherlands and they're doing all right.&quot; (Fact: the Netherlands can  have a much higher population density since they import almost all their  food, something obviously impossible for the whole world.) Or &quot;Global  warming is a myth.  Satellite temperature records show the earth is  actually cooling.&quot;  (Fact: satellite temperature records are records  of temperatures in the atmosphere, and cannot be directly compared with  surface temperature records.)<br />In this thoroughly researched book,  biologists and environmentalists Paul and Anne Ehrlich refute the above  arguments and many others like them that come from the brownlash movement.   A reader of this book will reach the end far better informed about the very  serious environmental problems this planet faces.  If they are like me,  they will also be appalled at the flagrant dishonesty of the  brownlashers--people like Ronald Bailey, Gregg Easterbrook, Julian Simon,  S. Fred Singer, Dixy Lee Ray and many others seem to have no limits to the  lows of deception and misrepresentation they are willing to plumb.<br />I  highly recommend this book, especially to those who think that Dixy Lee Ray  or Julian Simon are the last word on environmental problems.	1998-09-16
US	52769995	R24AVW1K3R9ZY	1567511376	870832914	Washington on $10 Million A Day: How Lobbyists Plunder the Nation (Global Issues)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Certain to Provoke Outrage	Ken Silverstein is the co-editor of the newsletter Counterpunch and one of the best investigative journalists in the US.  In this book he exposes some of the ways in which corporate money and lobbying corrupt our political process and make sure that public policy serves corporate interests, not our own.   A pair of examples will illustrate.  In one particularly telling account, Silverstein reveals how Philip Morris connived to set up a phony public interest group called Contributions Watch, the purpose of which was to smear trial lawyers as &quot;the most powerful special interest group&quot; in the country.  In another section, he describes various types of &quot;astroturf&quot; lobbying activities, where corporations create phony &quot;grassroots&quot; groups to provide cover for their interests.<br />Much of the book is based on reporting Silverstein did for Counterpunch. Given Silverstein's talents, one wonders why he is  working for a small-circulation newsletter.  Surely our major newspapers have need for investigative journalists of his talents.  But then one remembers that the big papers are themselves corporate owned, and unlikely to want to shed too much light on the misdeeds of large corporations or the excesses of unrestrained monopoly capitalism.<br />The one flaw I can find with the book is the absence of any detailed notes on Silverstein's sources.	1998-05-23
US	52769995	RQ2AUCZ5GWZTE	0805018344	22787071	Richard Milhous Nixon: The Rise of an American Politician	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Definitive on the early Nixon	Roger Morris' book covers the life of Richard Nixon through his 1952 election to the Vice-Presidency.  Most of the book focuses on the years 1946-52, covering five pivotal episodes in Nixon's career 1)His 1946 House campaign against Jerry Voorhis, 2) the Hiss case, 3) his 1950 Senate campaign against Helen Gahagan Douglas, 4) his role in the 1952 Republican convention, and 5) the 1952 campaign with emphasis on the &quot;secret fund&quot; scandal that culminated with the &quot;Checkers&quot; speech.   Morris clearly is not from the David McCullough, portray-your-subject-as-a-saint school of biographers.  A reader gets a very clear sense of why Nixon came to merit the nickname &quot;Tricky Dick&quot; from Morris' portrayals of the dirty, dishonest campaigns against Voorhis and Douglas, and from Nixon's duplicitous behavior at the Republican convention, outwardly loyal to the California delegations chief, Gov. Earl Warren, while secretly maneuvering to throw the state's delegates to Eisenhower.  Yet Morris' Nixon is also a three-dimensional man, not a cardboard villain.	1998-04-07
US	52769995	R7BU2DESB5CDQ	0517706822	567759180	Stealing Jesus: How Fundamentalism Betrays Christianity	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Important Reading Despite Some Flaws	This is a book critical of the Christianity espoused by the &quot;Christian Right,&quot; written by a conservative Christian.  Bruce Bawer was for many years the film critic for the conservative American Spectator, and he is a devout Episcopalian. <br /> Many Americans who are not themselves evangelical or fundamentalist Protestants are unaware of what it means to be one.  Evangelical Protestants believe that you become a Christian by going though a ritual of being &quot;born again.&quot;  You &quot;confess that you are a sinner,&quot; and &quot;ask Jesus into your heart as your personal savior&quot; (to paraphrase how evangelicals trying to &quot;save&quot; me have put it).  Fundamentalists are all evangelicals, but they add other key beliefs--a belief in the inerrancy of the Bible, a belief that the &quot;end times&quot;  described in Revelation and other prophetic books of the Bible are imminent, and a belief that only those who are fundamentalists are &quot;true Christians.&quot;  For example, Pat Robertson refers to mainline Protestants like the Methodists and Presbyterians as &quot;the spirit of the Antichrist.&quot; <br /> Bawer examines both the history of fundamentalism and how it manifests in the &quot;Christian Right&quot; of today.  He describes how fundamentalism is a product of the late 19th and early 20th centuries, with emphasis on the role of clergyman John Nelson Darby in developing the apocalyptic scenarios that many fundamentalists believe in, of Cyrus Scofield, a fundamentalist bible commentator, in bringing Darby's exotic method of interpreting the Bible to American Protestants through his Scofield Reference Bible, and of apocalytic author Hal Lindsey in popularizing the Darby &quot;end times&quot; scenario for a mass audience in books like &quot;The Late Great Planet Earth.&quot;  Bawer then goes on to look at important &quot;Christian Right&quot; figures like Pat Robertson, Ralph Reed, James Dobson and Bill McCartney. <br /> Perhaps the mosttelling point Bawer makes is showing how far fundamentalism has departed from the long-standing doctrines of Protestant sects like the Baptists.  For centuries, Baptists espoused the autonomy of the individual in interpreting the Bible and relating to God--the formal terms were &quot;Bible Freedom&quot; and &quot;Soul Freedom.&quot;  Yet in recent years the Southern Baptist Convention has been torn by the efforts of self-styled &quot;traditionalists&quot;--really extreme fundamentalists--to impose all sorts of doctrinal litmus tests and mandatory readings of the Bible on the Convention, its institutions such as theological seminaries, and its churches.  Bawer shows convincingly that Christians from earlier eras would not recognize the &quot;Christianity&quot; of fundamentalists.  <br /> While Bawer's book is a good introduction to many issues, it has some flaws.  The most serious is his relative neglect of the importance of fundamentalists' belief in Biblical inerrancy, which is just as central to their worldview as are their apocalyptic beliefs, maybe moreso.  Fundamentalists essentially believe that the entire Bible was dictated by God, and therefore is completely without error and must be unquestioningly accepted.  This view is the source, for example, of fundamentalist calls for &quot;creation science&quot; to replace the science of evolution in high school biology classes.  Bawer gives this subject too little attention.  There are also places where his Episcopalinaism intrudes itself, as in his calls for religion to become more ritualized.  On a more technical note, a book which includes as many quotes from obscure sources as Bawer's ought to have footnotes or endnotes. <br /> While Bawer's book is imperfect, it is a good start for anyone who is interested in the &quot;Christian Right&quot; but is not familiar with the beliefs and dogmas of fundamentalists.	1998-02-10
US	52769995	R35Q50PV4X1JWZ	0679738576	966624665	Illiberal Education: The Politics of Race and Sex on Campus	Books	1	23	78	N	N	Wildly inaccurate	Dinesh D'Souza first became known as one of the founding editors of the &quot;Dartmouth Review,&quot; an alternative student newspaper at Dartmouth which is subsidized by conservative foundations.  Since then he has acquired a sinecure at the right-wing American Enterprise Institute.  Although the book does not mention it, his only previous book was a fawning biography of Jerry Falwell. <br /> D'Souza sets out to demonstrate that a &quot;revolutionary movement has already widely imposed  its program on every facet of university life.&quot;  However, he fails to present any convincing evidence that this is the case.  His proof consists mostly of a handful of anecdotes, many of which are distorted.  One example is D'Souza's portrayal of affirmative action--he claims that racial hostility on college campuses is primarily due to affirmative action programs.  In fact, most racial incidents have little to do with affirmative action--if they were, there would be no cases of racist attacks on Asian-Americans, which the UC system (of which I am an alumni) has seen plenty of. <br /> So wildly does D'Sousa misrepresent the facts in this book that historian C. Vann Woodward, who originally took D'Souza's claims at face value in a positive review, took the unprecedented step of withdrawing his review publicly when he became aware that many of D'Souza's &quot;facts&quot; were false.  When reading D'Souza, it is always worth recalling his Dartmouth nickname of &quot;Distort D'Newsa.&quot;  In this book he shows it is still accurate.	1998-01-31
US	52769995	R4MBAEQV5PN4J	156584260X	345811220	The Way Things Aren't: Rush Limbaugh's Reign of Error : Over 100 Outrageously False and Foolish Statements from America's Most Powerful Radio and TV	Books	5	28	39	N	N	Very readable and completely on the mark!	Steve Rendall and his colleagues at the media-watch group Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting (FAIR) have produced a compact, readable and devastating analysis of talk-show host Rush Limbaugh's war on the truth.  They document how Limbaugh repeatedly bases his discussion of important issues like health care and the environment on serious factual errors.  Also included are a discussion of Limbaugh's career, an account of the deluge of hate-mail that is routinely received by anyone who criticizes Limbaugh, a series of &quot;Limbaugh vs. Limbaugh&quot; comparisions showing how he frequently contradicts himself in a blatantly hypocritical way, and a discussion of Limbaugh's pathetic response to the initial FAIR report on his factual inaccuarcies, in which Limbaugh was unable to find a single point on which he was right and FAIR wrong. <br /> Anyone would find reading this book informative.  The people who most need to read it are Limbaugh's idolatrous legions of &quot;dittoheads.&quot;  Unfortunately, they will be unlikely to even look at it.	1998-01-27
