US	52766053	RDQ8EJEBF1YI2	1932382224	447517881	Wake The Dead	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Introduces young adult readers to a literary classic	Getting young adult readers to pick up a literary classic like Mary Shelley's \\"Frankenstein\\" is a hard call these days. Give them a book like Steve Nile's \\"Wake the Dead\\" and you won't get it back off them.  <br /> <br />Steve Niles modernizes the tale, and the artwork in this graphic novel is suprerb. It brings to life all the horrific and gory details of assembling a human body from evicerated car crash victims. Though the concept isn't new (it wasn't even in Mary Shelley's day, with the concept of a golem pre-dating her work) it does bring the story to life for a modern audience.	2004-11-07
US	52766053	RURLE8YT63ETT	1932382054	508885421	Dial M For Monster: A Collection Of Cal McDonald Mystery Stories	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Five star collection of short stories - horror AND comedy!	If you liked zombie comedy movies like Shawn of the Dead, or horror movie parody movies like Scary Movie, you'll love this collection of Steve Nile's short stories, featuring the supernatural private investigator Cal McDonald. This is a much more accessible volume for non-comic readers than the other comic based tales of Cal McDonald -- they're just darn good reads, with the kind of dry with that Steve Niles brings to bear with this character.	2004-11-07
US	52766053	R2XQXKZ2REJ4MG	0896864553	387644075	The Dodo (Gone Forever Series)	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Excellent guide to the history of the dodo bird	This book represents an excellent guide to learning more about the dodo bird, and its history. The authors cover historical observations and debates by scientists about the dodo, eventually coming to a consensus on what the dodo was and how it behaved. Full of beautiful pictures as well.	2000-10-31
US	52766053	R1Z1F4JUOI9O67	1861004656	538236794	Professional Java Server Programming J2EE Edition	Books	5	25	28	N	N	The definitive guide to any and all Java Server technologies	When it comes to the authoritative reference for server-side Java development, you can't go past Professional Java Server Programming, J2EE Edition. This hefty tome is a revised version on Professional Java Server Programming, updated for the Java 2 Platform Enterprise Edition. <br /> This thick tome weighs in at over a massive 1600 pages, far more material than would normally be expected for a book of its price. So what do you get for your money? <br /> Well, this is more than just a book on a single Java technology, like servlets or RMI, or JavaServer Pages (JSP). With contributions from twenty one (21) authors, you've got the most comprehensive guide to Java server technologies, as well as related topics like XML, CORBA, RMI, Jini and JDBC. Then there's the extra material, on Enterprise JavaBeans, JavaMail and other core J2EE technologies. <br /> This book covers the entire gamut of server-side programming, linking one technology to the next. If you're in a hurry, you won't want to read the book cover to cover. Instead, you can jump right in to the technologies you're interested, picking and choosing as you please. This approach works well, and is an important decision for commercial developers working to a schedule. It's a big book, but it's easy to select the sections you need, as you need them. <br /> Like many books of its type, there's plenty of examples, but the authors strike a good balance between theory and practical applications. Unlike most books on server-side programming, there's also case studies for different technologies. I particularly liked this feature - it's something that is generally lacking from most books. Whether you're a fan of case studies or not is really a personal preference, but I found it a refreshing change and one that I believe many developers and managers will likewise welcome. <br /> The writing style is very good, though you'll notice a difference from chapter to chapter as many authors contributed to the book. As far as length goes, 1600+ makes for a long title, but chapters need not be read sequentially to understand the various technologies involved, and it's fairly good value for such coverage. Some readers might prefer an introductory book on servlets (a good idea if you're only interested in small scale web development), but when it comes to coverage of all aspects of advanced server-side programming,  Professional Java Server Programming J2EE Edition beats other titles hands down. If you've read the previous edition, but want the updated J2EE coverage, it might still be worth your while purchasing the new title for the updated material. -- David Reilly, for the Java Coffee Break	2000-10-23
US	52766053	R9278ALRMCWV4	1893115100	726724049	Taming Java Threads	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Great guide to &quot;taming&quot; threads	Of all the topics a programmer learns, it's been my experience that         the two most complex topics are recursion, and multi-threading. Both         require a different way of thinking about software, very much         out-of-the-box thinking. So if threads are getting you down, Taming         Java Threads is the book for you.         <br />In Taming Java Threads, you'll learn how threads work, by         examining practical applications that demonstrate key topics and which         are backed up by theory. You'll learn about topics like mutex and lock         management, timer threads, synchronization, and thread pools. The range         of topics will interest both a beginner and an expert. But to my mind,         the most important topic was GUIs and threads.         <br />Older books on threads completely neglect topics like GUI design and         Swing -- yet as Allen Holub shows in Taming Java Threads, threads         are essential to the Swing event-dispatch queue, and a knowledge of         threads is required to prevent unresponsive GUIs. The important         information contained within these chapters should be required reading         for Java developers. Without it, you'll write applications that can         stall and freeze.         <br />Taming Java Threads is a great guide to thread programming. If         there is one flaw in the book I detected, it was that it failed to cover         non-blocking I/O as an alternative to threads. Whether you've just         learning Java programming, or you want to hone up on your thread theory,         this is the book for you. -- David Reilly for the Java Coffee Break	2000-10-12
US	52766053	RLLSHDSE9NS7S	1884777996	24551126	Web Development with Java Server Pages	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Good guide to JavaServer Pages	Web Development with JavaServer Pages teaches the reader to construct rich interactive websites using JavaServer Pages technology. You may be wondering why JavaServer Pages is so useful, and how it can competes with other technologies like ActiveServerPages or CGI script. JavaServer pages allows you to abstract the web design aspect done by web designers from the programming down by programmers. This means that web developers can concentrate on beautiful pages, and developers can concentrate on cutting good code. This makes it an important component of web development, and a cornerstone of Java 2 Enterprise Edition (J2EE) Platform. <br /> This book offers a very comprehensive guide to the world of JavaServer programming, covering both theory and practical JavaServer programming in great detail. While the book is filled with many small practical examples, it also has a larger project which shows you how to create an FAQ management system. However, it was slightly disappointing not to see other large scale projects which would benefit the reader by seeing JSP in action. <br /> Web Development with JavaServer Pages covers all the fundamentals of JSP programming while providing easy to understand and concise examples. While the lack of several large-scale projects may detract from the usefulness of the book for some developers, it is nonetheless a fine guide to JSP that competes well with other similarly titled books. - Michael Reilly, for the Java Coffee Break.	2000-10-01
US	52766053	R1L14TMB7Y02W5	1565924878	514994297	Java in a Nutshell	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Good reference, but missing details from earlier editions	Java in a Nutshell, 3rd Edition, is the sequel to the highly       successful series of books by author David Flanagan. His books have been       both a handy reference when programming, and a quick-start guide to       learning the Java language. Unlike other authors, when David releases a       new edition, it is very much a complete rewrite, rather than just adding a       chapter here and there.        <br />This is, however, a double-edged sword. It means that you can pick up       the latest edition, and still find it useful if you've read previous ones.       However, to conserve space, the book becomes more and more compact, so       some of the great sections like a comparison between C++ and Java from the       first edition is reduced to a two page summary of bullet points.       <br />Java in a Nutshell, 3rd Edition is, nonetheless, the best Java       reference available on the market. It covers all the core Java       technologies, save the Abstract Windowing Toolkit and Swing graphical       libraries, which have been relegated to the new book Java Foundation Classes in a       Nutshell. This will be a disappointment to some, but if you're looking       for a language reference, and not a guide to GUI programming, this title       is an excellent buy. Particularly if you're new to the Nutshell series,       David Flanagan's fast paced guide to Java is a perfect desktop reference -- David Reilly, for the Java Coffee Break	2000-09-26
US	52766053	R3AXODIDKCGNLX	0782121713	278018040	Java 1.2 in Record Time	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Good, but not great, Java quickstart	I've reviewed quite a number of Java titles written for the beginner. Some  are fairly ordinary, others are exceptional. Unfortunately, Java 1.2 In  Record Time falls into the former category. That is not to say it is not a  good guide to learning Java quickly, but it does have its flaws. <br />  Firstly, the book was written for an early beta of JDK1.2 (now named Java 2  v1.2). Any of the code written for the Swing platform will not run -- it  uses the old com.sun.java.swing.* packages, rather than javax.swing). This  means you must manually change all the import statements, and recompile.  This is an annoyance, particularly for those who are unaware of the changes  from early betas. If you visit the website, you can find out how to fix  this by reading their errata. <br /> Secondly, fourteen out of fifteen  &quot;skills&quot; taught in the book concern graphics and GUI programming  (that's 87.5% of chapters). While GUI programming is certainly a useful  skill, the book stops just after briefly touching threads and JAR files --  there is no networking, no coverage of data structures, files, I/O streams,  etc. <br /> Putting these two flaws aside for the moment, Java 1.2 in Record  Time is a good way to get your feet wet. You'll learn the Abstract  Windowing Toolkit (AWT), and Swing libraries. As an introduction to the  language, Java 1.2 in Record Time does a fine job, but readers will have to  purchase other titles to cover all the skills a beginner needs. &lt;i&gt;  -- David Reilly, for the Java Coffee Break&lt;/i&gt;	2000-09-13
US	52766053	R2Q4NPFBZKPCF1	0471332291	926292160	Mastering Enterprise JavaBeans and the Java 2 Platform, Enterprise Edition	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Teaches the basic fundamentals, and gets you up to speed	In the past few years, companies have been returning to multi-tiered  design of backend server architectures. Java has become a popular language  for implementing these systems, due in no small part to the release of new  technologies such as Enterprise Java Beans (EJBs) and the Java 2 Enterprise  Edition (J2EE) platform. When used together, they help programmers make  more robust and interchangeable server components -- but keeping up with  the radical shift in thinking, and new class libraries, is pretty tough for  developers.<br />This book was written by Ed Roman as a means of helping  people understand the complex technologies involved with EJB programming,  and to overcome them. Straight off in the preface, Ed points out that EJB's  are not easy and does not want to lead the reader astray into thinking it  is. After reading this book, I have a very good impression of it, and found  that Ed was correct about EJB's not being easy. It covers EJB's as a whole  and explains any other necessary technologies, such as transactions,  servlets, XML and RMI-IIOP, as needed. When certain technologies are chosen  over others, the author provides sound reasons as to why the decision was  made.<br />Due to the level of tasks that Sun designed EJB's to handle, they  are very complex and the API is very rich. That's why you need an  authoritative reference like Mastering Enterprise JavaBeans, to help get  you up to speed with EJB development. Reading the specification alone with  out a guide means many hours of frustration and lost time, and you'll find  you've only scratched the surface of this topic.. <br />This book covers the  EJB 1.0 standard, but does point out that the EJB 1.1 standard has improved  some of the problems. An appendix covers the improvements in EJB 1.1, but  this book is still highly useful and recommended.<br />One of the useful items  I noted about the chapters is that the author created a different EJB for  each chapter instead of reusing one single one over and over. I found this  very useful as an exercise. While this book covers a very complex topic, I  found that the author managed keep the complexity of each chapter down to a  good level. The material was covered in small chunks that will not  overwhelm most users. I believe that Mastering Enterprise JavaBeans strikes  the right mix between covering the theory, without swamping the reader with  jargon and abstract topics. <br />The Java 2 Enterprise Edition platform is an  extremely rich and powerful API - but quite overwhelming for new users.  Mastering Enterprise JavaBeans does an excellent job of teaching the basic  fundamentals, and getting you up to speed on a complex topic. While you'll  find the tutorial a good guide to the topic, the book also serves as a  handy reference. I'll be keeping it within arms reach while working on EJB  components and the Java 2 Enterprise Edition platform.-- Michael Reilly,  for the Java Coffee Break.	2000-08-28
US	52766053	R32KE60RFVTO4U	1861003625	489657156	Professional JSP : Using JavaServer Pages, Servlets, EJB, JNDI, JDBC, XML, XSLT, and WML	Books	3	30	34	N	N	Good guide to JSP, overlaps with other Wrox titles though	For developers involved with web-based projects, whether it be an online store for electronic commerce or an Intranet site for accessing and modifying company data, the powerful blend of JavaServer Pages (JSP) and  Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB) technologies can really make life simple. Once  you've mastered them, creating new components that encapsulate business  logic, or new web interfaces to existing systems, is easy. The trick, for  developers, is mastering the technologies. <br /> Professional JSP is one way  to get up to speed. Like many of the books published by Wrox Press,  Professional JSP covers a specific technology in-depth, as well as the  various ancillary topics relating to it such as databases, servlets, and  XML. While not every developer will need every web technology covered by  the book (and there are many), the book works both as a tutorial to cover  the basics and a reference for technologies that you may encounter later.  <br /> Professional JSP starts by covering the basics of Java Server Pages,  and how they relate to other web technologies. Embedded in HTML pages, JSP  provides an easy mechanism for creating interactive web interfaces that  draws on server-side components, known as Enterprise JavaBeans. While the  presentation logic is written in JSP, the processing occurs within these  JavaBean components. The book takes a balanced approach, covering both JSP  and its syntax, as well as how to write and interact with JavaBeans to  perform useful tasks, like accessing databases through JDBC and using other  Java technologies. However, if you've read other Wrox titles, you may find  there is some overlap in the topics covered. <br /> One of the nice things  about Professional JSP is that, in addition to covering theory, it goes  further and examines practical applications of JSP, and issues for  programmers like security and debugging. Like other titles in the  Professional series, there are case studies of real projects using JSP and  relatedtechnologies. My favorite would have to be the case study on  porting Active Server Pages to JSP -- something that is extremely important  for developers with &quot;legacy&quot; web systems. On the whole,  Professional JSP is an excellent book for web developers wanting to get up  to speed with Java Server Pages, web development, and Enterprise JavaBeans.  However, developers with less of a web presentation focus and more of  back-end server view may also want to consider the excellent Professional  Java Server Programming title, which also covers JSP. -- David Reilly,  reviewed for the Java Coffee Break	2000-07-25
US	52766053	R398Y3BCU499RQ	0471361747	753509695	Java Pitfalls: Time-Saving Solutions and Workarounds to Improve Programs	Books	5	46	49	N	N	Excellent and practical guide for all Java developers	I've reviewed quite a few Java books about improving the attributes of Java software. Some concentrate on improving the design, others the robustness of software or the performance. While they usually start out  promising, by the end of the book you're left with a good understanding of  theory but little practical skills. Java Pitfalls : Time-Saving Solutions  and Workarounds to Improve Programs, breaks free of that mould, by  providing a wealth of techniques and code that has real practical  application. The title does not do it justice, however. Not only does the  book show you how to improve programs, the advice contained within also  saves you time, frustration, and effort.  <br /> After reading through even a  few pages of tips within the book, you understand that the advice isn't dry  theory, but practical advice gained from real-life problems that Java  developers face. Michael Daconta, and his co-authors, offer warnings gained  from the trenches of software development using Java.<br /><br /> The book is  divided neatly into eight sections, covering different aspects of Java  programming. A wide range of areas are covered, from the obligatory Java  language syntax, to more fun topics like graphical user interfaces (using  AWT and Swing), the utilities package and collections, input and output  (I/O), and even improving Java performance. The one significant area  lacking from the book, in my opinion, is a section on network programming  pitfalls, and perhaps other advanced topics like databases. These areas are  fraught with pitfalls for the unwary. However, for readers not involved  with such areas, this is a moot point, and it leaves more room for other  tips. <br /> There are a total of 50 individual pieces of advice, and each is  packed full of detailed code examples. Whether you're a Java newbie, or an  experienced Java developer looking to improve your coding and reduce the  frustration and time of software development, Java Pitfalls is an ideal  addition to your book collection. With the usefulness of this advice,  you'll probably find it taking a place on your desk though, rather than the  bookshelf. -- David Reilly, reviewed for the Java Coffee Break	2000-07-25
US	52766053	RQ7XRPA5NS15N	0451160525	511631376	The Gunslinger (Dark Tower)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	This edition contains many typos, and the odd grammar error	This printing of the book is definitely not up to King's usual standard, though much of the blame may be placed on the publisher. There's numerous typos (at least in this edition of the book), with letters like h  substituted for n (she raised her nands to her face, for example), and  there is the odd grammar mistake. It also appears disjointed, with things  happening without any explaination, or only a partial explaination. For  example, a demon that possesses a woman is killed (we know this because the  gunslinger says it is dead) but no explaination is given for how it was  done, etc.	2000-05-19
US	52766053	R1UFIIP3E9P4XW	188477749X	514520897	Java Network Programming, 2nd Edition	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Good, but missing crypto chapters from first edition	Java Network Programming, Second Edition aims is the sequel to the highly popular Java Network Programming title, and picks up where the original left off. It offers considerably expanded coverage of the Java networking  API, for the Java 2 platform. The authors build on chapters from the  previous book, adding Java 2 specific methods and classes, and covering  newer topics such as servlets, and CORBA (support for which was introduced  in the Java 2 platform). <br /> Readers unfamiliar with network programming,  and the intricacies of sockets, are guided fairly gently through the  process, with a thorough coverage of I/O streams (including files), UDP and  TCP sockets, from both client and server perspective. This gives a good  grounding for later development, with plenty of example clients and  servers. There's also coverage of Java HTTP support, which is quite simple  to work through. <br /> That said, readers familiar with the original title  may be in for some disappointment. The strong cryptography coverage of the  first book has vanished, mentioned only in the preface as the subject of a  future book. Not being very cryptographically minded myself, I really  enjoyed  reading about this topic in the first title. <br />Nonetheless, with  the number of pages in this thick reference, something probably had to go,  to save room for other topics. <br /> Newer topics covered in the second  edition (or greatly enhanced from coverage in the first edition) include  servlets, CORBA, and remote method invocation (RMI). There's even more  examples than in the first edition, but there are a few gaps where coverage  could have been improved (for example, the new RMI activation features are  barely mentioned, and the reader is referred instead to the RMI  documentation of Sun). Servlet coverage could really be improved as well -  there's some great books out on the market though that can be used in  companion with this book Perhaps these, and other topics will be covered ina future addition.<br /><br /> As networking books go, Java Network Programming  2Ed is close to the top, but has room for improvement. Currently, however,  you won't find a book that can beat it, but for advanced topics you'll  probably need a second title for topics like servlets or distributed  computing. -- David Reilly, for the Java Coffee Break	2000-01-22
US	52766053	RE5RQ2CBQOJDW	0201616343	630189565	The Jini(TM) Specification (The Jini(TM) Technology Series)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Excellent guide and reference for Jini developers	Jini has to be about the hottest new Java technology to be released in years. Imagine a world of plug-and-play networked devices, which can be installed and seamlessly integrated with your LAN simply by connecting them  to your network. A laptop on-the-go can just plug in to an unfamiliar  network, and access the printer or Internet proxy server, without the need  to install any drivers. Mixing Unix and Wintel devices? Not a worry. Jini  promises to let them talk to each other. <br /> That's the vision behind Jini.  But that vision goes much further. Not only can hardware devices talk to  one another, but also software services. In a Jini world, you won't care  whether how a device works, or whether it is software or hardware based. An  Internet based fax service will act as a fax, as will a hardware device.  You'll just look for a fax service, without worrying how the service is  implemented. Of course, someone needs to write the software that will power  Jini services. That's where The Jini Specification comes in. <br /> The book  is divided into two main sections, an overview and the  specification for  Jini. The overview provides an easily accessible overview of what Jini is,  how it works, and what it can achieve. There are also several examples of  Jini services and clients, to give you some practical experience with  building Jini software applications. <br /> From there, the book dives  headfirst into the actual specification. The first part of the book is good  for managers, and software developers alike. The coverage of the  specification, however, is designed as a reference for developers as they  construct Jini software. This is where many readers could become lost,  unless they are already using Jini in action. The first part of the book is  a guide to Jini, the second intended only as a reference during  development.  Finally, a glossary of Jini terms and an essay on distributed  computing is included, along with the full source code from the overview.<br /> The Jini Specification is a must-have for anyone considering Jini  development. It provides an excellent guide to Jini technology for those  considering designing Jini-based systems, and a comprehensive printed  reference for those who will implement them.  -- David Reilly, for the Java  Coffee Break	1999-11-30
US	52766053	R3KAGONU1LX700	1565922271	127337000	Java Network Programming	Books	2	20	32	N	N	Poor book to purchase, very out of date	This book is extremely out of date, and has been superceded by the excellent Java Network Programming Second Edition, by Merlin Hughes, and published by Manning. <br /> The author of this book, posted in an earlier  review &quot;However the cover of the Manning book has a big fish, and  looks suspiciously like an O'Reilly book. Don't be fooled. The real  O'Reilly book has a gyroscope on the cover.&quot;. I'd have to say to  potential readers not to be fooled - buy the original (and now updated)  Java Network Programming 2nd Ed.	1999-11-26
US	52766053	R3QVQTGF75CXVB	1884777651	799268872	Distributed Programming with Java	Books	3	26	26	N	N	Good guide to RMI/CORBA, but poor socket and agent coverage	Distributed Programming with Java aims to teach the reader how to build distributed services using a variety of technologies, including sockets, remote-method invocation (RMI), and the Common Object Request Broker  Architecture (CORBA). While many programmers will be familiar with sockets,  the other two technologies are incredibly powerful tools for creating  distributed applications. RMI is for execution of Java methods remotely,  similar to the old remote-procedure call technology, but with an  object-orientated twist. CORBA is a more universal system, which allows  object methods written in any language (such as C++, Java or Ada) to be  called remotely. Incredible stuff, but incredibly complex.  <br /> That's  where Distributed Programming with Java comes in. It teaches the theory of  remote-method invocation and CORBA, and gives you practical examples in  Java. There are also chapters on socket programming and mobile agency. The  socket chapters are good as a refresher course for those who have already  done network programming, but are a poor substitute for the coverage  offered by other books, such as the excellent Java Network Programming  (also published by Manning). As for the Mobile Agents chapters, while they  are interesting reading, they may not be generally applicable to all  developers. If you're buying the book, you're really buying it for the RMI  and CORBA coverage. <br /> The author clearly knows his remote-method  invocation - showing you how to digitally sign your RMI code, to create  distributed services with callbacks, and how to use Secure Sockets Layer  (SSL) to protect your RMI applications from prying eyes. The later requires  the new Java 2 platform, which includes SSL support.  <br /> When it comes to  the CORBA chapters, however, I'm a little disappointed. The author chooses  to use the VisiBroker CORBA implementation, and completely ignores the  CORBA IDL support in the new Java 2 platform. I suspect that these chapters  may have beenwritten prior to the release of the Java 2 platform, and  there is explanation for the choice of VisiBroker. Nor, for that matter, is  there much help in downloading or installing the VisiBroker software (a  copy on CD along with source would certainly have been nice). However, the  technical coverage of CORBA theory is very well done, and the chapters on  basic CORBA theory, IDL-to-Java mapping, and IDL inheritance could be used  no matter what choice of CORBA implementation you make. <br /> For its mobile  agent coverage, the author chose ObjectSpace's Voyager system. There are a  couple of paragraphs on alternate mobile agent systems, such as  Telescript/Odyssey and Aglets, but the coverage of these is superficial to  say the least. However, it does give very good coverage of mobile agents  using Voyager, and how to integrate Voyager with CORBA. <br /> If you're  interested in distributed systems using remote-method invocation or CORBA,  then Distributed Programming with Java makes a great guide to the subject.  It's filled with practical examples, and good coverage of the theory.  However, the sections on socket and mobile agent programming aren't  designed for beginners, and won't suit all tastes. Nonetheless, the RMI and  CORBA coverage alone makes it worthwhile as a reference, and if you have an  interest in mobile agents that comes as a bonus. -- David Reilly, for the  Java Coffee Break	1999-11-19
US	52766053	R2Q2I4MQT093JA	0672316005	958687427	Developing Java Servlets (Sams Professional)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Great guide to servlets, even better as a reference	Though I'd heard of servlets, and had a vague idea of what their purpose was, I really hadn't done much work with them before. However, the idea of replacing CGI scripts with server-side applications written in Java was  intriguing. I wanted to learn more. So I set myself the task of finding a  book on the topic - one which would act both as a tutorial for learning,  and a reference for later development. Often with programming books, this  is a tall ask; they either teach at too low a level for developers, or too  high for those new to a particular topic. Thankfully, Developing Java  Servlets fills both criteria. Whether you've just written a few Java  applets and applications, or are a fully fledged developer, this title  makes learning about - and creating - servlets a breeze.  <br /> The author  starts by giving an overview of what servlets are, and how they work. This  gives a good grounding for subsequent chapters, which then cover practical  applications of servlets. Once you get the hang of things, the book allows  you to jump easily from one topic to another, such as server-side includes,  database access (using JDBC), session tracking and JavaServer Pages. These  advanced topics aren't for everyone, but as your experience grows, the book  acts as an excellent desktop reference while programming. Finally, the book  finishes with a substantial servlet application, the online shop front  which includes a shopping cart.  <br /> &quot;Developing Java Servlets&quot;  is a great way to get up to speed with servlet development in a hurry.  James Goodwill's coverage of servlets is thorough and to the point,  including many screenshots and code examples. My one complaint with title  is that there is no CD with the source code, or sample servlet development  tools. Save this one flaw (shared I might add by too many programming books  these days), &quot;Developing Java Servlets&quot; is an excellent addition  to any programmer's library. Not only is it a great tutorial, but you'll  also want to keep this book handy as a reference.	1999-10-07
US	52766053	R39TIRL4DUNKLV	156592391X	873973445	Java Servlet Programming (Java Series)	Books	2	5	5	N	N	The book's not bad, but it's not as good as others	When I first started reading Jason Hunter's Java Servlet Programming, I thought it was great. But after reading several other servlet books, I realize it was really only mediocre. &quot;Inside Java Servlets&quot; for  example has much more material, and is a much better title to learn from.	1999-09-28
US	52766053	R28QTC1J2CIKI3	0079137792	242220233	Java Servlets (Java Masters)	Books	2	10	13	N	N	Shallow coverage of servlets, may be of use for beginners	I flicked through this title in the bookshop, while looking for some good servlet titles. The coverage of this book is pretty shallow - for example their only mention of cookies is an API listing. Most servlet books cover  cookies and session management, as well as more advanced (but related)  servlet topics. I'd highly recommend &quot;Inside Servlets : Server-Side  Programming for the Java Platform&quot; by Dustin R. Callaway instead.	1999-09-28
US	52766053	R2YJTOE5IETGK7	0753450143	388744244	I Wonder Why the Dodo is Dead and Other Questions About Extinct and Endangered Animals	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	A must for every child's bookshelf	This book teaches about the beauty, uniqueness and dignity of animals. Beautifully illustrated, and full of fun facts, it tells all about exotic endangered and extinct animals. My favourite is the dodo, but there are  plenty of animals to entertain and amuse all tastes.	1999-07-15
US	52766053	RYJP9DR4J7371	0672314231	582512543	Pure JFC Swing	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The best Swing example book yet!	I've read several books on Swing, in my quest to master its intricacies. Books like 'Java Swing' by O'Reilly are good as references, but contain limited examples (and their tree section is terrible). That's why you need  a book like 'Pure JFC Swing' - to give you examples and code snippets for  real world applications. You can learn a lot by looking at example code -  or just take it an put it in your own applications for impressive  results.<br />My one complaint, and it is small, is that there is no CD. This  means you have to download the code from the publisher's site (it is there  - be persistent). Despite this, once you have the code, you can try all the  examples form the book or cut and paste it into your own Swing apps. Its  packed full of great examples, covering most (if not all) of the Swing  components. They also happen to be far superior to those offered by other  titles.	1999-04-04
US	52766053	RJP7B1XUOQCYC	0130205192	526414692	Time Bomb 2000: What the Year 2000 Computer Crisis Means to You! Revised & Updated Edition	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Comprehensive guide to the Y2K bug, and how it affects YOU!	Call it Y2k. Call it the Millennium Bug. Call it the end of civilization as we know it. The media is full of dire Y2k horror stories. Y2K consultants and Cobol programmers over-hype the problem, while governments  and industry organizations downplay it. Everyone seems to have an opinion  on the problem, whether or not they are well informed. It will either be  one of the greatest challenges the computing industry has ever faced, or a  non-event that scarcely causes people to raise an eyebrow. That's where  &quot;Time Bomb 2000 : Revised and Updated&quot; comes in.<br />In this New  York Times Bestseller, Yourdon &amp; Yourdon present a balanced viewpoint,  looking at the Y2K problem from many different angles. They are careful to  avoid over-sensationalizing the problem, but neither do they downplay or  trivialize the seriousness of Y2K, and how it can affect real people and  businesses.<br />Each chapter of the book addresses a specific area which may  be affected by the Y2K problem. The authors carefully cover each area in  great detail, discussing the implications for the industry and for those  who rely upon it. <br />Such areas include banking and business, education,  food, government, jobs, postal services, telephone, transportation,  utilities, and the international implications of Y2K.<br />The authors also  point out an important factor that we should all be mindful of - you can  still be affected by a Y2K crisis, even if you neither own nor use a  computer. Breakdowns in essential services, such as power, banking and food  distribution may have disastrous implications. While this prospect seems  rather pessimistic, 'Time Bomb 2000' is packed with advice on how to best  prepare for a Y2K crisis. Each industry is given specific attention, based  on a two-day disruption, a one month disruption of service, and a one year  failure.<br />This book is an invaluable guide to the Y2K crisis, and offers  an objective look at what might occur. The authors are careful to point out  that such dire predictions may not eventuate, and encourage the reader to  think carefully and objectively about the issues discussed in the book. It  also includes an clear guide to the technical reasons behind Y2K, and  excellent pointers to online resources so that readers can access the  latest research and discussion about the millenium bug. All in all,  &quot;Time Bomb 2000&quot; is an invaluable and objective guide to the Y2K  crisis. If you're interested in the implications of Y2K on you, your  career, or your family, this guide to the millenium bug is for you!	1999-04-02
US	52766053	R7UH6MNPSNGPK	156592455X	871901970	Java Swing (Java (O'Reilly))	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Good reference and guide to Swing	With the introduction of the Swing graphical toolkit to Java 1.2, developers now have the freedom to write applications with rich graphical user interfaces (GUI). Swing gives Java applications the professional edge  that has long been shared by their C++, VB &amp; Delphi counterparts, and  goes further with a huge range of new components and controls, and  customizable &quot;look-and-feels&quot;. But while Swing may be the way of  the future for developers, its a steep learning curve because of the  complexity of the Swing toolkit. That's where &quot;Java Swing&quot;,  published by O'Reilly, comes in. <br /> Java Swing, at a whopping 1200+ pages,  is a fantastic reference that you'll keep within arms reach as you program  in Swing. But the book is more than just an API reference - its a combined  tutorial and book of examples. Aside from the first few chapters, which  provide a basic grounding for the rest of the book, you can skip from  chapter to chapter as your needs dictate. It covers all the major component  groups, as well as providing useful examples and code snippets.  <br /> My one  complaint about this title is that it appears to have covered the entire  swing library, and in doing so the authors tried to put just too many  topics into it. Perhaps it needs to be split into two volumes, but while  working through the book as part of a programming project, I found that  there were some areas where a more thorough treatment should have been  given (in particular, the chapter on trees which provides not enough  detail, and only very simple examples). That said, &quot;Java Swing&quot;  is a fantastic resource, both as a reference and an overview/tutorial of  Swing, and is the best Swing book available to-date  (as of February 1999).	1999-02-21
US	52766053	R10OVKVGPV73EG	1565924029	66377460	Java Cryptography (Java Series)	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Wait for a REAL Java Crypto book	Java Cryptography was the first O'Reilly book I found disapointing. I had expected a book like this to contain examples of really cool encryption, demonstrating the usefulness of the Java Cryptography Extensions. I had  expected it to at least offer an implementation of RSA, and possibly SSL  (secure socket layers). The book was disapointing, there is no CD  containing source code or the required Java Cryptography Extensions, and by  the books own omission, some of the examples aren't even available  online.<br />I understand that the publishers were limited by US export laws,  but without solid examples of things Java developers might want to write  (SSL), without the JCE which international readers will be unable to  obtain, this book was extremely disappointing.	1998-11-12
US	52766053	R37QF94895L60Y	0836228995	910041357	Casual Day Has Gone Too Far	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Classic office humor	Scott Adam's hilarious Dilbert series captures the essence of the cubicle office lifestyle of the 90's. This book is jammed packed with reprints of his Dilbert comic strip, and is sure to make you laugh at the antics of his co-workers and sidekick Dogbert.	1998-03-19
US	52766053	R24OFT1RN0UP2V	1558604200	397909587	Intelligent Java Applications for the Internet and Intranets	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Good practical guide to artificial intelligence techniques	Intelligent Java Applications for the Internet and Intranets is a fascinating book, dealing with the subject of artificial intelligence (AI). Watson covers both the theory of artificial intelligence techniques, and gives practical source code to demonstrate its application. He provides readers with a complete set of packages for implementing specific AI techniques in their own applications, and spends a substantial portion of the book giving real-world examples, such as a handwriting recognition application, a natural language parsing system that answers questions about ancient history, and an application that can retrieve information from web sites or access email from a POP mailbox.  <br /> This book gives clear explanations of the theory behind the AI techniques the author discusses, as well as object diagrams in Booch notation showing each of the major classes. It is an excellent book for learning more about artificial intelligence techniques, and for learning how to apply these techniques in real world applications. It also provides readers with plenty of sample Java source code to examine, and some great             applications that demonstrate the packages supplied by the author.	1998-01-16
US	52766053	RFFQQ0CHWA9OG	0836815904	417251193	The Dodo (The Extinct Species Collection)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good overview of the dodo	This is a very well written, and beautifully illustrated overview of the dodo, its physical characteristics and behaviour. Aimed at a younger audience, this book is a wonderful introduction to the dodo.  <br /> For more information, you might also want to try this web page on the life of the dodo :<BR> [...]	1997-10-26
US	52766053	R3UKOJRA2CVTUI	0789711389	650187893	Using Javascript (SPECIAL EDITION USING)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good reference book for JavaScript	This book is a good reference book for the language (our university used it as a textbook), but it is a little dated now. Dynamic HTML can be powered by JavaScript, and you can create  some neat effects..... none of this will be found  in this edition.	1997-09-18
