US	52768922	R4T25AQ0VIJNC	1594200092	686377339	Alexander Hamilton	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	A wondrous book...	This is a wondrous book, complete with the richness of the history of the early United States and the answer to a mystery:  who was Alexander Hamilton?  And well may we ask.  Early on, Mr. Chernow points out that having died relatively young, Mr. Hamilton provided Thomas Jefferson and James Monroe with many years in which to blacken Hamilton's name for Posterity.  We don't know nearly so much about Hamilton as we do many of the other founding fathers and what we know the most about him is, of course, his infamous and ignoble death at the hands of Aaron Burr.  This is actually tragic because the life of Hamilton held enormous scope from his birth in the West Indies through to his tenure as the first Secretary of the Treasury of the United States and encompassed some of the liveliest times in human history.  And all along this journey, the autodidact that was Hamilton never ceased to voraciously learn and forcefully shape his situation in life.<br /><br />One of Chernow's great gifts is his ability to explain the processes of forming a new constitution and federal government without taking the humanity out of the study.  The blazing intellects who blasted a new country out of 13 completely self-interested colonies and formed a structure and balance that is virtually unchanged to this very day were driven, prickly, egotistical individuals who only barely subverted their respective self-interests for the good of a united country, e.g., how do you persuade the almost completely wealthy and autonomous Virginia to share power with the tiny, war-ravaged Delaware?  It is a riveting story and the genesis for our bicameral form of representation.<br /><br />It is also interesting to see how Chernow does not shy away from the historically tricky subject of slavery.  He clearly demonstrates the unconformity between the language of the constitution and the actuality of slave ownership by many of the founding fathers.  In a world where slavery was on the wane and had been completely banished in much of Europe, the Southern colonies refused to budge on the subject, considering slavery to be no less than a total economic necessity.<br /><br />And Hamilton was at the heart of these tumultuous times.  Having started life as a Royalist, he came under the spell of independence while a college student in the colony of New York; he threw himself completely into the fight with all the brilliance and energy of an idealistic youth.  As the principal author of the Federalist Papers, he honed his opinions and persuasive powers and started a lifelong advocacy for the strength of the federal government.  And as one of George Washington's lifelong friends and closest advisers, he was one of the few in their circle who didn't hesitate to take Washington on in an argument.  Their debates and nearly violent disagreements take on an epic, but believable, quality in this book.  And his fierce war of ideas and words with Thomas Jefferson take on a real sense of urgency when you consider that no less than the stability of the newly formed nation was at stake.  And the inevitable arguments with Burr that lead to Hamilton's death are foreshadowed beautifully through the book - these two men knew each other for all of their adult lives!<br /><br />Which leads me to my final comments.  Chernow has written such believably intelligent and human characters that you really do understand how such people assembled at a single point in time could arrive at the Great Experiment that is still the United States.  And one of the greatest and least understood of these (until this book) was Alexander Hamilton.  Next time I pull out a $10 bill, I'm going to gaze a little more fondly at his likeness.mpletely banished in much of Europe, the Southern colonies refused to budge on the subject, considering slavery to be no less than a total economic necessity.   <br /> <br />And Hamilton was at the heart of these tumultuous times.  Having started life as a Royalist, he came under the spell of independence while a college student in the colony of New York; he threw himself completely into the fight with all the brilliance and energy of an idealistic youth.  As the principal author of the Federalist Papers, he honed his opinions and persuasive powers and started a lifelong advocacy for the strength of the federal government.  And as one of George Washington's lifelong friends and closest advisers, he was one of the few in their circle who didn't hesitate to take Washington on in an argument.  Their debates and nearly violent disagreements take on an epic, but believable, quality in this book.  And his fierce war of ideas and words with Thomas Jefferson take on a real sense of urgency when you consider that no less than the stability of the newly formed nation was at stake.  And the inevitable arguments with Burr that lead to Hamilton's death are foreshadowed beautifully through the book - these two men knew each other for all of their adult lives! <br /> <br />Which leads me to my final comments.  Chernow has written such believably intelligent and human characters that you really do understand how such people assembled at a single point in time could arrive at the Great Experiment that is still the United States.  And one of the greatest and least understood of these (until this book) was Alexander Hamilton.  Next time I pull out a $10 bill, I'm going to gaze a little more fondly at his likeness.	2005-05-13
US	52768922	R1OZT2BDU5Q0MQ	0345348109	227222206	The Killer Angels: The Classic Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	This book changed my life	It has taken me nearly a year to write this review because the urge to gush spasmodically was so strong, I figured I'd better wait out the urge until I could deliver something a little more constructive by way of a review. ( Also, I was afraid that I didn't have enough superlatives in my vocabulary.)  This is one of maybe a dozen books in my 50+ life that I can say truly CHANGED my life.  I grew up in the Western US where the Civil War was just a passing reference in Jr. High history classes, the cause for which was attributed completely to a fight against slavery, and nearly 20 years on the East Coast wasn't enough to bring it to my notice.  That all changed with this book.<br /><br />So what is it about this book that endures so strongly more than 30 years on and accomplishes what so many have attempted and failed? I think there are two very specific things: 1) it humanizes the war and gives us a clear look at the personalities who drove both sides of the war, and 2) without seeming agenda, it crystallizes the critical successes and, more important, failings of both sides.  I'm sure that early on, Mr. Shaara was faced with the question of whether to write a novel or a non-fiction book about the war and, through exhaustive research through the correspondence and journals of the participants, he wove a novel that reads like a historic record.<br /><br />I think it was a stroke of brilliance to focus solely on the Battle of Gettysburg with just enough background to accurately frame the battle in the context of the war.  It was arguable the turning point in the war and, with a finer focus on the way in which the 20th Maine Infantry under Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain defended and held Little Round Top against overwhelming Confederate forces, we can even identify the exact point at which that turning took place.<br /><br />There isn't enough time or space to enumerate the things I didn't know (and still don't!) prior to reading this book, but let me expose my ignorance name a few:<br /><br />1. I didn't know that the British were such a strong presence in the Confederate camps.  Nor did I know that the intent of the Confederates was to set up a stratified society based somewhat on the British nobility system.<br /><br />2. I didn't know that the U.S. Marines, under command of then-Colonel Robert E. Lee took back the federal armory and arsenal from John Brown at Harpers Ferry just prior to the beginning of the war.<br /><br />3. I didn't know that Lee was first offered command of the Union army!<br /><br />4. I didn't realize that many of the officers on both sides had attended West Point together, were devoted friends, and had fought side-by-side in the Mexican War just prior to the American Civil War.<br /><br />5. I didn't realize that leadership of the Union Army was a revolving door and that, for most of the war, it was run by bureaucrats out of Washington, D.C.<br /><br />6. And the list goes on and on...<br /><br />I'm now a Civil War junkie and happily searching for more and more resources.  I don't think I'm allowed to include an URL in my review, but it is important to know that the Library of Congress has just scanned nearly all of its Civil War-era maps and they are available electronically on its website.<br /><br />A caution for others who have embraced the study of the Civil War based on \\"Killer Angels\\".  Michael Shaara died 1988 and did not repeat the amazing accomplishment of this book.  His son, Jeff, has undertaken books that lead up to Gettysburg (\\"Gods and Generals\\") and after Gettysburg (\\"The Last Full Measure\\") and, although I think they are probably well-researched, his narrative doesn't hold up to that of his father.  So when you read \\"Killer Angels\\", you are reading a standalone masterpiece.norance name a few:   <br /> <br />1. I didn't know that the British were such a strong presence in the Confederate camps.  Nor did I know that the intent of the Confederates was to set up a stratified society based somewhat on the British nobility system. <br />2. I didn't know that the U.S. Marines, under command of then-Colonel Robert E. Lee took back the federal armory and arsenal from John Brown at Harpers Ferry just prior to the beginning of the war. <br />3. I didn't know that Lee was first offered command of the Union army! <br />4. I didn't realize that many of the officers on both sides had attended West Point together, were devoted friends, and had fought side-by-side in the Mexican War just prior to the American Civil War. <br />5. I didn't realize that leadership of the Union Army was a revolving door and that, for most of the war, it was run by bureaucrats out of Washington, D.C. <br />6. And the list goes on and on... <br /> <br />I'm now a Civil War junkie and happily searching for more and more resources.  I don't think I'm allowed to include an URL in my review, but it is important to know that the Library of Congress has just scanned nearly all of its Civil War-era maps and they are available electronically on its website. <br /> <br />A caution for others who have embraced the study of the Civil War based on \\"Killer Angels\\".  Michael Shaara died 1988 and did not repeat the amazing accomplishment of this book.  His son, Jeff, has undertaken books that lead up to Gettysburg (\\"Gods and Generals\\") and after Gettysburg (\\"The Last Full Measure\\") and, although I think they are probably well-researched, his narrative doesn't hold up to that of his father.  So when you read \\"Killer Angels\\", you are reading a standalone masterpiece.	2005-05-13
US	52768922	R1RB85L08Z1L8Y	0142004693	929452996	The Bounty: The True Story of the Mutiny on the Bounty	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A vastly absorbing and well-written book	I'm not sure how I even came to own this book; it was around for quite a while before I ever opened it, but having done so, I couldn't put it down.  First, a confession: my only knowledge of the story of \\"The Bounty\\" was that contained in the two movies about the subject.  What a shame!  There is so much more to the story than just the mutiny and so much more to understand about the stratification of late-18th-Century society as it pertained to birthright vs. command and authority.  It is interesting to note the The Bounty was not a large enough ship to require the rank of Captain as her commander and, in fact, Bligh was only a Lieutenant, who was called \\"Captain\\" as a courtesy.<br /><br />The action around the mutiny takes place in one of history's greatest ages for exploration and Ms. Alexander doesn't give that fact short shrift. We are given to understand all that those epic sea voyages implied in importance and economic necessity and so much of what we are learning in this book presages the Napoleonic Wars that were shortly to follow.  But in 1789, vast stretches of the globe were either unmapped or poorly understood and Cape Horn (southern tip of South American) and the Cape of Good Hope (southern tip of Africa) were nearly insurmountable obstacles to navigation.  In fact, unable to negotiate Cape Horn, Bligh turned The Bounty toward Africa and approach Tahiti by way of the Cape of Good Hope, adding nearly 10,000 miles to his voyage.  What a fallback position!<br /><br />One of the gifts that Caroline Alexander gives us in this book is excerpts from the official ship journals, as well as the private journals and correspondence of some of the principals, to illustrate and propel the action of the book along.  The better news is that she does not overwhelm the book with this very useful material, but instead uses it judiciously and with very good timing.<br /><br />I think it is a tribute to both the writing and the subject matter that, as the book moved along, I found myself interested in the relationship between Bligh and Fletcher Christian and curious as to how the actual mutiny would be portrayed, but no more so than with the story of the exploration, the staffing of the ships, the backstory of Captain Cook (with whom Bligh had served) and the general atmosphere in England during those times.  This is a very complete book and provides a depth to the story that may not have been achieved before in such a readable form.along, I found myself interested in the relationship between Bligh and Fletcher Christian and curious as to how the actual mutiny would be portrayed, but no more so than with the story of the exploration, the staffing of the ships, the backstory of Captain Cook (with whom Bligh had served) and the general atmosphere in England during those times.  This is a very complete book and provides a depth to the story that may not have been achieved before in such a readable form.	2005-05-13
US	52768922	R3DPQ7E9N49OJ6	006093736X	817493742	Krakatoa: The Day the World Exploded: August 27, 1883	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A comprehensive book about a difficult subject	There is something quite compelling about natural events that are utterly outside of human control.  The explosive eruption of Krakatoa in 1883 was one such event. Taking it on faith that Mr. Winchester has done due diligence in his research (and it certainly appears that he has), then this is a truly rare and remarkable book.  For one thing, the scope is almost more than the average reader can digest.  This is no less than a history of the Indonesian archipelago prior to, during, and immediately after the eruption of Krakatoa, with all of the attendant history of the Dutch East Indies Company and the rise of Islam in Southeast Asia.  And to make us better readers, Mr. Winchester undertakes to give us a primer in regional geology and, more specifically, volcanism. And yet, this book must be all these things in order to give the Krakatoan disaster a context.  There were certainly larger and more devastating eruptions in human history, but this one was different.  It took place at the dawn of modern communications, and the new capability of the telegraph brought the news and the magnitude to a waiting world, even as the eruption was progressing.  In a world where the economies of Europe were tied to trade and production in the region, this wasn't just a dramatic event in some faraway backwater; this hit home in the banks and markets all around the world.  Mr. Winchester carefully weaves the history and sets the scene for the eruption that we know is coming, but I, for one, didn't find the journey to be tedious, nor did I wish he'd just get on with the fireworks.  We know the ending so why not just enjoy the ride?  And this book educated me on so many fronts.  Just an aside: I saw a PBS special on the region recently and the former volcanic vent that gave rise to Krakatoa is building again.<br /><br />P.S.  Contrary to the movie, Krakatoa is not \\"East of Java\\".  It is in the strait between Java and Sumatra, a little northwest of Java.<br /><br />Review Update:  The recent tsunami off the coast of Sumatra makes this a book of great interest.  So much of the history and geology of the region are quite applicable to understanding the current situation in Indonesia and Southeast Asia.recent tsunami off the coast of Sumatra makes this a book of great interest.  So much of the history and geology of the region are quite applicable to understanding the current situation in Indonesia and Southeast Asia.	2005-05-13
US	52768922	RO4ZQRSI13IQK	0743456661	299270934	The Wife: A Novel	Books	4	3	6	N	Y	A case of "Just Desserts" ... or is that "Just Deserts"?	I don't know this author and only bought this book because it was so very well reviewed in the Washington Post and New York Times book reviews.  I have to admit, the subject matter sounded kind of interesting: the wife of a famous author who, on the eve of his greatest triumph, decides she is going to leave him.  She builds the case very carefully for us and it is important that she do so because we might be inclined to think she's just a sad, aging whiner.  But she manages to bring us along with her and we even understand why she stayed with this man for so many years, even as we understand why she has to leave.  But do we really?  We think we do...until the story is almost over.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R2IO5886RKLP0X	0375708308	897447984	Blood Rain: An Aurelio Zen Mystery	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Read "Blood Rain" before "And Then You Die"	I tried Michael Dibdin years ago and didn't like writing or his Aurelio Zen character one little bit.  What could I have been thinking?  I must have been going through a fairly impatient period in life ... that might explain it.  Because these small books are not to be read lightly.  They are very literary and beautifully plotted and Aurelio Zen is one of the most unique characters you'll find in the genre.  Not only does Dibdin give us a horrific look into local Sicilian politics (and very believably so), but he gives us a clear-eyed view of Italian culture as a whole and how it contributes to the crimes at hand.  And yet it is a loving, very eloquent portrayal.  And the murders are almost secondary to the trip, at least until the very end.  Note the inclusion of computers and networks as the vehicles for danger and intrigue.  This has a little of the flavor of  Mankell's \\"Firewall\\".  You'll want to read \\"Blood Rain\\" as a set piece with \\"And Then You Die\\".	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R2DV88LW8JNQGB	0440235189	572385520	Unbreathed Memories (Hannah Ives Mystery Series, Book 2)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Delightful and different	This book (and several others by the same author) were a gift from a friend who teaches at the US Naval Academy.  These books are set in and around Annapolis with the most sympathetic of heroines: Hannah Ives, a fifty-ish dynamo who is just recovering from a mastectomy (I think this was covered in a previous book but I seem to have come into the middle of the series).  This book deals with the fact and fiction behind the repressed memory craze that shook the US ten-ish years ago.  What I like best about this book is Hannah's wacky family and how real the family dynamics seem to be.  It is a little stiffly plotted and some of the coincidences are a little too handy, but I really like the setting and Hannah and her wonderful husband, so I think I'll go back for another helping or two.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R33EFDY7C4JGSE	0471123005	787745487	Martha Inc.: The Incredible Story of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Flawed, fractious Martha	While this is WAY more than I ever wanted to know about Martha, this is a very clean (pun intended) book.  It offers a lot of information about her childhood and young adulthood that would seem to explain a great deal about why she is the way she is and how she got to be so incredibly driven. Again, more information than I really wanted, but still pretty interesting.  And then Byron gets into some of the unvarnished catfights that seemed to frame her early-to-middle adulthood.  There are a WHOLE BUNCH of women walking around with the marks of her stiletto heels on their backs as she climbed up that ladder (actually, some of those women WERE the ladder).  Also, there are LOADS of instances where Martha was less than honest in her financial dealings.  Are you seeing a pattern here?  And yet, oddly enough, this is not a completely unsympathetic book.  She is portrayed as a real girl, not some ball-busting male wannabe.  As much as it is possible, we are left to make our own decisions about the true nature of her character based on LOTS of evidence.  As I finished this book, I did wonder if a nice Martha Stewart could have made it a fraction as far as the very flawed but talented real Martha.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	RKMENK0EZ89G8	0743463358	928794159	Acquired Motives: A Dr. Silvia Strange Novel (Dr. Sylvia Strange Novels)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Somewhat like Patricia Cornwell when she was good...	This book reads like Patricia Cornwell used to write before she got so tangled up in procedure and DRAMATIC personality. I've tried Sarah Lovett before and come away less-than-satisfied, but the Santa Fe setting of her Silvia Strange stories is just too seductive.  I'm glad I was tempted back because this is an interesting and complicated book.  A little gruesome, but interesting and complicated. The story has an early twist in that the murdered are violent sex offenders and the killer is a vigilante. In addition to following the ins and outs of the stories, we're challenged to examine how we feel about vigilante justice.  There are some fairly extraordinary coincidences and some odd character development, but they are really incidental to the overall story.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R3FOM6HNBBRNRY	0743223551	716197705	The Kills	Books	3	1	2	N	N	An OK read but could have been better	This book is one of those where the relationships amongst the book series characters make the book worth the read, but the story is a little flat.  I love the symbiotic relationships of Alexandra Cooper, Mercer Wallace, and Mike Chapman (kind of like James Patterson's Women's Murder Club series), but I can't help suspect that this story is bent around a need to write about New Jersey's infamous shoreline area called \\"The Kills\\" and that need drove the story vs. the story being driven by probable characters.  The tour of New York and surrounding environs here is terrific, but I didn't really buy the plot line that involves a famous Double Eagle gold coin smuggled from Egypt and a secondary and connected story about probable child abuse.  There are WAY too many coincidences here and I tired of bouncing between storylines as the book unfolded.  Linda Fairstein is a good author and I've read better from her (\\"The Bone Vault\\" comes to mind).	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R1MTTQEOCQTJUR	0375421882	141191244	And Then You Die: An Aurelio Zen Mystery	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Read "Blood Rain" first	After we've been literally to hell and back with Aurelio Zen in \\"Blood Rain\\", this book is positively languid by comparison.  But looks can be deceiving. Zen is supposed to be spending time healing anonymously after the last book, but someone is killing people all around him, possibly in tragic cases of mistaken identity. As with \\"Blood Rain\\", this book is a loving look at Italy with unsentimental descriptions of the corruption and political problems that baffle other Westerners while Italians take them for granted.  It isn't as good as \\"Blood Rain\\" but deserves to be read with it as a set piece.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R1I1QGWGF1QL4J	0553801309	768428518	A Place of Hiding	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Elizabeth George - good but a little off-pace	This book takes place on the Isle of Guernsey in the English Channel and has some of the character of Agatha Christie's inimitable \\"Ten Little Indians\\".  The people you suspect the least... well, don't even go there!  This thing has more red herrings and doublebacks. And Elizabeth George commits a bit of a sin by presenting us with a key piece of evidence late in the story, but it wasn't really known until then, so she is somewhat absolved.  The story hinges on the actions of a brother and sister, China and Cherokee River (who thinks up these names!?),  who are on Guernsey to deliver a set of architectural drawings to a wealthy eccentric, who ends up as the unfortunate dead.  Our dear old friends, Deborah and Simon St. James are in the thick of things thanks to Deborah's past college friendship with China and Cherokee.  And the ball rolls from there.  Nobody does seaside England like George (\\"Deception on His Mind\\" is a prime example) and the delicious intrigues of a small island are beautifully done here.  Lots of minor characters get their \\"just desserts\\" in this book and that also makes it a fun read.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R1YWILJKL3WVSP	0425188787	24558712	Hunting Season (An Anna Pigeon Novel)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	A good but not great Anna Pigeon	I run a little hot and cold with Nevada Barr's books, usually based on the location of the mystery.  Her device is to set mysteries in and around the national park system and I find myself especially drawn to her books when they're about places I've been (duh!).  I've never been to the Natchez Trace Parkway, and although it sounds lovely, I don't have much interest.  That makes it hard to review this book objectively because the Parkway is a main character.  But the book is quite good.  Anna Pigeon, our now-familiar park ranger is extremely likeable and, as a woman and something of a rebel, she encounters some very ordinary problems in her workplace.  And she encounters some very unusual murders outside her workplace.  The story moves along nicely and there is a real intensity to the relationships in this book - and I don't just mean death and romance.  This is a neck of the woods where not everyone has bought into the Civil Rights movement or equality for women.  And the nice thing about it is that Nevada Barr portrays these redneck jerks without an ounce of condescension.  They are what they are.  And some of them get \\"educated\\".  And some of them get away with it.  And therein lies a pretty good book.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R3IQ4LA7S9H22T	0553583174	68956662	A Fearsome Doubt (Inspector Ian Rutledge)	Books	5	17	20	N	Y	One of the most unique book series in recent years	The success or failure of this book hinges entirely on character of Inspector Ian Rutledge and the believability of his fractured, WWI brain wherein resides the voice of the Scottish soldier he killed for cowardice on the battlefield and who haunts him years after the war has ended.  It is a fascinating device because Hamish, the dead soldier, gives the solitary Rutledge a foil whilst investigating crimes that are intriguing but not especially unique or compelling.  It is the characters that drive the Ian Rutledge series of mysteries and, for me, the characters that bring me back time and again with no disappointment.<br /><br />It turns out the Charles Todd is actually a nom de plume for a mother and son who write these books together.  I believe that one or both of them is especially strong on research and setting a very vivid and thorough picture of England after the war.  I've never felt any doubt about the look and feel of the London of the day or the villages wherein much of the action takes place and that goes for the Kent countryside, wherein this story takes place.<br /><br />Part of this story is the investigation of the murder of three war veterans and part of the story revisits a pre-war investigation by Rutledge and others that resulted in a man being hanged for murder.  When circumstances seem to point to the wrong man having been hanged, Rutledge is forced to examine his conscience, his methods, and his war-damaged memory for what might have been overlooked and what might have been misinterpreted in the case.  Add to this the presence of his best friend's widow in all of the attendant action and you have a ripping good little mystery!	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R2S2HJYHN5NPDP	0060545607	485010020	With No One As Witness (Thomas Lynley and Barbara Havers Novels)	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	She's back!!!!	She's back!  I've never actually lost faith in Elizabeth George, but her last few books have been a vague mixture of disappointments...nothing specifically wrong, but nothing truly memorable.  Well, she's shaken that off and this book will leave you with no sense of ennui, I guarantee you.  A good friend and fellow George reader called me just as I was about to start \\"With No One As Witness\\", having just finished it herself, and asked me to call her as soon as I had read it.  Now I know why.  I can't say more without giving away one or more of the myriad plot twists, but I can say that Elizabeth George writes here with an energy and wit that we haven't seen in years.  I suspect the topics herein are very close to her heart and that always makes for better reading.  It is also a little eerie that she presages in this book some of the more sensational recent headlines - this book was written long before them.  Deborah and Simon don't have large roles here but their presence is pivotal and Lynley and Helen are still a well-conceived couple.  George has inched their relationship along through this entire series of books and this book takes them one step further into impending parenthood.  But it is Havers I love, with all of her intelligence, complicated self-love/loathing, and her seeming missteps that guide so many of George's plot lines.  This is an unforgettable book with a breathtaking pathos that has been missing in many modern thrillers.  You'll either love it or hate it, but you won't forget it.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	RAIUSDHIPKOLF	0515135356	152215045	Crime School (A Mallory Novel)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Another haunting Mallory mystery	What is it about Carol O'Connell's Kathy Mallory series?  Kathy Mallory is about the least sympathetic heroine of any genre...a genuine anti-anti-anti heroine. And O'Connell's writing is moody and rough - kind of like its places-you've-never-been-in-New York setting.  These are never easy reads and yet I can't put them down, especially Crime School.  I think it may be because I like Charles Butler and Detective Riker so very much.  And because they love Mallory despite everything.  And because I want her to finally pay attention to Charles (which she never will).  As usual, O'Connell's plots fly all around the past and present and you have to hang on for dear life.  And, as usual, you end up wanting to know more.  But isn't that the hallmark of a good book?  I still think that O'Connell's best book was the standalone (not of the Mallory series) \\"Judas Child\\", wherein again she specializes in wounded characters.  Who knows where these twisted humans come from in Carol O'Connell's brain, but she certainly does give them convincing life.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R13V7A1C3IH6BZ	0312185774	524611545	Faithful Unto Death: A Chief Inspector Barnaby Novel (Chief Inspector Barnaby Mysteries (Hardcover))	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Delightful, nasty little English country mystery	Another English inspector mystery starring Chief Inspector Barnaby, this one is a bit of a departure for Caroline Graham.  All of the usual characters are still in play here: the villages of Ferne Basset and Fawcett Green, the town of Causton, Inspector Barnaby, his faithful-yet-shallow-yet-extremely talented sidekick Troy, and the usual CID cronies.  This book is especially twisty and turny and a very fun ride.  I tend to associate Caroline Graham with more straightforward, Agatha Christie-type whodunits, which have fun twists but not at every turn, for heaven's sake!  The local village characters are outrageously well drawn; we've all had neighbors like some of these and Graham has captured all of them most perfectly.  I didn't see the ending come on this one but I had my suspicions, which went back and forth for the whole book.  Such is the good writing where you are forced to glance at everyone in the book with a jaundiced eye!	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R2CE68PPLM97P4	1569473226	91451075	Diamond Dust (A Detective Peter Diamond Mystery)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A sparkling introduction (for me) to Lovesy	Peter Lovesey's Peter Diamond mysteries are very happily to my taste.  I like Peter Diamond, the kind of person he is, what he stands for in the bigger picture.  He reminds me of Ruth Rendell's Chief Inspector Wexford, except that he is a little lest prosperous and a little more philosophical.  Or perhaps a better comparison would be with Henning Mankell's Inspector Kurt Wallander.  Diamond is a richly drawn character and this story chases him into a maze that brings his personal life most horribly into context with his work.  I got into the Peter Diamond series fairly late in the game and I've been toying with the idea of going back and starting from the beginning, kind of like we did with Reginald Hill's Daziel and Pascoe mysteries.  There are some 22 books prior to this one and I don't know how many feature Peter Diamond. Another one or two like this one, and I know it will be worth the investment in time to find out.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	RC17JKP5RQGAS	1400051908	703207753	The Rottweiler	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Rendell shows no diminishment of skill in this book!	This is vintage Rendell.  She has a very special gift for portraying, in great detail, people on the fringes of society.  They become as real and complex as our own relations and neighbors and because of this, we care about them and fear for them.  This is her strength.  In this book reside some of her best and quirkiest characters and she takes the time to give them the necessary charm and viability in our imaginations.  This is far from her best work but there is a brilliant psychology at play here where a small cadre of forgotten people live in the Marylebone section of London and its members are related by work and/or life in a house of rental properties.  That a serial crime of horrible details appears to center a little too close to their lives seems to just add color and a frison of excitement ... at first.  We may or may not know who the killer really is (we're pretty sure) and we don't really get a hint until far along in the book, but it is a good journey and well worth the effort.  I've been on the edges of Marylebone and it may help to picture it as a little poorer, but nonetheless colorful, Notting Hill.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R1Z7RV02H9VJ4G	006052524X	879725849	Now May You Weep: A Novel (Duncan Kincaid/Gemma James Novels)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A wee dram...but potent!	Deborah Crombie puts too much emphasis on the supernatural to be one of my all-time favorites but I love her passion for her stories and her passion for the parts of  the British Isles where she chooses to set her stories.  This one takes our friends Gemma James and Duncan Kincaid to the Scottish birthplace of their friend Hazel.  While on a \\"cooking weekend\\" at a B&B (sounds like such fun!), Gemma and Hazel get involved in a murder and Kincaid comes to the rescue.  The murder is fairly ordinary and somewhat predictable, but the back story behind it is fascinating and you get to learn a lot about the ancient art of making scotch and the tiny distilleries that dot the Scottish landscape and provide the world-class imbibement. I found that part to be genuinely fascinating, as I did the descriptions of the scenery.  It sounds like a lovely place for a murder. And there is a heart-wrenching backstory about Kinkaid's son Toby and his search for identity.  Crombie is a very good writer.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R24K31B1O8G76Y	0452286530	781983073	The Jane Austen Book Club	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Not Emma or Persuasion but good	This is not the kind of book I usually read but the reviews were good and I've long loved Jane Austen so I gave it a try.  It was pretty good.  The Jane Austen Book club forms realistically and we see these characters in parallel with each person's favorite (favourite?) Austen book.  Some of the parallels are very sly and others are touching, but these are good, flesh-and-blood fictional people and I think we probably all have some of them in our lives.  I find the concept of such a book club to be both fascinating and repellent.  I like hearing about how other people approach books and what they derive from what they read, but Jane Austen is so personal an experience for most readers, myself included, it would be hurtful to have to defend her against someone who didn't appreciate her as well.  And then, inevitably, the arguments about who was the best film version of Darcy...friendships have been sundered by far less! (And, duh, is there any doubt who was the best?).  So, I liked this book, but I wouldn't want to be in a Jane Austen Book Club.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R3KYLZQ0P71RP2	0399151435	275831919	A Death in Vienna (Silva, Daniel)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Perfect Assassin	I love Daniel Silva's little assassin, Gabriel Allon.  Long before \\"The Da Vinci Code\\", Silva has been writing thrillers that may not have the same initial impact, but his characters remain with me just as long.  I usually roll from one book to another, but after a Silva book, I usually need a little time to pause and absorb a little more of the experience.  I think my favorite in this series is \\"The Confessor\\", but this \\"A Death in Vienna\\" is a worthy companion.  I always learn so much when I read Silva; not things that are required for Life, but things that are required for quality of life like the transience of some relationships and the durability of others and what makes the difference, the fine and gentle skill of art restoration, the politics of Europe and the Middle East (where the good guys and bad guys are startlingly interchangeable), and the long fingers of the Holocaust - to name a few.  I understood that this was the last in a trilogy and I was a little panicked to think that Silva would be moving on (as rightfully he could) and leaving Gabriel behind.  I'm delighted to discover that Silva's newly published \\"Prince of Fire\\" returns Gabriel to us.  Perhaps Silva has become a prisoner of Gabriel like the rest of us.  So be it.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R3BM6OHE8BQ42E	0316159182	223134214	A Question of Blood: An Inspector Rebus Novel (Inspector Rebus Mysteries)	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	We all need Rebus - he makes our lives look so uncomplicated	Ian Rankin and his DI Rebus are soo-o-o-o-o-o-o-o good!  And the Scottish locales are so-o-o-o-o-o-o-o well described!  And these story plots are just the best - they aren't about crime; they are about wrestling with morals and ethics and questions about whether the end justifies the means in the big picture of police work.  As always, there are at least three plots going on here, and the main thread is snatched from the headlines of real-life tragedy: school shootings.  Our moody, sullen, irresistible Rebus has his hands full, as usual, and is in hot water with his superiors, as usual.  That seems to be when he does his best work.  There is an unusually heavy dose of coincidence in this particular book and it propels the book along at an artificial pace but Rankin has earned our (or at least my) trust and forgiveness.  It is still a tale well told.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R1GAMCG2JOTCQP	0446532967	182046660	Double Homicide: Boston / Sante Fe	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Blah	This is an interesting little conceit (two novellas in one binding, laid back-to-back so that each has its own cover).  This was an airplane read for me and provided the necessary distraction from Baltimore to Denver but I wouldn't recommend it for any of those \\"quality reading\\" moments.  The stories are each set in locations I like very much (Boston and Santa Fe) so it was fun to revisit them in fiction, but the plot and characters were not that sympathetic or well-developed and I'm not sure this is the fault of the novella form.  I think it had more to do with the fact that these are not very compelling stories and would not have held up better in full-length novel form.  There just isn't enough there.  I appreciate that the Kellermans are taking a break from their respective Delaware/Decker series but these feel more like an afterthought than a well-honed effort.  Both Kellermans have a prodigious book output and most of them are not awful, but I wonder sometimes how much better their books would be if they didn't crank them out so quickly and, instead, crafted them a little more.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	RRX0I49GXTTYY	0743219627	135421196	Death of an Expert Witness (Adam Dalgliesh)	Books	5	41	42	N	N	Who can resist Adam Dalgleish?	This is an old P.D. James that I had somehow missed when I read her continuously in the mid-1990s.  Although I love the James character Cordelia Gray, who appears in all of the \\"Unsuitable Job for a Woman\\"-type mysteries, my favorite James character is Inspector Dalgliesh. Since BBC/PBS did a series of \\"Mystery\\" episodes years ago based on the Dalgliesh character, I have him firmly fixed in my mind as the troubled Inspector (aren't they all?) who is also a brilliant poet and lover of all things fine in life.  This book is a Dalgliesh book, not his best (that would be \\"A Taste for Death\\" or perhaps \\"Shroud for a Nightingale\\"), but even the worst Dalgliesh (I can't think of one) would be better than the best of most other people.  This one takes place at a forensic laboratory where criminal and other evidence is processed and gives us a bit of a glimpse into how the Brits do Crime Scene Investigation (CSI).  These are country people, not slick American city types, and that's OK.  The countryside hides lots of interesting characters who have all sorts of motivations.  Keep in mind that this was first published in 1986 and the world has changed rather tremendously since then!	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R3FM61U1Q8ZDRG	0061032212	411648778	Sleepyhead	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Claustrophobic and memorable	I did this kind of backwards.  I read \\"Lazy Bones\\" first and so I knew who got spared and who didn't make it from the first to the third book in this series.  It didn't hurt the suspense or the story, though.  This one is good enough to stand on its own.  And what a concept!  We have here a criminal (lunatic?) who doesn't want to kill people.  His or her idea is to deliberately induce a stroke to a victim so that they are still completely cognitive but unable to move more than an eyelash.  Absolutely paralyzed and still fully intelligent with complete knowledge of the crime, but unable to communicate.  And young girls are killed whilst this fiend practices the fine art of paralyzing without killing.  It is a dreadful concept and gives me the absolute willies.  We have the usual marginal Detective Inspector (Tom Thorne), his colleagues, and \\"incident room\\" badinage, but I do wish that we could sometimes have a detective who is actually functional in his or her personal life. Ian Rankin ruined things for us with Rebus and nobody will ever write the somewhat redeemable detective better so I wish everyone would quit trying.  Having said that, this is a good and creepy read and the ending is a little weak, but also a bit of a relief.  Or is it?  Just the concept of an intentionally induced stroke will follow you around for a while afterward.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R38ZT5SOIGLEVY	1400034191	596030198	The Babes in the Wood	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A soggy, somber tale well told	After the messy nonsense of \\"The Blood Doctor\\", our capable writer, Ruth Rendell is somewhat returned to us in this somber mystery and in the character of the very dour-yet-knowable Inspector Wexford.  I seem to remember that a few years ago, Europe endured a summer-long flood of biblical proportions.  Rendell uses this as the backdrop for a mystery involving the disappearance of a house sitter who is minding two teenagers whilst their parents are away for the weekend. Wexford is serious, the surrounds are sodden, and there isn't a lot of action, but the story perks along pretty well and takes some inventive turns.  You'll want to slap the parents of the teenagers silly before the book is through.  As usual, we get to see a great deal of Wexford and wife Dora's personal life and in this book, Wexford's daughter Sylvia, whom we have come to know through her marriage, children, and divorce, has a desperately unlikable boyfriend who becomes a key part of the story.  I think that maybe I had a real appreciation for the endless rain in this book, having just survived one of the wettest years in Maryland history.  I think Rendell does drenched very well.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	RENDZ08Y46P9O	0060506687	168777874	Every Secret Thing	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A superior, absorbing mystery	Wow!  How do you review a book when just about anything you say might be misleading, or worse, revealing?  I love it when a book turns out to be completely unique in plot and characters and this really is one of those.  Flawed good guys (and girls) share space with compassionate and dreadful police women and men, unsympathetic central characters who age from awkward pre-teens into unrecognizable young adults, and sincere adults who should know better.  And all digesting in the stomach and central nervous system of my beloved Baltimore.  This is a gritty, relentless read with revelations that flow like the skin that peels from an onion.  I love books that successfully take the narration back and forth in time for a seamless story.  This is one of those.  To synopsize, two little girls are accused of stealing and possibly killing a baby.  They are sent away to separate institutions, emerge seven years later, and then another child disappears.  What are we to think?  You won't know until nearly the last page and even afterward, you'll still be pondering this amazing story.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	RZLKH5UCBKYYG	0312339194	171127413	The Torment of Others: A Novel (Dr. Tony Hill and Carol Jordan Mysteries)	Books	5	31	31	N	Y	An aching, gripping, fetal-position read	This is one tough book!! Really dark, really gruesome, really creepy, really good!  Carol Jordan is far from recovered from the last book and Tony Hill is really at a loss as to how to help her, but decides that proximity is the first step.  That's the good news.  The bad news is that Carol is put in charge of a new investigative squad whose members haven't gelled yet and who can't necessarily be trusted to act as a team vs. in each individual's own interest.  AND they have a horrible and relentless serial criminal on their hands.  This is one breathless read.  You do need to stop sometimes just to escape the cruelty and darkness, though.  I don't even want to think of how and where McDermid came up with this one.  It smacks a lot of her first (\\"Mermaids Singing\\") but the similar crimes seem so much worse when they are visited on women.  This is just heavy with the shock of insanity and yet it has a glowing, redemptive quality as well.  It is hard to see how McDermid's writing could improve and yet she manages it over and over again.  Now the long wait begins for her next outing.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	RCE00D6EG1NZS	0553579304	177332054	And Justice There Is None	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	There is justice for this book if you read it	This British mystery series starring Inspectors Gemma James and Duncan Kinkaid is one of the most satisfying.  The stories are always interesting and topical, and the characters are always very clearly drawn.  And Crombie has a nice touch with dialogue, which is what I really enjoy in a book. This book is set almost entirely in Notting Hill, which Al and I visited when we were in London last fall and enjoyed very much. From my memory, Crombie captures the flavor and feel of that part of London to perfection.  The mystery story itself is fairly original with several seemingly disconnected people dying by the same odd means and, of course, we get to watch as capable people connect the dots.  I had sussed the killer long before the denouement but that didn't stop the enjoyment. Especially enjoyable is watching the vertical build of the life of James and Kinkaid together with their blended family and the horizontal coming together of the murders and their solution, which is buried in the past (very nicely handled).  As with her previous outings, this was a very carefully constructed book.  No complaints at all.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R1B4RQA0AA2DR1	006019877X	576504477	Playing with Fire: A Novel of Suspense (Inspector Banks Novels)	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	A very good (but not brilliant) Robinson	Peter Robinson is one of my hands-down-all-time-favorite writers and he never disappoints.  I wasn't as interested in this particular book as others and can't explain why.  I'm more inclined to think it was me rather than him, though.  My head may have just been in an odd, distracted place.  This follows his ever-present Inspector Alan Banks and a crime (or series of crimes?) that are particularly horrific - murder by arson.  Yorkshire is as wonderfully described as ever and the tension between Banks and DI Cabbot is still well-written.  The plot is wonderfully twisty.  As I said, the book is beautifully done - just can't figure why I didn't love it.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R1CR8P732XPWQM	0743219570	813819534	Cover Her Face (Adam Dalgliesh Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Uncover this book!	This is P.D. James' first published book and our first introduction to Inspector Dalgleish.  It is easy to see why this book was considered a bold entry into a tough field of really terrific British crime fiction.  One of the hallmarks of the writing of P.D. James is her insistence on describing every scene in excruciating detail, but then again, those details enable her to build the story to a conclusion that surprises, but we should have seen all along.  This is a fairly unusual story about the murder of an enigmatic housemaid and about the depths of people we assume we know ...and it plays out nicely.  Although it was written in 1962, it has a definite timeless quality to it, like so many of the books by P.D. James and Ruth Rendell.  For all of their detailed narrative, they never seem to mire you in a period of time unless it is intentional and noteworthy.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R2IOKFWL1YGXXM	1565848608	540372155	The Return of the Dancing Master	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Required reading for true mystery fans	Henning Mankell is a master and on a much higher plane than most writers.  This is an extraordinary book, even for Mankell.  First, I was surprised to find that this is not a continuation of the Kurt Waldheim series.  Then, I found Stefan Lindman, the main investigative character, to be so compelling that I am anxious for more books that bring him into the story.  Everything about this book is unusual: the murder(s), the local police, the accidental and important ways in which the outsider Lindman stays in the investigation, even after he should have been long gone.  Although there is a great deal of \\"travelogue\\" in Mankell's books, they are essentially \\"internal\\" books where we are observers of the souls of the main characters...including the killer.  And we are left without the equipment to pass harsh judgment and feel satisfied.  Waldheim gets inside the head of sociopaths and killers better than anyone I can think of and he is merciless in his telling of a difficult tale.  Credit must also go to his translator(s), because these books preserve a Scandinavian feel and would be ruined without that aura.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R2MECFOIS4MJFG	0060528079	704849535	Good Morning Midnight	Books	5	14	18	N	Y	A satisfying return to form for Hill	I was glad to see this book come out and even happier to read it.  The past few Reginald Hill books in the Dalziel and Pascoe series have been entirely too cerebral for a simple sot like me and I started to actually resent Reginald Hill for ramming home his blinding intellect so fiercely.  He must have gotten that out of his system, because in \\"Good Morning, Midnight\\", we have a really nifty, twisty mystery with the usual great attraction/avoidance between our beloved inspectors Dalziel and Pascoe.  This doesn't mean that Hill deprives us of Dalziel's fantastically literate musings (and I'm sure I only \\"get\\" a small percentage of these) but they aren't the centerpiece.  The story is.  And there is nothing so delicious as a good old-fashioned \\"body in the library\\" mystery with lots of nasty family members involved.  It is even better when the ugliness goes back a few generations and we get an intriguing backstory as a result.  I still wish Ellie Pascoe would get a life and that Dalziel's love life would pick back up again, but that might have made too weighty and dense a story.  In truth, this one was just right.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R2VAR19Z7BFSZC	1400031532	529367395	Firewall (Kurt Wallander Mysteries, No. 8)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	One of Wallander's best...and that is saying something!	For every Luddite at heart, this book is confirmation of everything they have ever feared from technology.  With the expectation that the reader has a newspaper-level knowledge of computers and networks, Mankell weaves a fascinating tale of how we have committed enormous institutions and their assets to a seemingly fragile and vulnerable electronic world.  Now, as you know, Mankell is an acquired taste.  Because his books are written in Swedish and then translated, they don't read like native English books.  The writing is choppy and the thought processes seem more disconnected.  But I have developed a genuine liking for the exceedingly dour detective Kurt Wallander, who reigns at the heart of most of Mankell's books.  He gives \\"morose Swede\\" new depth and meaning.  This book requires fairly careful reading because of the writing and because it is more densely plotted than other of Mankell's books.  There are no gasping surprises, but a very good, forensically sound book that reads true to everything I know about computers and people who use them extensively.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R3TXSPWBKIOUYX	0345442121	350330565	Time to Be in Earnest: A Fragment of Autobiography	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	One of the most unique autobiographies you'll ever read	This has to be one of the most unique autobiographies I've ever read.  The premise is brilliant.  P.D. James takes one year of her life, at age 77, and as we follow her from activity to relative to meeting to book event, she also takes the time to reflect on the larger picture of her life and the people she has known for most of her life, providing historical details as a stream of conscious memory.  Some of her life just isn't that interesting, but trying to manage two children and a marriage to a man who spent most of his adult life in asylums, as well as being made a Peeress of the Realm, and all of the publication minutae are pretty interesting. It is always fun to read the story of a life richly lived by an accomplished person.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R193AK30NIMHHZ	044661162X	77432495	Chasing the Dime	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Improbable, but still good	This is a wild book and a real departure from Connelly in that it doesn't use his usual and reliable cast of extremely well-written characters.  This is a \\"standalone\\" book that starts with a simple premise involving a new cell phone and somebody else's voice mail and leads through the worlds of high technology, escort services, cut-throat (i.e., kill for it) competition and back again.  It is a gripping ride and you won't believe the twists (actually, this isn't entirely a good thing).	2005-05-02
US	52768922	RYP28XQSPQFXU	1400076099	10533115	The Murder Room (Adam Dalgliesh Mystery Series #12)	Books	4	19	22	N	N	When in doubt, return to Dalgleish!	P.D. James doesn't write cutting edge thrillers like she used to (she's in her mid-80s for heaven's sake...even Agatha Christie got tired eventually), but she still has her grip firmly on the heart and mind of the inimitable, desirable Commander Dalgleish.  The crimes in question take place relative to the \\"Murder Room\\" at an obscure little museum on the outskirts of London.  I wasn't transported by the story, which involves murders staged to resemble those in the Murder Room, but I sure did like a chance to be in and around the mind of Dalgleish the Poet once again.  I loved dear old Tally, the solitary caretaker, and wished with all my heart that someone would pay attention to her.  Alas, this is not a dynamic book, but it is a good, fairly quick read for a nice weekend afternoon. And Lady James sure seems to know a lot about naughty things for a nice old grandmother!	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R2C0Y0MZ9AYA9H	0446614831	335598141	3rd Degree (Women's Murder Club)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Love the women...not so much the story	By now, we're well established with The Women's Murder Club and each of the beautifully drawn members.  I'm not sure anything will top the first book in the series, \\"First to Die\\", because not only was it our introduction to this unique group as they cautiously formed, but it was a whopping good story.  This one is good but not great.  The storyline is interesting, but doggone it, there are WAY too many coincidences.  That makes it feel a little lazy (I'm on a tirade lately - I'm growing weary of getting settled into what feels like a good book only to find that the story is driven by coincidences and convenient character location - it really does feel lazy).  Having said that, these are women with whom I want to keep company and time spent with them is still worthwhile.  But are have the really good plot ideas already been taken?	2005-05-02
US	52768922	R30JF8KPS2EUIP	1400031184	558871711	Adam and Eve and Pinch Me	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Another delicious Rendell	Because Ruth Rendell's last few outings have been vaguely disappointing, I approached this most recent book with a little reluctance if not outright trepidation.  In fact, it sat in my bedside book pile far longer than a Rendell would usually have done in the past.  But I needn't have feared...she's back in form and this is an absolutely fascinating character study of men and women and need and manipulation.  There are several main characters here whose lives intertwine most unusually, and it is hard to decide who is the best-written of these.  They all spring to life with their own unique collections of human foibles and motivations and they are all on a collision course, each with the other.  You can see the train wreck coming, but you can't avert your eyes.	2005-05-02
US	52768922	RSCBZOUL2RGUT	0684873796	242064858	The Bones in the Attic: A Novel of Suspense	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A bit of a muddled end...	After a child's skeleton is found in the attic of Matt Harper, who has just bought into a neighborhood in Leeds, England after living there briefly as a boy, he shadows the investigation by a well-meaning detective sergeant who has a baby of his own, and delves back into his brief past in the neighborhood, which coincides with the approximate death of the infant in his attic. This means reconnecting with the neighborhood children, now adults, and forcing some organization on his hazy memories.  He knows he feels unsettled and discomfited by that particular time, but can't quite grasp why.<br />I've never read Mr. Barnard before this book, but judging by the size of his name on the cover relative to the title, he must be terribly well known.  This was an interesting book with a little bit of a muddled end, but it was well written otherwise and I plan to read him again. It would give away too much to say why I felt the end was muddled, but one key explanation didn't hold up for me.  Nonetheless, it wasn't THE key explanation and so the story was hardly ruined. And maybe I'm just being picky. One thing I can say about Mr. Barnard's writing is that he does dialogue very, very well.  I especially liked the way the children were written and the way he captured their banter.<br />A note of relief: there are many, many names and places to keep straight.  In the hardcover, and hopefully the paperback as well, there is a map of the neighborhood.  It really helps.	2003-03-03
US	52768922	RY63941KAPPTV	0446609781	332779254	Beneath the Skin	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	This certainly got under my skin...	After I read her \\"Red Room\\" and liked it so very much, I decided to check out other books of hers on Amazon.com  I was unsure about the subject matter and/or direction on most of them...and then I came across this one.  I was right.  It is the story of three women who are stalked by the same very mysterious stranger, and is told in each of their voices as they struggle to understand why they have been chosen.  Ms. French gives each of these women a completely unique and separate voice and creates detailed characteristics that are true for each. It is a chilling and compelling book where you slowly comprehend and after initial disbelief, the hair on the back of your neck starts to rise.  And she doesn't cheat - all of the clues are there for you to see, but you end up making the same mistakes as the three women.  Terrific read.	2003-03-03
US	52768922	R2J8HEPHF1Q7K4	0670030457	304194385	The Grave Maurice	Books	2	17	23	N	Y	This may be my last Martha Grimes book...	The good news about this book is that it reunites us with Richard Jury and Melrose Plant.  The bad news is that Martha Grimes can't figure out if she wants to write plausible forensic murder, implausible sensational murder, or drawing room comedy.  I keep thinking Im going to just give up on her and this time I just might.  This one stretches the readers gullibility to extremes and although it makes a very good point about the horrible fate of the thousands of pregnant mares who supply the drug industry with their urine for hormone replacement therapy, she doesnt give this choice story thread a chance.  One of the things that I hate the most is going back and forth from serious murder mystery to the comedy of Long Piddlington, home of zany denizens and Melrose Plant.  It is like she cant decide which kind of story to write, so she writes both.	2003-03-03
US	52768922	R25NSCGQDQOOQ1	0380820757	419194029	My Brother Michael	Books	4	10	20	N	Y	Revisiting Mary Stewart...	I remember before I discovered Ruth Rendell, Elizabeth George, Minette Walters, and P.D. James, my favorite writer was Mary Stewart.  I may never read her \\"Merlin\\" series again, but I still think of it fondly as a great step along the way to good reading.  So when I came across a few of her books recently that I may or may not have read 20 years ago, I snatched a couple of them up, anxious to see if they held up over time.  I probably should have resisted.  \\"My Brother Michael\\" is an interesting story, and Mary Stewart's writing is good, but she just isn't in the same league as the Big Four.  This was an OK read, and the setting was beautifully described, but the story sort of lurched along for me.  I may go ahead and read another of the Stewart books I picked up at the same time as this in hopes of redemption, but then again, I may not. The good news: this is a very fast read.  : )	2003-03-03
US	52768922	RN7IO3IMD0PCZ	0684859734	662513874	Grave Secrets: A Novel (Temperance Brennan Novels)	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Supremely talented Kathy Reichs...	What has started as a distinguished third career from this talented medical examiner/teacher/writer has turned to gold for those of us who like a well-told tale.  I cant imagine how she chose the Guatemalan genocides of the early 80s as her latest setting, but she does and makes it as compelling a story as any shes written.  You seethe along with her heroine, Tempe Brennan, at the corruption and incompetence of the local authorities, and yet there are honest, hard-working individuals in those same organizations.  She stretches credibility a little here and there as she orchestrates the movement of the story to Canada and back, but the story is so good, you just forgive her.	2003-03-03
US	52768922	RFXC42J99YMWE	0449218198	111095142	Murder at the Old Vicarage	Books	4	19	22	N	Y	Nicely written little police procedural with twists...	I'm struggling with this review of what was a really fun book that had loads of my favorite police procedural elements and serves as the introduction to a writer I hadn't previously read, but have seen very well reviewed.  So why am I struggling?  Because it was a fun book and I enjoyed it, but it is not particularly dynamic.  It is actually more like the \\"Cornwall\\" books by  Janie Bolitho.  But I don't want to damn it with faint praise because it was a wonderful character study and frankly, I couldn't read a \\"Minette Walters-style\\" book every time - too exhausting. So let me just say that this is a nice, quick fun read and I see nothing here that doesn't make me want to read more McGown books.  Ouch!  That sounds like faint praise.  Let me try again: as much as this is a murder mystery (the murdered is completely unsympathetic so no pathos there), this is a fine character study of the true motivations and desires of people we assume have their lives all figured out and a small meditation on how time and place can drive decisions that should not be so easily influenced.  There...that's better.	2003-03-03
US	52768922	R2G7OEF0YQLL98	0399148620	57740013	Acid Row	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Anatomy of a riot...	She's back!!!  I thought \\"Shape of Snakes\\" was a good book, but I hadn't much passion for the characters.  In \\"Acid Row\\", the characters are even harder to love (exceedingly so), and yet we do.  If I only had a phrase to describe this book, it would be \\"Anatomy of a Riot\\" because that is exactly what it is.  But before you say \\"ugh\\", please give this some consideration.  It is so carefully plotted and so meticulously described in terms of sequence and motivation...this alone should be enough, but then Walters layers on the most memorable characters. So why should we care about a riot in a tenement involving people who bear no resemblance to us or our friends?  Because that's the fallacy...they are not so removed from us and their frustration is palpable.  And they are driven by so many of the same fears and desires.  They are no more or less than shadowy reflections of ourselves.	2003-03-03
US	52768922	R27BJACS606GVI	0553573993	573440744	A Grave Talent	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	A great talent...	Im such a fan of Laurie King that I cant quite believe that Ive never read her Kate Martinelli series.  I believe that this is the first in the series and it is one of the most original stories Ive ever read in a mystery. It has believable characters, even though some of them are completely outlandish, and her descriptive portrayal of a Utopian commune awash in mud and murder is still clear in my mind.  I want to compare her favorably to Val McDermids Lindsay Gordon series, but actually, Kate  is much fleshier and more complex than Lindsay, who seems a little bit too flip and light by comparison. And Kates character is completely real as the conscientious freshman detective who is a little over her head in her San Francisco assignment with a partner who doesnt quite trust her yet (and a partner at home who perhaps trusts her a little too much).	2003-03-03
US	52768922	R21JSKLSO82GF6	080411160X	389950060	Sleeping Dogs (Butcher's Boy)	Books	4	10	12	N	Y	Butcher's Boy revisited...	This is the much-anticipated (by me) follow-up to &quot;Butcher's Boy&quot;.  It is a good but not wonderful sequel, as so many are, but still worth the read.  But be forewarned: this also has a pretty implausible and coincidental ending.  As in &quot;Butcher's Boy&quot;, Perry has made our protagonist (here he is named Michael Shaeffer) a just-sympathetic-enough sociopath for us to be rooting for him without compromising our true sense of right or wrong.  By accident, he is flushed out of hiding in England and instead of continuing to flee, he returns to the United States to meet his ghosts head-on. The will to survive in this killer is so strong, that it is possible to admire that element and distance oneself from the horror of what he does - but only just.  It is never a comfortable choice and requires a full complement of justification.  In telling this story, Perry takes us from England back to the States and on a grand tour of characters, locations, and techniques and the journey is never dull. One scene that is fixed in my mind is Michael's character-establishing encounter with a New York street tough. It is icily well written.	2003-03-03
US	52768922	R1XWN9FY677J21	0449227421	922959758	The Third Twin	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Chilling look at the potential for cloning...	I haven't read a lot of Ken Follet (did read \\"Eye of the Needle\\" and the \\"Key to Rebecca\\") and enjoyed them both.  And I remember hearing that he is from Baltimore, so he can't be all bad!  I think his subject matter is a little too fantastic for my taste to read him faithfully.  But \\"The Third Twin\\" caught my eye in an airport bookstore and away I want.  I liked it a lot.  For one thing, it takes place at a VERY thinly disguised Johns Hopkins University, my alma mater.  And for another, it does some very nice messing with the mind of the reader - always a good sign.  I'm not well-schooled in genetics, especially the state of the art during the flashback eras in this book, but even if Follet did take some scientific license, it is still a very chilling story about the misuse of the fertility process and trait selection by greedy and corrupt individuals.	2003-03-03
US	52768922	R2T59SUUOCSA7P	0553578251	707597956	Night Work (Kate Martinelli)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Another thought-provoking Kate Martinelli	After a few dozen pages of this book, I realized that I had read it before or at least had started it in some bookstore.  I certainly couldn't remember how it ended so the journey was not impaired.  Much of Laurie King's work can be characterized in a feminist vein, but none so much as this book.  And in Laurie King's hands, feminism is a not-always-pretty, but always-present element in the lives of the women who populate this pages.  This had a powerful effect on me.  I found myself cringing at things I should have been applauding and completely taken in because of my own personal stereotyping.  This was not a comfortable read (so many of Laurie King's books are not) but it was a good and necessary journey.  As with some of Thomas Perry's books, we find ourselves understanding the motivations of people who do things we absolutely cannot condone.  Having said all that, it is good to be back in the same orbit with Kate Martinelli and Al Hawkin and their assorted cast of friends and lovers.	2003-03-03
US	52768922	R3GDHAX766RBFN	0749005904	45697742	Framed in Cornwall	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Lovely book set in Cornwall	These little books by Janie Bolitho are not going to win awards, but she paints a portrait of a likeable, middle-aged lady who is also quite an interesting character in the context of these stories. I think I like her because her choice of subject is usually counter to the usual mystery fodder and also because her characterization of the Cornish locals in her stories is so lovingly drawn.  These won't keep you awake at night, rethinking the story line and wondering \\"who\\", but you also won't look back at these as anything less than the good use of an afternoon or two.	2003-03-03
US	52768922	R34NFY54W388C4	044108950X	685030678	Butchers Boy	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	A fitting comparison to &quot;Day of the Jackal&quot;...	This was one shrewd story.  Accurately compared to \\"The Day of the Jackal\\", Perry puts the reader in the uncomfortable position of rooting for the green Justice Department analyst who is pursing a possible hit man on paper, as well as  the flesh-and-blood hit man as he tries to escape from double-dealing employers and dumb old bad luck. Perhaps it is because said hit man is clearly bright and has such careful habits and such a will to survive.  You wouldn't want a wolf in your back yard, but you do admire their skill, cunning, and life force.<br />It seems that there are many mysteries set in and around Las Vegas lately but this one really does capture the seediness behind the scenes and the grainy textures of the life there.<br />It is a complex, well-told story that is really quite unique in its approach and deserves a read if you're able.  I had to scour the used bookstores for my copy - it is out of print.	2003-03-03
US	52768922	R36JRPT0M1MYPR	0804114897	435765633	The Secret of Annexe 3 (Inspector Morse Mysteries)	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	A nice, middling Morse	I came across this in a used book store and recognized it immediately for what it was: a Morse mystery that I had never read.  As Inspector Morse stories go, this one is good but not exceptional.  It is always good to be in the presence of the cranky Inspector, especially since he is so clearly personified by the late, great John Thaw, and this story has some very unique elements in the telling of a good story, but it relies a little too much on coincidence for its final resolution.  It was a necessary device in this case, but if Morse hadn't been in that particular pub at that particular time... Oh, well.  I think we read these as much for the enjoyment of Morse's cognitive processes and his relationship with Lewis, his long-suffering sergeant.  And there are far worse ways to spend and evening! (I don't want this back.)	2003-03-03
US	52768922	R30HCPF82XNL7	0399149155	249229548	Q is for Quarry: A Kinsey Millhone Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A nice, middling Grafton	This is a very fun Grafton.  She's picked up the pace a little again and added to some of the memorable characters that surround Kinsey.  She also allows us a little more of a glimpse into Kinsey's very fractured past.  The fun thing about this book is that it was based on a true story, which, unfortunately has remained unresolved. But Grafton has taken the facts from that case and fashioned a very plausible little twisty story that makes you glad that the alphabet isn't shorter.	2003-03-03
US	52768922	R36FFWXQA7GGK4	089296765X	145992076	Dead Midnight (Sharon McCone Mysteries)	Books	3	2	4	N	Y	Dead dulll	I've been faithful to Marcia Muller for years because she is considered to have given us the first American female P.I., Sharon McCone, but truthfully, this enterprise is showing a lot of wear and tear.  Unless you've read a lot of her books before, you will be bored silly by all of the people from past books who make an appearance in order to convince the reader that McCone has a rich and interesting life.  The good news about this book is that it does paint a detailed and loving picture of San Francisco. This story is about current affairs, i.e., dot-coms working people literally to death, but I saw the culprit in the first 50 pages.	2003-03-03
US	52768922	R1U3GUO3JUA4VF	0060194448	657088689	The Wailing Wind	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Hillerman is simply the best at what he does...	What can you say when it comes to the writing of Tony Hillerman?  This slender book has more of a story in it than some that are twice its size.  It is everything that is Hillerman: Jim Chee and Joe Leaphorn, the ultra-traditional Navajo policeman and his more liberal former boss, now a \\"consultant\\"; the amazing undiscovered parts of the Navajo Reservation and the Southwest as a whole; and an especially interesting mystery that could only take place in the \\"wild\\" west.  Hillerman doesn't paint shadowy figures.  They are all right there in the light to be seen and absorbed, good guys and bad.  I read a few years back that Tony Hillerman had been ill and when no books came out for a year or so, I was so afraid.  But he is still with us and his voice is still the one I'd rather read than anyone else.	2002-07-15
US	52768922	R3JRD2NOOGOSO0	0312979533	52317828	A Place of Execution	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	It simply doesn't get any better than this...	It simply doesn't get any better than this.  Val McDermid is one writer I will never give up on (and she provides scant motivation to do so).  This standalone book is densely plotted and moves right along, but the reader needs to take the time to keep track of the many and various village and police department members.  By the time you go off the precipice that is the ending of this book, you'll be glad you did. In addition to this book, I'd like to also recommend McDermid's Tony Hill series starting with \\"The Mermaids Singing\\" and \\"The Wire in the Blood\\".  \\"The Last Temptation\\" wasn't up to par compared to these, but was readable and it left the door open for yet another book in this fine series so it wasn't all bad. But I'd give \\"A Place of Execution\\" six stars if I could.  Just super.<br /><br />November 2008 update: Just read this again.  Even knowing the ending didn't diminish the story.  The pleasure in the beautiful plotting and the clues that are everywhere for us to see (and ignore) made the journey worthwhile all over again.	2002-07-15
US	52768922	RNNHOD0MTOCN0	0385336004	587637152	Dialogues of the Dead	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Another great offering from Reginald Hill	This is a really ingenious little book that could drive you completely mad with its literary utterances if you didn't have the fabulous Dalziel and Pascoe to break things up a bit. I can't help but secretly suspect that Reginald Hill has been holding himself in check all these years and finally couldn't help but explode in words, word games, and \\"dialogues\\" so that we might appreciate what a fabulously literary sort he is.  And he clearly is.  For the truly literate amongst us, this book alone will do, but I needed a thesaurus and a really good encyclopedic dictionary to get through this.  And yet, this is not a complaint!  It was a good read, a fabulous twisty ending, and I learned a whole big bunch from this read (\\"whole big bunch\\" is almost certainly NOT in Hill's vocabulary!). For the true Dalziel and Pascoe afficionado, I recommend going back nearly 30 years and starting their series from the beginning.  Hill's writing grows with the series and the characters, but they are fun from beginning...	2002-07-15
US	52768922	R3KGS0ENVEJ208	0679441891	632162792	Our Game	Books	3	2	2	N	N	He has done much better...	I must have been out of sorts when I read this because I usually adore a Le Carre read and this time, I didn't.  I just didn't give a darn about the main character, who was so completely unsympathetic that I kept wishing that something really dire would happen to him so we could get to someone more interesting.  And I really didn't like the whining about the lost girlfriend who left with the braver, more charismatic friend.  I just didn't care...  For Le Carre at his recent best, better try \\"The Constant Gardener\\".	2002-07-15
US	52768922	RGZOIFHBFQIBX	0451410440	853305752	Under the Color of Law (Kevin Kerney)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Another good Southwestern writer...	I had previously read \\"The Judas Judge\\" by McGarrity and although I liked it well enough, I found myself straining a little at the plot.  \\"Under the Color of Law\\" had a fairly incredulous plot but this time, I didn't feel like I strained so much.  Go figure.  McGarrity fills his books with a precise and loving characterization of the Southwest and for those elements of his plots, anyone who has never been to the Southwest may readily believe them.  This story was interesting and complex and not a little paranoid about the shadowy figures who hold great power in these United States, but it was a fun read and I look forward to his next book in this series.	2002-07-15
US	52768922	R17K9CJ7I47TI2	0743216903	694532626	Dancing with the Virgins: A Constable Ben Cooper Novel	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	Another solid offering from Stephen Booth...	As with \\"Black Dog\\", Stephen Booth has written a chilly, uncomfortable, airtight story that requires full concentration (or else you'll find yourself going back and reading copious numbers of pages again trying to figure out where you lost the thread), but it rewards.  The story is a good one, but I liked his unsparing portrayal of the characters who populate this book and his unflinching and unhappy look at the world of livestock slaughterhouses and failing farms.  Quite a long way from a comfortable armchair. Oh, and there's a ripping good mystery here, too!	2002-07-15
US	52768922	R14ZLTI2UVZZDJ	0440236703	718492514	Tell No One	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Inventive and captivating story...	This is one breathtaking ride.  Is there anything more intoxicating than the possibility that someone you know with absolute certainty is dead .. is not? Or at least, may not be?  Or maybe told someone something really secret about you that nobody else should know before they died? Or maybe you're losing your mind?  This is a good read and some of the side characters like the hopped-up drug dealer who cares deeply for his blind, hemophiliac baby, are alone worth the ride.	2002-07-15
US	52768922	R1WYR47H1IJ939	0553246259	240278684	The Cosmic Code: Quantum Physics as the Language of Nature	Books	5	38	39	N	N	A durable, indelible work...	I've been a fan of this book since it was published in hard back in 1982 and recent re-reading remind me that it is still one of the best, most accessible lay books on quantum physics that has ever been written.  It is a little hard to track down sometimes, but perhaps they will eventually reissue it.  Unfortunately, Heinz Pagels died in a mountain climbing accident years ago and won't be able to update this wonderful book.  It would be great if one of his many colleagues and admirers would undertake to do it.	2002-07-15
US	52768922	R2Q7GW0V138TQ7	1569472394	362959712	Deceit	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	A subtle, interesting book that simply will not go away...	I got this book on a friend's recommendation and it wasn't until I began to read that I realized I had seen this story done as a made-for-British-TV-movie on BBCAmerica. I thought it was an especially good thriller on TV but I wasn't sure I wanted to read the book after the fact, especially since I knew \\"whodunit\\", but I gave it a try and armed with the image of Francesca Annis (\\"Reckless\\") as Ellen, I waded in.  It was a good idea.  There are so many story nuances and side plots that simply can't make it into a TV movie, either from time constraints or the known attention span of viewers, and it was like reading a richer version of the movie.  The ending was still the same, but delivered in a much more compelling (and less screen-worthy) manner. I hadn't read Clare Francis before, but I certainly will read her again.	2002-07-15
US	52768922	R3ON3BOSHIIBN9	0375421440	120680919	Three Junes	Books	5	191	211	N	Y	An uplifting, heartbreaking, beautiful book...	This book isn't my standard cup of tea, but the reviews were so universally good, I decided to give it a try.  It was wonderfully well worth the time.  This is not a book you can idly pick up and scan for a while, then return to it as time allows.  It is a well-told family story with personal intrigues and family secrets, none of which are so outlandish that we don't have a few of them littering our own closets.  Because she needs for us to know the Scottish McLeod family well in order to propel the story along, Julia Glass takes a lot of time and pages to get us acquainted.  For the reader who requires action to move a story along, this is a bit of a test, because it is the unfolding of the characters themselves that moves the story along, beautifully, heartbreakingly.  It is easy to become impatient with Fenno, our main character and mini-hero, because he seems so paralyzed by his life, but read on and you will come to appreciate the many fine qualities of his character and those of his well-meaning family. I felt very satisfied upon finishing this - and ready for a trip to Greece (subplot)!	2002-07-15
US	52768922	R1UVFLU600TXO1	0452279488	477779659	The Love Letter	Books	4	0	2	N	Y	A unique plot is almost wonderful...	This is a very sweet book and a must-read for middle-aged women, especially if they are single.  I appreciate Helen's contrary nature and her seemingly self-destructive impulses.  I also appreciate her hesitation to take on her venerable family members. And I love the people who populate her bookstore (Johnny is quite believable).  My only complaint - and a very real one - is that this plot droops and drags in places.	2002-07-15
US	52768922	R180ND8MJYD74H	0399147330	300291221	The Shape of Snakes	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Mystery as anthropology	I can't remember the last book that shook me so badly. Perhaps it was &quot;Folly&quot;, but I rather think it was &quot;Prince of Tides&quot;. The subject matter isn't really similar, but the visceral response certainly is. I'll be interested to see if you have the same reaction. I started it and was only benignly interested. I would put it down, not certain if I was really interested enough to resume, only to find that I was rearranging my schedule to return to that time and that place. It took me FOREVER to read this book, because I could only absorb it in small pieces and toward the last 1/4, I was anxiously seeking closure. Enough is enough. And then it ended. And I cried. Can't remember the last book that did that. THIS IS NOT AN EASY READ! You'll be tempted to give up on it, I promise you. Please don't.	2001-08-29
US	52768922	R260KY2CQ88S9	0312971281	706753887	Search the Dark: An Inspector Ian Rutledge Mystery (Ian Rutledge Mysteries)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Sum Total of Charles Todd	I loved Search the Dark, but even more, I love the long-term relationship that Charles Todd is building with his readers.  I see that others are getting weary of the disembodied (literally) voice of Hamish.  Not I.  I  think he is one of the most original inventions in recent literature and  after the first few incredulous chapters, I began to accept him and wove  him right into my sense of reality.  Charles Todd has chosen a very dark  and difficult time in world history, World War I, which is more  romanticized but much less understood than the wars since.  I appreciate  his attention to detail and look forward very much to the next installment.	2000-06-12
