US	52760273	R1CXUXNWLHON0N	0684848910	114374014	The Templar Revelation: Secret Guardians of the True Identity of Christ	Books	1	32	40	N	N	This Book is a Waste of Good Paper	The blurb on the back of this book declares that 'The Templar Revelation' is \\"painstakingly researched and thoroughly documented.\\" This is in fact the feature that grabbed my attention and caused me to read the book. Boy, was that a bad mistake.<br /><br />The 'painstaking research' that Picknett & Prince performed was laughable at best. The most quoted work in 'The Templar Revelation' was none other than 'Holy Blood, Holy Grail.' In fact, the only research that even came close to being 'credible' was Elaine Pagel's 'The Gnostic Gospels,' and one issue of 'Popular Archaeology.' Besides those recources, these authors did actually quote from the Bible, but often times in order to extrapolate certain texts to try and fit them to their claims. In other words, their hermeneutic was quite poorly performed. The rest of the sources were these esoteric and obscure works that no credible historian would give even a semblance of time looking over and considering worthwhile. This work, just like 'Holy Blood, Holy Grail,' is built on a pipe dream type of speculation. There is no credible evidence at all for any of the claims these authors make. There is absolutely no evidence that Jesus ever married Mary Magdalene, or that the Templars were anything other than knights who guarded the roads to the Holy Land in the middle part of the Medieval period. There is no evidence that the Templars had hidden 'secret documents' or 'items' or even hidden 'knowledge' of anything in history pertaining to Jesus that would 'bring down' the Roman Catholic Church, or discredit Christianity for that matter.<br /><br />The biggest problem with works like these, and the reason why any credible historian or theologian pays no attention to them is the fact that they are built on unsubstantiated claims that cannot be proven except through wild 'secret' interpretations of art, or obscure literature/documents that have no historical proof backing up the claims attached to them.<br /><br />The huge difference between credible historical claims and these hokey fanatical claims is that there is evidence which substantiates the claims. There is credible evidence that Jesus was an historical first century figure. There is solid evidence that Jesus did in fact die by Roman Crucifixion. There is even credible evidence that Jesus in fact arose from the grave (a solid case could be built on solid documented claims regarding this), but there is no evidence at all that the Holy Grail was in fact the bloodline of Jesus through Mary Magdalene. Picknett and Prince must rely on esoteric sources and unsubstantiated claims in order to write a book like 'The Templar Revelation' because there is no proof that what they are claiming in fact actually happened.<br /><br />If you want a solid historical text regarding Jesus and his life, or regarding the Medieval history of the Church then put this book aside and pick up a copy of Gary Habermas' book titled, 'The Historical Jesus,' or Philip Hughes's work 'The History of the Church.' Other great sources regarding the historicity of Jesus and Medieval History are N.T. Wright's work on the first century and Jesus as well as Norman Canter's 'Civilization of the Middle Ages.' These works are far better and much more credible than what Picknett and Prince offer in 'The Templar Revelation.' That is, unless you really like works of fantasy.e difference between credible historical claims and these hokey fanatical claims is that there is evidence which substantiates the claims. There is credible evidence that Jesus was an historical first century figure. There is solid evidence that Jesus did in fact die by Roman Crucifixion. There is even credible evidence that Jesus in fact arose from the grave (a solid case could be built on solid documented claims regarding this), but there is no evidence at all that the Holy Grail was in fact the bloodline of Jesus through Mary Magdalene. Picknett and Prince must rely on esoteric sources and unsubstantiated claims in order to write a book like 'The Templar Revelation' because there is no proof that what they are claiming in fact actually happened. <br /> <br />If you want a solid historical text regarding Jesus and his life, or regarding the Medieval history of the Church then put this book aside and pick up a copy of Gary Habermas' book titled, 'The Historical Jesus,' or Philip Hughes's work 'The History of the Church.' Other great sources regarding the historicity of Jesus and Medieval History are N.T. Wright's work on the first century and Jesus as well as Norman Canter's 'Civilization of the Middle Ages.' These works are far better and much more credible than what Picknett and Prince offer in 'The Templar Revelation.' That is, unless you really like works of fantasy.	2005-09-30
US	52760273	R2FQIF0LSXY16A	0802881661	787830148	Institutes of the Christian Religion (Two Volumes in One)	Books	5	76	79	N	N	This Translation is Often Overlooked	Unfortunately this translation of Calvin's 'Institutes' is often overlooked due to the more popular translation from Battles. However, this is an excellent translation of Calvin's most famous work and given its age (first published in 1845), it is surprisingly modern - due in part to this very edition which has been 'tweaked' into a more modern verbiage.<br /><br />This 'tweaking' in no way has diminished, however, the wonderful job Beverage did in translating this work. From what I have been told by several Latin scholars and theologians, and having studied Latin myself, Calvin's Latin is not a walk in the park. That being the case, once you read this translation, you can see why Beverage did such a great job.<br /><br />The one feature I like best about this translation is the fact that it is well footnoted for the researcher and reader. Therefore, this translation is well documented for further research into Calvin's thought. This also helps to clear up difficulties of translation (remember Calvin's Latin is very tough). At certain points in Calvin's work, his thought via a solid translation gets confusing for scholars, this edition has footnotes detailing these difficulties, and that makes for a better read.<br /><br />Now, about Calvin's 'Institutes'  This work is Calvin's Opus and gives the reader the best information regarding Calvin's thoughts on the Church and Church Government, Calvin's hermeneutic, Calvin's theology of God, Calvin's epistemology, Calvin's Soteriology, the benefits of the grace of Christ, his views on the Papacy (of his day), the Roman Catholic Church, the current state of Christendom, and much more. The interesting thing about this work (the Institutes), it is not Calvin's definitive work on the theology of predestination. Calvin actually wrote several other works which deal only with that subject and present a far better assessment of his theology behind predestination (see Calvin's treatise titled \\"Concerning the Eternal Predestination of God,\\" and Calvin's response to Pighius titled \\"The Bondage and Liberation of the Will.\\")<br /><br />But, for the best overview of Calvin's thought on the Church and theology, the Institutes is the work to read. Beverage's translation is a great work. It is introduced by the reformed theologian John Murray, it has a general index in the back of the work, and reads very much in modern verbiage. I highly recommend this edition.nation of God,\\" and Calvin's response to Pighius titled \\"The Bondage and Liberation of the Will.\\") <br /> <br />But, for the best overview of Calvin's thought on the Church and theology, the Institutes is the work to read. Beverage's translation is a great work. It is introduced by the reformed theologian John Murray, it has a general index in the back of the work, and reads very much in modern verbiage. I highly recommend this edition.	2005-09-17
US	52760273	RUHZI2ON10D9P	0684184176	386896766	A History of the Christian Church	Books	4	32	33	N	N	A Recognized Classic in the Field of Christian History	This is one of the most comprehensive and thorough single volume works of Christian Church History that I have ever read. Originally published in 1918 by Yale University's 'Titus Street Professor of Ecclesiastical History,' Williston Walker, this work has been 'updated' or revised through the years by three Union Theological Seminary Professors based on new discoveries, insights, data, uncovered archaeological evidence, and historical discoveries.<br /><br />The subsequent revised versions included a final section on 'Modern Christianity.' So much of what happen in the 20th century was added to later editions. The book is nicely divided into seven (VII) periods. These seven periods are:<br /><br />Period I - The Beginnings to the Gnostic Crisis. This period covers the first two centuries of Christianity from Christ's time to the apologists ending in the second century.<br /><br />Period II - From the Gnostic Crisis to Constantine. This is one of the better sections or 'Periods' marking the growth of the Church, the formation of Catholicism, and the development of theology.<br /><br />Period III - The Imperial State Church. This section covers controversies which arose (Arianism, Pelagianism, etc.). It also covers the division which occurred between the East and the West, Augustine of Hippo, the Growth of the Papacy, etc.<br /><br />Period IV - The Middle Ages to the Close of the Investiture Controversy. This section covers the expansion of Christianity into Europe, The Greek Church, the Papacy and the Ottoman Empire, and much more.<br /><br />Period V - The Latter Medieval Ages. This is another excellent section covering the rise of Scholasticism and its thinkers (Anselm, Aquinas, etc.). The rise of Orders (Dominicans, Franciscans, etc.) The effects/theology of mysticism, Wyclif and Hus, and into the Italian Renaissance (and much more).<br /><br />Period VI - The Reformation. This sections covers every aspect of the Reformation from beginning to end in as much detail as can be allowed in about 150 pages.<br /><br />Period VII - Modern Christianity. This section covers the end of the Middle Ages to the current day. Christianity in America, Britain, the rise of Protestantism, the Great Awakenings, Deism, Pietism, the Puritans, Colonial discoveries and the spread of Christianity to North America, etc. are all covered in this section.<br /><br />One of the best features of this work is the bibliography. The compilers have actually created a bibliography for every period mentioned above. So if the reader wants to do more specific research on any given period or thinker, there is a very detailed reference/bibliography section that is 21 pages long. This makes for excellent research sources and further study.<br /><br />Overall, this work is very well balanced, very well written in such a short space. It covers nearly every detail from major to minor  (with the exception of a few things that were left out that should have been included - e.g. Louis de Molina is not included, and thus Molinism is left out). It is quite easy to read, and is systematically put together in a nice chronological order (as history actually unfolded).<br /><br />If you are looking for a detailed but somewhat brief (709 plus pages) Christian History text, then I recommend this one.n as much detail as can be allowed in about 150 pages. <br /> <br />Period VII - Modern Christianity. This section covers the end of the Middle Ages to the current day. Christianity in America, Britain, the rise of Protestantism, the Great Awakenings, Deism, Pietism, the Puritans, Colonial discoveries and the spread of Christianity to North America, etc. are all covered in this section. <br /> <br />One of the best features of this work is the bibliography. The compilers have actually created a bibliography for every period mentioned above. So if the reader wants to do more specific research on any given period or thinker, there is a very detailed reference/bibliography section that is 21 pages long. This makes for excellent research sources and further study. <br /> <br />Overall, this work is very well balanced, very well written in such a short space. It covers nearly every detail from major to minor  (with the exception of a few things that were left out that should have been included - e.g. Louis de Molina is not included, and thus Molinism is left out). It is quite easy to read, and is systematically put together in a nice chronological order (as history actually unfolded).  <br /> <br />If you are looking for a detailed but somewhat brief (709 plus pages) Christian History text, then I recommend this one.	2005-09-17
US	52760273	R3JS30CVFJRC61	0891077618	34184436	Jack: A Life of C. S. Lewis	Books	5	17	18	N	N	The Definitive Biography on Lewis	I first read this work in the early nineties and thought it was good. I recently re-read it and realize, it is not merely good, it is great. Sayer has, without a doubt, written the definitive biography on the 20th century's greatest thinker.<br />The book brings the reader on an intimate journey through the life of Lewis, often times with stunning detail. From Lewis' parents and his childhood, his education, teaching career, and friendships, to his life at the Kilns, the meetings (as well as the people) in and with the Inklings (a particular favorite section of mine), and his life work, marriage to Joy and how he carried on without Joy.<br />Sayer also details how Lewis actually created certain works such as his Narnia series. Also, his radio broadcasts are detailed as well as his lectures given to the public. Moreover, he details several of Lewis' close friends (mainly from the Inklings) who read his manuscripts and offered certain advice. Sayer describes those who inspired Lewis when he read (e.g. George MacDonald, William Morris, etc.) and those who helped Lewis throughout his writing career.<br />Who else could possibly tell the story of Lewis' life than one of his colleagues. Sayer knew Lewis and had developed a strong friendship with Lewis through education and through participating in several meetings with the Inklings.<br />If you want to know more about Lewis not only on an intellectual level but a deeper personal level as well (i.e. really get the know the man Lewis), then you will need no other biography besides this one. I highly recommend this work.	2004-01-17
US	52760273	ROZN2708U43A3	0375726403	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A real page turner	This was the first novel on my assembled reading list for 2004. Wow, what a way to start this year's reading!<br />Russo's narrative is brilliant. He can spin a spellbinding yarn and certainly keeps his reader turning pages; even into the wee hours of the night. The best word I can use to describe his work is, simply, 'detail.' He provides an enormous amount of detail that many writers fail to use when describing emotions, characteristic, and qualities of his characters, action, and, especially in the dialogue; the detail about what is being said and how it is being said is amazing. This, I believe is what keeps the story interesting.<br />Also, Russo's character development is astounding. He builds his character's lives with care, vibrancy, and elegance. The reader is quietly cajoled into completely understanding and being able to relate to each character simply via Russo's wonderful ability in character development. In fact, his character development is so strong that many times I would say things out loud while I was reading the work in response to what was being developed. Not many works that I have read, including the classics, have caused me to do this.<br />Finally, Russo has another quality that is rare in writers of the 20th century. He is able to make his reader love and at the same time hate certain characters in his work. He can cause the reader to feel genuine anguish over certain events simply by how he describes them, and at the same time cause elation in the reader regarding the same events. This quality is quite difficult to describe, you simply have to read this story to understand what I am trying to detail here.<br />FYI, for those who love reading great literature but are often times put off by foul language or other elements that are offensive, then a warning must be given here. While I loved Russo's story, and truly believed he is a brilliant writer, he does use profane language, which sometimes, I believe helps the story, while at others detracts from it. If you are not offended by this, then you will certainly love this work. I recommend this book but with that warning attached.tracts from it. If you are not offended by this, then you will certainly love this work. I recommend this book but with that warning attached.	2004-01-16
US	52760273	R350SAA1VDKFD6	0156027674	331643010	Of Other Worlds: Essays and Stories	Books	5	4	6	N	N	This book has a lot of character	Just like C.S. Lewis, this book has a great amount of character, style, and content. This is both a critical work, and a writer's work, and only Lewis could do both equally well in the same work.<br />In this work, which contains a good mix of various topics, Lewis details the importance of 'Story' and describes the stories that have been his favorites. He details how an author should write for children, what elements are necessary in children's stories, and what does not work.<br />Lewis also discusses Science Fiction - a chapter which happens to be my favorite. Here, Lewis describes several works from Wells, Clarke, Haldane, etc. and details what he liked, disliked, or misunderstood about the works. He describes what seems to work in the science fiction/fantasy genre - e.g. complex human personalities (which definitely worked in Tolkien's 'Lord of the Rings'), etc.<br />This is a very nice collection of essays. The work can be well received from both writers and critics, and especially readers. Moreover, as many Christians will sometimes read only the works on or about Christianity that Lewis has written, this work will demonstrate a whole different side to Lewis that perhaps many of his Christian readers are unaware.	2003-11-27
US	52760273	R1FBLU5O5BDIBT	0156148633	235102368	The Business of Heaven: Daily Readings from C. S. Lewis	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Nice Collection of Dailing Readings . . . But . . .	This is a nice collection of readings from C.S. Lewis, edited by Walter Hooper. However, it suffer from the same &quot;illness&quot; that most, if not all, daily readings text suffer - lack of total context.<br />The topics of the readings range from 'Aquinas' to 'When the World Drama Ends.' As he always, Lewis writes with precision clarity; most Latin scholars do.<br />As far as merely a readings text, it is hard to go wrong with Lewis: he is one of the greatest thinkers from the 20th century. However, if you purchase this text with the intention of having a devotional work, then you might be disappointed. Don't misunderstand me, Lewis' writings are quite devotional in one sense, but are quite rigorous, which runs contrary to most if not all devotional work. This would be more of a serious food for thought work.<br />However, if you are wanting a broad spectrum of Lewis' thought wrapped up in small 'tidbits' then you will love this work - but keep the lack of context in mind (it is always best to read the whole and not just a part to gain a full grasp of what any writer is trying to say). I would also recommend Lewis' &quot;Of Other Worlds: Essays and Stories.&quot;	2003-11-27
US	52760273	RY3RZJG9DZBQE	0300095740	311957990	Theology in America: Christian Thought from the Age of the Puritans to the Civil War	Books	5	37	39	N	N	&quot;Deep and Wide&quot;	This text is monumental for many reasons. First, it is the most comprehensive text of its kind. 'Of its kind' merely means that there is no other text-at least that I am aware of-that covers, in as much detail the theological trends, movements, and groups, and individual thinkers/theologians in American historical theology. Second, the text is very well written, well documented, researched, and structured. This makes it easy for the reader to glean information and facts from its content.<br />Another excellent feature of this text is its examination of not only Protestant movements, groups, and thinkers, but Catholic movements, groups and thinkers as well.<br />Holifield begins his work with Calvinistic origins (focusing on Jonathan Edwards, and then moves into other groups such as Unitarians, Diests, Methodists, Baptists, Episcopal, and even Black theology. From here, Holifield discusses Lutherans, Catholics, Transcendentalists, several individual thinkers such as Horace Bushnell, and Isaac Hecker (transcendental Catholics).<br />Scattered throughout the text, Holifield describes how certain thinkers such as Kant and Hume, for example, had an impact on certain other thinkers and religious movements or groups. These 'tid bits' of extra history are very helpful for the reader to gain a better grasp of what was going on historically during certain movements, etc. As an added bonus, Holifield devotes an entire chapter to the affects of slavery in American religious history.<br />Overall, this is a great text for the person who wishes to gain greater insight into historical theology, Church history, and/or theological movements.	2003-11-24
US	52760273	R3FVY0JQ27BPR4	0752583697	396140953	The Beatles: Unseen Archives	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Awesome Collection of Rare Photos	This is a collection of rare Beatles' photos taken from pre-1964 to a period 'after the Beatles.' Each chapter of the book is titled after a Beatles' song (e.g. chapter four is titled &quot;Hello Goodbye&quot;).<br />The photos have descriptions beside them giving an explanation of what is going on in the pic, where it might have been taken, who is in the pic, and other facts that might pertain tom the pic such as record stats, radio shows, TV programs, etc.<br />Periodically throughout this book a chronology of a certain year (i.e. 1968) will be shown. The chronology explains what happened on certain dates or days in that year. For instance, in the 1968 chronology, on 23 August it states &quot;Ringo quits the Beatles during the recording sessions for the White Album.&quot;<br />The book contains 600 photographs selected from the archives of the 'Daily Mail.&quot; The book contains over 200 photographs from negatives never previously printed and are said to be printed here for the first time.<br />The pictures in this book are pics taken at parties, vacations that each Beatles member took alone, or together, recording studio shots, candid shots (some of these are just plain terrible, but fun to see), and many other various settings. This is a great book for Beatles' fans, and a must for hard core Beatles collectors.	2003-11-22
US	52760273	R1GOQ3DGNLSCD3	0385029551	30170986	The Confessions of Saint Augustine (Image Classics)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Truly One of the Greatest Autobiographies Ever Written	This book holds a special place among the greatest books ever written. While it is autobiographical, so say that and only that misses the point of the book entirely. Augustine's work is great philosophy, great theology, great lessons about life, struggles, weaknesses that cause failure, strengths that provide great success, wisdom, knowledge, and even history (for both the Church and secular world).<br />Augustine discusses issues such as original sin, the Word of God, free will and the problem of evil, universal good, the Trinity, prayer, thought and memory, mathematics, truth, happiness, the good, Plato, the influence that Cicero had on him, his education, his relationship with his mother, the attributes of God, and all these barely scratch the surface.<br />The book is heartwarming, makes you think, causes humility in the reader, and 1500 years after it was written, it is still being read by countless people. This text is used in colleges, in seminaries, and in history classrooms. It is a timeless work as applicable today as it was when Augustine first wrote it.<br />If you enjoy history (secular as well as Church history), theology, philosophy, sociology, and classical studies, then you will not want to be without this text. I highly recommend it!	2003-11-06
US	52760273	R3QRICEQJZ9X6Q	0800618556	477968080	The Theology of Martin Luther	Books	5	26	26	N	N	A Superb Text	This is a comprehensive and systematic survey of the theology of Martin Luther. While Luther himself never wrote a systematic theology text, he did, nonetheless, write enough material for a researcher to gather and assimilate such a text. This is the very thing Paul Althaus accomplished in this text.<br />Althaus is considered by many to be a foremost authority in Reformation studies. This text certainly bears that out. Althaus presents the main theological questions of Luther in precise and clear fashion. Moreover, Althaus provides plenty of direct quotes from Luther's works to support the theological views presented. I believe that Althaus intended to remain true to Luther's original thought without attempting to add his own opinion's which might otherwise alter what Luther meant in each topic.<br />This work is richly footnoted with Luther's original works, and other's who have commented on Luther's works. The text itself is divided into two parts-part one is the 'Knowledge of God' and part two is 'God's Work.'-yet each of these parts has subchapters dealing with topics such as the general and proper knowledge of God, the theology of the cross, faith, reason, the Holy Scriptures, law and gospel, the Trinity, and much, much more.<br />This would be a great text for anyone who collects and reads systematic theology texts, who wants a greater understand of what Luther espoused and taught, anyone studying the Reformation, and for anyone who is studying theology. It is well written and accessible to the lay person and scholar alike. I highly recommend this book!	2003-01-30
US	52760273	R26CN7XGZ0YW66	0807013013	417279169	The Reformation of the Sixteenth Century	Books	5	29	29	N	N	A Solid Overview of the Reformation	As is the case with almost all of Bainton's books, this book is very well written, easy to follow, and contains a good amount of historical facts and evidence. This text is very well researched, just take a look at the bibliography. However, the reader should keep in mind that this is a type of survey text, not a text with a specific target topic in mind within the Reformation; though Bainton does detail several key elements which he believes helped to shape the overall movement in Europe. Moreover, the Forward (by Jaroslav Pelikan) itself is worth the price of the book.<br />Bainton covers all the major figures, movements, creeds, Papal Bulls, positions, assertions, and historical settings which occurred during the Reformation. Some detail is left our (for further research), but for a survey text on the Reformation, this is one of the best!<br />Bainton begins with Luther (who is the core source of the Reformation) in Germany and then expands out into other areas and People who help to promulgate the ideas of Luther. He discusses the various movements such as Calvinism, Lutheranism, the Anabaptists, etc. Bainton also discusses the political atmosphere of the Reformation and details the ideas of nobility and political figures within the Reformation who either hindered or aided the movement. Finally, Bainton discusses the economic situations of various areas, its effects and ramifications of the Reformation.<br />Overall, this is a wonderful survey text to wet the appetite of the reader regarding the Reformation. Bainton has very easy to read writing style and he keeps his audience's attention well. If you are interested in the Reformation and have yet to really dig deep into the issues, then this is a great place to start. If you are seasoned researcher of the Reformation, I still believe you will glean some wonderful gold nuggets of facts and information from this text.	2003-01-30
US	52760273	R2CF662E5P7LZ0	0452011469	627640630	HERE I STAND: A Life of Martin Luther	Books	5	268	272	N	N	The Best Biography on Luther, Period.	This biography is the most accurate and unprejudiced ever written on Luther (and I have read dozens of them). Bainton provides very lucid and vivid historical settings, events, people, and such surrounding the life of Luther. What is more, Bainton is quite fair-minded with regard to Luther's personal traits; I get tired of reading other biographers who try to psychoanalyze Luther and draw conclusions about his thinking based on pure speculations. Bainton renders a fair assessment of perhaps why, based on historical settings and events which were occurring during Luther's day, as to why he perhaps did and said some of the things he did.<br />Bainton really draws his reader into the life of Luther by carefully unfolding historical events which led up to the reformation and events that helped to shape Luther's thinking during and following the Reformation. The book is also nicely lavished with engravings and illustrations which helps the reader get a better understanding of what Bainton is trying to communicate. Moreover, the book contains a very exhaustive bibliography to help the reader branch out into further research and reading.<br />This book is written in a chronological format from Luther's birth to his death, and every major event which occurred between. This text is certainly a must for anyone who wants a better understanding of Martin Luther. Moreover, it is also a crucial text for anyone wanting a better understanding of the Reformation. I cannot begin to describe the depth and breadth of this work. I highly recommend this text!!!!	2003-01-30
US	52760273	R3EP1ZQ6U5RZWC	071361756X	520201023	Early Christian Doctrines	Books	5	102	105	N	N	A Standard Historical Theology Text	Kelly's work is definitely a standard in the arena of historical theology. In fact, Kelly himself is considered one of the foremost authorities on Patristic Church history from the 20th century. That being the case, it goes without saying that this work is highly respected and thus a standard in its field. Nonetheless, the text is written in such a way that almost anyone who puts forth an effort to read it can understand it. Kelly has a style of writing that brings the reader into the book without actually confusing the reader in unexplained detail and jargon.<br />This text is divided into four parts. Each part covers pertinent topics and issues from certain time frames in Patristic Church history. For instance, part two covers the Pre-Nicene theology regarding the Trinity, Christology, Redemption, and Ecclesiology. Each part is broken down in a similar fashion thus working through the Patristic period from the First Century of the Church to Augustine and the fifth century (early medieval period).<br />All the major doctrines, theologians, apologists, creeds, and councils are covered in some sort or fashion. Moreover, Kelly provides a wonderful Prolegomena (which is part one) to introduce the time frame, setting, background, etc. which leads up the continued formation of the Christian Church.<br />The wonderful thing about this book is the wide audience it commands. Both theologians and historians will benefit from its pages. Moreover, lay people who are simply trying to gain a better understanding of their heritage and doctrine will find helpful information and facts well organized and easy to follow. Some of the major doctrinal issues in this text include The Trinity, salvation/redemption, original sin, grace and forgiveness, the sacraments, Mariology, and the authority of the Bible.<br />Other helpful features of this text include an extensive bibliography, the revised edition includes  a new chapter on Mary and certain saints, exhaustive references and footnotes, and a very detailed index. This text is an absolute must for those who are studying Church history as well as theology, and for anyone who simply wishes to gain a better understanding of Christianity. I highly recommend this book!s, and a very detailed index. This text is an absolute must for those who are studying Church history as well as theology, and for anyone who simply wishes to gain a better understanding of Christianity. I highly recommend this book!	2003-01-22
US	52760273	R22OLBFXIXTWVK	0140445358	514751038	The History of the Church: From Christ to Constantine (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Clarity, Ease, and Concise	This is definitely a first rate translation of Eusebius' work. The work itself is, as most may already know, the first and only surviving one of its kind. In other words, Eusebius' work, as translated here, is the only surviving manuscript of the Church (for the first 300 years).<br />This text works on several levels. What I mean by this is the fact that a lay person who has never studied Church history could pick this text up and understand it. This is, in large part, due to Williamson's translation and Louth's introduction. However, a seasoned Church historian would also benefit from this translation and work due to its clarity, and the fact that the sections are kept short and concise leaving the reader and researcher with nice 'bite' size chunks to digest.<br />This is a 'must read' text for anyone interested in the first 300 years of the Christian Church. Eusebius gives details of events, names, places, doctrine, issues, etc. that helped to shape the Christian Church. Events such as the persecutions of Christians under Nero to Marcus Aurelius are detailed. Genealogies of Bishops since Peter to Eusebius' day are detailed and listed, as well as certain heresies and councils. And many other extremely pertinent details (such as doctrinal disputes, etc) are included in this work.<br />If you are wanting a detailed account of the first three hundred years (the early Patristic Period) of the Christian Church, then you will not want to be without this text (esp. due to William's great translation and revision work). I highly recommend this book!	2003-01-21
US	52760273	R2E15SYEOK6PHZ	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	4	17	22	N	N	We Should all Have a Few Tuesdays With Morrie	While I don't necessarily agree with everything (i.e. the philosophy of) espoused in this book, I have, nonetheless, gleaned many lessens about life from its pages. This book is an emotional and intellectual ride with Morris Schwartz (late Professor of Sociology at Brandeis University). This is a record, of sorts, about his last few months of life, his thoughts about life and certain things in life such as marriage, regrets, the perfect day, money, love, forgiveness, etc.<br />Mitch Albom has a great writing style, simple but yet detailed, descriptive and emotive. There is much wisdom in these pages, much emotion, much love, much grief, much warmth, much compassion, much courage, much experience, much mentoring, much teaching, and the list could go on. I find it interesting that when I see famous people in interviews and they are asked to reveal who has had the most influence in their lives up to that point, most make mention of a school teacher. Morrie was such a person - one who had much influence.  This book will move you to tears and cause you to laugh. It is quite easy to read and you could probably finish it in about an hour or so, but in that hour your life will be changed in one way or another having read these pages.	2002-10-12
US	52760273	R3N7GKO1VXM3QK	0812090500	840930627	501 Latin Verbs (501 Verbs Series)	Books	5	51	52	N	Y	A Thorough Reference Tool for the Learner of Latin	Barron's has always produced some good academic tools (they are best known for their standardized test aids), and this work is no exception. As the title read, there are 501 Latin verbs, fully conjugated in every tense. This, of course makes for a great reference tool for anyone who is studying Latin, or translating Latin, and is having a tough time trying to find (or learn) the correct conjugation of a verb.<br />There is also a nice intro to this volume explaining certain things about Latin verbs, and this same introduction includes charts for English verb conjugations. The book is formatted like a dictionary, in alphabetical order, and each verb is listed with its conjugated form thoroughly described/demonstrated. 501 verbs may be limited but not too many students of Latin (who are perhaps simply trying to finish their languages in school) will use this many verbs, so in that sense 501 is enough. However,  for the scholar of Latin, perhaps more might be needed. Nonetheless, the book serves it purpose well with the verbs that were included.<br />There are several appendices in the back which include an Index of English-Latin verbs, verb form locator, and Latin verb index. Each of these give added aid to the student and user of this volume. Overall, this is a great volume, and has been a big help for me in my past studies of the Latin language.	2002-09-28
US	52760273	RNM685DXPTSLT	0829401121	59899444	Henle Latin Grammar	Books	5	33	33	N	Y	A Systematic Study of the Fundamentals	This is an excellent essentials text. In other words, the Henle Latin Series from Loyola Press has put together a very comprehensive series and this is one of the better editions.<br />This text covers the basics or fundamentals of the Latin language - i.e. the grammar. The text includes nouns, adjectives, adverbs, verbs, pronouns, numerals, and how these are all ordered in certain sentence structure, etc. Moreover, detail on syntax is covered for each of the above things mentioned, as well as special cases or uses for each. All the clauses are covered, conjugations, declensions, rules for time, gender, etc. Prepositions are given special attention as well as methods of diagraming. Everything and anything anyone would need to know in order to gain a better understanding of the Latin language is within this books covers.<br />Thus, this text is great for the beginner as well as the more learned student of the language. It also helps you sharpen your Latin grammar skill, if perhaps you might be a little rusty. This is definitely a great reference and study text for everyone.	2002-09-28
US	52760273	R10F38UHK4HZSR	1890318760	342691796	On Creation Conservation And Concurrence	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A Brilliant Work and Translation	This is the conclusion, according to Freddoso, of his translated works on Francisco Suarez. Freddoso has put together a first rate text that note only provides his reader with Suarez's text (Metaphysical Disputations 20-22) but an introduction to the material that entails one quarter of the text.<br />The value of the introduction of this text cannot be overstated. Freddoso gives his reader so much detail (to aid the reader in what Suarez is communicating in these disputations) that even a lay reader who had merely a cursory understanding of the issues would gain a better grasp on Suarez's views. In the intro, Freddoso describes some of the distinctions Suarez is making between esse and essentia, the composition of substantial form and primary matter, the composition of substance and accident, and the Aristotelian concepts of `act' and `passive potency'(actuality and potentiality). Furthermore, Freddoso details that Suarez, in the same vein as Aristotle, takes efficient causality to be \\"a relation holding between agents and their effects at the very time at which the effects are produced.\\" Of course here Freddoso describes Suarez's intent to distinguish between ut quod and ut quo (substance which exercises a power to which the result is attributed and the power by which a substance operates). So as one can see, Freddoso clearly describes the ontological preliminaries needed to understand Suarez's text (and the examples that I have given barely scratch the surface, that's how detailed his intro to this text really is!!).<br />The actual text of Suarez includes detailed and exhaustive footnotes from Freddoso to help the reader not only understand some of the various nuances of the Latin that Suarez is using, but also philosophical concepts, terms, etc. which are perhaps overlooked by the untrained eye. The footnotes are very helpful in gaining a better understanding of all the concepts and general/specific ideas that Suarez wants his reader to understand.<br />Overall, this text is an invaluable tool for later medieval studies. Freddoso has done an excellent job in his introduction, footnotes, and translation of this one of kind work (this is the only English translation of disputations 20-22). If you are interested in later medieval philosophy, metaphysics, or Aristotelian influence in the arena of metaphysics then you will not want to be without this text! Thank you so much Dr. Freddoso for such a wonderful text!l, this text is an invaluable tool for later medieval studies. Freddoso has done an excellent job in his introduction, footnotes, and translation of this one of kind work (this is the only English translation of disputations 20-22). If you are interested in later medieval philosophy, metaphysics, or Aristotelian influence in the arena of metaphysics then you will not want to be without this text! Thank you so much Dr. Freddoso for such a wonderful text!	2002-08-31
US	52760273	R2KVG7WHWJRG7O	1883357519	796609854	Commentary on Aristotle's Nicomachean Ethics [Aristotelian Commentary Series]	Books	5	47	53	N	N	Another Great Text from Dumb Ox	As with the other commentaries from Dumb Ox Books, this text contains both the original text from Aristotle, and Aquinas' comments. These two texts are nicely distinguishable for the lay reader (or beginning reader) since Dumb Ox has put Aristotle's work in italics and Aquinas' commentary in normal typed text.<br />This is a very helpful text in understanding two things. First, what Aquinas thought of Aristotle's work and second, how Aristotle's work affected one of the greatest mind in philosophical history. However, Aquinas is not always as detailed as I would have liked him to be. Sometimes he merely describes what Aristotle is saying and this is often times obvious just by merely reading Aristotle. At other times, Aquinas gives great detail as to why he thinks Aristotle is saying or teaching certain things and this helps to bring Aristotle's text to life. There are other places in Aquinas' commentary where I question whether that is really Aristotle's thought or Aquinas' ideas imposed on Aristotle's thought. However, overall, the text is quite helpful in gaininga better grasp of Aristotle and Aquinas' thoughts.<br />There are several difficulties in reading Aquinas' commentaries to Aristotle. First, Aquinas did not know the Greek language and thus he is translating the Latin texts of Aristotle written probably by the Arabic philosophers of the medieval period (the philosophers of that time who actually \\"revived\\" Aristotle). Secondly, that being the case there are some interpretative discrepancies in the text. However, overall the text is quite helpful in gaining a little better grasp on Aristotle's ethics.<br />This text needs to be kept in print if for no other reason than future generations of philosophy students should have the privilege of being able to read a text which contains two of the greatest minds in philosophical history. You can make that possible by purchasing this text from Amazon.	2002-08-03
US	52760273	R3PX2265RMS8NX	0813206677	728128451	A Primer of Ecclesiastical Latin	Books	5	109	110	N	N	A Standard Text  for  Ecclesiastical Latin	Collins has prepared a wonderful text for students of Church history, medieval theology, the Vulgate Bible, liturgical texts, etc. all of which require an understanding of Ecclesiastical Latin.<br />This text is formatted in such a way that the reader learns the language is a systematic fashion. In other words, each unit builds on the previous unit. The thorough student will master each unit before moving on to the next.<br />Moreover, everything anyone could ever want to know about the language is present in this text. For instance, kinds of sentences, nouns, verbs, adjectives and all their declensions, pronunciations, irregular and deponent verbs, etc., all are clearly and carefully covered in this text. As the student of this text reads and learns, Collins periodically places drills and sections called &quot;notes&quot; to quiz the reader on what was just covered. The text demonstrates an emphasis on vocabulary as well, has an English-Latin and Latin-English vocabulary section as well as a nice index on words and subjects.<br />This is probably the best overall text on Ecclesiastical Latin available, I highly recommend it!	2002-02-24
US	52760273	R33YSG8IYUBCKY	0268037078	884037209	The One and the Many: A Contemporary Thomistic Metaphysics	Books	5	19	19	N	N	An Excellent Thomistic Metaphysics Text	W. Norris Clark has provided his reader with a very nice Thomistic metaphysics text. The text covers many of the more important areas of metaphysics such as the one and many issue, the meaning of being, act and potency, substance and accidents, causation (efficient and final), form and matter, and certain problems in metaphysics.<br />What the reader has here in this one text is a 'one stop' place where a thorough examination of some of the major metaphysical themes can be researched. What is more, many of these issues have been either ignored or simply disregarded in light of current analytic philosophical trends, much to the demise of modern philosophy. However, if you are wanting a good text on the classic and all important issues of metaphyics (since doing philosophy is impossible w/o doing metaphysics), then you will want to get a copy of this text.<br />Also, for an excellent companion to this volume see Clarke's work &quot;Explorations in Metaphysics.&quot; Another great text for those interested in studying metaphysics.	2002-02-05
US	52760273	R3A196O5SK2OJ8	081320853X	570725319	1: Saint Thomas Aquinas: The Person and His Work	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A Most Thoroughly Detailed Account of Aquinas' Life	Torrell has provided the philosophical community with a most thoroughly detailed account of one of the greatest thinkers to ever walk this planet.<br />From the youth of Aquinas to his death, Torrell takes his reader on a historical journey through the life, events, thoughts, and works of St. Thomas Aquinas. Torrell uses the best resources available, and painstakingly documents all his sources. What is more, if certain things have been attributed to legend or mere 'story telling for the sake of story telling,' Torrell makes his reader aware of this fact. Thus, his research is honest, and quite detailed.<br />Every dispute between Aquinas and the Church or other clergy is included. Aquinas' years in Paris are detailed, the things he taught, the people he associated with, his travels, his writings, his habits (which have been documented), his writing methods, etc. all are detailed in this account. In fact, I do not think there is one stone left unturned that can actually be turned in the life of Aquinas, that Torrell has not touched.<br />Toward the end of this work, which it should be pointed out is written and organized in a nice chronological fashion, Torrell makes mention of those groups who after Aquinas' death formed cults in their following of Aquinas. Moreover, I enjoyed Torrell's account of Aquinas because it was real. What I mean by that is Torrell did not elevate Aquinas to an 'other than human' level and put him high on a pedestal. Rather, Torrell painted a picture of the real Aquinas, warts and all.<br />If you are wanting a detailed account of Aquinas and his whole life, works, events, etc. then this is the only text you may ever need (although there are others available which would be very helpful as well - i.e. James Weisheipl's account \\"Friar Thomas D'Aquino, which has been considered the standard biography). I highly recommend Torrell's work and wished I could have given it another star!	2002-02-05
US	52760273	R20AH2AZ908XXI	0300075065	847666118	Quodlibetal Questions: Quodlibets 1-7 (Vols. 1 and 2)	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	Get this book while it is still available!	This book is a monster text! It is 702 pages and covers every imaginable question that could be asked. For example, &quot;Is an angel in a place through his substance?&quot; or &quot;Does a spoken word lose its significance when a thing [it signifies] ceases to exist?&quot; and many, many more (about 170 questions in all).<br />This is a paperback one-volume edition to the earlier two volume edition, which means this volume is substantially less expensive than the two volume set. Moreover, the topics covered in this volume are practically exhaustive - logic, ontology, natural philosophy, philosophical psychology, ethics, moral theory, theology, metaphysics, etc.<br />Added features to this already great text include a lengthy and exhaustive subject index, a short but good introduction, nice explanatory footnotes throughout the text, a short but good selective bibliography, and an index of names and works.<br />Fred Freddoso (Notre Dame) and the late Francis Kelley have translated this work in such a way that both the scholar of Ockham and the student of Ockham will benefit. Moreover, this is a great introductory work to Ockham for students (such as myself) interested in digging a little deeper into the thoughts and writings of one of the more prominent Medieval thinkers.<br />The work is laid out as such: a question is posed or asked, if there is something to be noted about the question then it is noted with a nice explanation, a reply to the question is given, and sometimes, depending on the question and the content, a reply to the main argument is given. If there are problems or issue which have arisen about a particular question Ockham is careful to cover these problems and issues. And, all along, footnotes are provided by the translators which help the reader understand the Latin usages (if that issue arises), the context of the question and response, cross references to other works or issues which might help the reader branch out into deeper research, and descriptions and explanations of terms, works, etc. So the book is quite helpful and friendly to all readers, which actually makes reading this text quite helpful. I highly recommend this work! Moreover, buy it soon because it has been my experience that books like these (the really good ones!) for some odd reason usually have a short shelf life!iptions and explanations of terms, works, etc. So the book is quite helpful and friendly to all readers, which actually makes reading this text quite helpful. I highly recommend this work! Moreover, buy it soon because it has been my experience that books like these (the really good ones!) for some odd reason usually have a short shelf life!	2002-01-12
US	52760273	R2AXKT5D909X57	0631175350	842377039	A Kant Dictionary	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Solid and Quite helpful Dictionary on Kant's Philosophy	From A to Z, here is a dictionary on Kant's philosophy which, surprisingly enough, is quite helpful. For someone who is trying to gain a better understanding of Kant's philosophy this text is an invaluable tool to have handy. It is easy to use (since it is an A to Z topical dictionary) and contains a few extra features such as an Introduction on Kant and the Language of Philosophy, an article on Kant and the 'Age of Criticism,' a very handy chronology of Kant's published writings, a section called &quot;Works Referred to in the Text&quot; which sites all the works used to put this dictionary together, a recommended reading list (quite nice feature), and an index of philosophers and philosophical concepts.<br />Thus, for a text dealing with Kant, the reader gets not only great information on Kant's philosophy, but on his actual works, his concepts, his time period, and information on those philosophers who preceded and followed him.<br />What is more, a student can use this text to branch out into deeper study on Kant's philosophy due to the recommended reading, but also by way of the text itself. What I mean is, the entries include cross references, text abbreviations where the information (or concept) can be found in Kant's work, and the German origin of the entry/word/concept itself.<br />Overall, this is a very nice edition to anyone's philosophical library. Moreover, it is one of the better reference works I have seen or used in my research of Immanuel Kant. I highly recommend this text.	2002-01-02
US	52760273	R1LXAEJD3IUOPH	088844415X	776119010	Being and Some Philosophers	Books	5	24	24	N	N	A Wonderful Historical Treatment of  Metaphysics	Gilson is an excellent communicator and this book is evidence of such a claim. From the Pre-Socratics to the Modern Period, Gilson peels back the cover of historical philosophy and examines the metaphysical issues of being, existence, essence, the one, substance, etc. What is more, Gilson ventures into the epistemic foundations of knowledge and existence - the two cannot be separated, but in usual Thomistic fashion, being always precedes knowing (unlike the Cartesian claim - which Gilson determines is one of the most serious problems of modern philosophy: see &quot;The Unity of Philosophical Experience&quot;).<br />Gilson, in a type of systematic fashion, takes his reader on a journey throughout the history of philosophy and discusses certain philosopher's notions about specific metaphysical issues. However, but agreeably so, Gilson compares and contrasts the various philosophers to the metaphysical system which, according to this text, seems to be the most tenable, namely Thomistic metaphysics.<br />Gilson does such a good job pointing out the problematic areas of other philosophers (regarding these metaphysical issues) that it is difficult to disagree with him. The title of the book fits perfectly with its contents, namely being is discussed in light of some philosophers and their assertions regarding being, etc. If you are wanting a text which discusses certain philosophers throughout history, with respect to the issues of being, existence, substance, essence, etc. and wanting to gain a greater grasp of Thomistic metaphysics, then you could not read a better text. I highly recommend this book.	2001-12-28
US	52760273	R1DWZR0MUPLY3F	0195092937	348240021	Readings in Medieval Philosophy	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The Most Comprehensive Collection of Its Kind	This text is literally the most comprehensive Medieval Philosophy Text I have in my personal library. Schoedinger has put together a one of kind text which includes such Medieval philosophers as William of Auvergne, Solomon Ibn Gabirol, Levi ben Gerson, John of Paris, Matthew of Aquasparta, John of Salisbury, and so many more which are normally not included in the 'typical' collection of medieval compilations. Thus, this text not only covers the major philosophers (Augustine, Aquinas, Ockham, Scotus, Averroes, etc), but perhaps the lesser known scholars as well.<br />What is more, the topics included are quite exhaustive. Topics such as the existence of God, ethics and the problem of evil, God's foreknowledge and freewill, theology, political philosophy, knowledge and sensation, universals, logic, philosophy of language, and physics, are all included. So, as you can see all the bases, more or less, are covered from this particular period. Moreover, if you are into the study of metaphysics, you certainly should not ignore the writers/philosophers of the medieval period. If you did, you would not be quite as well rounded in your study of metaphysics. Therefore, here is an all-in-one text which exhaustively covers this particular time period and their writings.<br />Additional features, which add such nice dimensions to the text, include, introductions to each philosophers (historical background, setting in which they wrote, etc.), excellent footnotes and bibliography for one to branch out into other sources of study, and certain drawings and illustrations used in various places. What more can I say except that this is one of my more favorite general philosophical reference texts in my library. I highly recommend it - get it before it goes out of print!	2001-12-14
US	52760273	R21LT82E9QBP1T	0830815511	808756489	God & Time: Four Views	Books	4	54	55	N	N	Nice comparative text	This book would be an excellent book for someone who is interested in God and time but does not have a strong philosophical background in the issues. The text is formatted very similar to the Zondervan 'Views' texts. In other words, a given view from one of the four scholars is put forth, and the other three scholars respond. After the other three scholars have responded, the initial scholar has a chance to respond to the other three scholar's responses!<br />The four scholars in this text are well known in their area of study. These four scholars are Paul Helm, Alan G. Padgett, William Lane Craig, and Nicholas Wolterstorff.<br />The only downfall to the book is that it is geared more toward the temporalist viewpoint. Craig and Wolterstorff are without a doubt temporalists, Paul Helm is without a doubt a timeless adherent, but Padgett seems to be somewhere in the middle and it seems that he is more of a temporalist in his assertions.<br />Padgett has contentions with the notion of 'everlasting eternity' (a view which Wolterstorff holds), but he also has certain contentions with 'timeless eternity' (a view that Paul Helm holds). Thus, he opts for a type of middle position which he calls 'relative timelessness.' This view is rather odd and incoherent in certain ways. It asserts differences between 'created time' and 'God's time.' Padgett asserts that &quot;God's time is a necessary precondition to God's being,&quot;  and vice versa. I do not fully understand where Padgett is trying to go with these type of assertions which seem to demonstrate God as contingent in some sense. Padgett claims God is relatively timeless, that is timeless, relative to our created measured time, and that our time takes place inside God's time. A type of time contained in time. For further reading into Padgett's view read his book &quot;God, Eternity, and the Nature of Time.&quot; (I myself am still working on Padgett's assertions)<br />A final feature which strengthens this text is Greg Ganssle's introduction. He does a very good job at setting the stage for the discussion. His introduction alone made the book worth the purchase. Overall this is a great book for the beginner and a nice refresher for those who are fairly well versed in these issues. I highly recommend it.anssle's introduction. He does a very good job at setting the stage for the discussion. His introduction alone made the book worth the purchase. Overall this is a great book for the beginner and a nice refresher for those who are fairly well versed in these issues. I highly recommend it.	2001-10-30
US	52760273	R28BQY1LC67ADA	052165985X	913577399	The Cambridge Companion to Augustine (Cambridge Companions to Philosophy)	Books	5	38	41	N	Y	Great Collection of Scholars and Articles	This book, edited by Eleonore Stump and the late Norman Kretzmann, is a very nice collection of Augustinian scholars and their writings on or about different aspects of Augustine's philosophy.<br />The book consists of articles (or chapters) which deal with Augustine's view on Time and Creation, Faith and Reason, Evil and the Origin of Sin, Predestination, Pelagianism, and Foreknowledge, the Soul, Free Will, Philosophy of Language, Political philosophy and much more. Some of the contributing scholars are: Mary T. Clark (Manhattanville College), Bonnie Kent (Syracuse University), Scott MacDonald (Cornell University), John Rist (University of Toronto), Eleonore Stump (St. Louis University), Roland Teske (Marquette University), etc.<br />This book is a perfect demonstration of the influence which Augustine and his thinking has had over the last 1600 years or so. In my estimation this is one of the better secondary compilations which covers the thought of Augustine. The chapters are quite detailed regarding each philosophical issue and lead the reader to a greater understanding of what Augustine was espousing. However, the work is not so &quot;scholarly&quot; that the average person (or non-philosopher) would read it and be completely lost. Thus, it is so well written that anyone who has an interest in Augustine can tackle the issues. Moreover, the book covers several theological issues which Augustine had dealt with in his own day. This, I think, adds a nice dimension to the text. I highly recommend this work (as well as &quot;Augustine Through the Ages&quot; which is also available here at Amazon).	2001-06-06
US	52760273	R28RYZQ4U5Z85X	1883011914	209214712	The American Revolution: Writings from the War of Independence (Library of America)	Books	5	49	51	N	N	Excellent Compilation of Letters and Writings (1775-1783)	The Library of America has done it again! This book is a wonderful compilation of letters and writings (diaries, newspaper articles, public speeches and documents, etc.) by such famous people as Paul Revere, Frederick MacKenzie, Thomas Gage, George Washington, Letters from John Adams to his wife Abigail, Benjamin Franklin to William Strahan, George Washington to John Hancock, Alexander Hamilton to John Laurens, writings by Thomas Paine, John Peebles diary entries, and many, many more.<br />The book is 878 pages, and is edited by the same author, John Rhodehamel, who put together the Library of America classic titled &quot;George Washington: Writings.&quot;<br />The declaration of Independence is included in this book, along with Washington's address to accept command of the Continental army in June 1775, a letter of correspondence between Daniel Morgan to Nathanael Greene regarding the battle of Cowpens, Thomas Jefferson's &quot;Narrative of Arnold's Raid,&quot; Jan. 13, 1781, and even a letter between Lord Cornwallis and Henry Clinton regarding the surrender of Cornwallis, Oct. 20, 1781. The writings are very informative, fascinating, and fun to read. This book is one of, if not the greatest collection of writings which occurred between 1775 and 1783. It is a 'must read' for anyone who has an interest in American Revolutionary history. I am pleased to say that this is one of the better books in my collection of American History texts. I highly recommend it!!	2001-05-13
US	52760273	R2B1658GUFF9LJ	0345353803	10759242	In Pursuit of Reason: The Life of Thomas Jefferson	Books	4	39	39	N	N	Good Biography for the Masses	This book has received unwarranted bad reviews and press simply because it is 'short.' Noble E. Cunningham's purpose, it seems, for this biography of Jefferson, was to present the essential life of Jefferson in such a way that all could enjoy. There have been so many biographies written on Jefferson and most are massive multi- volumes which can come across as very daunting to the average reader.<br />However, this book, while very well researched and authoritative in its content, is a biography which can be read by the average Joe and the scholar alike. Cunningham's research is very well documented, and the book is put together systematically from &quot;The Formative Years&quot; to &quot;The Final Legacy.&quot; So, in a brief space, one can read this volume and learn the essential/perennial events which occurred in Jefferson's life. Moreover, Cunningham delves a little into Jefferson's personal affairs, such as his lost first love - Rebecca Burwell, to his admiration for Patrick Henry. Cunningham also details Jefferson's early intellectual influences and his love for law. In fact, in 349 pages of text, the most crucial and important events which occurred, and have been documented, in Jefferson's life are present in this text.<br />Therefore, Cunningham's attempt in writing this size biography was not to press his reader down in certain detail. Rather, Cunningham attempted to present a Jefferson which could be widely read by most anyone. His efforts are noble and successful on that level.<br />However, it must be stated that if you are wanting an intricately more detailed work of Jefferson, then this book will only wet your appetite for more. There are other biographies available (massive multi- volumes) for one to delve much deeper. But here, Cunningham just simply lets his reader know some of the most crucial events and facts. That being the case, this is a good book to begin your research and study of Thomas Jefferson.	2001-04-16
US	52760273	R3A3KS2F03NQRV	1581342411	184417033	Time and Eternity: Exploring God's Relationship to Time	Books	4	122	137	N	N	Craig takes a complicated topic and makes it readable	This was a fairly good basic intro book for the issues of God/time and God's knowledge/future contingents. While this issue is usually discussed in philosophical journals and in books which cost an arm and a leg to purchase, Craig has brought the issue to the lay persons and scholars alike.<br />Before I review this book, it must be noted that I disagree with Craig's position. However, I think that Craig has done a noble job in defending his position, and I respect him for that. If I was able, I would have given Craig's book three and a half (3 1/2) stars for my own disagreements with Craig's overall assertions and some of the misunderstanding Craig had regarding certain philosopher's and their assertions (i.e. Aquinas being one which was mentioned below).<br />Craig's position in this book is that God is temporal (or omnitemporal) due to relations which occurred with the created universe (relations which were not present w/o creation). Craig argues his point based on several elements. First, Craig believes that God cannot remain untouched by the created order's temporality. In other words, according to Craig, God comes into (so to speak) new relations which were not present without the created universe. Second, Craig believes that once time begins at the moment of creation, God becomes temporal by virtue of His real relation to the temporal world. Third, thus God, at least, according to Craig, undergoes some type of extrinsic change due to this new real relation with the created world. These are Craig's underlying assertions regarding God and time.<br />Also, in this book, Craig rejects Einstein's interpretation of the Special Theory of Relativity (STR). Note, I did not say that Craig denies STR, rather he agrees with the Lorenzian interpretation of the theory over and against Einstein's interpretation. You can read why Craig believes this, since he details it in several chapters of this work.<br />I believe Craig's overall assessment of the issues is misdirected and wrong in several areas. First, He univocally predicates to God relations which occur between one human and another. This predication occurs via God's new relations with the universe. However, if God is a necessary being (which I think Craig would agree that God is), then any properties predicated of that Being must be predicated necessarily. However, if God is omnitemporal (as Craig asserts) then these properties must be predicated necessarily. By Craig's univocal predication, he does not predicate of God necessarily as he should. This is so because Craig declares that God &quot;changes&quot; from a being who is eternal to a being who is omnitemporal. This is, via Craig's view, an ontological change in God's nature and this is, I believe, metaphysically impossible. Either God is necessarily eternal or God is necessarily omnitemporal. He cannot move from one state to the other and remain a necessary being.<br />Another problem I had with this book was Craig's misunderstanding of Thomas Aquinas' assertions about God and real relations. In chapter three (3), &quot;Divine Temporality,&quot; part II. &quot;Divine Relations With the World,&quot; Craig asserts, &quot;Thomas [Aquinas] escapes the conclusion that God is therefore temporal by denying that God stands in any real relation to the world.&quot;  This could not be more inaccurate and wrong. Aquinas does not deny that God stands in any real relation to the world. In fact, Aquinas declares just the opposite. Aquinas asserted three types of relations: one where both terms are ideas, one where both terms are real, and one where one is real and one idea. That which is created, according to Aquinas, is really dependent upon God, but God is not really dependent upon the created. Thus, they are related as real to an idea. God knows about the relationship of dependence but He does not actually have it. The relationship between God and the world is very real, but God is not dependent in that relationship. In other words,Aquinas is only denying dependent relations between God and the world, not all real ones. Aquinas treats this issue in the Summa Theologiae, 1a. 13, 7, ad. 2. (Also, for an easy explanation of this issue see Norman Geisler's book titled &quot;Thomas Aquinas: An Evangelical Appraisal&quot; I briefly summarized this position based upon those two works).<br />Overall, Craig's book is pretty good, but it is wrought with several problems. I appreciate Craig's work to bring this issue to the non-philosopher, so to speak, but I would recommend reading Craig's book in light of Brian Leftow's book titled &quot;Time and Eternity,&quot; and Paul Helm's work titled &quot;Eternal God.&quot; Both of these books are available here at Amazon.com.Aquinas is only denying dependent relations between God and the world, not all real ones. Aquinas treats this issue in the Summa Theologiae, 1a. 13, 7, ad. 2. (Also, for an easy explanation of this issue see Norman Geisler's book titled &quot;Thomas Aquinas: An Evangelical Appraisal&quot; I briefly summarized this position based upon those two works). <br />Overall, Craig's book is pretty good, but it is wrought with several problems. I appreciate Craig's work to bring this issue to the non-philosopher, so to speak, but I would recommend reading Craig's book in light of Brian Leftow's book titled &quot;Time and Eternity,&quot; and Paul Helm's work titled &quot;Eternal God.&quot; Both of these books are available here at Amazon.com.	2001-04-07
US	52760273	R30H20J4ZIERDC	0940450291	748840570	Franklin: Writings (Library of America)	Books	5	47	48	N	Y	Best Modern Compilation of Franklin's Writings	The Library of America should be commended for preserving the works of Benjamin Franklin. This is the finest compilation of Franklin's writings still in print.<br />The book is organized and presented in chronological order. The first section contains Franklin's writings between 1722-1726. This section contains the famous &quot;Silence Dogood&quot; works. The second section consists of writings between 1726-1757. This section contains the &quot;Busy Body&quot; pieces and the writings from the Philadelphia Gazette, amongst other works. The third section consists of writings which date between 1757-1775. The fourth section consists of writings between 1776-1785. The fifth section consists of writings between 1785-1790. And the final two sections are &quot;Poor Richard's Almanack&quot; and &quot;The Autobiography.&quot;<br />Moreover, the sections contain personal letters between Franklin and other notable men such as David Hume, Lord Kames, John Pringle, Benjamin Rush, etc. Also, religious writings, philosophy, political writings and the like are present in this single volume. In fact, there is about 1500 pages of just Franklin's writings. Additionally, in the back of the book, there is a very detailed chronology of Franklin's life describing notable things which occurred between his birth and death.<br />This is a great text for those who are wanting a very detailed volume of Franklin's writings. However, it is also a great compilation for those who simply want to sit down and get a sample of the works of Franklin to find out what type of man he was, what he believed, what he taught, his sense of humor and the like.<br />This book has been one of the best investments that I have made in my collection of American Revolutionary (Founders) history. I highly recommend this work.	2001-03-31
US	52760273	R357JU2X310ZOK	1573226254	864394102	Woe Is I: The Grammarphobe's Guide to Better English in Plain English	Books	5	45	53	N	N	Who would have thought grammar could be this much fun?	This is one of the most valuable 'Grammar Texts' I have read. In fact, as I write this review, I'm hoping that what I have learned  will demonstrate itself (yikes!). This book is funny, informative, and makes learning very fun and easy.<br />Patricia O'Connor demonstrates the proper use of verbs, pronouns, plurals, how to write with ease, avoiding split infinitives, etc. Essentially everything one needs to know about the elements of the English language are in this text. Moreover, O'Connor's neat remedies and jokes make learning very fun. O'Connor emphasizes punctuation, verbal usage and misuse of certain words, especially certain verbs which often get confused (i.e. 'lay' and 'lie'). There is a lot in this book that is valuable to writers, students, and anyone who simply wants to sharpen their grammar skills.<br />If you have been wanting a book that is not your typical grammar text, then this book is for you. I highly recommend this book!	2001-02-18
US	52760273	R10X9CCVF115MX	026801678X	627729153	001: Summa Contra Gentiles: Book One: God	Books	5	47	48	N	N	Get the Whole Set, it is Well Worth Just About Any Price	This is Volume I (on God) of a 5 volume set. Aquinas wrote this work in order to refute the claims of the Islamic philosophers and theologians of his day and to help those who were Christian missionaries in Islamic areas. Thus, the set (and this book especially) were written in a sort of apologetic fashion.<br />In this volume, Aquinas deal with the nature of God (i.e. simplicity, immutability, infinite, eternal, etc.). Also, Aquinas discusses the issues of God's knowledge per se, and His knowledge of future contingents, counterfactual, etc. Moreover, Aquinas discusses God's will, essence, necessity, the problem of evil and God's part in evil as it appears in creation, and much more. Thus, just in this one volume, Aquinas is nearly exhaustive in his presentation of the person and work of God.<br />This translation (by Anton Pegis) is eloquently produced and easy to read and understand. While some of the classical terms will need to be understood (i.e. essence/existence, substance, perfect actuality, univocal/equivocal/analogical predications, etc) to gain a better grasp on what Aquinas is espousing, nonetheless, this work is a wonderful tool for those who want to gain a better grasp of Aquinas' thoughts on God.<br />Finally, if you decide to purchase this volume, then I recommend not stopping with just this single volume, but buy the entire set. It is well worth the money invested. Moreover, the whole set works quite well as a reference tool for future research. I highly recommend it, especially since I consider Aquinas to be the greatest philosopher of the Medieval period, and it would be a pity to miss out on such good philosophy.	2001-02-13
US	52760273	R25B1C2NGHLUIQ	0674179277	64840944	The Kennedy Tapes: Inside the White House during the Cuban Missile Crisis	Books	5	34	38	N	Y	Fascinating Actual Account of History	To be honest, I bought this book used after seeing the movie &quot;13 Days.&quot; In fact, I ordered this book the very night I came home from the movie, wondering if it would be worth the money spent.. Now, having read through it, I must admit that this was a very fascinating and intriguing book.<br />The book is an actual copy (i.e. transcript) of taped conversations that occurred in the Whitehouse during the Cuban Missile crisis. The book was so fascinating for the sole fact that it presents (true to life) all the details which were actually being spoken of, on, about, etc. The reader can actually sense the emotion, tension, anguish, and despair that comes out in some of these conversations. In fact, the intensity in this book puts the movie to shame (which is usually the case with most good books).<br />This book consists of conversation's of the National Security Council, President Kennedy,Robert Kennedy, and the President's advisors. The book is very revealing and honest (since it is true to life) and it paints a very vulnerable picture of just how easy things could fall apart in this 'invincible' place we call home. Fortunately, we as readers today actually know the outcome is positive. However, the terror comes through the pages when, as I read, the realization that these men have no idea what is going to happen as this whole situation unfolds. That was one of the riveting things about this book.<br />Overall, this is a great book for those who are interested in American history, or Presidential history, etc. I recommend it, especially since it is so fascinating and also because it is an actual account word for word accurate. That makes for great objective history.	2001-02-12
US	52760273	R1196U7TBVM85X	0679742751	532850848	The Guitar Handbook: A Unique Source Book for the Guitar Player - Amateur or Professional, Acoustic or Electrice, Rock, Blues, Jazz, or Folk	Books	5	97	101	N	N	A Must Have for Guitar Players at Any Level	When I first started playing the guitar 2 decades ago, a friend had a copy of an earlier edition of this guide and he gave me the book to use while I was getting started. Using the book, and I mean really reading the book thru thoroughly, I learned a whole lot about the instrument itself and the music that could be produced from the guitar and that really helped my performance as I developed on the instrument.<br />The book begins with guitar innovators, those guitar players who have had a serious impact on the way the instrument is played, etc. This section was actually fun to read and was quite informative about several guitar players who had influenced my own playing.<br />The following two sections of the book cover acoustic and electric guitars. These sections detail how each instrument (acoustic and electric) are put together, how to set  the action, the various types of each style of guitar, how pick-ups are put together, etc. This is a helpful and technical section which instructs the reader on the ins and outs of the make-up of his instrument.<br />From here, the book moves into actually playing the instrument. It begins with the beginner, teaching good practicing habits, what to practice, improving fingering, chord progressions, reading tablature, tuning, action, right and left-handed techniques, etc. Then this section moves into chords (with photos), three-chord theory, flatpicking and strumming and other various fingerstyles, barre chords, and even how to transpose songs. Inside this section there is also a sub-section on rhythm guitar, setting tempo, time signatures, using chord charts, time values, etc. Essentially everything you would need to know to be a well rounded guitar player is included (including slide guitar).<br />The final section deals with the maintenance of the guitar. This section teaches the reader/player all the things that are needed to know about the most difficult maintenance aspects such as how to customize an instrument, to the easiest such as changing your strings. For the electric guitarist, there is a guide to guitar electronics which includes pictures and lists of all the tools you will need, instructions on reading wiring diagrams, actual charts and photos of how an electric guitar is wired, pick-up circuits, etc.<br />Finally, at the back of the book is a fairly extensive chord dictionary with pictures of how each chord is fingered. This dictionary is very helpful to the player when trying to find the same chord but to know  where it is elsewhere on the fret board. Overall, what can I say but that no guitar player, regardless of your experience should be without this definitive guidebook.e easiest such as changing your strings. For the electric guitarist, there is a guide to guitar electronics which includes pictures and lists of all the tools you will need, instructions on reading wiring diagrams, actual charts and photos of how an electric guitar is wired, pick-up circuits, etc. <br />Finally, at the back of the book is a fairly extensive chord dictionary with pictures of how each chord is fingered. This dictionary is very helpful to the player when trying to find the same chord but to know  where it is elsewhere on the fret board. Overall, what can I say but that no guitar player, regardless of your experience should be without this definitive guidebook.	2001-01-24
US	52760273	RK2R3K3FUGT2Q	0679767223	17822064	My Dog Skip	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An Account that Cajoles Both Your Thoughts and Emotions	My Dog Skip is a wonderful account of Willie Morris and &quot;Skipper,&quot; Morris' boyhood dog. Morris describes all the fun, trouble, adventures, gaming, wondering, and excitement that he and his dog encountered as Morris was growing up in a small Mississippi town. The book itself is (as the inside cover details) a paean to an age of innocence. Moreover, &quot;My Dog Skip&quot; delineates what it was like to grow up in America's Southland during a time of world turmoil (WWII). Yet, in Mississippi, turmoil was something that was conjured up by the neighborhood kids and a tag along dog.<br />Willie Morris describes what it was like to be a child living during WWII, and how the news of the war, which was reported every day on the radio, affected the town's people, and Willie himself. Morris details parts of his little world with stunning descriptions, metaphors, and florid language that adds a wonderful reality to the book. In fact, this book is a wonderful personal history and description of America in the 40's and 50's.<br />Skip, Willie's canine companion, is America's dog. The truest companion a boy could possibly ever hope for. And, of course, Willie spares no words describing the things Skip enjoys. For instance, we learn that Skip runs deliveries and pick-ups for Willie and Willie's family. Also, Willie taught Skip to play football with his friends, and Skip excels at this sport. We also learn that Skip has no fondness for Hitler, and Skip also loves to chase squirrels.<br />Overall, this is a book that can be enjoyed by a very wide audience. It includes stories of baseball, football, WWII, adventuring, hunting, Boy scouts, and all the like. To some it will bring back fond memories of a certain time period and all the things and events that occurred during that period. For others it makes them imagine what things were actually like. Still, others may read this book and laugh, cry, or simply smile at the parading of a boy and his closest friend. This is an excellent read.xcellent read.	2001-01-14
US	52760273	R2PWDTDQC44VO6	0618002219	669379389	The Hobbit: or There and Back Again	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Greatest Fantasy Novel of all Times	When I was in the seventh grade my English teacher made us read this novel. I am forever indebted to this teacher for introducing me to one of the greatest fantasy novelists of all time. In this delightful tale, Tolkien introduces a new world called &quot;Middle Earth.&quot; &quot;Middle Earth&quot; is a place where dwarves, elves, wizards, dragons, and hobbits live.<br />Of course, in this story, Bilbo Baggins is the consummate hobbit who runs off on a dangerous and exciting adventure (something hobbits do not normally do) with a clan of dwarfs. These adventures lead to dangerous encounters with giant spiders, goblins, etc. Moreover, Bilbo encounters an odd slimy creature named Gollum, who possess a ring that holds great magical power (an item which plays a vital role in the trilogy titled &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot;). Gollum is so obsessed with this ring, which he calls &quot;precious,&quot; that he will do anything to get it back from Bilbo (who found it on the ground and later took it from Gollum after a contest of wits and wisdom). Gollum, of course, shows up again in &quot;The Lord of the Rings.&quot;<br />Another important character in this enthralling tale is a wizard by the name of Gandolf. Gandolf periodically appears to either help Bilbo and his befriended dwarf companions or he appears to give advice or simply converse with his hobbit friend.<br />This story is very captivating from beginning to end. Actually, there are no dull points in the story line at all. The descriptions of this wonderful imaginary world are very florid and imaginative. Tolkien developed an entire world with maps, alphabets, languages, riddles, and very vivid characters who not only win your heart but wheedle your emotions and imagination.<br />This story is not your typical run-of-the-mill fantasy novel. In fact, much of what is called 'fantasy' today owes a great deal of homage to Tolkien and his creative expertise. Since many fantasy novelists who followed Tolkien borrowed in one way or another from him and his works. Tolkien is a master story teller who has an eye for elaborate detail and sophistication. None of his stories are trite or typical. Tolkien stands in a class all his own.in one way or another from him and his works. Tolkien is a master story teller who has an eye for elaborate detail and sophistication. None of his stories are trite or typical. Tolkien stands in a class all his own.	2001-01-14
US	52760273	R1RYFDL8Q9UNJ3	0156904365	322831088	Till We Have Faces: A Myth Retold	Books	5	25	27	N	N	This Book is a Diamond Waiting to Be Cut	When you pick up this book and begin reading, you might labor at first, trying to get through the beginning chapters, but then the story begins to grow on you and the more you read the more involved you become in what is unfolding. Lewis has a style that is patient, not premature as to move too quickly to the climax, but savoring all the details in order to develop, in the long run, a wonderfully elaborate and captivating tale.<br />This book is a retelling of an all too famous mythological tale of love (between Cupid and Psyche). While Lewis adds his own spices, the story essentially remains the same. It is a tale of love, sadness, fascination of beauty, betrayal, regret, shame, depravity, and finally triumph. The story centers around two sisters, the older very ugly, and the younger, half-sister, very beautiful. Their father, a king, demonstrates his impatience at not having an heir (a son) and he (the father) torments his daughters for being just what they are, daughters. However, the eldest daughter, Orual, is very ugly in appearance, while the youngest daughter, Psyche, is the most beautiful in the whole region, and the story mainly centers around these two characters and what evolves into a tragedy and at the same time a triumph of decisions, emotions, thoughts, and actions (I don't want to give too much of the story away).<br />Even though this is a story that has already been told, Lewis adds his own dimensions to it and gives it a refreshing type of life and vigor. If you are a fan of Lewis' writings then you will certainly enjoy this work. However, even if you have never read Lewis, you will still enjoy this masterful piece. Unfortunately, this piece from Lewis, has not received the attention and status as a great piece of literature that it deserves. This is an intense and very eloquent novel which is, I believe, one of the greatest of this century.	2001-01-12
US	52760273	RVWK56TAJCJF3	0816039755	522868420	Atlas of the North American Indian	Books	5	70	71	N	N	Well-Organized, Informative, and Comprehensive	I have always had an interest in the Native American history and tradition. I have bought several books in the past and been upset that they either seem to misrepresent the Indians or were too stereotypical. This book is not like that at all. In fact, this is one of the most informative, accurate and indispensable books that I have read regarding the Native American. The book covers almost every (if not every) Native American tribe known. Moreover, this book not only delineates their culture, locations, skills, history, etc., but it provides a chronology of prehistory and history of the Native American in one of the book's 7 appendices. This text provides the reader with information and facts about the ancient Indians, Geography (great maps), the art and technology, and even their clothing and transportation. This is definitely an invaluable tool for those who simply want to gain a greater understanding of Native Americans, or those who actually want to do some more serious research.	2001-01-09
US	52760273	R1XCPRRC1NTJP3	0830814027	629373758	New Testament Introduction (Master Reference Collection)	Books	5	51	52	N	N	An Exhaustive and Invaluable Reference Work	This New Testament Introduction is a monster volume that is exhaustive in its content. Guthrie's book is considered by many scholars (i.e. D. A. Carson, Wilbur Smith, etc.) to be one of, if not the best Introduction to the New Testament texts available. This book is a standard text book at seminaries all across the country. It was first published in 1961 and has been revised, updated, and also endured the test of time (which can be the strongest enemy of any book). Guthrie covers every possible detail from each of the books of the New Testament, including literary form, characteristics of NT writings, purpose, place of origin, dates, languages, historicity, locality, readers (then and now), Synoptic Problem, form criticism and its development, and much, much, much, much, more! This book is well over 1000 pages of great research. If you are looking for a single volume which covers the NT, then you would need to look no further than this text. The bibliography of this book is over 100 pages, which is massive and very helpful if you like to branch off in your research. It is equally useful for the serious researcher and the lay person alike. In fact I bought my copy about 7 years ago and have used it prior to my seminary career, during my seminary career, and I know I will use it for the rest of my researching days. In my estimation there is no other Introductory text that surpasses this one.	2001-01-07
US	52760273	RGU1M9UKRNJJ7	0898797756	106724344	Roget's Super Thesaurus	Books	5	35	38	N	N	One of the Better Thesaurus' I Have Used	This book is actually a fairly exhaustive Thesaurus. It is 663 pages of common, specialized, and even slang words that have been defined, cross referenced, and alphabetized. The entries also consist of the type of word (i.e. verb, noun, etc.), notable quotations of uses, and what this book calls &quot;reverse dictionary,&quot; which lists the words by their definition first, incase you know what it is and not what it is called (as the back cover totes). The entries gives the reader both synonyms and antonyms. There is also an introduction that helps the reader to understand how the book is organized and how to most effectively use this reference work. This book has been a big help in my school research. I highly recommend it.	2001-01-06
US	52760273	R2JZYZ211Y7N53	0521369339	761296316	The Cambridge History of Later Medieval Philosophy: From the Rediscovery of Aristotle to the Disintegration of Scholasticism, 1100-1600	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	A Massive Piece of Work	This book is a massive piece of work edited by Anthony Kenney, Jan Pinborg and the late Norman Kretzmann. Moreover, Eleonore Stump is an associate editor of this text as well. The book itself is over 1000 pages. It is a history of late medieval philosophy from about 1100 to 1600. The book is essentially a series of essays that deal with the various philosophical trends, ideas, issues, etc. that were prevalent within the aforementioned dates. The book deals with Aristotelian logic, logic in the middle ages (semantic theory), logic in the high middle ages, metaphysics and epistemology, natural philosophy, philosophy of mind and action, ethics, politics, and scholasticism. Thus, the reader of this text will gain a greater understanding about Abelard and old logic to free will and free choice to God's knowledge of future contingents, and much more. The Islamic philosophers and their influences and ideas are covered as well as the Jesus society philosophers of the late reformation period (i.e. Molina, Suarez, etc.). The text itself is not for the beginning philosophy student, thus the contributors expect their readers to have some back ground knowledge in the issues at hand. This book is meant for the serious student of this period. Therefore, if you love to study the philosophers of the Medieval period, then you will love the detail that this book provides. I highly recommend it.	2000-12-06
US	52760273	RIFMMB61EOADG	0872200787	485755475	Ockham - Philosophical Writings: A Selection	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Good Starter Text for Reading Ockham	This volume contains a nice amount of material for anyone interested in trying to read and understand Ockham's thought. The introduction is a nice treatise explaining the contents and providing the reader (especially the beginning reader) with a good explanation of Ockham's work. The book itself contains these particular philosophical works: 1) The notion of knowledge or science, 2) epistemological problems, 3) logical problems, 4) the theory of '[supposition,' 5) truth, 6) inferential operations, 7) being, essence, and existence, 8) the possibility of a natural theology, 9) the proof of God's existence 10) God's causality and foreknowledge, and 11) physics and ethics. So as you can see there is enough that is provided in this one volume to give any reader a better grasp on some of the things Ockham taught and espoused. If you are interested in Ockham's logical treatises (which is one of the things he is best known for) then I recommend Alfred J. Fredosso's translation of &quot;Ockham's Theory of Propositions: Part II of the Summa Logicae&quot; which is also available here at Amazon.	2000-12-06
US	52760273	R1U9VJI5UEUEYP	0226028402	808746955	The Mind of the Middle Ages: An Historical Survey	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A Historical Survey of the Middle Ages	This particular text used to be the standard textbook 40 years ago for teachers and students of Medieval history. Does this mean that this book is outdated or no longer a good text? Not necessarily. The one thing I like about this text is the fact that Artz covers attitudes, arts and literature, as well as the atmosphere of learning that permeated the middle ages. He discusses the shifts that occurred during this period in thinking, languages, religion, etc. The book is a wonderful text for those who are interested in a detail assessment and exposition of the period known as the &quot;Dark Ages.&quot; An age that was, in reality, not all that &quot;dark.&quot; In the first part of the book, Artz covers the influence of the east (what he calls the &quot;Classical Background&quot;). In this part, Artz discusses  medieval Christianity, the Influence of the Jews, Latin and Greek influence, and Islamic influence. The last part of the text covers the trends in literature, art, music, humanists, philosophy, etc. This whole text is a wonderful read for the serious and not so serious student of the history of early to late middle ages. Don't dismiss this good book just because it is no longer THE standard text. That would be a tragic loss.	2000-11-24
US	52760273	R6BZJUY2XJL13	0801021189	438387545	Cynic Sage Or Son Of God?	Books	5	21	22	N	Y	Boyd Handles this Topic Wonderfully	This book is a whirlwind of detail and exploration into a very thorny topic of research. Boyd has provided his reader with a very thorough assessment of the quest for the historical Jesus. Boyd includes in this text a delineation of the historicity of what has occurred in the search of the historical Jesus over the last 200 years or so. Boyd has also discussed how these trends have permeated modern scholarship and the detrimental affects which have occured as a result. Several members of the ever popular Jesus Seminar group are discussed at great length, as well as the problems and ramifications of their writings upon higher biblical criticism and in particularly the  person of Jesus. In this text, Boyd discusses dating, criticism, interpretation, and trustworthiness of the Biblical texts (i.e. Gospels and the Book of Acts). He has provided his reader with a careful detailed analysis of liberal scholars and their conclusions and then he systematically refutes their assessments. In other words, Boyd's counter arguments are very thorough and strong. The endorsements for this book are a regular who's who of scholarship (i.g. C. Stephen Evans, Clark H. Pinnock, D.A. Carson, Craig L. Blomberg, Ben Witherington III, and Gary R. Habermas). If you are wanting a very detailed work regarding the historicity of Jesus that is strong in its content and put together very well, then this is a book that you should add to your collection. I highly recommend it.	2000-11-23
US	52760273	R22B8R9IXUL8QS	0899007325	936124138	The Historical Jesus: Ancient Evidence for the Life of Christ	Books	5	37	43	N	N	One of the Better Assessments of the Historical Jesus	This is an excellent assessment of the historical facts surrounding the historical person Jesus. Habermas' work is a storehouse of historical evidence for the validity of the truth claims that surround Jesus. Habermas deals with those scholars who have flatly rejected that Jesus was truly a historical person by demonstrating the absurdity of such a claim. Moreover, Habermas spends much of his time in this work refuting  Michael Martin and G.A. Wells and their assertions that Jesus in fact was not a historical figure who lived in the first century. Furthermore, Habermas gives extra-biblical evidence from historical authors of the first three century who demonstrated that Jesus was indeed a real figure of history by mentioning Jesus in their own works. Thus, Habermas has developed a very impressive critical overview of the historical evidence that is available to any honest searcher. This book is a great text for those interested in taking on a study of the person and life of Jesus.	2000-11-23
US	52760273	RUPZYGAM1T9XY	0310332389	528611941	Dictionary of New Testament Theology: Volume 1	Books	5	20	21	N	N	One of the Better New Testament Dictionaries	Colin Brown has put together one of the better New Testament Dictionaries available. This is a must have for serious students, Pastors, and those who love to study the New Testament. This series is great for word studies, syntactical studies, semantical studies, etc. Brown takes Greek words used throughout the NT and discusses their usages in context, in the LXX, in other Greek writings, etc. Brown gives a definition of the word/s and describes their various semantical features, cognates, synonyms, and such. Brown also sites where the words are used, how they are used, etc. Moreover, the reader does not need a background in the Greek language to understand this series - Brown has made it accessible for anyone to grasp!! Brown also discusses key terms used in the Greek, he has a great bibliography, a complete index (one whole volume of the series), and he discusses the major theological issues surrounding the grammar/semantics of the Greek and the Bible. Thus, making this set an invaluable tool for anyone interested in deeper NT studies. This is a must have set!!!	2000-11-13
US	52760273	R3C0XS2J2UUG32	0802805957	840386602	The Book of Isaiah (3 Vol. Set)	Books	5	52	53	N	N	One of the Better Commentary For the Book of Isaiah	This commentary is a three volume set written by conservative scholar Edward J. Young. The series details events, people, places, and the language in which Isaiah was written, in a style that makes this commentary easy to read and understand. Just like any commentary, Young takes Isaiah verse by verse and phrase by phrase and comments upon the text. Moreover, Young is a conservative scholar and is therefore not convinced and trapped into the ever popular liberal view of the Deutero-Isaiah hypothesis; a source division that was spawned by Johann C. Doederlin in 1789. Young sees Isaiah as being written by a single author and thus his commentary is built around this idea. Young is very in depth in his commenting and understanding of the text of Isaiah. For that reason there are certain details that he covers which aid in the reader's understanding of what Isaiah is communicating to his audience; details which might otherwise be overlooked to the untrained eye. Therefore, if you are wanting a solid and very helpful commentary on the book of Isaiah, then I highly recommend this one.	2000-11-10
US	52760273	R2HYM0AOBP1VWA	0875524567	222456525	Institutes of Elenctic Theology (3 Volume Set)	Books	5	54	56	N	N	A Must for Serious Theologians and Christian Thinkers	James T. Dennison has brought back one of the greatest theological works in church history. Francis Turretin was a 17th century theologian. He wrote in a scholastic style similar to those who proceeded him (i.e. Aquinas, etc.) However, unlike his predecessors, Turretin was part of the Reformed Church. Therefore, he covers such topics in this three volume set as the Reformed doctrine of predestination, sola fide, sola scriptura, etc. Moreover, Turretin covers many theological issues such as the attributes of God, original sin, angelology, the Trinity, the will of God, creation of man, responses to Molina and &quot;scentia media,&quot; (middle knowledge) etc., all in great detail. Turretin is exhaustive in his writing. In fact, Turretin's work was required as a text for students of such great Princeton theologians as Charles Hodge and R.L. Dabney. If you are a serious theologian and love to study theology in depth then you should not be without this series. ...	2000-11-10
US	52760273	R2LCT0E58OSECL	089870300X	220465705	A Summa of the Summa	Books	5	103	108	N	N	An Excellent Summation of Aquinas' Great Work	Kreeft does a wonderful job of picking the finer points of Aquinas' massive work - Summa Theologica. This is a condensed text for the beginning reader of St. Thomas' work. The book itself is organized in a way that includes the primary work of the Summa and Kreeft's comments. Thus, this makes for a wonderful read if you are trying to understand what Thomas was communicating in his work. The essential Thomas is present. In other words, Kreeft covers everything one would need to know to get a thorough grasp of Thomistic philosophy. Also, Kreeft does so in such a way that it makes Aquinas very easy to understand. The topics covered are Cosmology, the Nature of God, Aquinas' Epistemology, Proofs, Ethics, etc. This is a wonderful beginning text for anyone who is interested in studying one of the greatest philosophers who ever lived. Moreover, Peter Kreeft is well qualified to handle the Summa since he is a renown philosopher himself (Boston College Professor) and a Thomist of sorts. Keep in mind, that this book is not simply Kreeft's commentary on Aquinas, but it also includes the actual excerpts from Aquinas' Summa. That is one reason why this book stands out from other books about Aquinas. I would recommend this book to anyone.	2000-10-17
US	52760273	R1NGXJNM3XYF4P	0631213287	343119831	Companion to Philosophy of Religion	Books	5	25	27	N	Y	A Superb Collection of Works	This book is a monster and well worth the price tag. The book deals with all facets of the Philosophy of Religion from philosophical issues in the world religions to new direction in the field of philosophy of religion. Some of the contributors are Robert Audi, William Lane Craig, Stephen T. Davis, C. Stephen Evans, Antony Flew, Thomas P. Flint, William Hasker, Paul Helm, John Hick, Brian Leftow, Ralph McInnerny, Michael Martin, Kai Nielsen, Terence Penelhum, Alvin Plantinga, William L. Rowe, Eleonore Stump, William J. Wainwright, Nicholas Wolterstorff, Keith Yandell, and many others. Some the issues/topics covered are Philosophical Theology, Philosophy of Religion in the Western World, Currents in Twentieth Century Philosophy, Theism and the Linguistic Turn, the Theistic Concept of God, Justification of Theistic Beliefs, etc. The individual articles by a given scholar range from &quot;Theism  and Physical Cosmology,&quot; &quot;Theism and Evolutionary Biology,&quot; (all the classical arguments for God are covered), &quot;Foreknowledge and Human Freedom,&quot; &quot;Divine Command Ethics,&quot; &quot;Omnipresence,&quot; &quot;Being,&quot; &quot;Simplicity,&quot; &quot;Religious Language,&quot; &quot;Early Modern Philosophical Theology,&quot; etc. There are 622 pages of articles covering everything imaginable. This is definitely an invaluable resource for those who are interested in the study of the Philosophy of Religion. As you can see from just the little I have included here, the book is very comprehensive and put together quite well.	2000-10-11
US	52760273	RSDBE07TGRMKU	0060956410	889503795	Wheelock's Latin, 6th Edition	Books	5	11	12	N	N	One of, if not the, best beginning Latin texts available	I am currently using this text in my beginning Latin course. It has been a wonderful text in which to work and use. The text itself is designed to work in a type of systematic fashion taking the student through the necessary tools of Latin in a way that helps develop strong grammar and vocabulary. The text is based on the classical Latin texts (i.e. Cicero, Seneca, Caesar, Terence, etc.) While Wheelock offers all the necessary rules of grammar and syntax, he does so in a way that is not boring, dry and dull. At the end of each chapter, there are exercises for the students to practice what they have learned not only in that chapter but also in what they have learned up to that point; and repetition is crucial to the beginning student of any language. Moreover, the back of the text includes a series of wonderful and helpful section from an appendix on prefixes and suffixes, etymological aids, summary of forms, and supplementary syntax. Furthermore, there is an English-Latin vocabulary listing of all  the vocabulary that is covered in the text. This is one of, if not the, best beginning Latin texts available.	2000-10-01
US	52760273	R25UYFQBMGSTI9	0801082323	758092150	Creeds of Christendom : 3 Volumes	Books	5	54	54	N	N	A Necessary Set for the Serious Christian Reader	This is a must read for the serious Christian reader. Schaff has left no  stone unturned in this compilation of historical Christian Creeds. In fact,  since Schaff was the consummate Christian historian of the 19th century, he  approaches this set in a very historical way. The set itself is organized  via a certain time frame that Schaff apparently had in mind (unless the  publishers altered this in later editions). Schaff begins by covering what  a creed actually is, and why creeds were necessary. This is a very helpful  section for his reader. From here Schaff covers all the creeds that have  been written over the course of church history beginning with the  ecumenical creeds (i.e. the Apostle's creed, Nicene creed, etc.). Schaff  then covers the creeds of the Greek Church, the Roman Church, the  Evangelical Protestant Church, The Evangelical Lutheran Church, the  Evangelical Reformed Church (in all the countries that apply), the Modern  Evangelical denominations (Congregational, Anabaptists, Calvinistic  Baptists, Methodism, etc.). Each of these are covered in their own chapter  and this is just volume 1 (WOW!). Volume 2 consists of the Scripture  confessions , Ante-Nicene and Nicene Rules of Faith and Baptismal Creeds,  greater detail and commentary on the Ecumenical, Greek, Roman, Russian, and  Catholic Union Creeds. Volume 3 is more of what Schaff did not cover in  volume 2, namely, the Evangelical Lutheran, Reformed, Modern Protestant,  etc. Creeds. These are all covered in greater detail with commentary. Part  four (of volume 3) is a modern (19th century for Schaff's day) look into  the creeds that were being developed. Overall, this is a great set to own,  and an invaluable reference tool that can be used many times over. Schaff  was a wonderful historian and this work is among his best. Keep in mind  though that Schaff was distinctively Protestant and this set will give you  his Protestant opinion and assessment of the Roman Catholic Church.  However, if you are wanting a powerful assessment of some of the problems  that have troubled Protestants regarding Roman Catholicism, then you will  get that in this set. I highly recommend this set as a great reference  work.ou are wanting a powerful assessment of some of the problems  that have troubled Protestants regarding Roman Catholicism, then you will  get that in this set. I highly recommend this set as a great reference  work.	2000-09-03
US	52760273	R2TLJMABV1J9FY	0028639227	322884245	Complete Idiot's Guide to Learning Latin	Books	5	85	89	N	Y	Great Book for the Very Beginning Student	I am a first year, first semester student of the Latin language and I ordered this book from Amazon a few days ago to help me gain a better  understanding of what I am being taught in class. I must confess that this  book has been a wonderful and helpful tool. One of the beginning  difficulties of any language is pronunciation, and this book totes an  &quot;idiot proof guideline&quot; for pronunciation and usage. Moreover,  the book helps you develop a strong vocabulary with &quot;vocabulary  builders.&quot; However, what I am slowly realizing is that understanding  Latin grammar/context, etc. involves learning, memorizing and understanding  the endings of words (i.e. verb, noun, adjective endings). This book helps  the reader to grasp these endings and gives tips on remembering them and  using them (this has been very helpful). The last thing I have found  helpful in this book is its simplistic way of helping me through the  grammar (which is easy to get bogged down in). If you are just starting out  in Latin, or you simply want to brush up on your existing knowledge of  Latin, then this is definitely the book for you.	2000-08-30
US	52760273	R8YK3XZ2VPAAU	0140436324	82828801	Thomas Aquinas: Selected Writings (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	97	101	N	N	Great Compilation Work	This is a compilation of works written by Aquinas. The book is edited by Ralph McInerny (Notre Dame) and contains all the important works of Aquinas. For instance, some of the works (or parts of works) included are:  On Being and Essence, Theology, Faith, and Reason. On Boethius, The  Meanings of Truth, On Creation, On Human Choice, On Law and Natural Law,  The Virtues, The Logic of the Incarnation, Exposition of Paul's Epistle to  Philemon, and much, much more. Moreover, McInerny includes a nice  introduction that discusses Aquinas's life, works, and the impact of  Thomism through the centuries. There is also a Chronology that includes  important dates and events. This book is 841 pages of total Thomas. It is a  great work to have if you are wanting to simply read some of the more  important works by Aquinas or if you are wanting to dig a little deeper  into the works of Aquinas. ... I highly recommend this book.	2000-08-25
US	52760273	R1L1HRFU28MDCJ	9004085165	594245078	The Problem of Divine Foreknowledge and Future Contingents from Aristotle to Suarez (Brill's Studies in Intellectual History)	Books	4	7	9	N	Y	Good Historical book, but misses the mark with Aquinas	Here is another text by William Lane Craig that deals with the issues of  Divine Foreknowledge, human freedom, and future contingents. This is a very  academic text and expects the reader to have a background knowledge in the  philosophies at hand. However, it is a good text to read for the issues.  Craig covers some of the major philosophers who have tackled the problems  of Divine foreknowledge and future contingents. The philosophers covered  are, Aristotle, Augustine, Boethius, Aquinas, John Duns Scotus, William  Ockham, Luis de Molina, and Francisco Suarez. Craig covers what each  philosopher taught, the works which each philosopher wrote regarding the  issue at hand, and gives criticisms and agreements regarding each of the  views espoused. The bibliography is very thorough containing mainly primary  works, but including secondary texts as well. The only downfall in which I  was able to detect was Craig's description of some of the things espoused  by Aquinas. For instance, Craig declares that, &quot;In De veritate Aquinas  explains that what is necessary can be known even when it will happen in  the future, as is the case with an astronomer's knowledge of a coming  eclipse, but a contingent cannot be known as future because it can be  impeded before it is brought into being.&quot; (page 101-102) This is  simply not true, Aquinas does not espouse such a thing in De Veritate (On  Truth) nor any of his other works for that matter. While I am not an expert  on Aquinas in this area, I have done enough research to know that Aquinas  would not suggest such a thing. Nonetheless, overall Craig gives a somewhat  fair assessment of Aquinas, but there are a few things on which he just  seems to miss the boat. However, all the chapters are very informative and  helpful with excellent references to help the reader move into further  study and research.	2000-08-19
US	52760273	RANKFR4J4DXWB	1579103162	171035293	The Only Wise God: The Compatibility of Divine Foreknowledge & Human Freedom	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Excellent Assessment of Molinism by Craig	This is an excellent book pertaining to the philosophy called Molinism (the view of Divine foreknowledge and human freedom via Luis de Molina).  While I disagree with this view for philosophical and theological reasons  (I believe it is more detrimental than good), I nonetheless, enjoy studying  the issues, and this is one of the best books still available written by an  evangelical. Craig covers God's knowledge of the past, present, and future,  the issue of fatalism, Innate knowledge and the increasing popular view  &quot;scientia media&quot; (middle knowledge). While I firmly believe that  this is a good book to read for the current issues, I disagree with the  overall philosophy of Molinism since it has too many problems within its  system (i.e. it breaks down the simplicity of God, it makes God an  epistemological spectator, it is ultimately determinism of circumstances,  it denies efficacious grace, and it lacks biblical support). Therefore, I  would recommend this book since Craig does such a good job at defining  Molinism and describing the philosophy. However, it should be read in light  of other works (i.e. Reginald Garrigou-LaGrange's work titled &quot;The One  God,&quot; &quot;Still Sovereign&quot; by Thomas Schreiner and Bruce Ware -  available here at Amazon at a good price, and others). Overall, this is an  excellent book to research and I have an enormous amount of respect for  Craig.	2000-08-19
US	52760273	R1XHAD2NBC9V00	1890318515	647961305	Ockham's Theory of Propositions (Pt. 2)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Excellent Translation of a difficult work	This is a translation of Ockham's work titled the &#34;Summa Logicae&#34; (Part II). The translators are Alfred J. Freddoso (who also  translated the &#34;Concordia&#34; by Luis de Molina) and Henry  Schuurman. Much of what Ockham is dealing with in this particular work is  the philosophy of language and logic. Ockham discusses the truth conditions  of propositions (indicative sentences). He begins at the best place, with  the most simple or basic propositions and works his way to the more  complicated propositions. Past tense and future tensed propositions are  dealt with as well as modal propositions. This book is not basic reading.  In fact, if you do not have a background in logic you will labor through  this text. However, if you do have a background in the study of logic then  you will probably enjoy this book. Some of the table of contents are  &#34;On the Classification of Propositions,&#34; &#34;What is Required  for the Truth of an Indefinite Proposition and of a Particular  Proposition,&#34; &#34;On Universal Propositions,&#34; &#34;On Past  Tense and Future Tense Propositions,&#34; How to Find Out When a  Proposition, One of Whose Extremes is an Oblique Case, is True or  False,&#34; &#34;On Conditional Propositions, &#34; &#34;On Conjunctive  Propositions,&#34; &#34;On Hypothetical Propositions and Their  Properties,&#34; etc. Moreover, the book contains a very helpful  introduction by Freddoso which helps to identify and explain what Ockham is  dealing with in this work. This is a much-needed translation of a  Philosopher whose works are not translated into English as often as they should be.	2000-08-18
US	52760273	R11WBR6A7KPPPY	0801421314	604254062	On Divine Foreknowledge (Concordia, Part IV) (English and Latin Edition)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Another Excellent Translation by Freddoso	This is part iv of the &quot;Concordia&quot; written by Luis de Molina and translated by Alfred J. Freddoso (Notre Dame). This is the primary text for  the philosophy known as Molinism. In this text, not only does Freddoso  write a wonderful introduction which explains the background and history in  which Molina wrote the &quot;Concordia,&quot; but it also helps the reader  to understand Molina's position on Divine foreknowledge and future  contingents. In addition to this excellent intro, Fredosso provides his  reader with notes (a type of commentary) throughout the actual text of the  &quot;Concordia.&quot; If you are wanting to gain a better understanding of  Molinism as it relates to Divine foreknowledge and future contingents, then  this is the best primary text available.	2000-08-18
US	52760273	RTW7K02CJFK8C	1883357616	548099780	Commentary on Aristotle's Metaphysics [Aristotelian Commentary Series]	Books	5	55	57	N	Y	Another Excellent Work in the Dumb Ox Series	This is a great translation of Aquinas' comments on Aristotle's work  titled, &quot;Metaphysics.&quot; Ralph McInerny (Notre Dame University)  wrote the preface and the work was translated by John P. Rowan. Both men  are strong in their field of expertise and both are Thomists. The book is a  phrase by phrase/paragraph by paragraph commentary written by Aquinas on  Aristotle's actual work. In other words, Aquinas took what Aristotle  espoused in his &quot;Metaphysics&quot; and discussed it in great detail.  Aquinas was not shy about admitting what he disagreed and agreed with in  Aristotle's philosophy. So not only is the reader of this addition getting  the actual translated text of Aristotle's work, but also Aquinas' remarks.  This is an incredible reference/resource work for those who are either  studying Aristotle's &quot;Metaphysics,&quot; the thoughts of Thomas  Aquinas, or perhaps both. The book is 839 pages of solid text and very well  organized so the reader knows the parts that are Aristotle's (which are all  italicized) and Aquinas'(which are in plain type). This book, if for no  other reason, at least helps the student of both philosophers gain a better  understanding of each; since Aquinas is at his best when commenting about  Aristotle's work and the actual text of Aristotle is present for the reader  to digest. This paragraph from the back cover of the book well describes  what the buyer and reader can expect from such a great work as this -  &quot;Thomas Aquinas finds the twelve books he comments on wonderful for  their order, both overall and in the minutest detail. His reading is  governed by what he takes to be the clear sense of the text, his  interpretations keep close to what Aristotle actually said, his account is  breathtaking in its acuity.&quot; Thus, this is a work that you will not  want to miss, since, unfortunately, books of this nature have a short a  shelf life.	2000-08-06
US	52760273	R3HWAVZZ6Q5VWR	0521637228	319521373	The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy	Books	5	40	47	N	N	Excellent Reference Resource for Philosophy	I noticed in the bibliography section of many of the current philosophy  texts that I have read that this dictionary was listed or recommended. That  was the number one reason why I bought this reference work. Having read and  used it for the last three years, I can see why it is so recommended. The  Board of Editorial Advisors for the book is amazing (i.e. William P.  Alston, Fred Dretske, Norman Kretzmann, Alan Gewirth, etc.). Some of the  contributors include Marilyn McCord Adams, Fred Dretske, C. Stephen Evans,  William Hasker, Kai Nielson, Luis P. Pojman, William L. Rowe, Robert C.  Solomon, Peter Van Inwagen, William J. Wainwright, Nicholas P.  Wolterstorff, Keith E. Yandell, and many, many more. This dictionary covers  everything imaginable in the area of philosophy (all branches), and even  some theology. Furthermore, Philosophers are covered, what they taught is  covered, and reaction to what certain philosophers taught is covered as  well. It contains 4,000 entries written by some 380 scholars/specialists.  Thus, it is as the back cover totes, an &quot;indispensable one-volume  dictionary.&quot;	2000-08-02
US	52760273	RQRY6PJ5BKMQ6	0451525264	996904481	Les Miserables	Books	5	9	11	N	N	There are not enough stars to rate this book	Aside from the Bible, this is the best book ever written. Victor Hugo has given us the best novel in the history of literature via Les Miserables. I try to read this book at least once a year, and I never get tired of it.  Hugo demonstrates the meaning of true grace all throughout the pages of  this novel. Moreover, the book is a wonderful account of French 19th  century European history (esp. the French judicial and political systems).  Hugo has a very descriptive writing style that exceeds most all of the  other authors of his day.  While this unabridged edition looks like a  tremendous amount of reading (1463 pages), you will never realize there are  this many pages once you begin to get caught up in the storyline. Hugo,  with wonderful style and extravagance builds several storylines that  culminate into one overall story. Hugo touches the readers intellect as  well as emotions as he describes the depravity of man and the guilt that is  often suppressed inside each one of us. Moreover, Hugo paints a wonderful  picture of grace through several of his characters (i.e. Javert) that would  never be expected to show such grace. Also, Hugo digs deep into the human  mind to reveal what lies hidden in the thoughts of many of his characters  which adds to the romance, struggles, pains, and emotions of the characters  he is developing in the story. I cannot recommend this book enough.	2000-06-25
US	52760273	R34RFMWJX6KPTK	0268009163	889166421	An Elementary Christian Metaphysics	Books	5	26	29	N	Y	A Hidden Gem in a Mountain of Rubble	Unfortunately this book is not as popular as it should be.  Don't let the title fool you, this is not a book about &quot;basic&quot; metaphysics. However, it also not so advanced that one's mind would have to be in the  stratosphere to understand it.  Joseph Owens discusses one of, if not THE,  most important aspects of Thomistic philosophy - Being (esse) and Existence  (essence).  This is the crux of metaphysics and is the necessary starting  point to actually do philosophy properly.  Owens begins his work with a  brief historical sketch of metaphysics, and then he launches into a full  scale explanation of the applications and observations of metaphysics.  Owens also delineates the fact that metaphysics is necessary in all realms  of philosophy. Moreover, Owens discusses epistemology and the necessity of  metaphysics for actually doing epistemology.  Owens discusses the various  types of knowledge and how they are applicable and useful in philosophical  systems. While the book is not too simplistic, Owens totes that the intent  of the text is to inform &quot;new&quot; students of the why and how of  metaphysics in all aspects of philosophy and theology. Owens believes, and  I agree, that a proper understanding of metaphysics formulates good habits  of reasoning and assertions in the mind and philosophy of the philosopher.  Furthermore, Owens places great emphasis on Etienne Gilson's teaching on  the subject of metaphysics. Therefore, it also makes for a nice commentary  to Gilson (for those who might find Gilson a little difficult to  comprehend). I cannot recommend this book enough - especially for the  Christian philosopher.	2000-06-16
US	52760273	RAMP5QCFW7DAX	0931888360	663382482	Methodical Realism	Books	5	54	54	N	Y	Brief but powerful assesment of Kantian Idealism	Gilson is the consummate Thomist and this brief but powerful work is possibly his best in print. Gilson sets forth to establish a case that knowledge is not merely conceptual. Intellect, Gilson argues, is based upon  an external reality. In other words, the possibility of the intellectual  act is due to an external reality. This is crucial for the Thomistic  philosopher especially when dealing with Kantian Idealism. Gilson compares  Thomistic metaphysics and epistemology with other popular  &quot;brands&quot; such as Cartesian and Kantian. Then Gilson delineates  the proper starting point philosophically and where certain philosophers  have missed the mark. This small book presupposes that the reader has a  background in the issues at hand. Thus, if the reader is not prepared to  understand the arguments he may get lost in the jargon. However, with the  proper understanding of the terms and arguments at hand, this book is a  powerful loaded gun. I cannot recommend this particular work enough!	2000-04-28
US	52760273	R1DEF6ZWZ4XSIF	1883357764	276934844	Commentary on Aristotle's Physics [Aristotelian Commentary Series]	Books	5	25	29	N	Y	A Masterpiece. Exhaustive and Complete!	If you enjoy Aristotle and Aquinas and would like to gain a better understanding on Aristotle's work titled &quot;Physics,&quot; then this is definitely a book you need to own. While there are literally hundreds of titles in print and out of print (but able to be found) on Aristotle's  physics, there is no book that matches this one. This is yet another  example of the &quot;dumb ox&quot; rising to the occasion again. Aquinas  takes Aristotle's &quot;Physics&quot;  lecture by lecture (i.e. passage by  passage) and comments on what Aristotle is espousing. This is 638 pages of  great detail, philosophy, and comments by one of the greatest philosophers  in philosophical history (Aquinas), about one of the greatest philosopher's  work. The work is translated by Blackwell, Spath, and Thirlkel, and has a  forward written by one of the most renown Thomistic scholars of our day,  namely, Ralph McInerny. The translators have done a wonderful job of taking  a difficult topic and language and making it easy to read and simple to  follow. Aquinas breaks down all of Aristotle's arguments, writings,  comments, etc. into helpful and easy to understand comments. Furthermore,  Aquinas takes words/phrases that are used by Aristotle and explains their  context, intent, and meaning. Anybody who is familiar with Aquinas knows  that  Aquinas can say more in less than most if not all of the greatest  philosophers. Therefore, if you want a commentary that will exhaustively  explain Aristotle's &quot;Physics&quot; then look no further.	2000-04-06
