US	52767701	R3AFJ4SOLJQQW1	081333618X	58639272	Spoiled Rotten: Affluence, Anxiety, And Social Decay In America	Books	2	14	28	N	N	Stop the Generation X bashing!   We're not so bad.	I'm getting tired of contemporary  young Americans (I'm 29)being bashed constantly and portrayed as these evil losers.  Anyone who came after the &quot;Baby Boomer&quot; generation (modern teens, college students and  young adults) are often the objects of irrational hate.  Anything our  generation does wrong is hyped in the media and in preachy books like this  one; even though statistics show that crime has been rapidly *decreasing*  ever since Generation X came of age.  We drink more espresso than liquor  for goodness sake; and most drugs are pretty much out of style as far as  long term use is concerned.  A pretty tame bunch compared to the old hippie  crowd.  And the idea of today's young Americans as rich and spoiled is  truly absurd.  I have to wonder what planet the author is living on!  No  generation has worked so hard for so little.  This is a time period when  getting a nice little apartment for yourself is more like a far out fantasy  than a realistic goal.  Work hard and live paycheck to paycheck--then come  home to your dingy little hole in the wall to listen to the media elite  talk about how spoiled and weak you are and blame you for the Columbine  massacre just because you own a few black clothes!	1999-10-18
US	52767701	R2T8TJJRM57M9T	0606158839	206722278	The Key to Midnight	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Excellent Novel; but New Version has disappointing changes	THE KEY TO MIDNIGHT is an excellent spy thriller, but it is absolutely and only a story that makes sense when set during the Cold War. The original novel was one of my favorites (and it was set in the 1970's with the actual  Soviet Government as the bad guys).  I'm glad to see it come back in print,  but quite frankly, I'm not happy with the &quot;time warp.&quot;  It should  NOT be set in the 1990's anymore than the MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE should be.   Since when does &quot;back in print&quot; necessarily mean &quot;set in the  present&quot;?  <br />All this said, I still recommend it!  The detective and  the nightclub singer are compelling charactes, the international locales  are WONDERFUL (especially Kyoto), and the bad guys are very, very scary.	1999-10-09
US	52767701	RKR1JUZPRPNAL	0553273795	848425539	The Painted Word	Books	2	13	47	N	N	Archie Bunker on Art.	While this book is not without its moments of humor, it is obvious to art lovers that Wolfe has little idea what he is talking about.  He lumps any kind of art he doesn't like into a single category of &quot;modern&quot;  and thus bad--no matter that Abstract Expressionism and Pop Art are nearly  absolute opposites; to him they are the same because they differ from what  he considers the historic Western tradition of realism.  Wolfe's contempt  for any kind of innovation in the visual arts leaps off the page.  He has  no ability to appreciate what the artists he bashes are trying to  express--the storms and fury of the Expressionists, the playfullness of the  Pop Artists or the cold, elegant purity of the Minimalists.  They deserve  better critics than this.	1999-08-06
US	52767701	R13C93O57XV27V	0380787830	322457967	The End of Sanity:: Social and Cultural Madness in America	Books	1	8	35	N	N	Trivializes Important Issues.	Gross' simplistic and misleading rant ignores so much reality and has so many gaping holes in its reasoning I hardly know where to begin.  For one thing he is wrong when he says that the Left is the enemy of the Judaic or  Judeo-Christian tradition.  The Left shares the Hebrew Prophets' dream of a  world where the lion will lie down with the lamb and swords will be beaten  into plowshares.  Righting past injustices and urging society to turn away  from the sins of its past.  The &quot;victim mentality&quot; as Gross calls  it is really a cry for a higher standard of justice and the protection of  the powerless and marginalized.	1999-07-03
US	52767701	R3V2XFXGE26AQ3	080521089X	939341520	Fragments: Memories of a Wartime Childhood	Books	5	3	12	N	N	Annoy Revisionists:  Read This Book!	The ugly attacks and smears against this beautiful, heart rending work of the triumph of life and hope in the midst of evil and oppression sicken me.  &quot;Fragments&quot; is the ultimate account of innocence and humanity  lost and regained.   All who love the human spirit should cherish it.  Its  author is a soft, gentle man who never sought attention.  He was pushed  reluctantly into the limelight, then ravaged and violated  yet again.  I  only hope he survives the second onslaught of hate and destruction.	1999-06-12
US	52767701	R24TLWG1FYSBTX	0812693906	127294983	The Ayn Rand Cult	Books	3	18	25	N	N	Ignores her Positive Contributions	I am certainly no &quot;Objectivist&quot; and have many personal and political disagreements with Ayn Rand's philosophy and behavior.  However, the author of this book completely misunderstands the issue of Ms. Rand's  appeal to modern youth.  People like to read her works because (despite all  of her flaws and errors) she affirms the basic worth of the self and argues  that personal happiness, autonomy and integrity are the highest values. In  a world that tramples on our souls and crushes individuality, this is a  message that we need to hear.  I view Rand like she viewd Aquinas--one of  the flawed but brilliant thinkers who points the way to the Truth without  finding the ultimate destination herself.	1999-04-08
US	52767701	R1M1U9K1EBGDO9	0929408179	78166543	Civil War Two: The Coming Breakup of America	Books	1	25	120	N	N	Good Grief	Oh, how sorry we all should feel for poor Mr. Chittum and all his reationary friends who have to endure the horrors of living in a progressive modern state based on such heresies as universal human rights  and tolerance.  They might actually have to live next door to a Cambodian  or ride the bus with a gay person.  Boo-hoo!  Better to revert to the Dark  Ages and found new warlike nations based on blood, soil, and religious  fanaticism.  Not im MY future, buddy.  If anyone turns America into  &quot;another Balkans&quot; it will be people with ideas like those in this  book--not liberals.	1999-04-07
US	52767701	R1PIOWET7T8OVQ	0684824051	92435896	The DREAMS OUR STUFF IS MADE OF: HOW SCIENCE FICTION CONQUERED THE WORLD	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Thought Provoking	In this wonderful work of scholarship, one of Science Fiction's greatest minds presents a history of the genre and reflects on its meaning and future.  He does not do so &quot;objectively&quot; so you may very well  disagree with many of his ideas, as I did.  But isn't that what books are  for--to challenge us and make us think?  My disagreements include his  opinion that Poe was the founder of the SF genre (I take the opinion which  he rejects, that SF is the descendant of ancient myths and legends),  negative attitudes toward feminist SF and Star Trek, and his total  ignorance of H.P Lovecraft as a SF writer.  But despite all of that, I  really loved the book.  It had a discussion of every stage in the genre's  history (going back over 100 years) and discusions of the works of what  seemed like hundreds of writers.	1999-01-09
US	52767701	RF0PYVQ7V22GG	0671722069	212768920	Farnham's Freehold	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Eugenic errors and racist stereotyping mar an OK tale.	Heinlein should have the scientific good sense to distinguish true Darwinism (i. e. the thery of evolution as understood by legitimate science)  from the Wagnerian qausi-fascist pop myths about nature being a  big Conan slug-fest in which the most brutal destuctive organism wins.  It  is his perogative to consider right-wing anarchists as &quot;superior&quot;  in some sense but it has nothing to do with Darwin's observations about  sucessful breeding.  The novel is clever, like all of his work, but it is  hard for me to appreciate a novelist who has turned himself into such an  apologist for violence.  For him violence is the nature of life.  Peace  lovers are fools.  And yet it is the industries of peace that provide food  and shelter and comfort.  Neutral nations that use force only to defend  their borders are more secure than vast empires.  War only destroys life  and makes it less likely that our children and grandchildren will survive.	1999-01-03
US	52767701	R2NTLZE6WKDI0F	0671722069	212768920	Farnham's Freehold	Books	3	0	4	N	N	Eugenic errors and racist stereotyping mar an OK tale.	The novel is clever, like all of his work, but it is hard for me to appreciate...  Heinlein's creation of a bizzare futuristc Black Muslim empire started out interestingly enough.  It was a satire on historical cycles, monarchy,  racial prejudice, revenge, and religious authority.  But was just absurd  and offensive when King Ponce's ultimate big bad secret was revealed...	1999-01-03
US	52767701	R39OJ6TD6DBK9A	0226320669	945922174	The Fatal Conceit: The Errors of Socialism (The Collected Works of F. A. Hayek)	Books	3	16	42	N	N	Hayek is a good writer with tunnel vision.	This book is certaily worth reading, but please don't take it as gospel truth.  It seem to be the general consensus of civilized humanity that &quot;socialism&quot; is dead, if by socialism you mean orthodox hard-line  Marxism.  This has almost no defenders outside of North Korea and Cuba.  Hayek's mistake is to broaden the term to mean practically any state  activity besides protecting property rights.  This super-libertarian  political stance belongs just as much to the fringe as any Communist dogma.   I think that history has taught us that the world would be a much poorer  place without public works (government sponsored roads, urban mass transit  systems, bridges, parks, etc.) public education and public health.  Are the  countries (read THIRD WORLD countries) where these things are absent or in  short supply better off then well organised Western European democracies  with lots of public spending?  I think not.  Other problems with Hayek's  philosophy lie in his idea that morals and codes of behavior just  &quot;evolve&quot; in a kind of blind Darwinian progression, with the  winner or survivor being the obvious superior.  There may be some truth to  this concept, but it is also clear that often a society's rules are  purposely designed by its elites for their own benifit.  All in all, this  (like all the  other books by Hayek) is provocative and well written but  plagued by his own obsession with an extremely conservative interpretation  of the ideas of &quot;freedom&quot; and &quot;morality.&quot;  It is a  freedom which does not include the right of the populace to act as an agent  of change through the democratic process and a morality that does not  include concern for society's victims. A liberty which consignes equality  and fraternity to the abyss.  In short a vision of a future that I do not  wish to experience but fear I will be forced to.	1998-11-15
US	52767701	R2OI8927GNUU9S	1576733912	468797920	Rapture (Under Attack): Will You Escape the Tribulation?	Books	2	12	22	N	N	Believe his theory or burn (he thinks)	&quot;Rapture Under Attack&quot; is worth reading because LaHaye presents a very detailed (though biased) overview of Christian beliefs about end-time events and the final judgment.  Unfortunately, his own bigotry and paranoia obscures his obvious skill as a writer and scholar.  He holds strongly pre-mellenial or &quot;pre-trib&quot; theory which states that those who are in Christ wil be &quot;rapured&quot; or taken up to heaven secretly before the coming of a literal antiChrist and a seven year period of plagues and destruction which culminates in the return of Jesus to the earth to set up His kingdom.  This view of the last days is very popular today, but was never accepted by a large number of Christians until the 1800's (though isoloated radicals promoted it throughout history). The fact that it is a minority viewpoint does not make it necessarily wrong.  Often the truth is discovered and accepted by very few. However, the Bible texts used by LaHay and others to support their theory are vague when taken out of context and can be interpreted many ways.  What bothers me about the book is not LaHaye's ideas about the final judgment but the absolute intolerance for dissenting opinions he displays.  The book is ultimately not a work of scholarship but a work of well written propaganda.  THE END.	1998-10-15
US	52767701	R2HGFVVLUZ5RQW	0275957896	923172285	Why Race Matters: Race Differences and What They Mean (Human Evolution, Behavior, and Intelligence)	Books	1	9	84	N	N	Unspeakable	A Jewish scientist pushing absurd, hateful and outdated race &quot;science&quot;?!  Hello!  Has he ever heard of the Holocaust?  That's where this kind of thinking ultimately leads:  The gas chambers and the ovens.  Not to mention slavery, the extermination of the Native Americans and Austalian Aboriginies, centuries of brutal colonial rule and repressive immigration restriction based on &quot;race.&quot;  Come on, people. Wake up and learn the harsh lessons of this melinium before we go into the next.	1998-08-03
US	52767701	R11GM1ZBN6CA0Q	0553254049	942668769	Beyond Freedom and Dignity	Books	4	10	14	N	N	Imperfect but still a Classic	This book is much too often neglected, misunderstood and ignored.  Yes, Skinner was kind of a strange eccentric man who took his ideas way beyond their logical conclusions and spent too much of his time fantasizing about the futuristic utopia he wanted to design.  But his basic premise is very sound:  HUMAN BEHAVIOR, JUST LIKE EVERY OTHER EVENT IN THIS UNIVERSE IS CAUSED AND THOSE CAUSES CAN BE UNDERSTOOD THROUGH THE SCIENTIFIC METHOD.  It does not issue out of a contradictory ghost in the macine called &quot;free will.&quot;  This book is a true classic which should be read by everyone with an interest in human behavior and the philosophy of science.	1998-07-30
US	52767701	R2SMW8P11GSXDZ	1552070123	775577783	Manufacturing Victims: What the Psychology Industry Is Doing to People	Books	3	59	73	N	N	When she hits the target she gets the bullseye	Dr. Dineen is certainly right when she attacks the many sloppy and poorly trained therapists in the world today.  Psychology has become the new religion, and like all religions it has spawned a disturbing assortment of irrational cults.  Foremost among them is &quot;trauma theory&quot;--the dogma that virtually all psychological problems stem from abuse and neglect in early childhood.  The patient must, it follows, learn to hate the abusive parents and blame every disappointment and failure in life on them.  What is not blamed on parents is blamed on &quot;society&quot; in general and on relatively trivial day to day traumas like finding a bug in your food, getting into a shouting match with your lover or having your purse snatched.  The author is absolutely correct that there is no evidence that childhood experiences determine adult behavior, and that there are many people who have experienced far worse traumas than middle class Westerners could ever imagine and show no signs of psychopathology. Obviosly there is no need to bring everyone into the mental health system.  There are those who need care and those who don't.  Dineen exposes a virtual conspiracy among some mental health care providers to make everyone a patient and label everyone in society as fundamentally weak and flawed.  Needless to say, I appreciated many aspects of this book. But before I sign off, I must complain about a few things.  Dr. Dineen is great at criticizing the quack theories and fuzzy thinking others, but offers few suggestions about helping those who actually have mental illnesses.  At times, she seems to shrug the whole issue off.  It is clear from the book that she does not take the approach of Thomas Szasz and deny that mental  illness exists.  For example, she refers to schizophrenia as a biological condition, which it is.  I was a little uncertain, however, about where she stands on clinical depression, manic depression and the various anxiety disorders like O.C.D  Her tone seems very critical of anyone who is in treatment for  any kind of &quot;neurotic&quot; disorder.  However, the same type of modern brain research which proved that schizophrenia is a brain disease suggests the same thing about many types of depression and anxiety disorders.  They are really not &quot;neuroses&quot; or psychological problems in adjustment at all.  When a person suffering from clinical depression is lying in bed sobbing and unable to get shower or get dressed, it is not because they are lazy or weak.  It is because they have a chemical imbalance that makes their thinking disorganized and their feelings oversensitive. Dineen seems to ignore most of the brain science revolution in the past two decades.  Instead of abandoning quack &quot;trauma&quot; therapy for genuine empirical facts about human behaviors and the illnesses which can effect them, she opts for a lot of old platitudes about vaguely defined &quot;personal responsibility.&quot;  But being told to pull yourself up by your bootstraps and keep your chin up can no more cure clinical depression than it can anemia or diabetes.  To put it another way, lets say you have panic attacks.  A run of the mill trauma therapist would blame your parents and say that maybe they had frightened and terrorized you as a child, and if you hated and rejected them enough you would be well.  Dr. Dineen, it seems, would just consider you lazy and irresponsible and tell you to get a life.  Both approaches would cause more harm than good.  When it comes to psychiatric illness, it is not profitable to blame your parents or yourself--get medical care and adjust the flawed brain chemistry.  Also get a good non-judgmental therapist to practice supportive therapy if you are in a crisis period. Dineen gets so caught up in bashing her opponants that she forgot to guide people who actually need mental health care in the right direction.very critical of anyone who is in treatment for  any kind of &quot;neurotic&quot; disorder.  However, the same type of modern brain research which proved that schizophrenia is a brain disease suggests the same thing about many types of depression and anxiety disorders.  They are really not &quot;neuroses&quot; or psychological problems in adjustment at all.  When a person suffering from clinical depression is lying in bed sobbing and unable to get shower or get dressed, it is not because they are lazy or weak.  It is because they have a chemical imbalance that makes their thinking disorganized and their feelings oversensitive. Dineen seems to ignore most of the brain science revolution in the past two decades.  Instead of abandoning quack &quot;trauma&quot; therapy for genuine empirical facts about human behaviors and the illnesses which can effect them, she opts for a lot of old platitudes about vaguely defined &quot;personal responsibility.&quot;  But being told to pull yourself up by your bootstraps and keep your chin up can no more cure clinical depression than it can anemia or diabetes.  To put it another way, lets say you have panic attacks.  A run of the mill trauma therapist would blame your parents and say that maybe they had frightened and terrorized you as a child, and if you hated and rejected them enough you would be well.  Dr. Dineen, it seems, would just consider you lazy and irresponsible and tell you to get a life.  Both approaches would cause more harm than good.  When it comes to psychiatric illness, it is not profitable to blame your parents or yourself--get medical care and adjust the flawed brain chemistry.  Also get a good non-judgmental therapist to practice supportive therapy if you are in a crisis period. Dineen gets so caught up in bashing her opponants that she forgot to guide people who actually need mental health care in the right direction.	1998-05-04
US	52767701	R3FL3FW6ZJ0GTC	047101012X	441874075	Cruel Compassion: Psychiatric Control of Society's Unwanted	Books	2	21	49	N	N	Szasz' worldview is Cruel and not terribly Compassionate	If Thomas Szasz does not want public funds spent to take care of the mentally ill, the homeless and subsatnce abusers, he has every right to say so.  What I objects to is his philosophical dogma which denies the existence of mental illness and addiction a priori.  His pat answer is always just to leave everyone alone to live their lives as they please and accept &quot;responsibility&quot; for their actions.  Even thogh he is supposed to be a medical doctor, he ignores a fact that anyone who has taken a few biology classes should know:  The brain is the organ that governs behavior!!!!!  When someting goes wrong with the brain, strange and/or self-destructive behavior may occur.  Szasz sees the actions of the mentally ill as a sign of weak character, but by definition, behavior caused by mental illness CONTRASTS with the idividual's usual behavior.  For instance, a usually active and sociable teenage girl becomes overwealmed by self hatred and uncontrolable sorrow. She locks herself in her room and is contemplating swollowing a bottle of sleeping pills.   Her feelings and behavior are just as much of a mystery to her as they are to others, but she cannot control them. What to do?  Just let her die? Defend her &quot;right&quot; to do anything she &quot;wants&quot;--even if she is the victim of a brain disease that could be corrected with medication?  Just let her die and say &quot;well, if some people can't cut the mustard, we're better off without them. Let the unfit die out.&quot;  This seems to be what Szasz would do, given his philosophy that society owes nothing to its troubled members.  And I for one feel that this philosophy is monstrous.  What if someone with Alsheimer's wanders into a snow storm wearing nothing but a bathrobe?  Would Szasz let him die too, or are some people more worthy of treatment and preservation than others?  Some brain disease are labeled as &quot;Psychiatric&quot; and others as &quot;Neurological.&quot;  Szasz has made a co! mpletely arbitrary decision to deny the existence of any disease that has been placed in the former category.  If epilepsy had been labeled as a psychiatric condition by the medical establishment, he would be compelled by his philosophy  to deny its existence and say that people have siezures because they are irresponsible and just seeking attention.  Even though Dr. Szasz sets up and supports this arbitrary distintion, mainstream modern science does not.  Psychiatry and neurology are converging and may one day merge.   After all, they are both medical specialties dealing with the same organ.  With the knowledge of behavior and brain chemistry that we are rapidly gaining, we may someday eliminate suicide, psychosis and addiction from our world (or at least radically reduce their occurance and the harm they cause).  This hope is based on empirical knowlege and true compassion for &quot;society's unwanted.&quot;	1998-04-26
US	52767701	R28MOFN7T1KOBN	0312113668	572571131	Toxic Psychiatry: Why Therapy, Empathy and Love Must Replace the Drugs, Electroshock, and Biochemical Theories of the "New Psychiatry"	Books	3	17	26	N	N	Compassionate but Misguided	Dr. Breggin deserves credit for trying to reform the mental health field and pointing out abuses where he sees them. However, he is often simplistic and old-fasioned in his approach. He holds firmly to the old idea that mental illness is caused by emotional trauma and often ignores evidence to the contrary. Like many people in our society,he seem to have a moral problem with explaining human behavior in terms of biology.  He is afraid that if we discover the chemical and genetic roots of mental illness we will dehamanize the menatlly ill.  This is, in fact a danger.  After all, psychiatry in Nazi Germany was bilogicaly based and in America thosands of people were given unnecessary labotomies and electro-shock treatments--especially in the eary 20th centruy--and sometimes even sterilized againts their will.  However, just because bad or stupid people use an idea to hurt others does not mean that the idea is false, per se.  Many tools (fire, electricity, etc.) can be used to harm or help.  Biological psychiatry has helped many sick people to recover their ability to think clearly and function.  I am an example.  I rely on Lithium to conrol my mood swings and dangerous suicidal feelings.  I am not a zombie or a slave of psychiatry.  I work, travel, have lots of good friends.  To suggest that my need for medication &quot;dehumanizes&quot; me is absurd and insulting.<br /> Many problem which affect behavior and thought are biological in nature. Accepting this fact is actually liberating.  My emotional problems do not stem from a defect in my soul or charater, nor are they proof that I have bad parents.  They are simply another problem, just like diabetis or myopia.  Breggin is a good man, but he fails to see how his moral and spriritual interpretation of mental illness can actually hurt people badly--especially when parents are told that they have caused their child's disease.  This is especially true when it comes to autism and scizophrenia--diseases almost universally held to be biological in nature.  I would ask Dr. Breggin to talk to those who have been helped by psychiatric medication, or those harmed by their absence, before making his judgments.held to be biological in nature.  I would ask Dr. Breggin to talk to those who have been helped by psychiatric medication, or those harmed by their absence, before making his judgments.	1998-04-24
US	52767701	RNO434YHAC25D	0060191090	894662611	Choice Theory: A New Psychology of Personal Freedom	Books	2	21	31	N	N	Same old, Same old . . . . .	Reality Therapy is far from new, despite Dr. Glasser's claims.  He has been practicing it for decades. Also, the idea that we choose all of our behavior and must be held accountable for everything we do, say, feel or think regardless of the circumstances is a very old (and outdated) religious philosophy which has caused tremendous suffering.  It is also essentailly unscientific.  It ignores the fact that the &quot;mind&quot; is a funtion of the brain and that thoughts, feelings and ideas are constrained by the state of health within the brain, its cells, its electrical currents and the chemical &quot;soup&quot; in which it is submurged.  While truely innovative geniuses in the field of psychiatry have been busily discovering the genetic and chemical basis for various abnormal and destructive behavious, Glasser and his followers have stuck to their party line.  To be sure, there are little bits and pieces of common sense scattered about Glasser's books, but sometimes he is simply shocking and offensive in his conclusions.  For instance, since psychotic patients in mental hospitals are not experiencing their symptoms all of the time, he concludes that they are simply making their symptoms up in order to get attention and find meaning in their lives.  If they rewarded for acting &quot;normal&quot; and ignored and isolated for exibiting their symtoms, they are going to get better, pontificates Glasser.  This logic is flawed at best.  People with heart conditions are not experiencing heart attacks 24 hours a day, and most of the time seem quite normal.  Unfortunately both one heart attack or a few hours per week in a psychotic state are devastating.  A genuine grasp of &quot;Reality&quot; involves the scientific method, rigorous resarch and the ability to change one's mind--not a tenacious clinging to dogma.	1998-04-23
US	52767701	R9YECLH2YGEGT	0897771478	10110660	Beware the Talking Cure: Psychotherapy May Be Hazardous to Your Mental Health	Books	4	21	28	N	N	Informative and Insightful	Campbell's book is a very thoughtful and useful summary of errors made by three of the major schools of psychotherapy--Psychodynamic, Behavioral and Humanistic.  He clearly shows the dark side of these outdated practices, shows how evidence fails to support their theoretical framework and shows how unscurpulous and/or misguided therapists harm people with them. For this alone, the book deserves praise.  There is a definate downside to this book, however.  The author is an exremely enthusiastic supporter of Cognative Therapy and takes the opportunity to advertise for this school of thought while revealing none of its own down side.  Cognative Therapy is, unfortunately, far from the panacea its adherants claim that it is.  It ignores the reams of data demonstrating that many mental and behavioral for which one might seek therapy are actually brain disorders which are inhereted and shoud be treated with medication.  Cognative Therapists note (correctly)that mentally ill people distort reality and go on to assume that if they could be trained to reason away the distortion, they would be cured. For instance, a depressed person think that everyone hates her so if she learned to understand that some people like her she would be better off.  However, it is more likely that the cognative distortions are the RESULT of having a mental illness and not the CAUSE.  When antidepressants are sucessful, for example, depressed people start to think that life might not be so bad after all, even though they have not made a conscious choice to change their philosophy of life. Critis of Cognative Therapy have pointed out that the &quot;cognative distortion&quot; happens simotaneously with mental illness and could not be the cause of it since a cause has to precede the effect.  I definately recommend reading the book--just be as critical as the author's preconcieved ideas as he is of others.	1998-04-23
US	52767701	RYARJ46178Q7S	1565658566	242878405	The Depression Sourcebook	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Thank you, Dr. Quinn!	Finally, a book that deals with depression as the serious biologically based health problem that it is without all the moralizing and &quot;just snap out of it&quot; ignorance found in so many popular books on the subject.  Contains an excellent critique of the Cognative Therapy theory which insists that you can think your way out of a serious depressive illness.  Includes a tremendous amount of up to the minute scientific information on depression, its causes and treatmenst, and what to do if you or someone you love is in danger of suicide.  One of the best books I have read on the subject.	1998-04-23
US	52767701	R31R7JW1X0H6A9	0471161616	141261581	Out of the Shadows: Confronting America's Mental Illness Crisis	Books	5	36	40	N	N	This is Must Reading!	This book is one of Dr. Torrey's best.  He demonstrates how Americans have allowed their government and medical profession to immorally ignore and degrade the people who need our help the most--those with serious mental illness.  Mental health workers would rather treat relatively healthy people going through ordinary life crises.  Indeed, a sign of sucess in psychiatry and psychology is having a comfortable office practice where you don't have to see many manic depressives and almost no psychotics.  The DSM (Psychiatry's diagnostic manual) is written so that any problem in a normal human life can be considered a &quot;mental illness,&quot; so talking to a millionare who is disappointed that he only has $3 million instead of $10 million qualifies as providing mental health care.  Meanwhile, those with serious depression kill themselves and people who are disabled because of dangerous hallucinations and delusions live in their own filth on the streets.  This is all the more tragic because we have the means to treat the vast majority of mental/brain diseases.  Very few people cannot be helped by the hundreds of medications that exist, but many are deprived of treatment because of absurd social and political policy.  Torrey implicates several different political groups and movements as playing a big part in the problem.  Liberals, civil libertarians, mainstream consrevatives and the far right have all had their reasons for closing mental hospitals and depriving psychiatrists of the ability to effectively treat their patients.  Torrey points out that most of this opposition to psychiatry is done out of ignorance and hopes that as more and more people know the facts, society will demand that poeple with life threatening mental diseases be given the treatment they need to live health productive lives, and that the limited mental health resources our nation has will be spent wisely; giving those with the greates need the highest priority.	1998-04-22
US	52767701	R3UEXVTXT1SC6Y	0471141364	220963110	A Dose of Sanity: Mind, Medicine, and Misdiagnosis	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Fascinating and Terrifying	Dr. Walker's book is a stern indictment of the contemporary medical profession and the mental health field in particular.  He charges the majority of psychiatrists of ignoring the true needs of their patients and instead practicing and arbitrary pseudo-science of labeling.  They seem to have given up on the idea (fundamental to the philosophy of science)that all events have a cause and that to understand something we must understand the process of cause and effect that brought it into being.  Most modern psychiatrists are not interested in finding out what is wrong through careful methodology.  They are divided into two camps.  The psychoanalytic types deny a medical cause for abnormal feelings and behaviour altogether (however, they still want the prestige that comes with being a medical doctor!).  They look everything from a bad childhood to alien abductions to explain such things as psychosis and manic depression, even though no scientific study has ever proven the theories on which their claims are based.  The next group, the standard issue biopsychiatrists are a little more up to date.  They would admit the obvious scientific truth that someone who hears voices or is immobilized by a deep depression is psysically ill.  However, they drop the ball as well.  Most biologically based psychiatrists give very vague answers about the causes of mental illness, and rely on a few biological treatments which are tried on the patient almost randomly until one seems to &quot;work&quot;.  For instance, a depressed person will be given one antidepressant drug after another without the doctor even stopping to consider that the deprssion may result from anemia, a thyroid imbalance, poor nutrition or a  host of other causes. Many psyciatric patients today are not even given a blood test, an EEG or any other genuine medical test before traetment is prescribed.  Walker points out that until people are given a battery of tests, we will never really know what is wrong with them.  Prozac or tranquilizers may make the! m feel better temporatily, but they could be literally dying.  He also attacks the concepts of hypochodndria and facetious disorder.  For the most part, he argues, these are destructive labels used to protect doctors and stigmatized patients (&quot;if I can't figure out what is wrong with you then it is all in you're head and/or you are just making it up&quot;)  While I don't agree with all his points (for instance, his extreme anti-prozac position) I must say that this book is must reading for anyone in need of mental health care.	1998-04-22
US	52767701	R2TPAJCVDB5UP4	0060950765	622394822	Surviving Schizophrenia: A Manual for Families, Consumers and Providers	Books	5	21	25	N	N	An Excellent Summary of the Facts of Mental Illness.	This is really a great book for anyone who has had to deal with schizopphrenia or any other kind of psychosis, whether in themselves or in their family members or friends.  Torrey is the ultimate guide to understanding that serious mental disorders are brain diseases and that neither the sufferer nor his/her parents deserve any blame for causing them. Biopsychiatrists are often stereotyped as right-wing, simplistic and authoritarian.  Torrey is none of these.  While he criticises the extreme left he falls well within the economically liberal camp as an advocate of greater government spending to assist the menatlly ill.  Contrary to popular stereotype, he does not view ALL unusual behavior as the reult of a brain disease, only that which meets reasonable criteria.  For instance, cultural factors must be considered.  Someone who has lived all of his/her life in a Hatian cultural setting is likely to believe in voodoo because it is part of the culture. A conserevative Catholic is likely to believe that the sacramental wine transforms into blood during the Mass, etc.  These things seem unusual to outsiders, but are easily explained by social and cultural factors.  But what about a WASP businessman in Connecticut who all of a sudden stars behaving in an agitated manner and saying that his neighbors are using curses on him?  This would be a sign of a brain dirorder, since it exists outside of a social or cultural context and also because it leads to disordered behaior where genuine religious and cultural beliefs tend to give oder and meaning to life.  Another problem Torrey addresses is the issue of metaphor and figurative language.  We must ascertain whether the person who says that she has butterflies in her stomach literally believes this or is simply using the common English idiom to express nervousness and tension.  Thus, it is imperative that native-born American psyhiatrists be trained to understand the cultures of their immigrant and minority patients and that immigrant psychiatrists be trained to!  understand the culture of the majority population so that tragic misdiagnoses do not occur. When we have reason to believe that someone has schizophrenia or some other major mental/brain disorder it is necessary to get them on the proper medication and keep them on it.  Torrey has done much to de-stigmatize psychiatric medication.  Why is it so bizzare or shameful that an organ in you body (in this case the brain) has some kind of chemical imbalance and that you need medication to correct it so that you can live a normal life? We don't judge asthmatics or diabetics after all.   It would be impossibe to mention all of the brilliant ponts that Torrey makes in the book, so at this point, I can only reccommend that people who's lives have been touched by mental illness read it and live by its advice.	1998-04-12
US	52767701	RP1B19AFWK1E8	0824513525	509998912	Suicide: The Forever Decision	Books	2	110	133	N	N	Extremely judgmental and often ignorant.	In negatively reviewing this book, I feel like the Grinch that stole Christmas since so many people say that it has helped them.  If it has, the wonderful.  However, I found Quinnett's much publicised and lauded master work to be trite, superficial and uninformed by genuine behavior and brain science.  He thinks that people who kill themselves are like everybody else.  He often says things to them like your anger is just like mine, your grief and frustration are just like mine, etc.  Sorry, Dr. Q., but unless you have manic depression, major depression, scizophrenia or any of these other MEDICAL and BIOLOGICAL conditions that cause abnormal behavior, the you don't know how we feel anymore than you know how a rape victim feels unless you've been raped.  People who kill themselves do so because they had no other choice given their brain chemistry at the time of the deed, and the options open to them.  If you want help us, then give us the proper medical care and stop preaching and telling us how much you want us to grow up and be responsible and think positive thoughts.  To be fair, their are portions of this book which deal with suicide as the health issue that it is.  He does, after all, recommend that people undergoing a suicidal crisis be hospitalized, that they see psychaitrists and take medication, etc.  But then he spends much more of the book moralizing about suicide and talking about how life is a gift and how could you be so bad as to throw it away, and think of all the poor weeping relatives you will leave behind, ad neauseum.  Sorry pal, but a life tormented a mood disorder is not much of a &quot;gift&quot; (if someone gave you a piece of s*** for Christmas, wouldn't you throw it away?) and as for all the people that I would leave behind if my disease got the better of me, I DO feel sorry for them, I just don't feel guilty.  Suicide is like a heart attack--something went wrong and the organ in question (whether brain or heart) turned on itself).  All the moralism in the world cannot change!  facts of behavior science.  This book is to suicide what Nancy Reagan's &quot;Just Say No&quot; slogan was to the drug issue. To my fellow victims of mental illness: Take your lithium or prozac, get a good non-judgmental therapist, go on with your lives and send irrational guilt back to the Dark Ages where it belongs.	1998-04-10
US	52767701	R143EMHWPV4YMR	1881780074	480019950	The Camp of the Saints	Books	1	29	175	N	N	Idiotic and Hateful	This is the most hateful and depraved fictional story I have ever seen.  It is terribly unrealistic as well--presenting Asian immigrants as dirty parsites when in reality Asians in Western nations are hard working and extremely educated and productive.  East Indians are demonized most of all by this book--but most East Indians I know are either medical personnell or small business owners.  Hardly parasites, they provide us with their skills and also pay taxes.  The author and his cult of followers should open themselves up the the light of love and understanding.  Love casts out fear.	1998-03-12
US	52767701	RAHR5ECFO2K20	0671675230	803536478	Anger: The Misunderstood Emotion	Books	2	56	80	N	N	All the old norms and myths in a new package	This book is extremely well written and contains many fascinating little tidbits of info on history, culture, religion and philosophy, but it was ultimately a bad book on anger.  Anger is indeed the &quot;misunderstood emotion&quot; and Dr. Tavris understands it least of all.  For her it is a mere social and/or political construct that is bad and can be programmed away.  Her attitude reminds me of that old Twilight Zone eppisode aboute the society where everyone had to think &quot;happy thoghts&quot; all the time because the dictator could read your mind and would do horrible things to you if you weren't sunny and joyful.   It seems obvious to me that the feelings in the rich spectrum of human emotions are fundamentally good because they were given to us by nature to enhance our survival if used properly.  &quot;Dark&quot; emotions such as anger are tools to protect the self and the soul against physical or spiritual predators.  Certainly many people overemphasize anger, but they are usually people who have been hurt a lot, so their defense systems have been programmed to be over-active.   In her zeal against this emotion, Dr. Tavris glorifies cultures and religions that share her distaste for expressions of anger.  Two of her favorites tend to be the early Christians (before the converion of the barbarians)  and the traditional Japanese.  Admittedly both of these groups had good traits, but they obviosly suffered from their rigid emotional control.  For instance, they turned their anger against themselves.  Frankly, I would rather live in a culture that tolerates a little too much swearing and bickering than cultures where the highest expression of virtue is to be fed to lions or to impale oneself on a sword.  Of course, the martyrs and the samurai accepted their fates graciously with a smile (or at least not a grimace) on their faces, so Tavris considers them paragons of mental health. Jews, on the other hand, tend to complain and fight back when they are oppressed and hurt (imagine that!)  so they figure in (along with Arabs) as one of Dr. Tavris' least favorite ethnic/religious groups.  Of course, her anti-Semitism is very sugar-coated and non-angry.  She doesn't hate the Jews, she just wishes they would be nice and stop being so overly expressive and sarcastic.   And, even though her political convictions seem pretty left-wing (in a genteel, Ivy League cocktail party sense), she does not seem to see anger as playing a legitimate role in motivating feminists, gay people or minorities to revolutionary change.  She is not against much needed social change, of course. They should just be done in a polite manner.  P.S. Have a happy, anger-free day! (laugh)	1998-02-19
US	52767701	R3TQXZVERSYG1N	0679745858	437691726	I'm Dysfunctional, You're Dysfunctional: The Recovery Movement and Other Self-Help	Books	2	25	32	N	N	Well written but ignores many of the facts.	Ms. Kaminer's book was interesting to read and shows that she spent a lot of time and effort researching the recovery movement and other self-help trends.  However, I was ultimately struck by her profound ignorance of human psychology and the very real suffering that mental illness and family dysfunction can cause, even among the econaomically privilaged.  She analyzes everything in terms of what she considers to be &quot;real&quot; problems and problems that for her do not qualify as &quot;real.&quot;  It's O.K. to complain if you are poor or physically ill or injured.  Everyone else should just get a life and stop complaining.  In her more paranoid moments, she seems to accuse anyone interested in self-help of being part of some right-wing conspiracy to divert attention away from the needs of the poor.  This, despite the fact that almost eveyone in the self-help movement is a liberal.  She also ignores the issue of suicide--one of the major causes of death in our society.  People from &quot;privilaged&quot; backgrounds kill themselves all the time, so the must have &quot;real problems.&quot;  In fact, some studies have shown that youth from upper-class environments tend to be under a grat deal of stress because of the constant demands to be more than average and the lack of tolerance for weakness or failure that characterizes our &quot;Yuppie&quot; subculture.  Ms. Kaminer also seems skeptical of the reality of physical and sexual abuse and alcolholism among the educated classes, despite overweaming clinical evidence that these diseases are universal.  Finally, I would like to point out that she tends to lump people together who have little in common and then tar them all with the same brush.  For instance she seems to equate the humane, complex spiritual philosophies of Dr. M. Scott Peck and Rabbi Kushner with the backward religious fundamentalism of people like Dr. James Dobson. Ultimately, the book projects a lack of compassion or understanding for its complexand diverse subject matter.	1998-02-08
US	52767701	RJH4BLNSB3QYO	0020365659	98356332	The Angry Book	Books	5	21	25	N	N	An excellent look at anger	Dr. Rubin's brilliant book on anger releases the reader from all of the negative messages about anger that we have been brought up with in just about every culture. He shows that anger is a natural human emotion and to reject  it is as silly and destrutive as rejecting any other basic part of our humanity.  He also demonstrates that most problems we connect with anger (violence, hatred and rage)  are really the result of trying to deny and repress our anger.   Definately one of the best self-help books of all time.	1998-02-08
