US	52769068	R37SYZL7PGPL75	0451204123	161070434	The Association	Books	4	1	5	N	N	ONE OF THE MOST BIZZAREST NOVELS I'VE EVER READ!	I think that &quot;The Association&quot; was one of Bentley Little's most exciting and interesting novels yet. I also feel that &quot;The Association&quot; was one of the most bizzare novels of Little's too. Most people who live in gated communities are hard-working, affluent individuals who can afford the luxury of having a security gate or a sturdy cement wall surrounding their community. These people live in places like this because they feel safe and happy, right? Well, not exactly. <BR>     Enter horror novelist, Barry and his wife, Maureen. They decided to move to escape the crowded and bustling way of life of Los Angeles and move to a little mountain town about one hundred miles away from Salt Lake City. When Barry &amp; Maureen see this nice house with a great view, in the pristine mountains, they are immediately in love with it. It is located in the Bonita Vista (Pretty View) Association. They get the house for an EXTREMELY good price and they move right in with help from their friends from LA. They also get a large book named &quot;The Bonita Vista CC &amp; R's.&quot; Things start out real nice and friendly until they find a dead cat in their mailbox. Next comes the pink slips from the association warning them that there can be no plants planted without approvement from the association and no yard sales permitted at all. Soon after, a notice arrives along with fines saying there are no pets allowed, no bringing in of friends from outside Bonita Vista, no family pictures displayed around the house, no couples that are not married can live together, no cooking of Asian foods, no working out of your home, and other ridiculous rules that would drive a person right out of this psychotic place. Barry and Maureen vow not to let this push them out of their house. They try and get information from neighbors, but the majority of the neighbors are lunatics who like this dictatorship way of living. They can not be trusted. Barry decides to call the police but is shocked to realize from the neighbors that the police do not have jurisdiction in the homeowners associations. They have their own sheriff, SHERIFF HITMAN. (Interesting name, huh?). As time moves on, Barry and Maureen notice that their sane neighbors who had problems with the association start dying horrible deaths. Barry vows to hunt down the leaders of the association and terminate this freaks. This novels just keeps on going and going with bizarre confrontations and messages. The ending is the only thing I didn't like about this novel. I felt it was a little odd with the inside of the house turning into a coliseum and the quick ending. In my opinion, Bentley Little is not just the master of horror, HE IS ONE OF THE MASTERS OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SUSPENSE!	2001-09-07
US	52769068	R1ECDMJFB2PIGW	0312979797	805000186	Since You've Been Gone	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A DEFINITE &quot;BUY IT NOW&quot; MUST READ THRILLER!	Carlene Thompson has written another blockbuster thrill-ride of a novel. Mrs. Thompson is going out on a limb with this one. &quot;Since You've Been Gone&quot; deals with a woman, Rebecca Ryan, who has ESP psychological powers. Occasionally, Rebecca will get visions in her head of another person's feelings or events that are happening to this particular person. In the past, Rebecca has even helped the police solve a few crimes. Unfortunately, there was one case in particular that Rebecca could not solve- the disappearance and murder of her younger brother, Jonnie, ten or so years ago. The killer was never apprehended.<BR>     Rebecca is currently living in New Orleans and she gets a call from her cousin Molly saying that their Aunt Esther has cancer and requests for her presence in West Virginia, the Ryan family's hometown. Rebecca immediately travels up there and on the way, she gets an attack vision of a little boy being kidnapped and being held hostage in a dark, depressing room. He is sad and in mental pain. Rebecca crashes her car into a famous tree in front of a local restaurant. She wakes up later to see Dr. Clay, and old attractive friend back from high school. After Rebecca feels better, she receives news that her cousin Molly's son, Todd, has been kidnapped and that the boy in her vision was Todd. This novels heats up drastically when the kidnapper taunts Rebecca with notes and haunting music. As Rebecca, Molly, and Clay try to determine who kidnapped Todd and what happened to Jonnie, Rebecca has to deal with her drunken mother, Suzanne, and her stepfather, FRANK. This novel of paranormal suspense is right up there with Kay Hooper's psychic series. Carlene Thompson is most certainly one of the best.	2001-09-07
US	52769068	R31FGMI29V3HHF	0553583441	789284175	Touching Evil: A Bishop/Special Crimes Unit Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	ANOTHER POWERFUL PSYCHIC TRIOLOGY UNDERWAY!	I was so jublilated to discover that Kay Hooper has written another psychic murder mystery series. I absolutely loved all of her previous &quot;Shadow Series&quot; novels and I think that the &quot;Evil Series&quot; will be just as good. &quot;Touching Evil&quot; featured everyone's favorite psychic FBI Agent, Noah Bishop! The plot: Women are getting murdered, maimed, and mutilated in Seattle, Washington. Luckily, one of the victims survived her horrific experience. Sketch artist Maggie O'Connor is called in by the Seattle PD to help recreate a picture of the city's latest psychopath from the surviving victim. Maggie has psychic abilities. When she goes to visit the crime scenes, visions come into her head. Either of pictures of the murder or scenes from the victims eyes. A powerful businessman needs Maggie to help catch this killer because this psychopath butchered his sister. As the case intensifies, and the danger for Maggie's life escalates, Agent Bishop is called in to help. This novel keeps the suspense pounding the whole way like a nerve shattering roller coaster ride all the way until the exciting finale. I can't wait for &quot;Whisper of Evil&quot; in March 2002!	2001-08-31
US	52769068	R31VHWTX2BGTTZ	0380792494	158033193	Devil's Claw (Joanna Brady Mysteries, Book 8)	Books	2	3	5	N	N	SORRY JUDITH, YOU DON'T GET MY VOTE!	The bottom line: I really didn't like this book. I found the plot and action to be very slow moving and uninteresting. One thing I did like was Sheriff Brady. I thought she was a good solidly created character, but the plot just didn't have that exciting pace that a Hoag, Hooper, Johansen, or Cornwell novel does. Another thing that I didn't particulary care for was the whole eagle thing with the young girl. It kind of a gave off a somewhat ridiculous indian spirit kind of feeling. I also found it kind of unnecessary to have the part about Joanna's neighbor's death and his daughter. Of course if you are a fan of J.A. Jance, then I'm sure you'll like &quot;The Devil's Claw&quot; and these kind of &quot;small town&quot; mysteries. If you enjoy more hard-core suspense and don't like the &quot;country down south&quot; novels, then you won't like &quot;The Devil's Claw.	2001-08-31
US	52769068	R3KL4NN6KVBHSM	0553802380	89887514	The Next Accident	Books	5	7	8	N	N	ONE OF THE BEST SUSPENSE NOVELS I'VE READ IN MY LIFETIME!	In my opinion, Lisa Gardner is one of the most talented novelists that there is on this planet. &quot;The Next Accident&quot; and all of her other three previous novels are magnificent masterpieces of psychological suspense. I actually think she is better than most of the female authors I've mentioned in earlier reviews. &quot;The Next Accident&quot; is Gardner's best novel yet, BY FAR! This one featured Rainie Connor and FBI Agent Pierce Quincy, (who were also in &quot;The Third Victim). Quincy who lives in Virginia close to the FBI Quantico Headquarters, gets news that his daughter has been killed in a fatal car accident. Foul play is suspected. As Pierce tries to piece together the last events of his daughters past and try to narrow down a list of possible suspects with grudges, he starts to worry about his other family members, like his other daughter and his ex-wife. When another tragedy strikes, he goes to Portland, Oregon, to ask for Rainie's help. As Rainie and Pierce work together they have a hard time keep their attraction for each other a secret. Steamy romance and incessant suspense are non-stop in this fabulous thriller. Lisa, you have made it to the top of my list! I can't wait for you next one!	2001-08-31
US	52769068	RJFZ9LSAWGD9R	0446527130	118908960	Envy	Books	5	19	19	N	N	WHAT A FASCINATING WORK OF SUSPENSE! PROBABLY SANDRA'S BEST!	&quot;Envy&quot; just backs up my theory that Sandra Brown is as good of a suspense writer as a romance writer. When I received the Advanced Readers Copy of this novel two months ago, I was captivated throughout reading it. It was extremely arduous to put down at times. The neat thing about &quot;Envy&quot; is that the book actually takes on two separate stories of these two men's lives. The plot: Maris Matherly Reed is one of the head executives at Matherly Reed Publishing Houses, which her father owns. One day she is going through a bunch of mail and discovers a manuscript of a prologue from a writer who just leaves his intitials, PME. She loves the way this man writes and she finds the plot quite interesting and intriguing. She tries to track down this mysterious man on an island off the coast of Georgia, but finds her self shunned away immediately. As Maris tries to communicate with this writer, her husband, slimeball Noah Reed, has his own little agenda. Not only is he sleeping with another woman, but he wants to take over Matherly Publishing, even if it meets killing Maris's own father. Noah comes to be a major character later on in the story when the reader finds out who Parker Evans really is and what is intention is for Maris to come to this island. This an amazing story of betrayl, friendship, and deception, with an exciting conclusion that makes the reader feel satisfied and shocked. Sandra Brown is one of the best!	2001-08-31
US	52769068	R198J21O8SWG2E	0345447832	383802287	The Surgeon	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A FABULOUS MEDICAL THILLER!	It seems to me that Tess Gerritsen is slowing changing over from the Medical Suspense category to the Suspense category. Sure, &quot;The Surgeon&quot; had some of the medical jargon that sometimes drove me crazy because I am so ignorant when it comes to anything medical, (of course I'm only 17), but it didn't have a fraction as much as &quot;Life Support&quot; and &quot;Harvest.&quot; This book dealt with a serial killer who rapes and murders his victims. The police who are stumped, turn to Dr. Catherine Cordell, a surgeon who works at the local hospital. She was attacked a few years ago by a similar assailant in the same manner, but lived. The only problem is that Catherine killed her attacker back then. The police start to wonder if maybe someone is copying Catherine's attacker. The police find that the victims all reported sexual attacks earlier on in their lives. The investigation turns from the streets of Boston to the hospital that Catherine works in, when Catherine starts having a stalker. This novel is definitely an exciting thrill-ride with not too much medical gibberish that the book will confuse the reader who does not have a lot of medical background. I hope Tess's next book will be this good.	2001-08-30
US	52769068	R3UXDDUT2GVTX2	0060196254	751205471	The Associate	Books	4	1	1	N	N	ONE OF MARGOLIN'S BEST!	I was lucky enough to get an Advanced Readers Copy of this novel, even though I paid a little more money. I just couldn't wait till it was released. Phillip Margolin is one of my favorite courtroom thriller authors. &quot;The Associate&quot; was very interesting. It dealt with Daniel Ames, a lawyer working for a firm in Oregon. He is defending a pharmaceutical company aganist allegations that one of their drugs is the cause to many disfunctions and problems with newborn children. The case picks up steam when a scientist who works for the company gets burned to death. The novel gets more complex from then on, going deeper into the studies of the company and more research. The conclusion is shocking and exciting. This is a must read for courtroom and Margolin fans. Margolin is ten times better than Grisham &amp; Turow!<BR>Brad Stonecipher	2001-08-30
US	52769068	R27YTFSVNWFYOX	0399147381	304671626	Hemlock Bay (FBI Thrillers, No. 6)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	TAKE A SUSPENSEFUL JOURNEY INTO HEMLOCK BAY!	Overall, I would say that &quot;Hemlock Bay&quot; was an exciting, fast-paced, worthwile read. In some ways, I agree with other readers when they say that it wasn't as good as &quot;The Edge&quot; or a few of her previous novels, but it is still a must read for the fans of the Savich/Sherlock series. When FBI Agent Dillion Savich gets news that his sister was in a car accident and that there might have been foul play involved, he immediately travels to California to check on her and to investigate. Unfortunately, Savich and his wife, FBI Agent Lacey Sherlock, have to leave behind a current case he is working on that deals with two killers and ghouls. One escaped and is on the run. While there in California, (Hemlock Bay) is the name of the town, he starts to find a conspiracy between his sister's husband and his parents that deals with art fraud. The Savich's family had a lot of expensive art in their family and when the grandmother died the majority of the art went to Dillion's sister. This would be an interesting novel for you if you are an art dealer or gallery owner. This book is very exciting because it takes on two separate cases and it takes readers across the country and across the world. The conclusion is very satisfying and it leaves the reader feeling like they bought a good book. Catherine Coulter is one of my favorite female authors of suspense!<BR>Brad Stonecipher	2001-08-30
US	52769068	R1GDL3TJIKG7UG	0786012668	386494727	Cold Fear	Books	3	5	8	N	N	GOOD, BUT NOT WORTH THE COST!	I enjoyed this novel of survival and suspense from Rick Mofina, but I don't believe it was worth the seven fifty. In some parts of the novel, it just dragged on and moved slowly. I thought it was odd that the police just assumed Doug and Emily were guilty for the disappearance of their daughter because Doug cut his hand on the ax. I also felt that the jail break and the chase after, Doug and Emily's daughter, Paige, was kind of thrown in there just for the end. In some ways, this novel left the author wondering a lot about why the family even bothered to go on this ridiculous camping trip. If you want to read a novel about surviving in the wilderness and surviving mental breakdowns then read this novel. If you are a hard-core suspense fan, then SAVE YOUR TIME &amp; YOUR MONEY!	2001-08-16
US	52769068	R3DOPOLXLTCLR4	0821768417	795288565	Hot Blooded (Zebra Romantic Suspense)	Books	5	63	66	N	N	ABSOLUTELY PHENOMENAL!  DESERVES SIX STARS!!	I am extremely elated that Lisa Jackson is now writing suspense novels. I have always known her to be a prolific romance novelist. &quot;Hot Blooded&quot; was my first novel of hers that I've read. I loved the whole thing. It says on the side that it's a Romantic Suspense, but it is practically all suspense. The plot: Talk show host Dr. Samantha Leeds is being stalked. She is receiving phone threats and letters saying that she needs to be repented for her sins and that she will die soon. Sam doesn't understand what this nutcase is talking about until a girl calls up saying her name is &quot;Annie.&quot; This frightens Sam even more. (I won't explain about Annie because that would take about a decade in writing). At the same time, prostitutes are being found murdered with a set of rosary beadsk, at the same time Samantha is on the radio. Detective Rick Benz and his partner belive that the prostitution murders are connected to Sam's stalker. This novel keeps up the pace all the way until the shocking finale that leaves room for a sequel, &quot;Cold Blooded,&quot; coming June 02. I am now in the middle of &quot;If She Only Knew,&quot; Lisa's one other suspense novel.	2001-08-16
US	52769068	R2AKV2RL6LELA8	1551668351	659497798	Split Second (Maggie O'Dell Novels)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	AN AMAZING, FAST-PACED, INCREDIBLE SEQUEL!	Alex Kava is one of the best suspense authors that there is. She has only written two novels but both of them are on the same level of a Tami Hoag or Kay Hooper thriller. Make sure that you read Kava's first novel, &quot;A Perfect Evil&quot; before you read &quot;Split Second.&quot; Both novels feature the hard-boiled and exciting FBI Agent Maggie O'Dell. She is a very enjoyable character to read about with a great attitude. Maggie put Albert Stuckey, a sociopath that loved to murder women and leave their entrails hanging out, away in prison about eight months ago after being forced to watch Stuckey perform one of his murders. Unfortunately, Stuckey has escaped from prison after overpowering two guards on the way from the jail to a psychiatric facility. He is now determined to make Agent O'Dell pay for putting him in prison. He is killing every woman who is an acquaintance of O'Dell, like the pizza delivery girl and a waitress. O'Dell is afraid of her own life and the lives of every woman she makes contact with. This is a pulse-pounding, non-stop action thriller, that keeps readers on the edge of their seat all the way until the shocking finale, that could easily be a major movie. Alex Kava will definitely make it &quot;big&quot; with this suspense masterpiece.	2001-08-01
US	52769068	R3ALAHBG5HOPR	034543448X	437097764	Demolition Angel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	MOVE OVER ELVIS COLE, BECAUSE CAROL STARKEY HAS ARRIVED!	I am extremely happy to see Robert Crais break away from his light-hearted Elvis Cole novels because &quot;Demolition Angel&quot; was my kind of novel. No offense to Elvis Cole lovers, but I do not like to read suspense novels that have a lot of humor in them. I like to read about a lot more serious and intelligent investigators, like FBI Agent Carol Starkey. She reminds me more of like Agent Maggie O'Dell from Alex Kava's FBI novels. The beginning of this novel starts out with a bang as an unknown man leaves a bomb next to a garbage can. Starkey's friend thinks the bomb is not that serious and is not cautious enough while approaching the bomb. He gets blown to pieces. While Carol is lamenting over the loss of her friend, she gets on the case of Mr. Red who leaves bombs for people to find. As Carol investigates she discovers that the bomber could be someone fairly close to the department. This is a nonstop race all the way until the end when the seconds are ticking away. If you like HARD CORE SUSPENSE NOVELS like John Sandford or Robert W. Walker and don't like the ELVIS COLE series, (like me) then you'll love &quot;Demolition Angel.&quot;	2001-07-22
US	52769068	RYU0CJZSCG80O	0451203593	897342569	24 Hours	Books	4	2	3	N	N	OH YEAH, IT'S ALL GOOD!!!!	\\"24 Hours\\" was my second Greg Iles novel and I found it absolutely fabulous! It was a non-stop thrill ride that would not slow down. Will & Karen Jennings are two respected members of their community and everything is going good for them until their daughter, Abby, gets kidnapped. Will is at a business conference and Karen is at home. A woman named Cheryl with the kidnapping appears at Will's side to watch over him and another psychopath stays with Karen until Will wires the ransom money into the kidnapper's account. Unfortunately, little Abby is in the hands of a ... individual named Huey, who is willing to kill Abby if his boss, (Karen's tormentor) tells him to. This novel brings the FBI in after a previous victim of another kidnapping done by the same three people, goes to tell the FBI that he has a feeling that the three will strike again. This novel takes readers on rides on the ground and in the air. The suspense keeps going all the way until the shocking finale! This is Greg Iles at his best!<br />Brad Stonecipher	2001-07-22
US	52769068	R4QBS5SFMIJ2L	0684859726	840593809	Fatal Voyage : A Novel	Books	4	11	12	N	N	WATCH OUT CORNWELL!!   REICHS IS BACK & BETTER THAN EVER!	Yeah, after reading \\"Fatal Voyage,\\" I honestly believe that Kathy Reichs is a better writer than Patricia Cornwell. Both Temperance Brennan & Kay Scarpetta are similar and strong characters (except maybe in \\"Black Notice\\"), but I would say that Brennan is more realistic and more enjoyable to read about. I found \\"Fatal Voyage\\" to be extremely different then Reichs's previous novels. Mostly Brennan is in the morgue cutting up and doing an autopsy on ONE person. In \\"Fatal Voyage,\\" an aircraft has crashed in the mountains outside of Virginia, taking down an entire school club organization with it. Tempe has to sift through hundreds of bodies and plane wreckage to try and determine if the crash was an accident or a deliberate act of murder. Authorities claim that the crash was deliberate and try to determine if the passengers had any major enemies. Most of their investigation turns up nothing and leave the investigators stumped. Brennan, along with her secret love from previous novels, accidently stumble upon some shocking news about the local town around the crash site. She discovers that there were an extremely high amount of deaths over the last ten years. As she investigates more she gets uncomfortable feelings from the local townspeople that she discovered something secretive about the town. The ending of \\"Fatal Voyage\\" was extremely surprising as the story took off on two different directions. The question for us Cornwell/Reichs readers is: Will \\"Isle of Dogs\\" be better than \\"Fatal Voyage?\\" I guess we'll have to wait until October 8 to find out!....	2001-07-22
US	52769068	R2078LJKI8S2QB	0786865644	916635301	Parallel Lies	Books	5	8	10	N	N	WOW, WHAT A THRILLING  &amp; EXHILIRATING RIDE!!  GO RIDLEY!	I have read all of Ridley Pearson's novels that he has written and he is definitely one of my favorite authors. He defintely ranks right up there with James Patterson, John Sandford, and Jonathan Kellerman. I believe that &quot;Parallel Lies&quot; was one of his best novels yet! I received an Advanced Reading Copy of &quot;Parallel Lies&quot; two months ago and I was shocked at how good it was. This novel could definitely be a movie because Ridley paints such a great picture of the setting and the surroundings, especially during the train rides. The plot: A man by the name of Umberto Alvarez holds a grudge against one of the biggest railroad companies because their lights and warning signals around a railroad track crossing failed to warn his wife and children that a train was approaching. His whole family was killed by the train. Umberto feels a need to try and destroy all of this companies railroad cars. Peter Tyler is the investigator called in to try and determine who is wrecking these trains. Peter must try and stop Umberto before he gets to the companies new FAST Train and ruins that one. Unfortunately, Peter discovers some rotten details about the companies' way of running business. The ending of this novel was WONDERFUL! I felt so satisfied at the end. If you are going to read one novel this summer, read &quot;Parallel Lies!&quot; Oh, by the way, you might want to fasten your seatbelts.	2001-07-04
US	52769068	R1NF5ZK3RBTEDE	1551668246	870830835	A Perfect Evil (Maggie O'Dell)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	DAMN, THIS WOMEN CAN WRITE AND IT'S HER FIRST NOVEL!	I was shocked to read that &quot;A Perfect Evil&quot; was Alex Kava's debut novel! She can write like she is a Mary Higgins Clark and a Patricia Cornwell. I read the whole book in a day. It was hard to put down because Kava kept the twists and turns coming around every little chapter. The characters Nick and Maggie were extremely well developed and interesting to read about. They worked together trying to deduce who was the killer, while at the same time, trying to keep their hormones contained. The killer was identified earlier on in the book but Kava kept casting doubt throughtout the whole novel making the reader reallly wonder. The sequel, Split Second, will be in stores August 1. Everyone has to read that one since the killer got away at the end of &quot;A Perfect Evil.&quot; Alex Kava has EXTREME potential for making it HUGE in the writing world. If &quot;Split Second&quot; is just as good then she may lead the female serial killer genre.<br />Brad Stonecipher	2001-07-01
US	52769068	R159BODXQ0A2CD	1551668076	599161671	Gathering Lies	Books	5	8	8	N	N	WOW, WHAT AN ADVENTURE!	&quot;Gathering Lies&quot; was one of those novels that was hard to put down because the suspense was incessant. This novel takes place on a little, beautiful island off the coast of Seattle. Attorney Sarah Lansing accepts an invitation from old friend named Timothea, to come spend a week at her writers colony with five other potential writers on the island. Sarah happily agrees because she is in the middle of a total mess back in Seattle. She is trying to prosecute four policemen for brutally raping and beating a prostitute to death. The policemen have been after Sarah lately because she has a key piece of evidence that could put them away. Sarah plans to write a novel about corrupt police and include the incident in Seattle. When she gets to the island, a huge earthquake hits (9.1 on the scale), all the buildings collapse and leave one women dead and the other women seek shelter in an abandoned house where Sarah's old friend used to live. Then two strangers, Luke &amp; Gabe, appear and Sarah's evidence disappears. She and the other women are deeply attracted to both these men. But, which one can they trust? One is there to help and one harbors a deadly secret. This is an amazing novel and may be Meg O'Brien's best yet!<br />Brad Stonecipher	2001-07-01
US	52769068	R2IRWFFA0KZTTY	1551665166	177184279	Crashing Down	Books	5	3	3	N	N	AN EXTREMELY GOOD MYSTERY NOVEL!	I just discovered Meg O'Brien about a week ago and decided to give &quot;Crashing Down&quot; a try. I fullfillingly enjoyed the whole novel. It says on the cover &quot;If you like Mary Higgins Clark, then you'll love Meg O'Brien,&quot; that is definitely TRUE! She's just as good. The story revolves around a woman named Carrie, who was sexually abused at age eight by her father, who was a pastor, and by a teacher who worked in her father's church. Carrie is now about thirty and has moved away from her hometown. Her father is long dead at this point and she has tried to forget about the teacher who raped her. Carrie's now an prolific author who writes books about abuse and children. She is invited to speak at a function back in her hometown, she nervously accepts. Carrie is even more startled to discover that the main head speaker is man named Christopher. HE WAS THE SAME MAN WHO MOLESTED HER WHEN SHE WAS YOUNG! He is now the new Mr. Rogers, the host and sponsor of a child's program! Carrie is shocked and is determined to bring down this monster before he can abuse more children. She turns to local cop named Nick, but is afraid to give away too much. Carrie goes to confront Chris at the local church but he isn't there and she meets one of Chris's followers, a little girl named Tess, who looks sore and red on her legs. Carrie then discovers that her sister who was a teenager committed sucicide a few months earlier. Is Christopher still molesting little girls or is there another person who follows in Chris's tradition? This is an amazing and somewhat frightening novel of suspense. If you are a fan of Erica Spindler, Helen R. Myers, or Christiane Heggan, then you'll love this book!	2001-06-28
US	52769068	R2YQAKHLA7VBKU	1551665867	196833459	Sacred Trust	Books	5	5	5	N	N	ANOTHER FABULOUS O'BRIEN THRILLER!!!!!	After reading &quot;Crashing Down,&quot; I knew I had to read Meg O'Brien's other novels, so I ran out and bought them. It's always like that when you read a good book by a new author. &quot;Sacred Trust&quot; was quite different then &quot;Crashing Down.&quot; It takes place in the gorgeous, picturesque, town of Carmel, California! (I personally love that town!) Abby Northrup is startled to wake up one morning and hear the news that her old best friend Marti Bright has been murdered. Her body was placed on a wooden cross with nails stuck through her hands and she was severly beaten to death. Next to the body was the word &quot;Abby.&quot; The Carmel PD believe that Abby might have killed her. Abby is shocked and decides to investigate the death of her old friend on her own. As she tries to narrow down the suspects with the FBI and police on her tail, she uncovers many new revelations like her husband's blackmailing scheme in order to obtain land and Marti's son's foster parents have disappeared. The novel leaves the reader confused at points but the ending is extremely shocking and sums the book up well. I'm already in the middle of reading &quot;Gathering Lies,&quot; her newest novel!	2001-06-28
US	52769068	R5AJVCJQNCWQV	0446609781	332779254	Beneath the Skin	Books	2	4	15	N	N	MYSTERY/ SUSPENSE FANS: YOU WON'T LIKE THIS BOOK!	I do not understand why numerous previous readers have ranted and raved so much about &quot;Beneath The Skin&quot; as being a suspenseful and exciting read that is extremely hard to put down. These people obviously have not read enough authors to know what good suspense is. I have read thousands of mystery/suspense and romantic suspense novels and &quot;Beneath The Skin doesn't get come close to being as good as those were. Suspense? GIVE ME A BREAK, it is hard to stay awake while reading this incessant biography of all these three brain-dead women who go through a traumatic time period of receiving threats in the mail. Now people, doesn't this seem a little childish? These women are getting death threats and perverse sexual letters in the mail. Come on Mrs/Mr. French, isn't that a little juvenile? To me this sounds like an R.L. Stine Fear Street novel or Christopher Pike novel, which are for eight to thirteen year olds. Here are some parts of the novels that are so ridiculous that they shock me: After the first woman, Zoe, is murdered after one hundred and twenty pages of her life story, and another women, Jenny, gets a another series of letters from the same author, the police fail to tell Jenny that she better watch out. The police officer is too busy having sexual relations with her. This is the same story with the third woman, but luckily for the readers, this one has a few brains her head. Give me a break! The story was just so slow-moving and repetitive that I was so glad that I could finish it. If you like Tami Hoag, Iris Johansen, Kay Hooper, or Carlene Thompson, then you will hate this book because it's not even in the same ballpark as the ones that I just mentioned. BE SMART, SAVE YOUR MONEY!	2001-06-19
US	52769068	RASXKVYH9D7IR	0553800949	899995514	Final Target	Books	4	5	7	N	N	NOT AS GOOD AS HER PREVIOUS TWO!	Well, I have to admit, I was a little disappointed with Iris Johansen's latest novel, &quot;Final Target.&quot; Don't get me wrong, the book was good and worthwile to read, but I don't think it was as good as &quot;The Search.&quot; and &quot;The Killing Game.&quot; I thought that the plot was a little too slow at times and there was a moderate amount of storyline that had nothing to do with the main objective, such as the diamond part of the story. I liked the characters a lot although. Jessica and Melissa Riley were interesting characters to read about, so was Michael Travis. The exciting parts in this book, like the museum scene and the church scene were very fun and action-packed. If you want a good book to read, then buy &quot;Final Target,&quot; although in my opinion, &quot;The Search&quot; was better.	2001-06-05
US	52769068	R24CQ1Y2SX3NUH	0451409841	192656177	Still Life	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A TYPICAL, PREDICTABLE POLICE NOVEL!	Bruce Elliot's first novel, \\"Still Life,\\" is nothing to run out to the stores in a hurriedly manner and buy as soon as you can. It is a good novel, don't get me wrong, but it is very predictable and similar to every other suspense serial killer novel that there is in the world. The main character, Detective Ariel \\"Touch\\" Benson, is a very unlikeable character who acts likes a loser because of his large amounts of problems and excess usage of profanity on every page. The ending was very easy to figure out and typical. If you need a book just to fill up time, then read \\"Still Life,\\" ....	2001-05-27
US	52769068	R1RJ5RH2RIXP7	0451202473	91466535	Bones	Books	4	6	7	N	N	I'M SHOCKED. GOOD WRITING JAN!	&quot;Bones&quot; was my second novel that I have read by Jan Burke. The first one was called &quot;Liar.&quot; I absolutely hated &quot;Liar!&quot; It was so slow. The main character, Irene Kelly, was a sap to read about. The mystery was just sooo ridiculous and I had to put it down after page 200. &quot;Bones&quot; is much, much different. It is a fascinating novel of suspense and Irene Kelly has turned into a Dr. Temperance Brennan (Kathy Reichs) or Dr. Kay Scarpetta (Patricia Cornwell) character. The whole beginning of &quot;Bones&quot; kept the readers on the edge of their seat on the wild ride with a serial killer through the Sierra Nevadas and into the city of Las Piernas. The climax and ending were both exhilirating and suspenseful! If you were like me and did not any of Jan Burke's older novels, then try &quot;Bones&quot; and &quot;Flight&quot; because that is where Jan Burke shines.	2001-05-27
US	52769068	R2QBNIH3C5YLRZ	0553580094	599241935	The Murder Channel	Books	1	3	4	N	N	THIS CHANNEL NEEDS TO GO OFF AIR!	This was one of the worst serial killer thrillers I have ever read. I found the entire novel incredibly boring, sluggish, and unsuspenseful. The main character, Lucas Frank, was poorly developed and Felix, the killer, did not seem like a good candidate for a serial killer. It was a good thing that this novel was short because, the book was not exciting and seemed to take a long time to get through, even though it was only 322 pages. I did not like the ending either. I felt John Philpin did not do a good job with the conclusion of this novel. There were so many flashbacks throughout the entire novel that it drove me crazy. I have read many good novels this year, but &quot;The Murder Channel&quot; was definitely not one of them. Be smart and save your money.	2001-05-16
US	52769068	R2IFVSPB34GGH6	042517963X	355237978	Bitter Instinct	Books	5	5	6	N	N	WALKER IS BETTER THAN SANDFORD &amp; KELLERMAN!	Robert W. Walker is a fascinating author. I feel that he is one of the best suspense novelists there is. Every one of his Instinct novels and Edge novels are fun, exhilirating, and worthwile to read. FBI Agent Dr. Jessica Coran is a well-developed character, who is enjoyable and exciting to read about. In &quot;Bitter Instinct,&quot; there is a killer on the loose who is dubbed as The Poet. At the beginning of the novel, in Philadelphia, he has already killed three victims. Engraved with a sharp pen, the Poet poisons his victims and then writes a few lines of poetry on their back. The Philadelphia police are stumped and ask for the help of Jessica Coran. As Coran and her psychic agent, Kim Desinor, try to capture this sadistic killer, they have to be on the lookout for their own lives. After investigating for days and coming up with no leads, they get a call from a dean the local college who claims to know the identity of the killer. Is this prestigious professor a killer? Is it someone not affiliated with college? Or is it the dean herself? &quot;Bitter Instinct&quot; is an amazing novel with twists and turns everywhere. If you are going to read one suspense novel this summer, then read &quot;Bitter Instinct.&quot;	2001-05-14
US	52769068	R3CDEFGR5D1L19	0399147284	853678814	Chosen Prey	Books	5	54	59	N	N	SANDFORD LEADS THE SUSPENSE GENRE!	All of us Sandford fans deeply look forward each year for early May to come around because that mostly means the release of a new Prey novel! In &quot;Chosen Prey,&quot; Minneapolis Detective, Lucas Davenport, along with Marcy Sherrill, Sloan, Del, and Weather (Lucas fiance), return in one of John Sandford's most interesting and exciting Prey novels that he has written. The plot: James Qatar is a prestegious history professor at St. Patrick University in Minneapolis. He has a very secretive life on the side. He enjoys playing kinky sex games with women he barely knows and ends up killing them for pleasure. He also enjoys taking pictures of women and distorting their figures to look like they are participating in grotesque sexual activities. His method of murder: a rope. James Qatar is a very sick individual that has killed over eight women in three states. None of the cops have been able to link him to the murder. When a murdered women turns up in the barren woods, close to home to Lucas Davenport, he vows to find this killer who killed this beautiful woman. After investigating for a while, and with the assistance of and out of state officer, he discovers that three other women have mysteriously disappeared in Wisconsin. All these murders/ disappearances are connected. Can Davenport and the gang get James Qatar before he claims his next victim? The twelfth novel in this amazing series is a definite success!	2001-05-11
US	52769068	R33CLX5P783EC9	0684871270	971468860	The Blue Nowhere : A Novel	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A NEW KIND OF THRILLER FROM THE MALE MASTER OF SUSPENSE!	Most of the time Jeffery Deaver's novels include Lincoln Rhyme and Amelia Sachs or have other detectives who look for killers the old fashioned way, which is going through evidence, analyzing the crime scenes, hoping to find a fiber or hair that will link the killer to the victim. In &quot;The Blue Nowhere,&quot; Deaver takes the readers on an adventure ride through the INTERNET! It is very different, but is very good! The plot: There are two very skilled hackers in the California area, one is Wyatt Gillette, who is currently incarcarated for hacking into a business's files and doing illegal hacking. There is also a man known as Phate, who is a murderer. He hacks into his victim's computer or any other government computer and gets information, addresses, and friends of the victim. Phate can hack into absolutely anything! Frank Bishop, a detective for San Jose, California, needs the help of Wyatt Gillette because he believes that he is the only one that can help track down Phate. Gillette is temporarily released and is on the hunt. &quot;The Blue Nowhere,&quot; which means that world of computers, is an amazing novel. It's an exhilirating novel of cat and mouse on the net! By the way, the next time your surfing the Internet, be careful, because you may not be alone!	2001-05-09
US	52769068	R2BPW7NAEYN26X	0451202244	184026856	Above the Law	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Slow, Slow, Slow!	This book seemed to take a century to get through. The only part that I liked was the drug bust in the beginning with all the action and the assassination. After that it seemed that the book just dragged on and on. I like Luke Garrison, the main character, alot. If you are going on a vacation and need a book to read, then this won't be a bad choice if you need a time fillerg. Don't et me wrong, J.F. Freedman is a good author. I absolutely loved &quot;The Disappearance.&quot; That was a great book, but &quot;Above The Law&quot; was just too long and slow paced. I have faith in Freedman's next novel.	2001-04-29
US	52769068	R3SZ9SR1OWHL6S	0399147365	873881745	Cold Paradise (Stone Barrington)	Books	4	3	6	N	N	ANOTHER GREAT STONE BARRINGTON MYSTERY!	In &quot;Cold Paradise,&quot; New York private lawyer and ex-cop, Stone Barrington, is back and is in Palm Beach, Florida! He has been sent there by technology millionaire, Thad Shames. Stone's job is to try and find a gorgeous woman who Thad saw a couple weeks earlier. She told Thad her name was Liz, but left no number or address. Stone finds Thad's mystery woman coincidentally. Her real name is Allison Manning! For all you Barrington fans you'll recognize that name from &quot;Dead In The Water,&quot; previous Stuart Woods novel. Stone had a relationship with her in St. Marks and she was found guilty of a crime and sentenced to be hung. Somehow Allison got off and has returned to the states. Stone is shocked to see her and is even more shocked to hear that her husband Paul Manning, who was presumed dead in St. Marks is stalking her! Paul was have thought to have been killed and thrown overboard on the Manning's private yacht in St. Marks. Both Mannings participated in an insurance scam, which Allison ended up getting. Weird, huh? Anyway, while Stone is trying to protect Allison from crazy Paul, he also has to keep control of his hormones. Callie, a striking beautiful woman, who works for Shames, is totally infactuated by Barrington and good old Arrington, (Stone's ex-wife), also shows up in the picture, like she always does. If that isn't confusing enough, our favorite little lady, Dolce Bianchi, returns. Dolce is Stone's other ex-wife, who is extremely psychotic. The ending of this novel was very exciting and very well written. The only reason I gave &quot;Cold Paradise&quot; four stars instead of five was because I thought that the way Stone met up with Allison was extremely too coincidental. I thought Mr. Woods could have made that part more believeable. Overall, this is a fun, worthwile read!	2001-04-26
US	52769068	R3E2VA1F4KZTFO	0743206029	362049018	On the Street Where You Live: A Novel	Books	5	3	6	N	N	I LOVED EVERY PAGE OF IT!	Mary Higgins Clark has written another winning suspense novel. I always look forward every year to mid-April because there is always a new thriller from the Queen of Suspense. &quot;On The Street Where You Live&quot; was one of her best ones yet. The plot: Emily Graham has moved to New Jersey from New York because of her new job. She decides to move into her great-great grandmother, Madeline's, large house. There Emily hears the story that her great-great grandmother disappeared one-hundred and ten years ago and was never found. After reading and researching many articles about Madeline's mysterious disappearance, Emily discovers that two other women were kidnapped and never found during that period. Now back in the present. Emily is having a pool dug at the new house and while the workers are digging, they find two bodies. One is her great-great-grandmother and the other is a girl who recently disappeared in 2001, on the same day of Madeline's abduction. There is a serial killer killing new women on the same day of the three other's disapperance one hundred and ten years ago. Could this be the same killer? Was he/she reincarnated? Who is killing women on the anniversary of the other women? Who could know where the ancient women were buried? Mary Higgins Clark writes an amazing and complex mystery novel that will take readers on a roller coaster ride of suspense!	2001-04-23
US	52769068	RYB4CDZR6FM90	0451203615	142867360	The Madman's Diary	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Mr. Racina's An Amazing Author!	&quot;The Madman's Diary,&quot; was in my opinion, Thom Racina's best novel. I have read all of his novels and I think they are wonderful masterpieces of suspenseful literary work with an excess usage of mystery, intrigue, and adventure. &quot;The Madman's Diary&quot; was extremely interesting. The author starts the first couple pages with a descriptively gory murder scene that draws the reader in and tempts them to devour this novel in one sitting. The plot: Judy Sussman, who is an interior designer, has noticed that a lot of men in her life are disappearing. Some are dying in gruesome ways. Judy, her friend, Annie, and roommate, Skeet, are watching their backs carefully because somebody is out there watching them. This sadistic person has an obsession with Judy Sussman and he/she feels that no one should belong with her except for himself/herself. This person believes he is a &quot;shaman&quot; and is king. Mr. Racina shows off his knowledge of the Indian culture with descriptive dialogue and structure throughtout the novel. The conclusion of this novel was incredibly well thought out and impressive. Overall, &quot;The Madman's Diary&quot; is a wonderful work of fiction that all mystery fans need to read. Also be on the look out for his next novel coming in early 2002!	2001-04-19
US	52769068	R30PCHWVK89X8C	0060185074	384682637	The Vendetta Defense	Books	5	7	9	N	N	MOVE OVER GRISHAM!	Lisa Scottoline just has a talent when it comes to courtroom thrillers that no author, including John Grisham, can surpass. I have read every single novel that Scottoline has written and loved them all. Almost all of her novels include her usual characters, Bennie Rosato, Mary DiNuzio, and Judy Carrier. These three women work for Rosato and Associates, a powerful lawyer firm that has an impeccable record for winning the majority of their cases. Judy Carrier is the main character in &quot;The Vendetta Defense.&quot; Her dreadful task is trying to prove that Anthony Lucia, (otherwise known as Pigeon Tony), is innocent of the murder of Angelo Coluzzi. Even though Lucia did execute Coluzzi in cold blood, Carrier somewhat feels that the murder was justifiable because of the fifty year VENDETTA between these two Italian families. Coluzzi had Lucia's lover, son and daugher-in-law killed earlier. Judy Carrier must put up with car bombs, threats, murder attempts, and her boss in order to prove that Pigeon Tony should not be convicted guilty. This is an extremely powerful courtroom drama that will leave readers tear-eyed at the end. Absolutely no one can compete with Lisa Scottoline when it comes to courtroom dramas.	2001-04-19
US	52769068	R24SGV65PBVJQV	0786867280	908407552	Silent Joe: A Novel	Books	5	14	16	N	N	PARKER WRITES ANOTHER FASCINATING WINNER!	T. Jefferson Parker can write! That's all there is to it. All of his novels are wonderful complex stories of mystery and suspense. I believe that &quot;Silent Joe&quot; was his best novel! Almost all of Mr. Parker's novels take place in Southern California, which is also enjoyable. The plot: Joe Trona is politician Will Trona's personal assistant and son. Will and Joe are on the way to pick up Savannah Blazak, who was kidnapped by her brother, Alex, and held for ransom until Savannah and Alex's parents pay Alex. They called in Will Trona to drop off the money. While getting out of his car, Will is confronted by a group of about four people who shoot Will dead. Savannah hears the shot and runs away, while Alex disappears. Joe Trona is determined to figure out who killed his father and get Savannah back. Who is the criminal? Is it crime boss and head of a major gang John Gaylen? Is it Bo Warren the Blazak's personal guard? Could it be Mr. Rupaski another politican who holds a grudge against Will? Joe is determined to find out, even if it means killing!	2001-04-19
US	52769068	R2HT4V220BXGF7	0786010541	870472751	Dark Of The Moon	Books	2	3	10	N	N	SAVE YOUR MONEY ON THIS ONE!	I have read many wonderful mystery novels and I do not believe &quot;Dark of the Moon&quot; was very good. Louis Kincaid, a sherriff in this small town, who is the main character, is not a very likeable character at all. The mystery that the police in this little community in Mississippi have to solve, is the thirty year old murder of a young black man. His bones are discovered in the present with a noose next to the body, and Louis Kincaid feels a special bond between the boy and himself, since they are both black. Many years ago many blacks in Mississippi were treated as slaves and being hung. Louis really wants to discover who hung and killed this innocent young man. Unfortunately, everyone in the town doesn't want to talk to him. Secrets are everywhere around there. A few more people die along the way. The conclusion wasn't very good also. If you're looking for mystery novels to read, save your money for James Patterson.	2001-03-15
US	52769068	R1L0KL8N3YRLKN	0316666009	30029813	1st to Die (Women's Murder Club)	Books	5	10	13	N	N	JUST AS GOOD OR BETTER THAN THE ALEX CROSS NOVELS!	&quot;1st To Die&quot; is the first in a new series from James Patterson. The characters are phenomenal, the plot is intriguing, and there is fast-paced suspense everywhere. Brides and grooms are getting murdered on their wedding day around the San Francisco area and Inspector Lindsay Boxer is on the case. Lindsey, Claire (the medical examiner), Cindy (an investigative reporter), and Jill (a district attorney), form the Women's Murder Club. Along with their current jobs, they are all on the case of the bride-groom murders. Even though Alex Cross is not in this novel the suspense and action is just as good or better than the novels featuring him. This book is totally worth the money! The ending of this book will shock you totally, just like &quot;Roses Are Red&quot; did. I can't wait for his next women's mystery novel, &quot;2nd Chance&quot; to come out next year!	2001-03-10
US	52769068	RKK5XNLBXMPMH	0786011963	653766196	The Last To Know	Books	5	6	6	N	N	WENDY'S BACK AND BETTER THAN EVER!	&quot;The Last To Know&quot; is one of those books that makes you say, &quot;I am so glad that I bought this.&quot; This was one of the best psychological suspense novels that I have read for a long time. I loved Wendy's earlier novels like &quot;All The Way Home&quot; and &quot;Fade To Black.&quot;     In Townsend Heights, New York, young stay at home mothers are being killed. Sometimes the killer kills the mother with her child standing right next to her. The killer's signature is a puzzle piece left at the crime scenes. Tasha Banks is very scared since she is a stay at home mom and two of the dead mothers were good friends of her. She has three little children and a husband, Joel, who is too much into his work and other things to worry about Tasha and the kids. Margaret, the first victim's sister, is a little off in the head and was extremely jealous of Jane.  The police and an investigative reporter named Paula, believe that perhaps the &quot;Mother&quot; killings were done by a teenager named Jerehmiah, who was seen in the vicinity of the second victim's house. There are suspects everywhere in this novel. Mrs. Staub takes us from group to group of people, some of them are being murdered along the way, one of them is a killer. WHO IS IT? The end will blow you away, I never would have guessed it. I can't wait for Wendy's next novel of suspense in 2002!	2001-03-03
US	52769068	R28QS1UE7EV8L4	0515129704	63105847	Cold Edge	Books	5	13	19	N	N	WOW, WHAT A WINNER FROM WALKER!	I've read all of Robert W. Walker's novels and I was greatly awaiting the release of &quot;Cold Edge.&quot; This Edge novel was the third in the series. Lucas Stonecoat and Meredith Sanger are back to solve the murders of the Scalper, a brutal serial killer, who takes off his victims body parts and their scalps, and to solve the murders of the Headless Horseman, who likes to cut heads off after raping them. Lucas starts to suspect a well-known psychiatrist, who treats crazy people after they are released from prison in the Houston area, is the key to these murders. The doctor refuses to give any information about his patients to Stonecoat. Eventually after the doctor, gets murdered himself. Lucas must quickly determine which ones of his patient's is a serial killer before his and Sanger's life are cut short. Also Lucas goes off to visit his grandfather who is dying. This takes you on an interesting trip through the Indian culture. This book was an amazing novel of policework. Add &quot;Cold Edge&quot; to your must read list!	2001-02-28
US	52769068	RJPRRXHYHJMJ1	0449007014	876765923	The April Fools' Day Murder: A Christine Bennett Mystery (Christine Bennett Mysteries (Paperback))	Books	5	25	29	N	N	ANOTHER INCREDIBLY AWESOME CHRISTINE BENNETT NOVEL!	Guess what everyone, Lee Harris is back with one of her best holiday murder mystery novels. &quot;The April Fools Day Murder&quot; was on my &quot;Can't Wait To Read&quot; list for six months, so I was very excited to get my hands on it. I belive it was probably her best one. Christine Bennett and her husband, Jack, are back along with Sister Joseph, to try and solve the murder of Willard Platt, an old grumpy man, who was credited for donating a lot of money to the local high school's drama department. Willard was found stabbed to death at his house by his own cane. Christine Bennett is greatly disturbed by this because she just saw this older man in the supermarket earlier that day and spoke with him. Christine starts to investigate. There are many suspects including, the local high school students who came over for an april fool's day hunt, Platt's mysterious son, Roger, and wife, Winnie, who claims she is deaf in one ear and the local nursery owner who wanted a piece of Platt's land. Christine is having a hard time determining who the killer is, so she returns to St. Stephens covenant and speaks with Sister Joseph for more insight. Can Christine Bennett determine who the killer is before she gets herself killed? This is an excellent novel of mystery and suspense that can easily be devoured in one sitting.	2001-02-28
US	52769068	R2Z85D1OU2USS9	1551667967	569656871	Dead End	Books	4	1	2	N	N	AN ENTHRALLING ROMANTIC SUSPENSE NOVEL!	Actually to be exact, I would give &quot;Dead End&quot; about 3.5 stars. There are many parts that I loved about this novel and some parts that I thought &quot;WHAT THE HECK?&quot; I have read all of Helen R. Myers's novels and I my favorite was &quot;Lost.&quot; I believe that &quot;Lost&quot; was a little bit better than this one. The storyline: In a small rural town in Texas, Brette Barry finds a bloody handprint on a DEAD END sign on her way home from delivering the mail in front of the Pughs farm. Brette, being the paranoid thing that she is, starts to worry that it is a prank from her son, Eric, or his friend, Hank. Eric denies it. Now any normal human being would drop the subject and say who cares, it's a handprint, but not Brette. Later on into the evening, Hank goes missing and Brette and her neighbor and upcoming lover Sam go out looking for the teen. Now let us go back to &quot;common sense.&quot; Hank's mother, Sally, does not want to go out and search for her missing son because she is too drunk. Come on people it's her son! So Bette and Sam come back empty-handed.      A couple days later, Hank comes back after hitchhiking a ride with a trucker from St. Louis. He tells Bette that he met a teenager online and decided to go met her. (I hope any of my fellow teen friends don't decide to do this, STUPID!) I won't give away anymore of this side of the story because that would be unfair. But good old Brette still cannot get over that handprint! As obnoxious Brette interrogates her neighbors, she discovers that Tracie Pugh has disappeared! Brette goes to the sheriff with this information, claiming that it was Tracie's handprint on the sign. Later on, Brette's tires get slashed and other threats appear, (typical isn't it). Brette is on a mission to find Tracie Pugh and to discover who called Hank up to St. Louis. Slow and sometimes annoying, but overall a good romantic suspense novel.	2001-02-24
US	52769068	R1Z3OQZZO8J4O	0451409485	693704075	First Avenue	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A VERY GOOD POLICE PROCEDURAL!	I have always wanted to read this book since the day I say it in the stores. The cover of &quot;First Avenue&quot; was very enticing with the police car on the cover. I was impressed because this was Lowen Clausen's first major novel. He proved to the reader that he knows a lot of background information about being an officer of the law. The storyline was very interesting and enojoyable to read about. The main character, police officer Sam Wright, has vowed to track down the killer who abandoned a small baby child in his house and killed it's mother. Sam seems to have a personal vendetta against this killer. Sam and his partner Kat go on to investigate where the mother worked in the donut shop and discover some disturbing information about the donut shop owner. Mr. Clausen takes readers into the streets of Seattle and sums the book up with an excellent confrontation on the Puget Sound. Great job Mr. Clausen!<br />Brad Stonecipher	2001-02-23
US	52769068	R16I14CGMG0S35	0553578685	441587737	The Third Victim: An FBI Profiler Novel	Books	5	8	8	N	N	WOW, THIS AUTHOR CAN WRITE!	&quot;The Third Victim&quot; is Lisa Garnder's best novel she has written. I loved &quot;The Perfect Husband&quot; and &quot;The Other Daughter&quot; but this one was better. If you are a teacher or work for a school district, then you might find this book disturbing and offending since the big massacre takes place at the school. Rainie Connor, who is the small town'sherrif, is an amazingly developed character who does a fantastic job of discovering who the murderer is. If you like Tami Hoag, Iris Johansen, or Mary Higgins Clark, then you'll love Lisa Gardner.	2001-02-21
US	52769068	R1BYQ47MNHL2T3	0312975767	876875971	Don't Close Your Eyes	Books	5	9	11	N	N	DEFINITELY ONE OF THE BEST NOVELS OF 2000!	I have read all of Carlene Thompson's novels and loved every one of them. She is an amazingly gifted and talented writer who, in my opinion is just as good as Mary Higgins Clark or better. Most all of her novels take place in a small town or community. A murder is occured there and the local police force is on the hunt for the killer. &quot;Don't Close Your Eye&quot; was Mrs. Thompson's best novel yet. The ending of the novel was great, along with the great cast of characters. Definitely put this novel on the &quot;must read list!&quot;	2001-02-03
US	52769068	R1UA7XJCZAJ3A0	0553576798	808501539	The Other Daughter	Books	5	1	2	N	N	GOSH! I AM IMPRESSED!	This was my second Lisa Gardner novel. &quot;The Perfect Husband&quot; was the first one. I enjoyed that one, but &quot;The Other Daughter&quot; was so much better. It is the story of twenty-nine year old Melanie Stokes, who was adopted a long time ago by the powerful and rich Stokes family. A reporter, named Diggs, comes to town and informs Melanie that she was adopted by a man named Russell Lee Holmes, a murderer who was executed after being convicted of killing six young girls. Melanie is in shock and starts to investigate her past. Unfortunately Melanie discovers some very disturbing facts about her family. She gets news that her father, Harper Stokes, is possibly in charge of health care fraud scam. Also all of the Stokes's family members are getting threatening notes, saying that the past will come out. The ending of this novel is completely surprising. I am already reading &quot;The Third Victim,&quot; Lisa Gardner's new novel.	2001-02-02
US	52769068	R23HZLTS9D3HQ1	0671047515	821429650	Hell's Kitchen	Books	4	9	10	N	N	The Final Pellam Novel Is Great!	&quot;Hell's Kitchen&quot; is Jeffery Deaver's last novel in the John Pellam series. &quot;Shallow Graves&quot; and &quot;Bloody River Blues&quot; were the first two in the series. &quot;Hell's Kitchen&quot; is not a re-published novel like the other two, it is brand new novel, published in 2001! It was my second favorite novel out of the three.  John Pellam is in Hell's Kitchen, New York, making a documentary about the people there. He meets many interesting people including Ettie Washington. Ettie agrees to meet with John again for another interview, but when John gets to her apartment building, a fire erupts out of the basement. John, Ettie, and the other tenants barely escape in time. The police and fire marshal believe that Ettie hired someone to burn down the apartment building because of Ettie's new insurance policy. Ettie goes to jail. The arsonist is on the run burning subway trains, hotels, hospitals, stores, lawyer firms, killing many people in his way. John Pellam must capture this crazy arsonist and prove Ettie's innocense with the help of gang members, punks, and powerful construction builders,  before Hell's Kitchen burns into hell. If you read the first two Pellam novels, then you cannot miss this one!	2001-01-29
US	52769068	RHK1SAK1M4T4C	0316154075	347427189	A Darkness More Than Night	Books	5	12	16	N	N	AN MAGNIFICENT MICHAEL CONNELLY NOVEL!	&quot;A Darkness More Than Night&quot; features Harry Bosch (Trunk Music, Angels Flight, Black Ice) and Terrance McCaleb (Blood Work) as the main &quot;detectives&quot;. These two are great characters to read about.     Terrance McCaleb is enjoying his retirement on Catalina Island, California. He loves spending time with his wife, Graciela, and his new born baby. The good times end when he gets a surprise visit from an old police colleague asking for his help in a murder case. A man named Edward Gunn, has been brutally murdered. The police cannot find the killer. They are stumped! Terrance goes to the scene and starts investigating. As he looks at the pictures that the police took, he discovers that there is an owl decoy planted on a dresser looking down at the victim. When Terrance gets to the scene, he discovers that the owl is stolen. He thinks that the owl could be the killer's trademark, and he goes on the look for it. Terrance then links the owl to gothic and evil painting done by people who perceive owls as evil. As Terrance travels to museums to see what artist uses owls, he finds that the main artist that uses owls is Hiernonymous Bosch, aka Harry Bosch! The detective Harry Bosch was named after the painter! Terrance starts to believe that Harry Bosch has been setup for the murder of Edward Gunn. Unfortunately, some other people believe that Harry is the killer.     Harry Bosch is in the courtroom testifying against a man named David Storey. Harry knows that David has killed a young woman, and he must use his police tactics to prove to the jury that David is a guilty man. As Terrance and Bosch hook up to try and prove Bosch's innocense, they find a disturbing link between David Storey and Edward Gunn.     This is probably Michael Connelly's best novel yet. It is a must read for Connelly fans and for all suspense fans. Don't be left in the dark, read &quot;A Darkness More Than Night.&quot;<br />Brad Stonecipher	2001-01-28
US	52769068	RAU1VCPS3I3LG	0671011375	466385534	Death du Jour (Temperance Brennan Novels)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	REICHS RULES THE MEDICAL EXAMINER COMPETITION!	Sorry Cornwell, but Temperance Brennan is a lot better of a character than Kay Scarpetta. In Kathy Reichs's novels there are no soap opera whining periods like Cornwell likes to do. Dr. Tempe is on the hunt for a killer who burned down a house in Quebec. There were four people inside the house, all burned alive. As Tempe investigates, she is greatly disturbed to discover a possible &quot;cult&quot; connection. In this fast-paced novel of thrills and murders, Reichs takes readers on a hunt from Quebec, Canada to North Carolina to try to stop this group of evil cult members before they kill again. The only part that I didn't like about this novel was that in Tempe's free time, she investigated a century year old remains of some religious member at a local church. That part could have been cut of the novel. Overall, &quot;Death DeJour&quot; is a worthwile read!	2001-01-11
US	52769068	R29CX8CTXU9TMX	0553801341	255570129	From the Corner of His Eye	Books	4	0	1	N	N	ANOTHER INTERESTING KOONTZ NOVEL!	Dean Koontz is such a unique writer. In &quot;From The Corner Of His Eye,&quot; there are three main groups of people with different special qualities and attitudes. Eventually, through deception, murder, and secrets, these three groups of people will come together and present to the reader an amazing story.        There is Bartolomeow Lampion, a young boy who was born right after his mother and father got in a car accident, killing the father. There is Cornelia, a woman who takes care of her sister's newborn baby after she dies in later. Her baby is a direct result of a rape. Lastly, there is Junior Cain, a crazy person, who kills his wife, Naomi, in the beginning of the story. Junior goes into a depression stage and wakes up saying the name Bartolomeow. Junior believes that he is his enemy and he must be destroyed.         These three groups and an important police officer will take the readers on an extraordinary journey, lasting from the 1960's to 2000. If you are a Dean Koontz fan, &quot;From The Corner Of His Eye,&quot; can not be missed!	2001-01-10
US	52769068	R1YLXIR97BQIJG	0671011367	484181364	Deja Dead (Temperance Brennan Novels)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	NOT BAD, NOT BAD AT ALL!	After reading the majority of the other reviews for &quot;Deja Dead&quot; I felt I needed to give Kathy Reichs a try. I was actually quite impressed by how good it was. I have been wanting to read a novel about a new medical examiner for a while, since Patricia Cornwell is making Dr. Kay Scarpetta into a wimpy, whiny, pathetic little thing. Temperance Brennan is a very good character and I find it interesting how she analyzes her bones to solve murders. Kathy Reichs's books are great novels thatevery mystery fan should read!<br />Brad Stonecipher	2001-01-04
US	52769068	R2OKN1L2SVQ2RV	1551667835	921681958	Blind Faith: The Miraculous Journey of Lula Hardaway, Stevie Wonder's Mother	Books	5	47	50	N	N	WHAT A GREAT NOVEL TO START OUT 2001!	Christiane Heggan is one of the best female mystery novelists that there is on this planet. I have read all of her novels and I believe that &quot;Blind Faith&quot; was by far her best. The book is classified as Romantic Suspense, but it is practially all hard core suspense.    Kelly Robolo, a Connecticut investigate reporter, is startled to hear the news that her best friend, Victoria Bowman's, husband Jonathan, has been killed in a Miami fire in a drug infested hotel. Kelly and Victoria both know that Jonathan is not that kind of person and think that Jonathan has been set up by his boss and casino owner. Kelly calls upon her only police friend, Nick McBride, to help and solve this puzzling crime. As they investigate they find a link between Jonathan's &quot;death&quot; and Nick's father's death two years ago, who worked for the casino's security company.  Non stop suspense, with a little romance thrown in. If you are going to only read one book this year, then definitely read &quot;Blind Faith.&quot;	2001-01-04
US	52769068	R2FME0EC9UM8CJ	0553575058	500523640	Zero at the Bone	Books	3	1	3	N	N	&quot;Zero At The Bone&quot; Moved Too Slow!	I admit, I might be getting too critical when it comes to mystery novels lately. But I have read so many that I start to know what a really good mystery novel is and which ones are not. &quot;Zero At The Bone&quot; was the first novel that I have read by Mrs. Walker. Don't get me wrong, the book wasn't bad at all, but the plot moved quite slowly and there was not much suspense. Most of the novel described in great detail the tasks and obligations that a zookeeper must go through. How to clean the cage, sweep the floor, feed the animals, take the snake out of his cage, and on and on. If you work at a zoo, you'll love this book I guarantee it! Although, the characters were well developed and likeable, I wouldn't put this book on my &quot;must read list&quot; at all. Not bad Mrs. Walker!<br />Brad Stonecipher	2001-01-04
US	52769068	RUZON6VTRA1ZR	1551665360	524167305	Trust No One	Books	4	4	4	N	N	GREAT, BUT IT'S NOT HEGGAN'S BEST!	&quot;Trust No One&quot; brought out another side of writing in Christiane Heggan. This novel dealt with terrorism. A old man in a hospital is killed. A powerful policitican is murdered. An innocent woman was killed in a bombing eight years ago. You're thinking, how do all these events die together? Well, they do, in a very interesting way. Julia Bradshaw, the policitians widow, and Steve Reyes, a news reporter, who lost his girlfriend in the bombing, must come together and solve this puzzling mystery! &quot;Trust No One&quot; is well worth the money!	2000-12-23
US	52769068	R38LUA3291ES2T	1551665778	506979097	Enemy Within (Mira)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	ANOTHER HEGGAN SUCCESS!	This was another blockbuster novel by the new queen of suspense, Christiane Heggan! Heggan and Mary Higgins Clark are two of the best mystery novelists. Clark takes the readers more into the big cities like New York, where she has the big time cops solving crimes, while Heggan likes small-town investigating. Both are great! I have now read every single novel that Heggan has written and I believe that &quot;Enemy Within&quot; was her best or second best novel. The plot on the back doesn't make the novel sound super great. But make no mistake, IT IS super great. Great suspense, many amazing secrets about the characters involved, shocking surprises, greed, and an unthinkable ending. I have Heggan's newest novel &quot;Blind Faith&quot; in my possession and I'm looking forward to reading it.	2000-12-23
US	52769068	R33A1XPZCFANKW	1551664666	61360017	Deception	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Another Wonderful Thriller by Heggan!	My first novel by Christiane Heggan was &quot;Suspicion.&quot; I devoured it in two sittings. But &quot;Deception&quot; was even better! Really good mystery novels are so hard to put down. In &quot;Deception,&quot; Jill Bennett is shocked to hear the news that her father, Simon Bennett, has driven his automobile over a cliff because of excessive drinking. Jill doesn't believe that it was an accident. She knows that her father would never be that careless. She believes he was murdered! Jill is now being stalked by this killer because she is being to nosy. Jill along with ex-husband and ex-homicide detective, Dan Santini, are on the case to try and decipher who Simon Bennett's murderer is. Is it Olivia, Jill's cousin and business associate that works at Simon's architectal firms? Is it Peter Van Horn, one of Simon's friends and colleagues? Could it even be his own wife? Or is it Mr. Mulligan a greedy man from another business firm? Christiane Heggan is the next Tami Hoag or Iris Johansen in my eyes!	2000-12-18
US	52769068	R3TIOS9295299K	1551663058	580620330	Suspicion	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Fantastic Performance By Christiane Heggan!	I was so happy when I came upon, &quot;Suspicion.&quot; I love mystery novels a lot and I was running out of them to read. Luckily, I discovered Christiane Heggan. &quot;Suspicion&quot; was my first Heggan novel and I loved it so much that I already am beginning another one right now. <br />    Kate Logan, a tough defense attorney, is selected to represent two separate people. One is her ex-husband who is charged with killing a prositute and the other person is Kate's housekeeper's son, who is charged with killing his girlfriend. Kate knows that both are innocent and decides to start her own investigation. She soon becomes suspicious and feels that the prositute and the girlfriend was murdered by the same person. Soon Kate is being stalked and attacked by the murderer. Kate along with police officer, Mitch Calhoun, must bring down this group of murderers before Kate's friends who are charged with murder go to jail for life. Congratulations to Mrs. Heggan because she made it to my list of favorite authors!<br />Brad Stonecipher	2000-12-17
US	52769068	RQVZ7WNULJXOX	1551665816	347027769	Expose (Mira)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	SLOW MOVING AT TIMES, BUT AN INTERESTING MYSTERY!	&quot;Expose&quot; dealt with the same characters from &quot;Talk.&quot; Alexandra Waring, Jessica Wright, and Cassy Cochran. This is kind of a follow up but with a much deeper view in each of these persons lives. Sally Harrington is recruited by EXPECTATIONS magazine to do an &quot;Expose&quot; (interview, biography) piece on Cassy Cochran. She goes back and forth from Connecticut to New York almost every day. About six tenths of this book is about interviewing people and love scenes and the other four tenths is about a MURDER! Back in Connecticut, a man is found dead by a gunshot. Sally is the one who discovers the body after a mysterious phone call, leading her to the scene. With the help of Crazy Pete, a local character who seems to have conspiracy theories for everything, Sally must discover who killed this man, where did he come from, and why is it that this man's death ties in with her father's death twenty years ago. If you want to read Laura Van Wormer and you like suspense her novels are: TALK, EXPOSE, and THE LAST LOVER.	2000-12-16
US	52769068	R2B7WH2VQSHMRI	155166514X	360919416	Talk	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Super Duper Talk Show Mystery!	I recently read &quot;Just For The Summer&quot; by Laura Van Wormer and thought that that novel was horribly slow-moving and dull. But I later learned that &quot;Just For The Summer&quot; was the novel where Mrs. Wormer began her transition from romance to romantic suspense. So I decided to give &quot;Talk&quot; a try. I was very happy that I did because it was great.    Talk show host, Jessica Wright, is being stalked by an obsessive fan. He sends Jessica threatening letters and notes promising to be there for her &quot;always&quot;. It starts to get way out of hand when this stalker kills Jessica's secretary, Bea. Next Jessica is kidnapped at a local party/ function! It is up to her lover and friend, Will, her producer, Cassy, the FBI and local police to try and save Jessica before her life is claimed buy a nutcase who will do anything, absolutely anything, for Jessica! I already have Expose, Mrs. Van Wormer's next romantic suspense novel, in my possession and I'm looking forward to reading it greatly!<br />Brad Stonecipher	2000-12-14
US	52769068	R1RA5U77WR9VDF	1551664399	297113952	Just For The Summer	Books	1	2	3	N	N	ONE OF THE SLOWEST MOVING BOOKS I'VE EVER READ!	How did this book ever get published? It was the most boring thing that I've read this year. The entire book is about 474 pages. Just imagine wasting all that time for nothing. I believe that this novel should be considered general fiction and nothing more. There was some romance in it, but hardly any suspense. It just went on and on. The main characters went to about a thousand dinner parties and banquets. That took up about 75 pages in all! Nothing exciting happened at all until about page 250. But don't get me wrong, Laura Van Wormer is a good writer, because I'm reading &quot;Talk&quot; and loving it! Just trust me, save your money on &quot;Just For The Summer.&quot;<br />Brad Stonecipher	2000-12-13
US	52769068	R3TQ0YMD1ANM93	0684871262	791325639	Speaking in Tongues : A Novel	Books	4	5	7	N	N	ANOTHER AWESOME DEAVER NOVEL!	I believe that Jeffery Deaver is one of the best mystery authors there is and is also one of the fastest novelist when it comes to publication. He always had about 2 new hardcover and a couple paperback novels come out each year. The good thing is, almost everyone of them are great. &quot;Speaking In Tongues&quot; is no exception. Tate Collier, a prosecuter, his ex-wife, Bev, and his daughter, Meagan, are going through some real hard times in their family. Meagan is a troublemaker at school. Bev is having more relationship problems and Tate is all alone. Matters get even worse when Meagan is kidnapped. Tate and Bev must come together and dig up their past to try and figure who would want to target their daughter. The killer, Aaron Matthews, holds a grudge against Tate because Tate put away his son in jail a long time ago. Now Aaron wants revenge! The novel is very interesting in the aspect that you get to be in the killers mind for half the novel, while you are with Tate and Bev the other half.      I didn't like &quot;Speaking In Tongues&quot; as much as Jeffery Deaver's Lincoln Rhymes and Amelia Sachs novel's but trust me, this novel is definitely worth the money. Great action, suspense, and psychological terror throughtout the whole book. I can't wait for &quot;Blue Nowhere&quot; in May 2001!<br />Brad Stonecipher	2000-12-10
US	52769068	R38VZL3CZZYA3Y	0679459618	621917476	Dr. Death	Books	4	6	10	N	N	ALEX AND MILO ARE BACK!	I believe that &quot;Dr. Death&quot; was one of Jonathan Kellerman's best novels that he has ever written. Alex and Milo are such great characters, they make such a great team, although I can't understand why Kellerman made Milo like men. Alex and Milo are on the case of &quot;Dr. Death,&quot; aka Dr. Eldon Mate. Dr. Mate helped over fifty, sick or depressed people end their lives with various methods of death, including euthuansia, and drug induced methods . Dr. Mate is found brutally murdered in the back of his van, with some of his body parts hacked off. It is very difficult for Alex and Milo to narrow down a suspect because there are over fifty families that could hold a grudge. They start investigating Richard, a long time aquatinence of Alex's. Richard's wife, Joanna, was thought to have been Dr. Mate's latest victim, and Richard was very angry. Unfortunately for Alex, he gets stuck to counsel Richard's son and daughter because of there problems at home and with their mother. Who killed the famous Dr. Death? Was it Richard or his family?  Was it another one of the 49 families? Or was it someone else, someone with a sick obsession of Dr. Death, who was jealous of him? I guarantee you, if you're a Kellerman fan, than you'll fullfilling enjoy &quot;Dr. Death.&quot;<br />Brad Stonecipher	2000-12-09
US	52769068	R8M2UNCX2FVD5	0786013125	392822507	The Summoning	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Another Fascinating Bentley Book!	&quot;The Summoning&quot; orginally came out in 1993 and went out of print. Now, luckily for all us horror fans, Bentley re-published it! This novel takes place in Arizona, just like all of Bentley's other novels. Brad Woods, a local coroner, is noticing a change going on in his small town of Rio Verde, Arizona. People are acting strange and having their blood sucked out of them and left to die. Brad, Robert, (the town sheriff), Rich (the newspaper chief), must hunt down this &quot;vampire&quot; and kill it before another one of their friends are drank to death. They along with Sue Wing, a local twenty year old woman, whose grandma knows a lot about vampires join the task force. This book is quite long, 541 pages to be exact, but it is by far, the best vampire horror novel I have read in my life.  <br />Brad Stonecipher	2000-12-05
US	52769068	R3L6RMLQTGEQA5	0684866102	517060047	Bleeding Heart	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Powers Is A Powerful New Voice In The Fiction Genre!	Martha Powers's first mystery novel was titled &quot;Sunflower&quot; and I read it this last summer. That was a magnificent work of mystery and suspense and I was greatly awaiting the release of &quot;Bleeding Heart.&quot; In some ways, &quot;Bleeding Heart&quot; is similar to &quot;Sunflower.&quot; They both are set in a small town and both of them have strange murders occuring there. Maggie Collier and her son Jake live in a small town in Delbrook, Wisconsin. They moved there after the horrible car accident with Maggie's husband that killed him. Maggie's father in law, George, is knifed to death on a country club's golf course. Maggie later finds out through investigating that George had taken a picture of something secret and he was going to reveal it to the public. Someone killed him in order for that picture to remain a secret. Maggie sees a link between her father in law's death and a series of three kidnappings that have occured around the Wisconsin. Maggie and Grant, the nephew of one of the kidnapped girls must work together to capture this crazed killer and kidnapper, dubbed THE WARRIOR, because of the feathers he leaves at the crime scenes, before Maggie and Grant are the next victims. If you like Erica Spindler and Wendy Corsi Staub, then you'll like Martha Powers.<br />Brad Stonecipher	2000-12-05
US	52769068	R2OIZH94KSGO2N	1551666146	78588977	Glamour Puss (Mira)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	&quot;Glamour Puss&quot; Is Glamourously Good!	I have read all of R.J. Kaiser's novels and I have enjoyed almost everyone of them. I believe that &quot;Glamour Puss&quot; was definitely one of the best! Mr. Kaiser mixes a large dosage of suspense with a moderate dosage of romance. In 1978, Mac McGowan, an owner of a pool company, and his lover, Stella, who he was having an affair with, killed Stella's husband who was nicknamed &quot;Glamour Puss&quot; and buried his body underneath the foundation of their swimming pool. Now 22 years later, the past is creeping back on Mac and Stella, who are now separated. Mac is very rich now and he owns many pool corporations. Mac gets a note saying that someone knows what he and his lover did 22 years ago. Later another note follows and then the blackmailing begins! If that isn't bad enough, Mac and his business associate are being shot at by another person who holds a grudge aganist him because of some business problems! Mac and Stella race to decipher who this person that knows about their past is, before their glamourous lives turn to hell! R.J. Kaiser is a wonderful author of romantic suspense. I'm looking forward to his next novel in June of 2001!	2000-12-01
US	52769068	R1TP8E3WWDBVGK	1551666162	30092272	Butterfly (Mira)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	SLOW, SLOW, SLOW!	I believe that Sharon Sala's novels would appeal more to the romantic reader other than the suspense reader. It is so hard to distinguish if the majority of the novel is going to be suspense or romance, when they say Romantic Suspense. The suspense parts of &quot;Butterfly&quot; were very slow. The book was good in the beginning, but then it got worse. Boring! Trust me, save your money on this book!	2000-11-26
US	52769068	ROI7WAMDRNTHG	0316693251	319187092	Roses Are Red (Alex Cross)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	PATTERSON IS THE BEST, THE BEST, THE BEST!	The saying that I hear from most book fanatics are &quot;Each book by my favorite authors get better and better.&quot; That is definitely true in the case of James Patterson. &quot;Roses Are Red,&quot; in my opinion, is by far one of the best novels that James Patterson has ever written. Let me just tell you this: THE ENDING WILL ABSOLUTELY BLOW YOU OUT OF YOUR SHOES! I mean the very last page is the best part of the novel. Unfortunately, there is one major sad part in this novel. Alex Cross's daughter Jannie, has a brain tumor, and she is in the hospital for a while. If you haven't read all of Nursery Rhyme novels by James Patterson, then I would start with the first one, so you are more familiar with the main characters and their relationships. YOU ROCK JAMES PATTERSON! I'm looking forward to &quot;1st To Die&quot; in April 2001!	2000-11-25
US	52769068	R29FEHYVBYKMK9	055358295X	876902997	Death of a Blue Movie Star (Rune)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	AN EXCELLENT FOLLOWUP IN THE RUNE SERIES!	The first novel in the Rune series was &quot;Manhattan is My Beat,&quot; and I didn't care for that novel very much. But &quot;Death Of A Blue Movie Star&quot; was ten times better. Rune is now a production director's assistant. She gets in the middle of bombings of movie theaters and production companies. Rune's new friend dies in one of the bombings. Can Rune stop the bombings and discover who killed her friend before she dies herself? Trust me, it's worth the money. The third and final Rune novel comes out in late January/ early February, and it's called &quot;Hard News!&quot;	2000-11-23
US	52769068	R1H3GD5ABTM4WH	0451201744	232812399	The Walking	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Bentley Is The Best!	Bentley Little is by far the best horror novelist in my opinion. Each one of his books get better and better. &quot;The Walking&quot; is certainly no exception. Mr. Little takes readers on an 100 year adventure. An evil force is murdering men all across the country who worked on a dam ten years ago. The dam accidently overflowed and the community of &quot;witches,&quot; below the damn, were killed. Now one witch is getting revenge, by killing her victims one by one, and making them WALK for her. If you like horror novels, then I strongly suggest Bentley Little.	2000-11-19
US	52769068	RPN72HP02ETC1	0399146644	864794808	L.A. Dead (Stone Barrington)	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Woods Packs A Whallop Of A Punch With L.A. Dead!	I just started reading Stuart Woods about six months ago and I think he is a great writer. I especially like his novels that includes his main protaganist, Stone Barrington. I have been looking forward to L.A. Dead for months. I think this novel was one of the best novels that Stuart has wrote. Stone Barrington is in Italy getting ready for his marriage to Dolce, the daughter of a rich Mafia man. At the last minute before he gets married, he gets a call from the police in Los Angeles, saying that Vance Calder, Arrington's new husband, has been murdered and that Arrington is the main suspect. (If you don't know who Arrington is at all, then you need to start with the earlier Stone Barringon novels or you will be confused!) Stone dashes out of Italy and arrives in Los Angeles. Stone along with Dino Bachetti, his old partner and friend, must prove that Arrington is innocent and discover who the killer is before someone else dies. The only problem is that Dolce, Stone's fiance, is incredibly mad at Stone and she even gets a little violent. One of the things that will shock the readers is the ENDING! You will be in shock. I'm looking forward to Mr. Woods' next novel coming in the future.	2000-11-16
US	52769068	R3RIMKZQAGFNOY	0451200284	499799834	Scavenger	Books	2	2	5	N	N	SO UNBELIEVABELY BIZZARE, I DIDN'T LIKE IT!	I have read all of Tom Savage's novels except for Precipice and I don't think I'll read that one. I read &quot;Valentine&quot; and I thought it was quite good. In &quot;The Inheritance&quot; I just couldn't get past page 70. That book was very dull. In &quot;Scavenger,&quot; the book's ending is just so amazingly and incredibly weird! I can't talk much about it because I would be giving away too much. The whole thing is about a crazy man making this author play a game and going on a Scavenger Hunt to find the truth about a murderer. The ending is just so bizarre! I did not like the way it turned out at all. Sorry, Mr. Savage, but I think I'll pass on your next novel.	2000-11-16
US	52769068	R3NSJBKVFABNU	0451201906	279224818	Storm	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Starling's Storm Is Absolutely Superb!	After Boris Starling's wonderful masterpiece of a novel, &quot;Messiah,&quot; I was greatly awaiting the release of &quot;Storm.&quot; Kate Beauchamp, a police detective of Scotland, and Red Metcalfe are back, and they are on the case of the Blackadder. He is a serial killer that kills his victims using the ritual of greek mythology. It starts out when Kate is on a large ferry coming back with her acting team of friends from putting on a production. The captain of the ferry receives a bomb warning from an anonymous source saying that there is a bomb in one of the Transit vans down where all the cars are stored. The captain and his crew dump the van into the water, hopefully, extinguishing the bomb. Well, the captain doesn't close the port doors or the ruters (I am not well educated with all the nautical expressions) accidently, and he turns into a STORM and water leaks into the boat and with the strong force of the STORM, the boat sinks. Passengers jump out, but many don't make it. 327 die. Later, after Kate gets over her distress, she is on the case of the Blackadder. He has killed two women. He cuts their hands and legs off and leaves an adder (a snake) around their necks. As Kate investigates the murders, she discovers a link between them and the attempted bombing of the ferry. Boris Starling takes readers on a suspenseful trip around the United Kingdom, which is fulfilling and enjoyable.	2000-11-12
US	52769068	RD0UJDPHJ8M1J	0451199685	691623833	False Pretenses (Contemporary Romantic Thriller)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	SUSPENSEFUL, BUT VERY SLOW AT TIMES!	I have read all of Catherine Coulter's FBI Suspense thrillers (The Cove, The Maze, The Target, The Edge) so I decided to try one of her revised contemporary suspense novels. False Pretenses did not even come to the FBI thrillers. False Pretenses and Beyond Eden have a TON OF ROMANCE in it and not much suspense. Elizabeth Carleton is married to Timothy Carleton, a very rich man. He gets stabs with an ice pick and is killed. Elizabeth goes on trial for his murder but is proven innocent. Timothy's whole family is fighting a war to try and get Timothy's business and his money away from Elizabeth (the heir). This novel is mostly a family bickering session. Near the end of the novel Elizabeth trys to discover who killed Timothy, is it the mysterious person who testified on her behalf, her new lover, or a business associate? If you want SUSPENSE, try the novels I earlier mentioned. False Pretenses should just be classified as a romance novel.	2000-11-10
US	52769068	R2COKVNTKKSIE5	0786010924	728601321	All The Way Home	Books	5	7	8	N	N	ONE OF THE BEST BOOKS OF 2000!	My first novel by this amazing author was &quot;Dearly Beloved,&quot; one of Wendy Corsi Staub's first novels, what I got at a used bookstore, that is now out-of-print. I absolutely loved it! I then went to the store and bought &quot;Fade to Black.&quot; This novel was even better. I read the whole thing in two days. I was on a Wendy Run!! So then I saw &quot;All The Way Home.&quot; I bought and devoured it in one day! It was the best one that she wrote. The plot: Four teenage girls mysteriously disappeared from Lake Charlotte, New York, including Carleen Connelly, Rory (the main character's) sister. Rory goes off the college and returns to Lake Charlotte ten years later. While she is back in town she meets Barrett Maitland, Rory finds him attractive and strange at the same time. Then on the anniversary of the first girls disapperance ANOTHER GIRL IS TURNED UP MISSING! Can Rory solve this crime and find out what happened to her sister before she becomes the next victim? WENDY CORSI STAUB IS THE NEXT MARY HIGGINS CLARK IN MY MIND! Keep your eyes open for &quot;The Last To Know,&quot; Wendy's next thriller in April 2001!	2000-10-23
US	52769068	R3QFA6N320RT84	0553280414	586746552	A Separate Peace	Books	4	0	1	N	N	QUITE WELL DEVELOPED AND ENJOYABLE!	Our class was required to read this novel this year and I was actually quite surprised by how good it was. Gene Forrester and Finny, Gene's friend, are the main characters in this novel. Gene is quite disturbed and jealous of his friend because he is so good at sports. Gene goes to great length to try and be even with Finny, he even shakes a tree limb, which makes Finny fall to the ground and become paralyzed. This novel probes into the mind of crazy, obsessive, people and the extent that they will go to to be considered &quot;part of the group.&quot;	2000-10-22
US	52769068	RCCSXHO95MQX2	055310666X	284106836	False Memory	Books	5	2	4	N	N	GOOD TO THE LAST DROP!	Dean Koontz is such a gifted and skilled individual when it comes to writing. I have read all of his novels and practially loved every one of them. He is a very unique author that combines Stephen King and John Sandford together. I believe that &quot;False Memory&quot; was one of his best novels. I like it a lot that Dean Koontz is starting to get away from the supernatural books that he used to write and is writing more mystery and believable type books. There is nothing supernatural in &quot;False Memory.&quot; It is about a crazy doctor who wants to turn all of his patients crazy and puts them into a deep sleep in their sessions and hypnotizes them to do evil things, even kill people. Marty, the main character, must try and stop this deranged doctor before Marty's best friend is turned crazy. Dean Koontz will always be one of my favorite authors and I am greatly awaiting his new thriller, &quot;FROM THE CORNER OF HIS EYE&quot; on DECEMBER 26, 2000!	2000-10-22
US	52769068	R24GLEDH2GBMY0	0449183297	528971626	Pray for Us Sinners	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Slow, Slow, Slow	All I can say is that I was not impressed at all by this novel. This was my first novel by Philip Luber. It was very short and very lacking. Harry, a psychiatrist and Veronica, his girlfriend and FBI agent are trying to discover who killed Veronica's mom 20 YEARS AGO! Veronica is bored so she just happens to wait 20 stinkin years to try and figure out who killed her mother. At the end, I was not impressed who Mr. Luber portrayed was her killer. I felt it should have been someone who was in the novel throughout the whole time. I won't say that this novel is bad at all, it is just quite slow and tiresome at times!	2000-10-22
US	52769068	R1OFSINH0KY4VY	0399146253	109258524	The Last Precinct (A Scarpetta Novel)	Books	4	9	19	N	N	PATRICIA CORNWELL IS BACK WITH A BANG!	After Patricia Cornwell's disaster of a novel in &quot;Black Notice,&quot; I was quite skeptical and queasy about reading &quot;The Last Precinct,&quot; but I felt that urge to read it. I am very glad that I did. This book is so much better than &quot;Black Notice.&quot; The summary on Amazon.com and Patricia Cornwell's website says that the book goes on about a hundred year murder mystery case, and Kay Scarpetta is investigating it. That is not true. This book takes place about five days later from where &quot;Black Notice&quot; left off at. Eighty percent of this novel is about the preparation for the trial that is coming up over the serial killer and attacker of Dr. Kay Scarpetta, Jean-Baptiste Chandonne, who was captured at the end of &quot;Black Notice.&quot; Chandonne makes up an incredibly absurd story, saying that he was framed for all the murders that he did by the government, CIA, FBI, and other branches. He makes it sound like he is a pawn in a chess game. He says that the government is just using him to get to his powerful drug infested family in Paris, France. He says that Kay Scarpetta is part of the conspiracy and says that he was just trying to talk to Kay at her house and SHE ATTACKED HIM! Unfortunately, many reporters and government officials believe this nutcase and Kay Scarpetta is going to go on trial for the murder of Diane Bray, one of the victims of Chardonne's killing spree. Kay Scarpetta, along with slob and drunken faced cop, Pete Marino, and with Kay's lesbian niece Lucy (whom I detest greatly), must try and prove Kay's innocence. While they are doing that, they all discover that some of Kay's closest colleagues and acquaintences are involved with Jean-Baptiste Chandonne and his powerful family, who are drug dealers and gun dealers. Kay and the slob (Marino) must bring down these people to get to the truth of the matter. Unfortunately, Dr. Kay discovers that Benton Wesley, her old lover who died in &quot;Point of Origin&quot; may not havedied by the hands of Carrie Grethen, who the police and Kay both thought killed Benton. Finally when Kay puts all the pieces together, she discovers that she needs to bring down the whole Chandonne and find out who the true killer of Benton Wesley is before she is found guilty and rots in a prison cell. In the middle of the novel, Lucy and her lover, Tiel ask Kay if she wants to join them with their new organization, called THE LAST PRECINCT, a new independent crime fighting organization. Will Dr. Kay Scarpetta quit her job as a medical examiner of Virgina? Will she be going to prison for the rest of her life? Who really killed Benton Wesley? The answer to all these questions and more are all revealed in one of Patricia Cornwell's best novels, &quot;THE LAST PRECINCT!	2000-10-20
US	52769068	R1DJQG1M40OFF4	0671550772	207756552	The Grave : A Novel	Books	1	1	7	N	N	NO MORE PIKE FOR ME!	This is Christopher Pike's latest novel, and I definitely feel that it was his worst. The story was incredibly dull and uninteresting. I didn't care for &quot;Magic Fire&quot; ahead of this one, but this one was worse. That is probably why Mr. Pike is not writing anymore novels, because his sales are so bad. If you like the young adult series read the Fear Street series by R.L. Stine. I would recommend those novels for ages 10-13. If you are older than 13, I would definitely advise moving to the adult novels!	2000-10-19
US	52769068	RTKBYYBGXH70N	0380730820	342456472	Jupiter's Bones (Decker/Lazarus Novels)	Books	2	2	6	N	N	Jupiter's Bones Belongs On Jupiter!!	I did not like book at all! I was so bored the entire time. There was so much unnecessary Jewish talk that it got confusing. I did not care for the main character's attitude when it came to many of the problems that arose. For example, Peter Decker finds out that his 16 year old stepson his sleeping around and having sex with his girlfriend and doing other bad things and all Mr. Decker says is &quot;well, I hope that you use protection.&quot; GIVE ME A BREAK! There were so many crazy people in this book with their strange church rituals that it drove me crazy. Then you find out who the killer is after only 180 pages. Faye Kellerman is not my kind of writer, while on the other hand, her husband, Jonathan Kellerman is fascinating! Trust me I have read thousands of mystery novels and this one is not worth it!	2000-10-19
US	52769068	R2LHJDLG6FNCCZ	0553280414	379559608	A Separate Peace	Books	3	2	3	N	N	NOT BAD FOR A SCHOOL REQUIRED READ!!	Since I am a junior in high school, I have read many novels that we are required to read and to be honest I hated everyone of them, except for &quot;To Kill A Mockingbird.&quot; In &quot;A Separate Peace,&quot; I was impressed with the story. It held your interest a lot more than other school Core-Literature novels. Gene, one of the main characters, is very intelligent when it comes to schoolwork. Finny, on the other hand, is not very smart but excels when it comes to sports. Gene, after being jealous of Finny for a long time, shakes a tree branch where Finny is standing on and Finny falls a dangerous drop to the hard ground. He must go to the hospital and he is somewhat paralyzed. Gene is obsessed and jealous of Finny, so he goes to the extent of hurting him. Later, Gene feels that since he is &quot;part&quot; of Finny, that he not only hurted Finny but himself. Gene is quite &quot;off.&quot; &quot;A Seperate Peace&quot; comes to an interesting conclusion. Overall, &quot;A Separate Peace&quot; is a worthwile novel read for school.	2000-10-19
US	52769068	R8IF0L2DBLO3W	1551664607	15185945	Payback	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Good, But Certainly Not R.J.'s Best!	After reading all three of R.J. Kaiser's novels, I feel that &quot;Payback&quot; is the least best novel. I enjoyed Stephanie and Jack Kidwell a whole lot. I thought that they were really fun characters. After Stephanie's husband is killed, she discovers that she has inherited millions. Stephanie feels that she did not really know her husband as good as she thought. Stephie decides to go on a vacation to the Caribbean and discovers that she is being followed. Later she finds out that her husband was stealing money from a powerful group of people. Stephie has to run Jack Kidwell, her only new friend on the island, who I feel is kind of a slime. She has to find a way to appease these dangerous people before she is bait for the fishes.	2000-10-16
US	52769068	R94E3AY2NPMPJ	0451198484	743095882	The Inheritance	Books	1	1	7	N	N	GOTHIC GARBAGE!	I read the first 150 pages of this worthless novel and decided to stop. I have better stuff to do than read boring novels. I can almost always tell from the start if books are going to be good. This one started out real lame. Holly Smith/Randall or whatever her name is, discovers she is adopted and then she gets a phone call from her real great aunt. Then the aunt is later killed and Holly comes running to the family's house. She does not get along with a lot of the family members. She feels that the housekeepers son is strange and so on. I feel like I need some ALEGRE! BUT... I loved Tom Savage's novel &quot;VALENTINE,&quot; that was a great novel believe it or not. &quot;The Inheritance&quot; is NOT!	2000-10-16
US	52769068	R36EZAZTYSR1RZ	1551665107	902823643	Jane Doe	Books	4	3	4	N	N	JANE DOE IS WORTH READING!	This was my first R.J. Kaiser novel that I read and I enjoyed it greatly. I discovered Mr. Kaiser in a local bookstore and thought his novels looked interesting and bought all three of his novels. &quot;JANE DOE&quot; is about a police chief, Frank, who wakes up and finds a dead prostitute at his home. Abby Hooper, a friend of Frank's, who also is in law enforcement, can't believe that Frank would do anything like that. Abby and Frank must discover who the real killer is before Frank is convicted. This book takes you into the lives of drug dealers, pimps, and prostitues. Jane Doe also takes you on a trip from Sacramento to San Francisco. R.J. Kaiser is a fresh new voice in fiction!	2000-10-16
US	52769068	R3D01HHX9QG997	0399146504	180800665	The Devil's Code (Kidd)	Books	3	23	29	N	N	THE KIDD NOVELS AREN'T NEARLY AS GOOD AS THE PREY ONES!	I hope &quot;The Devil's Code&quot; is John Sandford's last Non-Prey novel because it just doesn't compare to Easy Prey and the other Prey's. &quot;The Devil's Code's&quot; plot is so much different than the Prey series that it is hard to enjoy it. I did not like the characters at all in this novel. One of the main characters is a professional criminal and the other one (his girlfriend) is a cocaine addict, AND THEY'RE SUPPOSED TO BE THE GOOD GUYS. The plot is quite interesting but confusing in some parts. The plot: Clipper II is a software program created by AmMath Industries, that the U.S. Government wants so intelligent hackers can not hack in to the United States's private and confidential files. The leader of AmMath, St. John Corbeil, is not a good man. He is using the millions of dollars provided to him by the US to create and run Clipper II for satellite spying activities. He then takes pictures of certain activities going on in those countries and uses them to his advantage. This is highly illegal and only Corbeil and his two goons, Hart and Benson, know about it. In order for the government not to find out about their illegal practices, Corbeil and his men create &quot;FIREWALL,&quot; a fake group of hackers that are creating havoc on other govermenent organizations and the IRS. The government thinks that they are hackers doing the damage and they go off looking for them, but the truth is that it is Corbeil just creating a distration to throw off the NSA. Jack Morrison, a computer genius and Kidd (the main character's old friend), is hired to work on a separate computer for AmMath. Morrison and his partner, Lighter, are both killed because they end up uncovering what AmMath is doing. Lane Ward, Morrison's brother, Kidd and his girlfriend LuEllen, aka Mrs. Cocaine, are on the hunt to try and stop Corbeil and discovering how to bring his evil plan down and out of the open before more lives are destroyed. If you are a fan of LUCAS DAVENPORT, and don't like computer/hacker murder mysteries, then I can almost guarantee you that you will not like this novel. It is quite interesting (especially if you work for a computer company), but if don't like these kinds of novels then... wait for CHOSEN PREY to come out in MAY 2001.	2000-10-08
US	52769068	R3E1OSNJH042CE	0515129038	836885890	Top Ten	Books	1	11	15	N	N	NEEDS TO BELONG ON THE TOP TEN WORST BOOK LISTS!	I was very intrigued with this novel after the first couple of chapters. I thought for sure that this book was going to be a winner, well I was wrong. I agree with the other reviewers, this novel ran out of steam FAST! The author talks about the killer name Michaelangelo and then he talks about some criminals flying their stupid planes in the air. Michaelangelo wants to be on the TOP TEN MOST WANTED list. The concept is so incredibly stupid, it's laughable. So good old Mikey starts to kill the criminals on the list, while there is drug trading and other criminals flying in the air. I can understand why all of Ryne Pearson's earlier novels are out of print, because they are probably so bad. IF YOU LIKE MYSTERY read RIDLEY PEARSON! Now he can write great!	2000-10-08
US	52769068	R3L7ZVWISPSLEI	0553576925	869801684	Hiding in the Shadows: A Bishop/Special Crimes Unit Novel	Books	4	11	13	N	N	A Mystery Full Of Murder, Mayhem &amp; Blackmail!	&quot;Hiding In The Shadows&quot; is the second &quot;Shadows&quot; novel by Kay Hooper, the first being &quot;Stealing Shadows.&quot; I felt that &quot;Hiding In The Shadows&quot; was a wonderful read. I finished this novel in two days. The one thing that I love the most about the Shadow series is the psychic and paranormal activity that the author uses in helping to solve the crimes. &quot;Hiding In The Shadows&quot; was a blend of mystery, psychic abilities, and kidnapping. Faith Parker wakes up in a coma and wonders how she got there. She later finds out that she was drugged in her drink and she drove home and crashed. She has lost her memory totally. SHE HAS AMNESIA! She later finds out that Dinah Leighton, her only friend was the only one who visited her in the hospital. When Faith gets out of the hospital, she finds out that Dinah has been kidnapped. Faith must do anything she can do to try and find her only friend and get her own memory back before her old life catches up with her and eventually kills her. The reason why I gave this novel four out of five stars was because I LIKED STEALING SHADOWS better. &quot;Stealing Shadows, &quot;Hiding In The Shadows,&quot; and &quot;Out of The Shadows&quot; (coming October 31st) are all wonderful mysteries!	2000-10-06
US	52769068	R3O2LMMIZ6QA18	1551665727	557254331	Lost (Mira)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Magnificent Murder Mystery!	&quot;Lost&quot; was by far the best novel that Helen R. Myers has written! The whole book was practially ALL MYSTERY and not so much of the romance garbage! I loved ever page of the novel. Helen Myers had great characters throughout the whole novel. It also had many suspects who you thought could have been the murderer. But whoever you think is the murderer, I guarantee you that you will be wrong, because the ending shocked me. I am greatly awaiting Helen's next mystery novel coming in 2001. This book is definitely worth the money!	2000-10-02
US	52769068	R2AJZJ5TV74MCE	0345434781	550733810	Gideon	Books	3	1	2	N	N	TOO WEIRD &amp; TOO EXTREME OF A NOVEL FOR ME!	The two men author team, Peter Gethers &amp; David Handler, are very creative, gifted, and skilled individuals when it comes to the art of writing. I felt that the book was extremely strange. After reading the first one hundred pages of this novel, you think to yourself what the heck are these people talking about when they say the name GIDEON. Well, at first I was turned off from the book because the story seemed so unreal (a struggling author who gets asked to write a book secretly for a strange hit man and his editor, who later gets murdered), but I finished the whole thing! The ending and how it tied together was not what I thought was going to happen after all. I love the cover of this novel, it draws the eye to it immediately and that's what made me buy it. Overall, I would say if you want to read something different than the orginal &quot;serial killer on the loose&quot; novels, then this is your kind of book. Don't mistake me it is a good book, but it just doesn't appeal to me.	2000-10-02
US	52769068	R3E9LS18WJTBTP	0553575538	65222879	Stealing Shadows: A Bishop/Special Crimes Unit Novel	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A SMASHING SMOLTERING THRILLER!	The was my second Kay Hooper novel and it was one of my favorite novels that I have ever read. I found it incredibly interesting that the whole book revolved around the &quot;psychic&quot; way of solving crimes. That was so cool! Not many authors have their protaganists, such as Cassie Neill, someone who can predict murders before they even happen. My eyes were transfixed to the pages the whole time. I can not wait until HIDING IN THE SHADOWS comes out on October 3 and for OUT OF THE SHADOWS coming out on October 31. Both of these novels include FBI Agent Noah Bishop from Stealing Shadows. Kay Hooper has definitely made it to my favorite author list!	2000-09-29
US	52769068	R3K75JAQJURR7L	1551664364	218359174	Come Sundown	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Not Impressed, Too Much Romance!	On the back of the book, the summary makes &quot;Come Sundown&quot; seem like a psychological thriller that will be an interesting and exciting novel to read. Well, that is NOT THE TRUTH! This novel is practically ALL ROMANCE!  This is one of the novels where Helen R. Myers is changing over to write mystery instead of romance, but there is way too much romance. I think they have sex in every 5 pages. I felt that the little mystery that there was, was VERY GOOD! I just didn't appreciate it that the back of the book made it sound more mystery than romance, when it was really the opposite.	2000-09-29
US	52769068	RO0QLC706CCA0	1551665042	182183173	More Than You Know	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Helen Myers Is Getting Much Better!	I didn't care for &quot;Come Sundown&quot; at all, because of the excessive romance in it, but &quot;More Than You Know,&quot; on the other hand, has just a little romantic scenes here and there and A LOT OF MYSTERY. I liked the character quite a lot. The main character was investigating the mysterious death of her brother and she believes that one of the cops is involved. So she and her lover, another cop, are on the case. Between &quot;Come Sundown&quot; and this one, &quot;More Than You Know&quot; is better.	2000-09-29
US	52769068	RYKYOZQ4XL8AU	0786011440	95144783	Cradle And All	Books	5	4	4	N	N	THIS BOOK DESERVES TO WIN A PULITZER PRIZE!!	If anyone likes any kind of mystery novels whatsoever, then you will  absolutely love CRADLE AND ALL! I just couldn't put it down! The author  described Kate, the main character, in such great detail, that I could  visualize her emotions and her problems with every word. The author paints  a picture of one of the characters being the murderer, but the ending  shocked me to death! The way the author tied the ending with the story was  amazing. All of the characters were likeable, none to bossy. Chills and  thrills around every corner. If you liked ALL FALL DOWN and WHEN THE WIND  BLOWS, his earlier novels, then you will devour and love CRADLE AND ALL,  because it is definitely the best of three. I hope Mr. Fox continues to  write all of his next books this good because I am greatly awaiting his  next one.	2000-09-19
US	52769068	R3QBJCAEYB9GNZ	0786006587	990048654	When the Wind Blows	Books	3	0	0	N	N	STRANGE NOVEL!	I agree one hundred percent with most of the other reviewers when it comes  to When The Wind Blows. It starts out really well, and I was very  impressed. But later on and all the way until the ending it was very  unbelievable. The whole town seemed to hate the main characters throughout  the whole novel and that made it very hard to decipher who was the killer,  who held a grudge, and who was Mark, the main character's real parents.  Also at the end of the novel, the explanation of why Mark had a death  certificate was not explained well AT ALL! Another thing that I didn't care  for was that the conclusion of the novel was about 60 pages long. I agree  with one of the readers when she said that this novel could have been about  100 pages shorter. So I didn't really care for When The Wind Blows at all,  but I loved ALL FALL DOWN, Zach's early novel. I hope Cradle and All is  better, I HAVE FAITH IN YOU MR. FOX!	2000-09-14
US	52769068	R6N554APADQM7	0786004509	935340863	All Fall Down	Books	5	1	1	N	N	WHAT A WILD RIDE!	This book was one of the those hijacking novels where there is pure  suspense throughout the whole book and there are to rest stops along the  way. A psychopath dresses up in a clown suit and hijacks a school bus and  holds the kids hostage until he gets paid $20 million dollars. The FBI and  the local police are called in to help. Can the FBI and the cops save the  children in time? Can they stop this madman before more innocents lives are  killed? Note- start this novel on Friday night, because you will be reading  it the whole weekend. It is too good to stop.	2000-09-13
US	52769068	R2AY8WW8SZ5NMV	0345404785	835692581	Dark Lady	Books	2	1	3	N	N	A Very Slow Moving Novel!	Having just finished reading all of the fascinating and unbelievably good  Phillip Margolin novels, I decided to try another author in that same  genre. Well, Richard N. Patterson doesn't even come close to the quality of  Margolin. I picked up Dark Lady because I saw it in soooo many stores that  it drove me crazy, so I decided to read it. Good thing that I got it for  half price because it is so boring. Too much of a history lesson  thoroughout the first 30 pages. It is a typical drug/ murder novel with  nothing that is very exciting. I don't care for the main character, Stella  Marz, at all. This book is mainly a time-filler novel. Try the other  Patterson, JAMES PATTERSON, that's a good novelist.	2000-09-13
US	52769068	R343S1EI4JFORR	0553580884	482330793	The Undertaker's Widow	Books	3	1	3	N	N	An Ok, Courtroom Novel!	This was my first Phillip Margolin novel and I enjoyed it a lot! I  discovered him in a big pile of books from my grandma and was quite  surprised at how good &quot;The Undertakers Widow&quot; was. I have read a  lot of books by John Grisham, J.F. Freedman, and other courtroom suspense  authors and I felt that &quot;The Undertakers Widow&quot; was better than  most, other than the ending. I didn't like the way that the end turned out.  But other then that it was a pretty good book.	2000-09-12
US	52769068	R38GK1IVR21K5C	0553569082	928323293	After Dark	Books	4	0	4	N	N	Phillip Margolin is a Wonderful Novelist!	This was my fourth Phillip Margolin book and he seems to not disappoint me  anywhere over the course of his four books. I have loved everyone of his.  AFTER DARK looked really enticing from the back of the book and it sure  was! A couple, two teenagers, are out on Lookout Point having a romantic  evening. The next day they are found missing and later found murdered. The  cops have two suspects, two poor brothers, who are jealous of the couple  because they are rich. It is up to the defense attorney and the cops to  find the truth. Later the two brothers are acquitted. Did the Court release  two innocent men or two guilty murderers? Read it and find out!	2000-09-12
US	52769068	R283CN5J0TT020	0060196246	648069616	Wild Justice	Books	5	5	5	N	N	CAN I GIVE THIS NOVEL 6 OUT OF 5 STARS, PLEASE?	Move over John Grisham, have a seat J.F. Freedman, take a hike Steve  Martini, and clear the way for the best legal novelist of all time, PHILLIP  MARGOLIN!!! Over the course of the past week, I have read all of the  Phillip Margolin novels. I just finished Wild Justice today and was sooo  impressed. Margolin just cannot write a poor novel. It is an impossibility.  Are you ready for the plot? Well, here it is!  Over the past five years  there has been a series of gruesome and hideous murderers streching across  Montanta to Oregon. It hits close to home in Portland, Oregon for defense  Attorney Amanda Jaffe. The suspected murderer is respected surgeonist  Vincent Cardoni. He is on trial for the murders of over six victims and for  the beheading of two others including his so-called partner. Many people  believed that he did it because of his excessive drug usage and his violent  outbursts to his fellow colleagues. Amanda Jaffe believes he is a dangerous  man who should be convicted. Then 4 years later, the same kind of murders  start happening again and after the mysterious disappearance of Vincent  Cardoni, his ex-wife is put on trial. Amanda Jaffe knows that the wife  couldn't have done it and is considering the possibility that maybe she was  wrong the whole time about Vincent Cardoni being the murderer. Amanda, her  father, and the Portland PD is on the case of solving the identity of this  truly deranged and frightening serial killer before time runs out and  before Amanda and the city of Portland lives are put into the hands of a  madman.	2000-09-12
US	52769068	R172TDR1TFOXUJ	0553569791	494236091	The Last Innocent Man	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Phillip Margolin's Best!	I have now read every single book that Phillip Margolin has written,  excluding Wild Justice and I feel that The Last Innocent Man is the best!  The best characters, the best developing plot and the best conclusion of  any of his novels. An INNOCENT man is on trial for the rape and murder of a  prostitute (undercover cop). David Nash, a defense attorney, must put his  career on the line to find the real murderer before the Innocent Man will  become the Guilty Man.	2000-09-12
US	52769068	R1XDF00ES963K0	0553574957	942337508	The Burning Man	Books	5	2	3	N	N	AN AWESOME COURT ROOM THRILLER!!!	This was definitely one of the most complex Phillip Margolin novels, but  it was one of the best. A poor retarded man is on trial for the murder of a  college coed. Peter Hale is the lawyer who is employed to defend the  retarded man. But did this poor retarded man really kill the college  student? Or his he just a spider entwined in a web of drugs and murder that  may include the attorney, the DA, and even the judge? Can Peter Hale  protect his client before he falls to the jaws of a death sentence or life  in prison?	2000-09-12
US	52769068	R1OIFNI81FY9EC	0553569031	273437672	Gone, but Not Forgotten	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Very Good Murder Mystery!	This was my second Phillip Margolin mystery and it was better then the  first one that I read which was The Undertakers Widow. I loved everything  about &quot;Gone, But Not Forgotten.&quot; I have read so many murder  mysteries that I know what is good and what is bad. If you like going on a  chase to find a crazy killer, then &quot;Gone, But Not Forgetten&quot; is  your kinda book.	2000-09-12
US	52769068	R33H1V9YWG818F	0553569783	29687368	Heartstone	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Margolin Is Mesmerizing!	I don't feel like writing a long review about Heartstone, considering the  fact that I accidently wrote it on the novel &quot;After Dark&quot; by  Phillip Margolin page. But Heartstone and After Dark are both fascinating  novels. I would strongly suggest all the novels by Phillip Margolin to  anyone who likes Steve Martini, John Grisham and J.F. Freedman. Make sure  you have your doors securely fastened, because there is a lot of suspense  in the Phillip Margolin novels.	2000-09-12
US	52769068	RGLOKPNVB4M5U	0440235081	651225939	Sea Change	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An Interesting Novel About The Treacherous Sea!	James Powlick's novel, Sea Change, was about contaminated liquid that was  dumped into into the Northern Pacific Ocean off the coast of Seattle  accidently by a cargo carrier from the Orient. The liquid is a disease  called Pfesteria, which is a deadly and dangerous disease. Many people  throughout the novel are being killed if their body touches parts of the  contaminated ocean. The body burn and sizzles and the person dies a painful  death. A group of scientists and oceanographers are on the hunt to try and  stop the contaminating fluid before the whole ocean is affected and the  city of Seattle!	2000-09-05
US	52769068	R1N7NLFJURMT0C	0451173406	560235885	Suspicion of Innocence	Books	2	9	18	N	N	Barbara Parker's Novels Are Always So SLOW!	This is my second Barbara Parker novel. The first one was very slow and it  was hard to stay focused on it. That novel was called Suspicion of Guilt.  Now this novel, is just as slow. A lot of romance and a lot of flirting  games that takes up a lot of the story. Barbara Parker also describes each  person in too much detail. Don't mistake me, I think it is great that an  author can describe their characters good, but I don't need to know about  his sparkling jewelry and wear he bought his loafers, and about his Gucci,  neatly pressed suit in EACH CHAPTER! The suspense was slow until the end.  Then you got to hear about the main characters daughter's problems. Very  slow moving plot for about the first 430 pages. Then the last 15 were good.  The book talked about totally different trial cases that had nothing to do  with the main plot of the story! By the way, Gail and Anthony are such  sappy characters. I won't be reading much more Barbara Parker. If you like  lawyers and suspense try Phillip Margolin.	2000-09-05
US	52769068	R3HJR42E7EAL1T	0553580884	482330793	The Undertaker's Widow	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A Fairly Good Legal Suspense Novel!	To be exact, I would give this novel 3 1/2 stars. I liked the whole novel  a lot. Good characters, great suspense, good action scenes and events. I  felt that Phillip Margolin did a good job describing the scene of the  courtroom in detail. But the thing with the novel that I didn't like is the  ending. WHAT THE HECK WAS MR. MARGOLIN THINKING? The obvious bad guys who  Margolin portrayed the whole way through would have been a much better  choice for the killers than the one he picked. Very bizarre! So to sum up,  the first 3/4 of the novel was great, but the ending could have been a lot  better. But I will definitely give Phillip Margolin another try, because I  loved Gone, But Not Forgotten.	2000-09-05
US	52769068	R3DKJTMD4HQ0UM	0446527033	213222268	The Switch	Books	5	17	21	N	N	SANDRA BROWN IS ONE OF THE BEST NOVELISTS EVER BORN!	Well, well, well is that right? Another Sandra Brown novel? The lady only writes about 5 novels a year? Have you ever heard of anyone who can write  that fast and have all of her novels be exploding blockbusters? One name:  Sandra Brown, the romance and now the MYSTERY queen of the year! I only  read mystery, romance is not appealing to me since I'm a guy. I recently  read Fat Tuesday, Unspeakable, The Alibi, and Standoff, (the remainder of  her mystery novels), and loved each one of them. Well on August 29, I went  out and bought THE SWITCH!  I thought that this novel couldn't be better  than her other ones. Well, I was sooo wrong. The Switch was everything I  could want in a novel.       Melina and Gillian Lloyd are two identical  twins. One a real estate agent and one a personal assistance. They are very  different. Gillian wanted to to have a child but her lover, Jem, had had a  vasectomy, thus making him not able to have a child with Jillian. So  Jillian went to a clinic and decided to have artifical insemination. Well  it turns out that there have been many women across the world who have had  the same thing done with them. But what many of these women don't know is  that there is a very powerful religious person who feels that he should be  the God or Hitler of the world. He believes that if he SWITCHES a donor's  sperm with his sperm than he will be the father of the next generation. He  and his assistants will kill anyone in their way including Gillian Lloyd.  The reason Gillian is murdered, (I am not giving any secrets away, all this  can be read on the flap of the book) is because she recently had sexual  intercourse with a man shortly after the artifical insemination process,  which screws up the possible chance of the &quot;religious person&quot; to  have his child. So it is up to Melina Lloyd to find out who killed her  sister and to bring down a very powerful group along with the help of the  FBI and the local police. This is Sandra Brown at her best,which I have to  say about all her novels, because she is always at her best! Can't wait for  her next novel!	2000-09-02
US	52769068	R1ZXOGNZO5KOWS	067102731X	705687442	Every Dead Thing: A Charlie Parker Thriller	Books	1	8	18	N	N	Take This Garbage Out To The Trash, Please!	This novel is so bad. That is practically all I can say. The back of the  book says an amazing thriller just like Thomas Harris's Hannibal. That I  can definitely say is a BIG LIE! I thought the main character was very  poorly developed. The book was VERY confusing in the event that it kept  going from the present to the past without even telling the reader what  time they were in. And suspenseful, GIVE ME A BREAK! I was so bored.  Whoever reviewed this book and said it was good, obviously hasn't read a  variety of suspense novels to know what trash is when they read it. Sorry  Mr. Connolly hopefully your next novel is better, even though I wouldn't  read it!	2000-08-30
US	52769068	R2Y6AV58W56KK1	0786011300	103141379	The Perfect Mother	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Perfect Mother Is Just Like It Says, PERFECT!	I recently read Remember September last year and was sooo impressed by Jon Salem. Then a couple days ago while I was browsing in the stores I saw The  Perfect Mother. Oh boy, I thought, it's by Jon Salem, so I figured its got  to be good. I bought and loved every last word of it. Suspense throughout  the entire book. It was about a woman named Georgette who gave her baby  away for adoption when she was about 18 and now she wants her back. But now  the girl is already 15 and living with a very loving and supportive family.  But Georgette wants her &quot;baby&quot; back and she will do anything to  get her back, EVEN KILL! Salem is a future Jeffery Deaver in my eyes.	2000-08-30
US	52769068	R3Q0GBFDOQWWAY	0671047485	629121134	Shallow Graves (John Pellam #1)	Books	5	53	56	N	N	Phenomenal! Deaver Can Not Write A Bad Book!	Yes, that's right, another winner by the male king of suspense, Jeffery Deaver. As most of you Deaver fans know, Jeffery is revising and  re-publishing his older novels. Manhattan is My Beat was the first  re-published and I enjoyed that novel a lot. The only thing I didn't like  was the main character in that book, but overall it was a good novel. But  with SHALLOW GRAVES, that's another story. Great characters, a great plot,  action, suspense, drug-dealing, shootouts, and more! What more could you  want in a suspense novel? I have heard through the &quot;grapevine&quot;  that Death of a Blue Movie Star will be out in October, and Blood River  Blues and other older Deaver novels will be out in the future. Along with  his NEW thriller Speaking In Tongues in December 2000, that can be ordered  with Amazon.com, of course. If I could, I would give Shallow Graves six out  of five stars.	2000-08-30
US	52769068	R3SR8O9SKN6ZCD	0671039350	837340236	Sunflower	Books	5	3	3	N	N	SUNFLOWER SHINES WITH POWER!	This was just a GREAT suspense novel. It was about a police Lieutenant, Sheila Brady, who is on the case of the Sunflower killer. There have been  four girls who have been kidnapped, raped, and killed. They were left with  sunflower seeds or an actual sunflower on their body. When Sheila starts to  investigate, she finds that the killer could be someone very close to her.  Could it be the police captain, her boyfriend, an intriguing veterinarian,  or the mayor? Sheila has to outsmart everyone to save herself from the  SUNFLOWER KILLER and to protect her daughter and her friends. This novel is  Martha Powers at her best!	2000-08-22
US	52769068	RZ5TNVGHI1I64	0446607193	159831924	Unspeakable	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Sandra Sizzles Again!	My 2nd Sandra Brown novel was another wonderful read. I loved everything about this book. The characters were remarkably well written. There wasn't  much romance, mostly action packed suspense, which I like. I finished  Unspeakable in 2 days and enjoyed every minute of it. My favorite novels by  Mrs. Brown are Unspeakable and The Alibi, both in paperback. It is great  that Sandra Brown has changed from writing romance novels to mystery  novels. I can't wait for The Switch!	2000-08-16
US	52769068	R3S70KXYYS3C0H	0446608653	287482638	The Alibi	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Sandra Brown is the New Queen of Suspense!	One word can describe this novel: Fascinating. Because that is exactly what The Alibi is. It starts out with the murder of real-estate tycoon Lute  Pettijorn. Almost every character in the book has a motive of killing Lute  including the police chief, his wife, his close friend, and other lawyers.  It ends up that Lute is a powerful and evil man because he will hurt people  in order to get them to sell their land. So which one had the guts to go  out with their murderous plan. Could it be his sexy wife, a police officer,  or a district attorney fed up with Lute? Read it and find out! This is  Sandra Brown at her best!	2000-08-16
US	52769068	R1PMZILQ4LMY0D	0446605581	130563858	Fat Tuesday	Books	5	3	5	N	N	SANDRA STOMPS THE COMPETITION!	My first novel mystery/ suspense novel by Sandra Brown was great! I always thought that she was pure romance but someone suggested Fat Tuesday to be a  mystery and said that there was other non-romance novels by Sandra Brown,  so I tried her out! I loved the whole story a lot. Mrs. Brown had a great  evil nemesis in the story, Pinkie Duvall, who was a drug trader and a very  powerful attorney, protecting the criminals. The other side of the coin was  Burke Basile who vows to get revenge against Mr. Duvall because of the  death of his partner in a drug bust. A wonderful novel the whole way  through. So more MYSTERY novels by Sandra Brown are Unspeakable, The Alibi,  Standoff, and The Switch. I will now read these. I hope Sandra continues to  write more mystery!	2000-08-13
US	52769068	RCVJUPGI97SK5	0316154067	559013514	Void Moon	Books	5	16	19	N	N	VOID MOON IS MASTERFUL, MAGNIFICENT &amp; MARVELOUS!	I have now read every single book that Michael Connelly has written and I  believe that each book definitely gets better and better. I enjoyed Void  Moon and Angels Flight the most. Void Moon was so good. I kept picturing a  movie in my mind the whole time because the scenes were so intricate in  detail and the description of the characters and their surroundings were so  well done. Action, suspense, betrayl, and death are all in this book. I  couldn't believe how so many people died in this book! Jack Karch is one  evil man. Mr. Connelly created a wonderful lunatic to chase Cassie across  Las Vegas and the state. I hope Cassie Black is back in his future novels  because she is a great character, although you can definitely call her a  &quot;Bad Girl&quot; considering the fact that she robs people when they're  asleep, she is still portrayed as the protaginist. I can't wait for &quot;A  Darkness More Than Night&quot; on January 23, 2001!	2000-08-11
US	52769068	R2AO4SNP1BB0UO	0312960344	788305791	Pandora's Clock	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Nance Takes You On A Suspenseful Flight of Fright!	This was my very first book by John J. Nance that I have read. I ended up  liking Pandora's Clock a whole bunch. It was about an airplane that was  thought to have a contagious pathogen disease on it and no airport would  let the plane land. It was quite frightening considering the fact that I  was reading it on a plane to Las Vegas and later on a trip to the Grand  Canyon. The time passed quickly though, because this book was very hard to  put down. I think I will read some other books by Mr. Nance now.	2000-08-10
US	52769068	R3IU5MLMEK3Q9T	0061011509	891147693	Blind Spot	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Blind Spot Isn't That Great!	I found this novel in a local bookseller. I have never heard of Barbara  Shapiro, so I gave her try and I really didn't care for the novel at all.  It started out weird and the ending ended in a strange way. The author  talked about psychic experiences and different weird things that were kind  of interesting but this book did not have a solid plot. Also it kind of  tells you things about this author when she has NO books in print. They all  went out of print, probably because of lack of popularity and interest.  Sorry Barbara!	2000-08-10
US	52769068	R1NIO5YSGXEFWL	0553106341	334109426	Dust to Dust	Books	5	22	27	N	N	TAMI HOAG CAN WRITE A DAMN GOOD NOVEL!	You would be shocked to know that Tami Hoag used to write romance novels only, not suspense. Later, in about 1995, Tami did a transaction from  romance novels to suspense novels, and boy does she write good ones. Dust  to Dust is kind of a sequel/ follow up to Ashes to Ashes that came out in  March 1999 and is now in paperback. I enjoyed Ashes to Ashes a lot. On  August 1, I ran out to the store and bought Dust to Dust and was hooked to  reading it on the first day. This book had great characters, Sam Kovac and  Nikki Liska from Ashes to Ashes. Dust to Dust was another success by Mrs.  Hoag that left you hooked to the novel page by page. Dust to Dust had a  very surprising ending, which left me in shock. It seems like all the  authors surprise me in the end. A gay cop, Andy Fallon, is killed after  hanging himself in his own house, which is believed as suicide, but it is  not and the story leads to his father, to rich and famous Ace Wyatt, cops  in the Minneapolis Police Department, and even to the chief of the Internal  Affairs. You could trust no one in this novel at anytime because everyone  had a motive leading from prejudice against gays to a disturbing case  twenty years that involved Andy Fallon's father, Mike. If you are a fan of  Iris Johansen, Erica Spindler, and Wendy Corsi Staub then Tami Hoag is the  one for you and Dust to Dust tops the list of her best novels.	2000-08-05
US	52769068	RWR6WN6KM0189	1551665514	745859365	All Fall Down (Mira)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Another Sweet Success By Spindler!	I have read all three of Erica Spindler's thriller/ mystery novels and I  have loved every single one of them. I feel that she is just as good as  authors such as Mary Higgins Clark and Tami Hoag. My first novel by her  that I read was Cause for Alarm. I then went out and bought Shocking Pink  and later All Fall Down in April 2000. Erica will always be on my list for  mystery authors to look out for.	2000-08-05
US	52769068	R1HN3M1V4NACNN	0440225817	429060775	Acts of Malice (Nina Reilly)	Books	2	7	12	N	N	My First O'Shaughnessy Novel &amp; My VERY LAST!	You have got to be sooo bored to read this book. This is my first time I  have read a novel by these two sisters and I was not impressed at all. I  like the character Nina Reilly a lot, but the plot is so SLOW! The  O'Shaughnessy sisters could have had this book be about 275 pages instead  of 448. Instead of getting right to the plot, half the time the book is  about Nina meeting another lawyer named Collier and getting married in one  book. That is not that bad, but this lawyer is the prosecutor on the case  against her! GIVE ME A BREAK! Instead of getting to the mystery of the  sisters, the authors talk about the secretary's relationship problem and  another old woman who has a problem concerning divorce. It just goes on and  on! Too Slow for me! No more O'Shaughnessy for me!	2000-08-03
US	52769068	R3MUV9OH5CR1UY	0446607274	515249324	Angels Flight (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	MY VERY FAVORITE CONNELLY NOVEL!	I have read every single book that Michael Connelly has written except  Void Moon, and I believe that Angels Flight is his very best. It seems like  that every novel of Connelly's gets better and better. I have noticed a  repetitive pattern of this. I enjoy Harry Bosch VERY much. I think Harry is  the perfect person to be a detective. I finished this one in two days. Mr.  Connelly ranks right up there with the big wigs like Patricia Cornwell,  John Sandford, and Mary Higgins Clark. Void Moon is next on my list!	2000-08-03
US	52769068	R2NRPF995I0IRU	0312958455	628100476	The Last Coyote (Harry Bosch #4)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Twists and Turns Around Every Corner!	The Last Coyote was my 7th Michael Connelly. I found The Last Coyote just as good as the rest of them. The only bad thing is that they portray Harry Bosch as a drunk, loser, cigarette-smoking slob in this one, which he  isn't. I loved the plot the whole way through and was, like always,  surprised with the ending. I really didn't see why the author named this  book &quot;The Last Coyote,&quot; I feel that were better names for the  title than that. Overall, another winner.	2000-07-30
US	52769068	R8R3U2BN8X2JP	0451198301	65205783	Torch	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A Typical Serial Killer Tracker Novel!	Being on a long airline flight, I was desperate to read something and I picked this book up at a local airport. Well, I was kinda disappointed. This book isn't anything neat at all, but it is not bad though. It is a  very predictable novel of tracking a serial killer who is an arsonist and  loves to hurt, burn, and kill people. I would save my money and buy a book  that would make you think for awhile!	2000-07-28
US	52769068	R3R7R0YMG8OX4B	0312952813	152178043	The Black Ice (Harry Bosch)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Wow, What A Book!	The Black Ice was my 5th Michael Connelly novel. I ran out and bought it after I finished The Black Echo. I thoroughly enjoyed The Black Ice the whole way through. I thought that the idea and concept of the plot was very  neat. The ending is the thing that shocked me. This book had to do with the  smuggling and production of a drug called Black Ice. It links the plant  down in Mexico with some murders in the Hollywood/ LA area. That means  Harry Bosch is on the case, and that's a good thing. This was not my  favorite Connelly novel but close to it.	2000-07-28
US	52769068	R1W6IMO7NWBO0Y	0452278902	867268465	The Green Mile	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A MIRACLE IN THE MAKING!	I have read quite a few Stephen King novels and well, hated them. I can't think of any that I really liked. So I walked into a local used bookseller and was looking for a new book. The owner recommended that I read &quot;The  Green Mile.&quot; I told her that I didn't like Stephen King, but she  insisted saying that this was different than his others. So I bought it and  read it and I was in shock, I LOVED IT!  The only Stephen King book that I  enjoyed. The story was incredible. You felt that you were right there with  the characters the whole time because of the great detail in the story. I  couldn't put this book down, I just kept going and going, getting more  engrossed in it each page that I read. Well, after I finished it (in 2  days), I felt that I was so happy that I had purchased it because it  brought out a different, spiritual side of life that hardly any people have  experienced. If Stephen King would write more novels like this incredible  masterpiece then I will run to get his next one.	2000-07-28
US	52769068	RV7AOCB0G40J9	0312950489	498818576	The Black Echo (Harry Bosch)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Not My Favorite Connelly Novel, but it was still OK.	This being my 4th Michael Connelly novel, was not as good as the other three. I think that it was still a good novel, but just not great! I have read so many books that I get kinda critical. But, if you are a veteran of  the Vietnam War, then you might find it interesting with all the  underground tunnel warfare tactics. It turned out to have a good ending,  but I didn't think that Mr. Connelly needed to have Ms. Wish involved with  the conspiracy, since she was such a likeable character throughout the  entire book. If I were you, buy &quot;The Poet,&quot; probably my favorite  Michael Connelly novel.	2000-07-28
US	52769068	R1UZZP7MWTNENF	0061090891	948056666	Santa Fe Rules (Ed Eagle)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A South-Western Success!	This is one of my favorite Stuart Woods' novels. I found it at a local used bookstore and decided to try it. This was my second novel by Stuart Woods and I feel, one of his best. Mr. Woods studied and described the  atmosphere and terrain of the south-west in great detail, which was  enjoyable. Another winner for Stuart Woods.	2000-07-27
US	52769068	RDPYFCPNZVB38	0446602620	435728437	Blood Work	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Can't Get Enough of Connelly!	Blood Work, being my 3rd Michael Connelly novel was another winner. I couldn't stop reading this one and finished it in a day and a half. This book was about a series of gun shot murders over the last couple years that  led the detectives to feel that the killer was probably someone trying to  harvest their organs. Well, maybe the detectives are wrong, read it and  find out? My collection of Michael Connelly novels' are growing.	2000-07-27
US	52769068	R3NWWK92ADLRL7	0451185994	591152294	Snow Angel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Racina Rocks The Competition!	This is by far by favorite Thom Racina novel. This is actually probably one of my favorite books there is. Non-stop suspense and action throughout the entire book with an unbelievable ending. If you are going to spend your  money on a mystery novel, then Snow Angel is your best bet!	2000-07-27
US	52769068	R32YNJTJC4YA54	0061044490	616331661	Deep Lie	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Didn't Like This One!	I don't care for the espionage/ warfare novels of Stuart Woods as the police detective ones. I feel that if you like these kind of submarine warfare novels then Deep Lie is for you, but if you don't, then don't read  this one. Read Santa Fe Rules, that's a winner!	2000-07-26
US	52769068	RCO2NYJESV396	0061014176	140195306	Under the Lake	Books	2	9	11	N	N	Not My Favorite Woods' Novel At All!	I did not think that &quot;Under The Lake&quot; lived up to the other novels by Stuart Woods. Maybe it was because Stone Barrington wasn't in them. I actually thought the plot was strange and did not turn out all too  well. My favorites are Worst Fears Realized and Orchid Beach. If you want a  Stuart Woods' novel, don't pick this one.	2000-07-26
US	52769068	R2LKK03JI4GR3W	0312966148	129681095	Dead Game (Dead Again)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	HARVEY IS ONE OF MY FAVORITES!	James Neal Harvey will always be one of my favorite authors. Dead Game and the other novels he has written, are all spectacular police novels. It is too bad that Mr. Harvey does not write any more. It is probably because he  retired since he is about 70. I will always be looking for Mr. Harvey in  the bookstores, just in case. Dead Game with Lt. Ben Tolliver is a true  winner!	2000-07-26
US	52769068	R2SD4G4XCXSNK0	0312963297	20675667	Trunk Music (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Another Good Connelly Novel!	This being my second Michael Connelly was another winner. I liked &quot;The Poet&quot; bet though. I enjoyed Harry Bosch, the main detective, in this novel, along with other novels. Harry is a very strong and likable  character. This book goes into the lives of the Las Vegas Mafia/ Mob group,  which links them to the latest murder. I am looking forward to reading  Blood Works.	2000-07-26
US	52769068	R29428797Z6K1T	0061093491	802931571	Dead in the Water	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A Tropical Trip To Terror!	Stuart Woods takes readers down to the Caribbean with Stone Barrington. Stone has to help prove the innocence of a beautiful woman, Allison, who is accused of murdering her husband. Throughout the trial, Stone tries to  defend her reputation and his own. Overall a good book, but a depressing  ending.	2000-07-25
US	52769068	R3L15FER77ZUJ3	0446602612	243715630	The Poet	Books	4	0	0	N	N	My First Connelly Novel, And Definitely Not My Last!	I enojoed this novel the whole way through. I read the whole thing in two days, I just couldn't stop! The book was well-written, had great characters, and many other great attributes. I was shocked about the  ending, but it turned out real well. I am going to the bookstore and I'm  going to buy some more Connelly novels.	2000-07-25
US	52769068	R3HBP9FCRKR6ZN	0060191872	995699181	The Run	Books	4	2	2	N	N	RUN To Grab The Run!	This has to be one of Stuart Woods's best books, excluding the Stone Barrington ones. Will Lee and his wife, Kate, are going to be the next president and first lady of the U.S. But there are a couple of people who  don't like that idea and they will go to all extremes to let Will not  succeed. Better read this one on a weekend because it is hard to stop.  Looking forward to the next one Mr. Woods.	2000-07-15
US	52769068	R1CKMRGUJI1DF7	0061013420	796925803	Worst Fears Realized	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Great! Barrington Is Back!	Yes that's right, Stone Barrington is back to face a truly dangerous criminal, Herbert Mitteldorfer, strange name huh? Well anyway, Herbie was put away by Stone and his cop friend Dino Bachetti. Well Herbie is BACK and  ready to blow away Barrington. Watch out STONE!	2000-07-15
US	52769068	RCEAZTXXFICST	0786865636	783765194	Middle of Nowhere	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Ridley Rides Again!	Mr. Pearson gets better and better everytime. I could not put this book down for anything. I finished it in one day. Which is the average amount of time it takes for a REALLY GOOD book. Lou Boldt and Daphne Matthews are  such wonderful characters. Middle of Nowhere will take you everywhere  around Seattle and across the Puget Sound. Looking forward for more, Mr. P!	2000-07-14
US	52769068	R1QJABDXVFPI1A	0786866004	547917110	Red Light (Merci Rayborn)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Not Bad, But Not His Best!	You really had to THINK in this book! No distractions to get the plot, which was very complicated and thorough. Merci Rayborn is back again after the death of Tim Hess, her lover and partner, to connect a recent  prostitute murder with one 35 years ago. Tough one, huh?  Well overall,  this was a good book. If you are a cop, I don't know if you would like it  with all the police corruption. Looking forward to your next one Mr. P!	2000-07-10
US	52769068	RMAF8AK1H6M7U	0786889667	274788543	The First Victim	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Ridley Is Rocking the Ratings!	Wonderful book! It explored the lives of Chinese immigrants and  sweatshops. This book reminded me of many certain movies, but this book  described it in much more detail. Lou Boldt and Daphne Matthews are on the  case. YEAH!! The book is a little slow but concludes in a great way, making  it an enjoyable read by Mr. Ridley Pearson.	2000-07-10
US	52769068	R38SLDY14HWLJ	0312952058	699057561	Laguna Heat	Books	5	3	5	N	N	NICE, Mr. Parker, VERY NICE!	Well this was Mr. Parker's first novel, so I thought it probably wouldn't be too great. Well, I was WRONG! This one is just as good as The Blue Hour and his others. I think Mr. Parker is going to be the next John Sandford  and Patricia Cornwell.	2000-07-02
US	52769068	R3LRLBTH3YW6T0	0440234743	934400771	The Testament	Books	5	0	1	N	N	GO JOHN, GO!	I love to see Mr. Grisham writing about incidents outside of the courtroom. I enjoyed the trip to South America a lot. I felt like I was down there with him. He described it so well. The plot was so good and I  loved the ending. He did a great job of describing the greedy little  relatives in the story. It made you really hate them. Please write more  books like The Brethren and The Testament.	2000-07-02
US	52769068	RQS4MBMH920XV	0312972741	825743722	In the Event of My Death	Books	5	2	3	N	N	CARLENE THOMPSON IS A GREAT DISCOVERY!	I found this book in a local store and picked it up. Well, I found another favorite author of mine. This book really makes you think if you know your friends as good as you think. WHO CAN YOU TRUST? That's the question in  this book. I'm looking forward to Carlene's next one!	2000-07-02
US	52769068	R15KQZJFS0B2M6	0786889691	338298919	The Blue Hour	Books	5	1	1	N	N	T. Jefferson Parker is THE MAN!	This was the first book I've read by Mr. Parker and well, all I can say is that I am going to read every book he's written now. The Blue Hour had a great storyline and great characters. I love Merci Rayborn. It was too bad  about Tim Hess though. I am looking forward to reading the rest of his  novels.	2000-07-02
US	52769068	R2DL7Q0YX3U5VJ	0671519182	874119087	The Night Awakens: A Mystery Writers of America Anthology	Books	2	13	14	N	N	Someone Better Take Some Caffeine Pills for This One!	This book is so boring- ZZZZZZZ. It was very hard for me to finish. If you are going to buy a book, buy one that Mary Higgins Clark has written, not EDITED. Because this one is SLOW.	2000-07-02
US	52769068	RNTIIQ6UEKIW5	044021632X	253802911	The Angel Maker	Books	5	0	1	N	N	After This Book, I'm Scared To Go To The VET!	This book is scary and morbid, but that's what I like. I am a true fan to Ridley Pearson. I love his novels. It was very interesting to have a book about organ harvesting. If you like Patricia Cornwell and Iris Johansen  than you'll love The Angel Maker. Keep up the Great Work Ridley!	2000-07-02
US	52769068	RYTUW36N98DJ3	0515128325	745196576	After the Fall	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Just Another Predictable Mystery!	This book had a good plot but it was very slow. The ending was so predictable. I felt the author needed to spend more time making this novel more suspenseful. I was impressed with the author's knowledge of the the  courtroom though. If I were you, I would spend my money on a book that that  more action and suspense.	2000-06-23
US	52769068	R8CU15XUMVBUR	0446608319	862017203	The Visionary	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Don Passman's First Novel Is A Success!	I was in a local Costco and I saw a book called The Visionary by Don Passman. I never heard of this guy, but the back sounded good, so I bought it. Boy was I happy i did!  I loved every minute of this book. I couldn't  stop reading it! I will definitely be keeping my eye on Mr. Passman for his  new books in the future.	2000-06-23
US	52769068	R3ASTIS3FZHCWK	0451200799	989223479	The Shadow Hunter	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Great Michael Prescott Thriller!	As usual Michael Prescott writes another powerful, suspenseful, and exhilirating thriller. Michal Prescott a.k.a Brian Harper always writes great mysteries and I was so happy to find The Shadow Hunter. The only  problem is that I finished it one day! Keep up the great work Michael!	2000-06-17
US	52769068	R1FS46L5YRYPO8	0553581767	328989327	Manhattan Is My Beat (Rune)	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Not Deaver's Best, but Great for a Re-Make!	Manhattan Is My Beat is a great thriller by the master of suspense, Jeffery Deaver. I didn't like it as much as his latest one's like The Empty Chair and The Bone Collector. It seems like the each book gets better with  him. There was a great conclusion to this book. You couldn't trust anyone  and it turned out really well. I am looking forward to Shallow Graves in  September 2000.	2000-06-17
US	52769068	R2CPYT4ZFPHUUD	0553800914	996234195	The Search (Eve Duncan)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I Can't Get Enough of Iris Johansen!	Every single book that she writes gets better and better. I love that Iris is writing her latest books with a golden retriever in it. I love goldens! There was non-stop suspense, great characters and a wonderful conclusion. I  was dissapointed when I saw it was only 298 pages, because I had the book  done in about 3 hours. I am looking forward to your next one Iris.	2000-06-17
US	52769068	R23GIOF405C3W8	0449005836	990014722	The Right Hand of Evil	Books	1	2	2	N	N	JOHN SAUL IS HORRIBLE!	I hated this book. Slow, boring and annoying. I was so happy to finish it. There were so many dreams, that you didn't know if they were talking about reality or the past. No more Saul for me! Try Dean Koontz, that's a real  horror novelist!	2000-06-07
US	52769068	R2OR34E9SDWLO4	0671038443	79347454	The Devil's Teardrop	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Deaver Rules the List in Suspense!	Another wonderful novel by Jeffery. His best two are The Empty Chair and this one! Keep up the great work Jeffery. Maybe there will be another movie like The Bone Collector!	2000-06-02
US	52769068	R24LSWY3RPP7LU	0316690619	95144783	Cradle and All	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Patterson is Fascinating As Usual!	Wonderful novel! James Patterson can write demonic and somewhat fantasy books just as great as his other mystery novels. The plot was beautifully well written and the ending turned out not the way I thought, but much  better. I am greatly awaiting James's next novel Roses Are Red in November!  Keep up the great work James!	2000-05-23
US	52769068	R3H5KR83SFBEBW	0684855631	430524886	The Empty Chair	Books	5	3	5	N	N	THE ABSOLUTE BEST OF DEAVER!	One of his best books! I love all of Deaver's books. Keep up the fabulous work Jeffery!	2000-05-10
US	52769068	R2RZFI6FB7QO83	039914613X	323998329	Easy Prey	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Not Bad, But Not His Best!	This was a very good and well written novel, but to me it doesn't seem as good as Certain Prey. A few questions were left and unanswered at the end. Like what the killer and the victim were arguing about before she was  killed. I was hoping that this was going to follow up with Clare Rinker  from Certain Prey. I liked that there were 2 killers in this book, since  this brought more twists and turns. Overall a good book!	2000-05-08
US	52769068	R1VTLFT54Y7NQA	0451200152	728640065	The Town	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Bentley Little is By Far the MASTER OF HORROR!	Once again Bentley Little shows that he can write an amazing horror novel. His books are so much better than Stephen King! He leaves you in suspense the entire time. Twists and turns around every corner. When it comes to  horror the award goes to BENTLEY LITTLE!	2000-05-01
US	52769068	R1KBUOW81WAY18	0440224748	89587634	Four Corners of Night	Books	2	0	1	N	N	NOT TOO GREAT!	The book was just OK! I mean the author kept going back and forth from present to past and it got very confusing. Also there was a lot of unnecessary nonsense in it too! Hope Mr. Craig gets better.	2000-04-28
US	52769068	RJAYPCWEJ8IK8	0684835983	728320796	Before I Say Good-Bye	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Mary Higgins Clark Continues Her Quest To Success!	I got this book 10 days before the scheduled release date and boy was I excited. As usual this was another wonderful Mary Higgins Clark thriller.You could never guess who did what and who was the killer because  there were so many twists and turns! Like always,there were so many  characters that you could never guess who did what. But like always, Mary  draws them all together and leads up to a magnificent conclusion. Keep up  the great work MARY!	2000-04-19
US	52769068	R3P9TJOU3WQVUX	0449004422	990956211	The Mother's Day Murder (Not-To-Miss Series)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Lee Harris Rules!	As usual when it comes to the books of Lee Harris, &quot;The Mother's Day Murder&quot; was wonderful! It kept you wondering the whole time who was the killer. But you would NEVER guess until the end. Looking forward to  your next one LEE!	2000-04-10
US	52769068	RWCY920AH9JKC	0553576917	846483733	Whose Little Girl are You?	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A great suspenseful novel!	Bethany Campbell's latest work, &quot;Whose Little Girl Are You?&quot; is a spectacular read! It is about a woman, Jaye Garrett, who is trying to find out who her biological parents are and her brother's biological  parents are before he dies of bone marrow disease. They come across a group  of people who will do anything to stop them too! Great work Bethany!	2000-04-10
US	52769068	R1XOT4REN014DX	0804112975	565785470	Dangerous Attachments	Books	1	2	6	N	N	BAD!	I discovered Sarah Lovett in a local bookstore and thought I might try her out! BIG MISTAKE! Boring plot, bad characters, and it could have been a lot shorter! Hopefully her next books are better!	2000-04-10
US	52769068	R1SONM9RXO8ATD	0385497466	376574359	The Brethren	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An Overall Great Grisham Novel!	My two favorite John Grisham novels are The Testament and this one. I thought that the storyline was wonderful in the Brethren! I liked the characters and their great descriptions. I thought that the ending was not  too great. But it left you hanging and made you wonder if there is going to  be a sequel. Great work JOHN!	2000-04-10
US	52769068	RWEVU9LDJGD0N	006103049X	263846926	Mary, Mary: A Novel	Books	1	1	2	N	N	ABSOLUTELY HORRIBLE!	SOOOO boring, terrible characters, so many stupid flashbacks to drive you crazy. A COMPLETE FAILURE! Julie Parsons needs to find a NEW CAREER!	2000-04-07
US	52769068	R2DKU8E7LV65BG	0425172341	172488110	Blind Instinct: A Jessica Coran Novel	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Another Very Enjoyable Thriller By Robert W. Walker!	Mr. Walker does writes another winner with Blind Instinct. Jessica Coran is back to solve the cruxification murders of the citizens of London while back at home J.T. (her assistant) is on the case of the Tattoo-Man! A little boring at parts, but overall a worthwile read! Great work Robert!	2000-03-12
US	52769068	R2B9I08E024RG8	0451197429	934617707	The Disappearance	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Absolutely WONDERFUL!	My favorite courtroom drama mystery EVER! This book was absolutely fantastic. You would never guess who was the killer. John Grisham needs to learn some lessons from J. F. Freedman. A definite success on this one!	2000-03-09
US	52769068	R2RQBO3JBDTHBZ	0399145087	636904914	Black Notice (A Scarpetta Novel)	Books	1	2	2	N	N	What was Patricia Cornwell thinking?	I am still trying to figure this whole thing out. Was this book supposed to be about a crime-solving mystery or whiny soap opera with a mixture of Days of Our Lives and Melrose Place mixed in together? There was so much  WHINING and relationship problems in this book that it drove me crazy!   This book does not live up to all of the other Scarpetta novels at all.  Here are my suggestions to Mrs. Cornwell- Kill that little annoying niece  Lucy, have Mrs. Scarpetta stop whining and blabbering about poor Benton and  stop making Marino look like a stupid drunk. I certainly hope &quot;The  Last Precinct&quot; is better than this novel!	2000-02-11
US	52769068	R20DR3N3H1PHPS	0451197054	264891459	Secret Weekend	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Absolutely Wonderful!	Wow, this book was good. It had suspense, action, and it really probes into the mind of a crazed man, who vows to get revenge on Audrey Goh after the past he has experienced with Audrey's father. There is also another  group after Audrey, a group of Chinese Mafia men who will stop at nothing  to get what they want. This book is absolutely mesmerizing! I have read all  3 books that Thom Racina has written and this one is one of my favorite.  Also it gives you a little hint that there might be a sequel coming. Keep  up the great work Thom!	1999-11-23
US	52769068	R3EQXDW071X16R	0451182006	436252129	Mortal Pursuit	Books	5	1	1	N	N	THE BEST BOOK IN THE WHOLE WORLD!!!!	I just can't describe how wonderfully well written and thought out this book was. I have read thousands of mystery novels and Brian Harper is DEFINITELY in the top 3. I would suggest reading all of his books. PLEASE  WRITE SOME MORE BOOKS,BRIAN, PLEASE I BEG YOU!!!!	1999-09-15
US	52769068	R2D5WWIOG2FZH2	0684835975	203276036	We'll Meet Again	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Thrilling Novel by the Master of Suspense!!!!!!	Once again, Mary Higgins Clark shows us that she can write a successful mystery novel. I couldn't stop reading it, I read it in 2 days because it was so good. This books portrays great suspense, and is very intriguing. If  you haven't read it yet make sure you do. Keep up the great work Mary!	1999-07-28
US	52769068	R3UZIL9M8FL20Q	067102423X	85988614	Bag of Bones	Books	1	6	11	N	N	THIS BOOK IS SO BAD!!!!!!!!!!	I have read about 8 Stephen King novels till this day and allof them were ok, but this one is so dull. I think the plot is aninteresting idea, but there are so many wasted blah, blah, blah pages in this book. This book didn't have to be 732 pages. At the beginning it was boring. I thought for sure that this book was going to get better but boy was I wrong.This book actually got more dull and obnoxious closer to the end. Yuck, I've decided that I will no longer read a Stephen King book again, SORRY! ...Try John Sandford, now that's a good writer.	1999-06-11
US	52769068	R18RP5OHXA2EXD	039914496X	51899905	Certain Prey	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sandford Once Again Does It Again!!!!	As usual John Sandford writes an extraordinary novel with a wonderful plot and a great cast of characters. I am sure that Clara Rinker will be back soon to try to finish off Lucas Davenport. Keep up the good work John!	1999-06-03
US	52769068	R1GM4XFI2EEORP	0307248054	597490719	The Hand of Power (Fear Street Sagas #16)	Books	5	0	3	N	N	BY FAR THE WORST FEAR STREET SAGAS BOOK EVER!!!!!!	All of the new sagas books were pretty good, but this one was boring, annoying, and a giant waste of money!! I hope the Raven Woman is better. DON'T FALL APART R.L.!!!!	1999-01-28
US	52769068	RO7ZOU0G9S8LF	0449150178	830504595	Labor Day Murder (Christine Bennett Mysteries)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Another great book, by the master of mystery!	Lee Harris has done it again! This had to have been one of the best  holiday murder books yet. Keep the great writing work up Lee! I wish Lee  would write some more holiday books faster than about 2 books a year.  They're great!	1998-08-16
US	52769068	RUVLQ5A061YRU	042516098X	71891417	Hornet's Nest (Andy Brazil)	Books	1	0	0	N	N	A DISAPPOINTMENT FOR CORNWELL! THIS BOOK WAS TERRIBLE!!	I've read almost all of Cornwell's books, and this is by far, the worst book she has ever written. What happened to Scarpetta? This was one of the most boring books that I have ever read. Don't even bother to read it!	1998-08-06
US	52769068	R29ICVP58JR020	0307247015	247670395	Camp Out (New Fear Street, Book 2)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	THE BEST BOOK THAT R.L. STINE HAS WROTE	This book of R.L. Stines was definitley the best book he has ever wrote. This book has no ghost or spiritual parts at all. This is just a very scary and suspenseful book. This book should be out everywhere by now!	1998-03-23
