US	52762926	R25HXV5E43PHSR	0743470095	218862275	Little Earthquakes	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Much Improved From Her Last Novel	It is good to know that Jennifer Weiner did not peak with her first novel, Good in Bed. Her last novel, In Her Shoes, was a disappointment, but Little Earthquakes returns to some of the honesty and bittersweet feeling of her first novel.<br /><br />This time around, the subject is motherhood, and how several diverse women come to be part of one circle of friends. Weiner's standard self-portrait, the over-weight Jewish girl, is here in the form of Rebecca, a restaurant owner who is married to a doctor, and is happy with their daughter, but has the mother in law from hell. Kelly is the girl from the poor Irish Catholic family who lives in shame and anger toward her unemployed husband, while tring to raise their son. Ayinde is the bi-racial daughter of a 70's fashion model who has a baby boy and is married to a Kobe Bryant-esque basketball player.<br /><br />However, the most interesting character is Lia Frederick, a girl who left Philadelphia to re-invent herself as an actress in Hollywood. She leaves her actor husband in L.A. and retreats to her mother's house after losing her infant son to SIDS. Her story is gut wrenching.<br /><br />My complaint with this book is that Weiner has chosen again to intertwine the stories of too many characters. Just when you become enthralled with one character, she has moved onto the next one, and completely lost the plot and conflict of the previous character. This was very disappointing, but the characters are much more interesting and sympathetic than her previous novel, although everything ties up too neatly in the end.<br /><br />New mothers will appreciate and relate to this book, and fans of Jennifer Weiner will enjoy the book as a return to what made Good In Bed so very good.	2005-04-15
US	52762926	RCFO3Q95FAX4B	0743260031	297692250	Assassination Vacation	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Entertaining and Endlessly Informative	Sarah Vowell's writing captured my fancy from the beginning, with her wit, sarcasm, honesty and style. She is an unabashed and unashamed history geek, whose idea of a fun vacation is touring the graves of presidents and other historical figures. But, she is never, ever dull. Vowell loves her subject matter, but her unique and witty writing makes the journey not only informative, but entertaining.<br /><br />This collection of essays is more educational and specific than 'Take the Cannoli' or 'The Partly Cloudy Patriot'. I loved those books, and their style was a collection of essays on diverse topics. In this book, Vowell sticks to the stories of the events and people surrounding the assassinations of Lincoln, Garfield, and McKinley. She knows minute facts and is a veritable fount of historical knowledge. You will learn details you never knew or thought you wanted to know. You will be very glad you had your history lessons expanded by Sarah Vowell.<br /><br />Imagine if your high school Civics class were taught by a folk singer and part-time comedienne, and you will get some idea of what you have here. Sarah Vowell just gets better with each book. She is not afraid to speak her mind, or to poke holes in legends. She's also not afraid of change. This book would have been risky in the hands of someone dry or who took themselves too seriously. Not Sarah Vowell. Although she takes the subject matter very seriously, she speaks with such enthusiasm and youthful exuberance that you cannot help being drawn in. She is absolutely one of the best essayists today.	2005-04-15
US	52762926	R1H8OUZBMZ2392	0345442822	898191940	Angry Housewives Eating Bon Bons (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Too much of a good thing	This book strives to be a sweeping, great novel, but it falls short. Although short does not describe the story, since it drags on for over 400 pages. The basic premise is good: five housewives and mothers from the same neighborhood meet in the late 1960's and start a book club, and their friendship and the book club stretch into the late 1990's. They meet at a time when things were very different for women, but were changing at a rapid pace.<br /><br />The five main characters are Faith, a southern girl who is so ashamed of her past that she invents an entirely different one; Merit, the pretty minister's daughter who is being abused by her husband; Slip, the politically active woman who, true to her nickname, is merely a slip of a woman; Kari, the older, childless widow; and Audrey, the big, beautiful sex-obsessed and, possibly, the most interesting of the Angry Housewives. The characters are not that well fleshed out, and it is difficult to get an emotional connection going. At times, it is tough to discern who is who and whose children belong to whom. Then, the addition of a gay male character to the group toward the end of the book seems completely superfluous.<br /><br />The book shows promise at the beginning, but drags on too long, and tries to do too much. The research into the time period is very good, since this was a time when women still made excuses for bruises and abuse, where the adoption of a bi-racial child was something unusual, where a gay son rarely came out to his mother, and where a slightly-shady past was something to be hidden. I wish I could have cared more about the characters and the outcome of the book, but there was just too much going on to find this book truly interesting.	2004-08-20
US	52762926	RHVYXT9VD3O7H	0142500682	505703171	Notes from a Liar and Her Dog	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A great debut	I read Gennifer Choldenko's debut after reading her second book, 'Al Capone Does My Shirts'. I can say she just keeps improving. She has not forgotten what it is to be a child, and she writes in a way that young people can relate to, as well as their parents, who can remember what it felt like to be that awkward adolescent.<br /><br />Antonia \\"Ant\\" McPherson is a sixth-grader, the middle child surrounded by two \\"perfect\\" siblings. Her father changes jobs at the slightest whim, and has moved the family all over the country. All three daughters finally feel comfortable in their present town, even Ant, who has attached herself to a fellow misfit, Harrison, who has a pet chicken. Ant feels unloved and ignored by her parents, and is convinced she is adopted. She even starts telling everyone she is adopted, and she is waiting for her \\"real\\" parents to arrive any day.<br /><br />Ant hides her frustration behind a web of lies, which begin to bury her. She is befriended by the young, idealistic art teacher, \\"Just\\" Carol, who lets Ant and Harrison be volunteers at the zoo. Ant creates self-fulfilling prophecies by telling her parents she is failing, even though she is the best math student in school. It seems that Ant wants to keep lying to her parents and to everyone, to avoid having to do anything to fit in with her \\"perfect\\" siblings.<br /><br />Choldenko writes in a very entertaining style, and her stories are not sugar-coated or patronizing. Nothing happens that is from a fantasy world, and the feelings are real. We feel empathy for Ant, but we also feel she needs to stop lying and take responsibility for her actions. It is true to life with great lessons, and Choldenko is definitely one of the best writers for children today.	2004-08-20
US	52762926	R29KY3Z0F8U2X5	073820949X	520370109	Belly Laughs: The Naked Truth About Pregnancy And Childbirth	Books	4	16	22	N	N	Crude, honest, and funny	Say what you will about Jenny McCarthy, the girl is funny, and she tells it like it is. I had seen her talking about her pregnancy on tv, so that sparked my interest in this book. For any woman going through a tough pregnancy who needs a pick-me-up, this is definitely it. It is difficult to get the honest truth about pregnancy from women, but Jenny McCarthy is not one of those women. She bares all, but, in the end, all the pain and suffering was worth it. And that's what we want to hear, isn't it?<br /><br />McCarthy's sense of humor can sometimes be like a 7th-grade boy's, which will suit her well as a mother to a young boy. Most of what she says is painfully true, and you will find yourself smiling through the short chapters.	2004-08-06
US	52762926	R32P45AYYFJKI5	1558748288	435531178	But I Don't Feel Too Old to Be a Mommy!: The Complete Sourcebook for Starting (and Re-Starting) Motherhood Beyond 35 and After 40	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Everything you need to know in one book	This book is not about humor, or girlfriend-to-girlfriend banter. It states all the facts before, during, and after the decision to tackle motherhood beyond the conventional age. There are resources and facts about fertility options, adoption (the author and her husband adopted a child from Russia) and all the other challenges to be faced. It is very honest about the pros and cons of late-life motherhood, the risks and the rewards, and it is good to have all this information in one volume, rather than having to hunt for the information elsewhere.	2004-08-06
US	52762926	R1K0OEJEBRK3UL	0375506209	619428462	Diane Arbus: Revelations	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A brilliant tribute to a great artist	Diane Arbus was best-known for her stark, black-and-white photographs of the outer fringes of society. She was very much of her time period, since the things she had to go outside of the lines to photograph (inter-racial couples, people with tattoos, drag queens, etc.) are now a part of every day life. I was fortunate enough to see a display of her work at the L.A. County Museum of Art, and this volume is a wonderful companion to the show. Not only are all the plates from the show included, but also copies of correspondence, pictures of her cameras, and the story of her sad, short life. In many ways, she was ahead of her time, with the un-smiling, un-flattering portraits of real people, at a time when most photography was glossy, and reality was still somewhat hidden.<br /><br />Like most brilliant artists, she was troubled and was not happy with her life. She took her life at a relatively young age, before she could see the modern world, reflected from her early photographs. It is a pity, but we are lucky to have the photographs of Diane Arbus live on.	2004-08-05
US	52762926	R3K2M1DYPVC2J1	0060562080	141165820	Under the Duvet: Shoes, Reviews, Having the Blues, Builders, Babies, Families and Other Calamities	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Saved by Irish wit	This collection of rather pedestrian essays is saved from being a total loss by the Irish wit of its author, Marian Keyes. Her sarcasm and over-the-top wit help to punch up the humor in spots, but her essays are certainly not in the same category as other modern-day essayists. Many of us can relate to her experiences of flaky building contractors, marriage and family, and more, but all of this has been mined before. It wasn't a laugh riot, and it isn't really a must-read.	2004-07-27
US	52762926	R1WMLEU8P8HTPG	0399238611	670903914	Al Capone Does My Shirts (Tales from Alcatraz)	Books	5	98	106	N	N	An excellent book for all ages	I can hardly believe this is considered a children's book, since it is ideal for adults who can relate to their own coming-of-age experiences. Without going into excessive detail, Gennifer Choldenko manages to portray an era, adolescence and the pain of a disabled sibling in a different time with alarming accuracy.<br /><br /> Moose Flanagan is a 7th grader who is tall for his age. It is 1935, right in the midst of the Great Depression. Moose's father takes a job as a prison guard on Alcatraz Island. This means the whole family, including his mom and older sister, Natalie, have to live on the island, within the shadow of the prison, in an apartment building with the families of the other guards. Moose is not happy about leaving his home and friends in Santa Monica to take up residence next to a prison. The main reason for the move is so that his older sister, Natalie, can go to a special school in San Francisco. Natalie is considered different. In modern times, she would be diagnosed as Autistic, but in 1935, Autism had not been classified. Moose adjusts to life in a strange new place, stuck with the responsibility of looking after his sister, hardly seeing his parents, and getting to know the other children on the island, including the pretty and problematic Piper, the daughter of the Warden.<br /><br /> I read this book in one sitting. It is very well-written, and the author clearly hasn't forgotten what it is to be a child. She portrays being the responsible sibling to a handicapped sister excellently, and I cannot recommend this book enough.	2004-07-26
US	52762926	R2686B29CMPS7Z	1401351891	407087155	You Make Me Feel Like an Unnatural Woman: Diary of an Older Mother	Books	4	13	18	N	N	Disarmingly honest memoir of infertility and motherhood	First of all, Judith Newman is honest, and fearless. She doesn't pull any punches, and hardly changes names. It's difficult not to admire someone who can be one of the few people to paint both the good and the bad aspects of conquering infertility, and keep her sense of humor.<br />As a woman who went through IVF and late-life motherhood myself, I consider this book essential reading. While Newman admits she put off motherhood for reasons other than infertility, the ensuing treatments and desire for motherhood drive her forward. It is clear that she desired a child because of her biological clock and, perhaps, as an accessory, but by the time her twins are born and she falls head first into their care, her love for them is apparent.<br />Judith Newman exists in a successful Manhattan world where people have children late in life, only to have the nannies take the children to birthday parties and Mommy & Me classes. There is competition among the nannies, there are private parks with keys, and waiting lists for the chicest pre-schools. Newman is more hands-on with her children, however she does employ a Jamaican nanny with whom she conflicts regularly. Still, she takes her own children out and to parties, and tries her best to raise them without her husband, a man 25 years her senior who, although an active participant in the IVF, is virtually absent from the children's lives. Newman and her husband even share separate apartments, and she spares no bile toward her husband, although she can be charitable.<br />This book is not for people who like things sugar-coated. Although I have been through much of what she has been through, the world she lives in is so different from mine, I couldn't relate to all of her experiences. One doesn't need to have a sense of what she went through, I think, to truly appreciate what she has to say. The book is written with caustic wit and honesty, and I admire her for her courage.	2004-07-12
US	52762926	RPKOF6ILZS9PL	0439357624	166430776	Born Confused	Books	4	21	21	N	N	A great slice of youthful cultural confusion	This book is a rare treat, in that it presents the life of a typical American teenager with an atypical life, is honest, but doesn't stoop to cliches and stereotypes to tell its tale. This is the story of Dimple Lala, a young woman, born and raised in New Jersey of Indian immigrant parents, who is turning 17 at the beginning of summer. Dimple rejects her parents old-world culture and wants to be an All-American girl, but everyone else sees her as Indian. For her parents, Dimple getting drunk once while out with friends on her birthday is cause for a silent treatment and punishment of international proportions. In one of my favorite lines from the book, Dimple's mother says, \\"Giving birth to you was easy. It is now that I am needing the epidural!\\"<br />Dimple, in comparison to her childhood friend, Gwyn, is positively a model child: a good student, a virgin who has only dated two boys, she doesn't do drugs or do anything out of the ordinary to cause her parents to worry. It turns out that both Dimple and her parents are failing to realize what they have: a caring, lovely family unit and a strong cultural background in Dimple's case, and a very good daughter, in the case of her parents. Dimple's friend, Gwyn, is beautiful and blonde and slim and the center of attention, but she comes from a home where she was abandoned by her father and ignored by her mother, and she craves the stability of Dimple's family unit, which, of course, Dimple does not understand, since she longs to be beautiful and blonde and free of parental restrictions.<br />Dimple's parents seek to control their daughter by introducing her to a \\"suitable boy\\" meaning, of course, another Indian boy, an NYU computer major, and the son of her mother's best friend. Dimple rejects the boy on principal, but then discovers that he is a slightly unsuitable boy, and begins to fall in love with him, along with her friend, Gwyn. Dimple spends the bulk of the novel discovering herself and her life, and realizing that what she has is really a gift. She is exposed to the temptations of teenaged life, she has her heart broken and she rebels against her parents, but it takes a long summer for her to see that everything she has really is something to be envied.<br />The book is written in a charming, witty style, and, except for a few sort of \\"romance novel\\" plot twists, it is very engrossing. It is perfect for both adults and teens, and really should be read by parents and their teenagers.at what she has is really a gift. She is exposed to the temptations of teenaged life, she has her heart broken and she rebels against her parents, but it takes a long summer for her to see that everything she has really is something to be envied.<br />The book is written in a charming, witty style, and, except for a few sort of \\"romance novel\\" plot twists, it is very engrossing. It is perfect for both adults and teens, and really should be read by parents and their teenagers.	2004-06-07
US	52762926	R1HZX3ZBPKQSNZ	1580629342	638133276	Pregnancy Sucks: What to Do When Your Miracle Makes You Miserable	Books	4	49	50	N	N	Finally! A pregnancy books that tells it like it is!	Author Joanne Kimes is not afraid to be blunt, and she has a sardonic wit that makes you realize that, yes, pregnancy can suck, but you will still be smiling. It seems that most women possess a convenient amnesia about their pregnancies. You will seldom get a straight answer about the discomfort of pregnancy from a woman who has a child over the age of two. The pregnancy has been forgotten by then, replaced by the child and its ensuing responsibilities. Little things like morning sickness, cramps, and constipation are left behind. But, when a woman is pregnant, and everyone is implying that she shouldn't be feeling as bad as she does, it tends to make a woman feel like she's over-reacting.<br />Well, Joanne Kimes doesn't think you're over-reacting. She shares the bad and the good of pregnancy, and lets you know it's perfectly alright to be uncomfortable, sick, and grumpy while pregnant. The joys will eventually outweigh the negative aspects, but you are given permission to complain. And, with the tongue-in-cheek wit of her writing, it's a true joy to read. I felt so much better after reading this book, because it's fine if your pregnancy sucks. We are not bad mothers or bad women, we're just facing the facts! I highly recommend this book to all pregnant women.	2004-02-07
US	52762926	R3W403IS86JHJD	081296683X	177795746	Girls' Poker Night: A Novel of High Stakes	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Somewhat disappointing	I had heard so many good things about this book in advance, that I believe my expectations were much higher than the pay-off. I find this book to be just another lame attempt at a Bridget Jones' style of story, without the humor. Considering that Jill A. Davis was a former writer for the Late Show with David Letterman, I would also have expected much more.<br />Ruby Capote is a thirty-something journalist who moves from Boston to New York to work for a newspaper. She has left her last relationship behind, and is falling, reluctantly, for her handsome, divorced boss. Each week, she and her gal pals meet for a night of poker, just like the boys. Ruby's girlfriends include a married mother, a foreign-born supermodel, and a lesbian just coming out of the closet.<br />Nothing really ever seems to happen in this novel. It is like a menu, where you expect so much more than what actually arrives at the table. There are a few funny moments, and many can relate to coming from a broken home and needing attention, etc. But, there is no new material mined here, nothing special or unique. When I was finished reading it, I felt a bit gypped. As I said, perhaps I was expecting too much, but I have read books of this genre that were far superior.	2003-09-09
US	52762926	R23PLH2XQL6IS5	0743464818	192272503	Thin Skin	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Extremely intriguing writing style, with a rail-thin plot	This is an unusual book to recommend, because it is not the story or characters that kept me intrigued, but the writing style of the young Emma Forrest. Her style is quirky, intriguing, and out of nowhere. She could describe baking a cake, and you'd be interested. The observations made through her characters are written in a style that stays in your head, even if the characters do not.<br />Although I recommend this book, the plot is not much to recommend. The story centers around Ruby, a Christina Ricci-esque actress who is described as narcisscistic, bulimic, and selfish, and has absolutely no redeeming qualities whatsoever. Although we get a peek into her past, the death of her mother, and her emancipation from her father, it is difficult to feel any real connection to her as a character. There is no real cohesiveness to her relationships with any of the other thinly-drawn characters in the book, including the painter she has pined for since the age of twelve. Ruby has no conscience, and I found it impossible to feel connected to her or her story.<br />Still, Emma Forrest is very young, and has a tremendous amount of potential. I would like to read other things she has written, since she simply writes in a style that reels you in, regardless of the vapidness of the plot or characters.	2003-09-07
US	52762926	R2YPU353RWNG7M	0743223527	273355303	The Partly Cloudy Patriot	Books	4	2	2	N	N	More Smart, Witty Vowell!	Sarah Vowell is that rare writer who manages to be sarcastic and cynical, but still respectful and downright witty as can be. Her follow-up to \\"Take the Cannoli\\" is just as good, but in a different way. Whereas \\"Take the Cannoli\\" was more about her coming-of-age and life experiences, \\"The Partly Cloudy Patriot\\" is mainly her take on recent political and news events. She manages to put her own personal spin on what has transpired, never sugar-coating her views, but she keeps the humor alive throughout. Her take on the fiasco that was the 2000 election is both hysterically funny and profoundly sad.<br />Sarah Vowell has an encyclopedic knowledge of the history of the USA and is an unapologetic nerd, while also being as hip as other writers in her particular genre. She also tosses in anecdotes from her life for good measure. She and her fraternal twin sister are as different as ever; her sister is now married, has a child, and is still living in Montana. Sarah now lives in New York City, and hosts her family for Thanksgiving, much to her eternal regret. The differences between Sarah Vowell and her family and upbringing are funny and witty, not filled with angst.<br />It is a rare writer who can produce two such very good books, without peaking on their first, and just putting out a second book as an afterthought. I look forward to so much more from the incredibly talented Sarah Vowell.	2003-09-07
US	52762926	R1UC5RM7QR8CMZ	0743205405	756073777	Take the Cannoli: Stories From the New World	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A snarky slice of Americana	Sarah Vowell is witty, acerbic and opinionated, yet she has an abiding respect and deep interest in the history of the United States, both good and bad. She knows her subject matter extremely well, and interjects her adventures with some of the most biting wit and a view of the world far beyond her years.<br />Sarah Vowell is a former Pentecostal-turned-Atheist, one half of a pair of mis-matched twin sisters, born in Oklahoma, raised in Montana, and, at the time she wrote this book, a resident of Chicago. She is a registered Democrat and avowed gun-hater, who clashes amusingly with her Republican, gun-loving father, and who is appalled at her twin sister's fascination with guns. This does not prevent her, however, from helping her father fire off a cannon into the great open spaces, but she doesn't come back for more.<br />This collection of essays covers a great deal of territory, including Vowell's childhood, her religious upbringing, her obessession with the film 'The Godfather' (hence the title, a line from that film), a trip to Disney World to see the Hall of Presidents (where someone in the audience actually whoops and hollers for the audioanimatronic Abraham Lincoln), a trip to Hoboken, New Jersey to re-trace the steps of the town's favorite son, Frank Sinatra, and a re-tracing of the Cherokee Trail of Tears with her sister behind the wheel (because, she has not learned to drive and defends herself by saying Barbara.Walters.Does.Not.Drive), which becomes a soul-searching adventure. She stays at the famed Chelsea Hotel in New York and she goes underground as a Goth in San Francisco. She is just as funny writing about her adventures as she is re-telling the less-monumental personal events of her life. Just when I thought I'd read her funniest paragraph, I would find myself laughing uproariously in another chapter. Her analogies, her witticisms and her sly remarks are hilarious.<br />Sarah Vowell is sarcastic without seeming bitter, and she is honest without being brutal. She is simply a great writer and essayist, and a very droll wit and a slightly cynical, yet somewhat hopeful, view of life in these United States.ng brutal. She is simply a great writer and essayist, and a very droll wit and a slightly cynical, yet somewhat hopeful, view of life in these United States.	2003-05-16
US	52762926	R27TUAI677RKQP	3882437928	240736435	Charlie Chaplin: A Photo Diary	Books	5	8	10	N	N	An incredible book!	This book is worth every penny and is a must for all Chaplin fans. I have been a Chaplin afficianado for many years and this generous volume contains images I had never seen before. It covers every decade of his amazing career, including very rare candids while he was still in his 20's and starting his own studio. We see him without make-up, being himself. We watch him age, decade after decade. We see him on a cruise to the Far East with Paulette Goddard and Alistair Cooke in 1936; he poses with dignitaries and legends such as Winston Churchill and Albert Einstein; and, we see him as an old, contented man, with the love of his life, Oona O'Neill Chaplin, and their 8 children.<br />Photos express far more than words in this book. I believe this is the first time I've seen photos that look into the eyes and soul of this film pioneer. You see him in front of and behind the camera. You see his wit and his dedication. Page after page of fascinating, incredible photographs make this an absolute must for anyone who wants a glimpse into those bygone days of the silent screen comedy.	2003-02-14
US	52762926	R3H644DD6BAAR	0789308002	181104234	MTV  Photobooth: An MTV Overground Book	Books	4	4	4	N	N	This is good fun!	Being a fan of photo booths, it is interesting to see people in the public eye, that we at least think we know, acting like everyone else when faced with an opportunity to ham it up on a strip of 4 photo booth pictures. Celebrities who visit MTV's shows are invited into the MTV Photo Booth, and it is interesting to see who can relax and be themselves, or who has to keep up their public face, even when told to cut loose. Looking at the faces of the celebrities here, you can see who seems uncomfortable, who cuts loose, and who stays in character. You will be surprised with who seems the most relaxed, including Celine Dion and Arnold Schwarzenegger. Lenny Kravitz stays cool, while Adam Sandler looks downright uncomfortable. I am out of the demographic of many of the celebrities on display, but I can say I knew who at least 90% of them were. This book is a lot of fun to look at again and again, and analyze, and enjoy.	2003-02-09
US	52762926	R1L2LPKZV9G0OR	0375756469	307996488	Women	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Disturbingly Beautiful	There are a wide variety of women represented in this book, a cross section of society, photographed with the unique eye of the great Annie Lebovitz. There are the typically beautiful celebrities, average women on the street, and even a naked, bearded lady. Nothing about this collection is boring, and every page reveals something new. Annie Lebovitz is not afraid to take chances with her subject matter, and it shows. She is not the typical celebrity photographer, having gotten her start in rock and roll. This book celebrates women in all forms and stations in life, and is an absolute delight.	2002-12-27
US	52762926	R3ASYVQ4KEYLH3	1569470901	586062232	Rebuilding Coventry	Books	4	6	7	N	N	An incredible story in a small amount of space	More action happens in this 134-page novella than I have read in novels four times its size. The heroine, Coventry Dakin, begins the novel by stating, \\"I am beautiful and yesterday I killed a man.\\" From here, we go on a whirlwind journey, as Coventry eludes the authorities, abandoning her controlling husband and the two children she loves. She runs to London, lives as a homeless person, then as a domestic, and even stoops to one incident of prostitution.<br />Meanwhile, the brother she loves, Sidney, is off in Portugal with his wife, Ruth, and is no help to Coventry. There is the police inspector obsessed with capturing her, in a very Inspector Javert style. There is the relieved widow of the man Coventry presumably killed. And, there is the question that Coventry doesn't need to be running away at all. How could she have killed a man more than twice her size by hitting him on the back of the head with an action figure?<br />Sue Townsend's style is witty, acerbic, fast-paced, and incredibly different. It is amazing the characters she creates, and the situations she puts them in, and the novella is over almost as soon as you start it. Townsend is indeed a rare and gifted writer, and this book is a very worthy read.	2002-12-19
US	52762926	RPOMW2LG1RXMA	0312140940	65783878	Wonder Boys: A Novel	Books	4	6	10	N	N	This is Good Reading	I read this book after I saw the movie, so I am judging it a bit backwards. I read with a vision in my head of the way the characters were portrayed in the film, and tried to envision them the way Michael Chabon wrote them. For example, in the book, Grady Tripp is a large, imposing man, and his friend and editor, Terry Crabtree, is the same age as he is, and they have been friends since college. Of course, in the film, the slender Michael Douglas plays Grady, and Robert Downey, Jr. plays Crabtree, making him about 20 years younger. But, things always change when books are adapted to film. I think the screenwriter did a fine job adapting this novel to the screen, and keeping it fairly faithful to the book.<br />Michael Chabon is a very descriptive writer, as far as feelings, sensations, smells and the like. He focuses mainly on Grady Tripp as narrator here, and a lot on Crabtree and James Leer. He is also more open about Crabtree's sexuality in the book, although it wasn't exactly hidden in the movie. There were also some changes, like the name and breed of the dog, which seemed kind of unnecessary.<br />All in all, I found this book a well-written page turner, with a very interesting protaganist, the confused, dope-smoking, blocked writer, Grady Tripp. There is much more about his estranged wife and family in the book, and the ending isn't quite as uplifting as the film, plus, I would have liked an epilogue of what happened to the characters after the novel was over. Although, the ending of the book is more realistic and ambivalent than the film.<br />I couldn't wait to finish the book, and then view the movie again. It's rare that a film is so accurate to the novel and so well-casted. Especially since the author himself did not adapt the screenplay, it is amazingly like the book in almost every way. I couldn't wait to finish the book, because I was really caught up in the lives of the characters. Michael Chabon is definitely a very good writer, and I want to read his other novels, so that I can read them without the pre-existing condition of having seen the film.his other novels, so that I can read them without the pre-existing condition of having seen the film.	2002-12-17
US	52762926	R3T2ZQDR7W1UXW	030681188X	161661538	How to Lose Friends & Alienate People	Books	3	19	22	N	N	An appropriate title	Toby Young certainly does lose friends and alienate people in this sometimes interesting, sometimes boring memoir of his life as an English journalist in New York. The most interesting parts of the book relate to his stint at Conde Nast (or \\"The Conde Nasties\\") working for Vanity Fair magazine, and his clashes with the editor, Graydon Carter. Young is fired after two years, and it is really no surprise. Young does not play the game, finds his sophomoric antics humorous, and just doesn't seem to fit in at the glossy magazine.<br />Toby Young's life during this period is pretty depressing. He can't hold down a job, is threatened with a lawsuit by Tina Brown, and is even fired by Bob Guccione, Jr. Toby Young does not try to paint himself as anything other than he is; a middle aged, balding, short, anti-social alcoholic with a poor work ethic. He compares the UK and New York endlessly, and complains of not being able to \\"get laid\\" in New York City, because the women are \\"shallow.\\" However, he is equally shallow in judging the women he does date, and he treats them very badly, then wonders why they \\"dump him.\\"<br />Toby Young is an unapologetic jerk, yet his book does have some appeal. It is interesting to view the world of Manhattan and its social structure, the publishing world, and the view of an outsider on what makes it tick. There are some interesting tidbits, but Young often stretches things to fill space. He could have told these stories as a series of essays, making the book half its size and twice as readable. It ends up being very difficult to find the enthusiasm to finish the book, but, you want to know what happened to this fellow, anyhow.	2002-12-11
US	52762926	R1EVQREUK98CER	0446531650	860687383	A Single Step	Books	3	15	20	N	N	A True Survivor	Heather Mills McCartney has received a tremendous amount of criticism in the press, and this book has been nit-picked in reviews. There have been accusations of exaggeration of her near-Dickensian childhood, and subsequent rough road in life, among other things. And, after all was said and done, she nabbed herself a Beatle.<br />Well, I read this book, putting all that aside, and, although this may not be the best biography of the century, neither is it nearly as bad as critics have made it seem. Heather Mills had a life before Paul McCartney, and her childhood of abuse and neglect seems plausible to me. Her father physically and verbally abused her mother, who was quiet until the day she left her husband, and her three children, and moved to London with a stage actor. This left the pre-teen Heather to do the lion's share of the housework and cooking for her father, older brother, and younger sister. Also, with their mother gone, the father was free to carry out physical and emotional abuse on his children, which he did, frequently.<br />Heather Mills grew up in a hurry, both emotionally and physically, and her tales of her precocious puberty are ones I could relate to. At age 13, Heather's father, a bit of a vagabond and dreamer who was always in debt and always moving, ended up in prison for two years after embezzling money. Heather and her sister were sent to live with her mother and boyfriend in London, while her brother went to live with their paternal grandfather in Brighton. Heather could not get along with her step-father, and, at age 14, ran away to live and work at a carnival. After this, she was briefly homeless and slept under the arches at Waterloo Station. Life forced her to grow up in a hurry, and gave her a drive and ambition that is perhaps not admired in a woman as much as it would be in a man.<br />Eventually, Heather moves back to her old hometown and moves in with her working-class boyfriend, at age 16. Then, driven to succeed, she leaves him, moves back to London, and enters a series of modeling competitions. From here she models, moves to Paris, opens and sells several small businesses, and enters into an ill-advised marriage at 21. She leaves this husband for a Yugoslavian ski instructor, and finds herself immersed in the first days of the civil war when Serbs crash through Slovenia to reach Croatia.<br />All of these things take place before her tragic accident in 1993, where she is crossing the street and is hit by a police motorcyle, and loses her left leg after it is amputated below the knee. This event is well documented elsewhere, but she writes of her pain and struggle for recovery, and how it leads her to become a leading advocate in Europe for amputees. Her earlier experiences in Yugoslavia lead to her involvement in the banning of land mines, and the shipment of thousands of artificial limbs to victims all over the world.<br />And, after all this, the young but mature woman with this dramatic past meets and falls in love with the widowed Paul McCartney. This may seem like the stuff of fiction, but it is all true. Paul McCartney's first wife, Linda, suffered the same slings and arrows as Heather has, also being accused of exaggerating her past, and of being manipulative and unworthy of the lofty position of Mrs. McCartney. It takes a lot of guts to suffer through such press scrutiny, and Heather describes how the press became very resentful of her, once she started to be tight-lipped about her relationship with Paul.<br />Heather Mills doesn't meet Paul McCartney until the last quarter of the book, and although she describes their meeting and courtship, painting Paul as wonderful and romantic, there is no salacious gossip. She doesn't speak of any conflicts with Paul's children, nor any other negative aspects. She does talk briefly of meeting and admiring George Harrison, and how Paul handled his death. However, this is Heather's story, how she lived and learned and became stronger because of it. I do not know if she exaggerated, or how much was left out. I know that I enjoyed reading this book, as the story of someone who managed to make it through very trying circumstances, and go on to lead an amazing life.<br />Also, the author's proceeds go directly to Adopt-A-Minefield, so this book is not being used as a way to \\"cash in\\" which has been another criticism.. I do not know if she exaggerated, or how much was left out. I know that I enjoyed reading this book, as the story of someone who managed to make it through very trying circumstances, and go on to lead an amazing life.<br />Also, the author's proceeds go directly to Adopt-A-Minefield, so this book is not being used as a way to \\"cash in\\" which has been another criticism.	2002-12-08
US	52762926	R349ALIRA1ZXIP	030680607X	919072103	The Groucho Letters: Letters from and to Groucho Marx	Books	5	49	50	N	N	The Absolute Best Book on Groucho	This classic collection of Groucho Marx's correspondence, which was donated to the Library of Congress, at their request, gives the best glimpse into who Groucho Marx was. Not only do we see his letters to his family and friends, who included some of the century's most famous people, but we get to see what people wrote in return. Groucho's personality and wit shine through, and these letters are a rare treasure.<br />With little formal education, Groucho could construct a letter better than most people with college degrees. He shows himself as witty, acerbic, sometimes sentimental and, yes, often grouchy. The book starts off with his infamous exchange with the legal department at Warner Brothers, who claim they own the rights to the movie title \\"Casablanca.\\" Groucho responds that, perhaps, since the Marx Brothers were famous before the Warner Brothers, that perhaps they owned the rights to use \\"Brothers\\"?<br />We see Groucho's exchanges with many of his friends, but not much between the brothers themselves, since they were almost always together and there was no need of correspondence. We see Groucho's complaints and his praise. The most memorable part of the book is Groucho's legendary correspondence with the poet, T.S. Elliot. Groucho is clearly in awe of the poet, who seems equally in awe of the comic. It takes several years for this predecessor of the modern \\"Email friendship\\" to become a \\"real life friendship\\" when Groucho and his wife fly to London to meet \\"Tom\\" and his wife. We find out about the evening via a letter Groucho sent to another person. We also see a letter where Groucho mourns T.S. Elliot's passing.<br />This collection of letters is never out-dated, and never becomes boring. There is always something to read, somewhere in the book. It is not a book that you will read, then forget about. It's an amazing, historical collection of wit, sarcasm and genuine tenderness that is essential to any humor library.	2002-12-08
US	52762926	R1A5EO0ZU4651J	0761125183	950914409	"Age Doesn't Matter Unless You're a Cheese": Wisdom from Our Elders	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Words of Wisdom from People Who Have Lived	Every quote listed in this book comes from people who were over 70 years old at the time, so they know of whence they speak. This is a light read, but a truly enjoyable one. Turn to any page, and read sagacious advice on a variety of subjects, from well-known figures ranging from Julia Child to Golda Meir, and everywhere in between. This is a book that will be returned to again and again for its wit and wisdom. And, as we age, the words become more true to life. Age does not necessarily equal wisdom, but in the case of this collection, it certainly applies.	2002-12-08
US	52762926	R2LC5DXXJ0YN2I	0446531650	860687383	A Single Step	Books	3	5	7	N	N	A true rags to riches tale	Heather Mills McCartney has received a tremendous amount of criticism in the press, and this book has been nit-picked in reviews. There have been accusations of exaggeration of her near-Dickensian childhood, and subsequent rough road in life, among other things. And, after all was said and done, she nabbed herself a Beatle.<br />Well, I read this book, putting all that aside, and, although this may not be the best biography of the century, neither is it nearly as bad as critics have made it seem. Heather Mills had a life before Paul McCartney, and her childhood of abuse and neglect seems plausible to me. Her father physically and verbally abused her mother, who was quiet until the day she left her husband, and her three children, and moved to London with a stage actor. This left the pre-teen Heather to do the lion's share of the housework and cooking for her father, older brother, and younger sister. Also, with their mother gone, the father was free to carry out physical and emotional abuse on his children, which he did, frequently. <br />Heather Mills grew up in a hurry, both emotionally and physically, and her tales of her precocious puberty are ones I could relate to. At age 13, Heather's father, a bit of a vagabond and dreamer who was always in debt and always moving, ended up in prison for two years after embezzling money. Heather and her sister were sent to live with her mother and boyfriend in London, while her brother went to live with their paternal grandfather in Brighton. Heather could not get along with her step-father, and, at age 14, ran away to live and work at a carnival. After this, she was briefly homeless and slept under the arches at Waterloo Station. Life forced her to grow up in a hurry, and gave her a drive and ambition that is perhaps not admired in a woman as much as it would be in a man.<br />Eventually, Heather moves back to her old hometown and moves in with her working-class boyfriend, at age 16. Then, driven to succeed, she leaves him,moves back to London, and enters a series of modeling competitions. From here she models, moves to Paris, opens and sells several small businesses, and enters into an ill-advised marriage at 21. She leaves this husband for a Yugoslavian ski instructor, and finds herself immersed in the first days of the civil war when Serbs crash through Slovenia to reach Croatia.<br />All of these things take place before her tragic accident in 1993, where she is crossing the street and is hit by a police motorcyle, and loses her left leg after it is amputated below the knee. This event is well documented elsewhere, but she writes of her pain and struggle for recovery, and how it leads her to become a leading advocate in Europe for amputees. Her earlier experiences in Yugoslavia lead to her involvement in the banning of land mines, and the shipment of thousands of artificial limbs to victims all over the world.<br />And, after all this, the young but mature woman with this dramatic past meets and falls in love with the widowed Paul McCartney. This may seem like the stuff of fiction, but it is all true. Paul McCartney's first wife, Linda, suffered the same slings and arrows as Heather has, also being accused of exaggerating her past, and of being manipulative and unworthy of the lofty position of Mrs. McCartney. It takes a lot of guts to suffer through such press scrutiny, and Heather describes how the press became very resentful of her, once she started to be tight-lipped about her relationship with Paul.<br />Heather Mills doesn't meet Paul McCartney until the last quarter of the book, and although she describes their meeting and courtship, painting Paul as wonderful and romantic, there is no salacious gossip. She doesn't speak of any conflicts with Paul's children, nor any other negative aspects. She does talk briefly of meeting and admiring George Harrison, and how Paul handled his death. However, this is Heather's story, how she lived and learned and became stronger because ofit. I do not know if she exaggerated, or how much was left out. I know that I enjoyed reading this book, as the story of someone who managed to make it through very trying circumstances, and go on to lead an amazing life.<br />Also, the author's proceeds go directly to Adopt-A-Minefield, so this book is not being used as a way to \\"cash in\\" which has been another criticism.	2002-11-27
US	52762926	R3M4SI9ONP5GKN	1568983816	486051152	Photobooth	Books	4	31	31	N	N	An amazing pictorial history and labor of love	This book came into my hands through a serendipitous set of circumstances. I went into the bookstore where the author, Babbette Hines, works, and saw the book prominently displayed. My friend and I began flipping through its pages, and were so fascinated by what we saw, we each bought a copy. And, with the author herself standing behind the counter, we got personally autographed editions.<br />I find this book fascinating for several reasons. First, Hines has combed through flea markets and piles of other people's photos to come up with pictures taken in photobooths over the past 75 years. The pictures present a candid look at the history and fashion of the times. There are beautiful people, plain people, rich and poor. There are even little notes on the back of the strips of photos. The old-fashioned photobooths with film and chemicals and four shots per strip are, sadly, on their way out. They are being replaced by modern, more cost-effective versions with digital technology and laser prints. This book preserves a rapidly eroding piece of Americana. It makes you curious about the people in the photos, and, with the spare text in the book, you can almost fashion your own story.<br />I am enthralled with this book as a piece of history, an album of people we may have known or wish we'd known, and a fantastic project by a very persistent and devoted writer and historian.	2002-11-24
US	52762926	R3P4ADQC8AWMOX	0806513411	100805254	The Lavender Screen: The Gay and Lesbian Films : Their Stars, Makers, Characters and Critics (Film books)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A fascinating collection of Gay and Lesbian film lore	I believe this is Boze Hadleigh's best book on Gay and Lesbian Hollywood. It covers films with homoerotic themes, as well as more openly gay films, throughout the history of film. Although the book was published long before some of today's more explicit gay and lesbian films, it is an interesting historical perspective of how gay themes were gradually introduced into mainstream Hollywood film.<br />All the films covered are put in the perspective of when they were made, and critiqued based on the extent of the portrayal of the gay characters. Films with both positive and negative images are reviewed, as well as stories that may have only gay imagery.<br />Boze Hadleigh is a great historian of gay cinema, but he does take a lot of liberty with his interpretations. Still, this book is lavishly illustrated and well documented, and a fascinating addition to any film book library.	2002-11-22
US	52762926	R1TDA6GLQCW7W8	1569800677	89662784	Hollywood Lesbians	Books	3	26	30	N	N	Rare interviews and intrusions with classic actresses	Boze Hadleigh is certainly one of the best historians of gay and lesbian Hollywood, as he proved in the superior 'Lavendar Screen'. In this book, he interviews classic actresses who were widely considered to be lesbian or bisexual, but not every actress interviewed confirms or denies her sexual preference. The true value of this book is that all of the subjects interviewed have since passed on. A rare interview with Barbara Stanwyck finds the actress livid at Hadleigh's accusations that her marriage to Robert Taylor was a sham, and she throws him out of her house. Marjorie Main is far more forthcoming, and Patsy Kelly admits outright that she was an out and proud lesbian.<br />Whatever these actresses sexual preference, it is a great historical record of talented women who have passed on. I feel that Hadleigh badgers some of the actresses into fessing up to their sexual preference, and focuses mainly on that, with little regard to their career achievements. Still, reading what these ladies have to say is fascinating, and a great record of women who can no longer speak for themselves.	2002-11-22
US	52762926	RGCAROE1OD8VL	0312046707	58026280	Facts and Phalluses: A Collection Of Bizarre & Intriguing Truths, Legends, & Measurements	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Smart, funny and informative guide to the Male Member	This book contains so many facts, myths and historical details of the Male Member, that you will be fascinated, and also greatly amused. Alexandra Parsons presents the information with some of the smartest remarks I've ever read. She pokes fun at the Kama Sutra, gives us the history of condoms, and tells us the real scientific facts on size, and whether it matters, and how it varies. A veritable cornucopia of amazing phallic facts. And, of course, legends loom large, and are portrayed with tongue firmly in cheek (no pun intended). We are also treated to things we never knew, such as the size and shape of the penis of other members of the animal kingdom. You'd be amazed at what you will learn in this short but informative and entertaining book. And, you'll laugh so hard your sides will ache at some of the smart remarks from the author. I consider this book incredibly entertaining, and quite a feast for the curious, both male and female.	2002-11-22
US	52762926	R3FWGC21HN69BH	0385190336	125933554	The "I Love Lucy" Book: Including a Revised, Expanded, and Updated Version of Lucy & Ricky & Fred & Ethel	Books	4	22	23	N	N	The best book on I Love Lucy available	Many books have been written on the 'I Love Lucy' series, but this one stands the test of time as the best ever. Originally published about 20 years ago, under the title 'Lucy, Ricky, Fred, and Ethel' it was revamped after the death of Lucille Ball and updated into this volume. Bart Andrews had access to everyone who had anything to do with the series, including Vivian Vance, Desi Arnaz, and Lucille Ball. His research is exhaustive, and the book is richly detailed in behind the scenes looks at the making of the series.<br />This is not a biography of the people, but the story of the series. There are small biographical sketches of the stars, but here you see how the series came to fruition, and the incredible talent and foresight of Desi Arnaz inventing the three-camera method. You also find out the gossip of who didn't get along, the perfectionism, and the comraderie.<br />The icing on the cake are detailed descriptions of each and every episode, including air dates, music, and guest stars. Each season is covered in detail. Every 'I Love Lucy' fan should have this on their bookshelves.	2002-11-20
US	52762926	R1FNT71DEBP7E2	1573226114	164275315	Depth Takes a Holiday	Books	5	15	15	N	N	I know of whence she speaks	I love the writing of Sandra Tsing Loh because she is incredibly witty and acerbic, and doesn't take herself or anything too seriously. And, she can write about the San Fernando Valley area of Los Angeles in language that makes it sound downright pleasant.<br />Loh is the Queen of the San Fernando Valley, once a farming community over the hill from Los Angeles, but now a burgeoning suburb. Los Angelenos consider the Valley a foreign country, and, truth be told, getting from Los Angeles to the Valley is, literally, an uphill battle over the Sepulveda Pass. But, even though I lived there and know of whence she speaks, you don't need to be a Valley Girl to appreciate her humor.<br />This book is a collection of essays on everything from temp jobs to frozen foods, being the less-perfect sibling, her late German mother and her eccentric Chinese father (who keeps importing and losing Chinese brides, and hitch hikes rides with Angelica Huston). Loh's eye is keen, and she can make the most mundane seem downright hysterical.<br />Loh is a self-professed procrastinator when it comes to pumping out her writing, and I wish she would do more. But, her columns in the late, lamented Buzz magazine were a scream, and I can only hope she gets more columns and books and maybe even a television show. She is a rare gem.	2002-11-20
US	52762926	RH1WFEDGXXGF2	0743418190	418870210	In Her Shoes: A Novel	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Not as good as her debut, but still an enjoyable read	Jennifer Weiner's strength is in her characterizations. She makes you want to get to know the people she describes, particularly the heroines of her novels. Her heroines are not perfect, physically, or emotionally, and so many of us can relate.<br />This time around, the heroines are Rose and Maggie Feller, two sisters who could not be more different. Rose is a lawyer, a size 14 with a neglible love life. Maggie is dyslexic and gorgeous, but lost in the world. The &quot;shoes&quot; in the title are both literal and figureative. The girls can wear the same size shoes, and Rose can afford the latest styles, which Maggie borrows, without asking. Maggie does many questionable things, and it is clear that Rose is the favored heroine for most of the book.<br />However, in this book, Weiner has chosen to bring in a cast of characters who simply crowd the novel. There is not enough room to go deeply into the estranged grandmother, the bi-polar mother who died at 29, the milquetoast father and the &quot;step-monster&quot; he married out of loneliness, not love, and a desire to have a caretaker for his young, motherless girls. There is simply too much going on. And, it seems that, once Weiner realizes this, she speeds up the events to reach a conclusion that is not completely satisfying. A lot of things go unexplained, and some changes are too easy, and hard to believe.<br />I still think Jennifer Weiner is a very good writer, and I was engrossed in this story, up until the last quarter of the book, when I felt she had kind of lost me. I read it in three days, so she definitely had me in her grasp. I hope that, with her next novel, she sticks to one or two main characters, and tries to minimize the outer characters. Also, in a bit of literary license, we &quot;bump into&quot; the heroine of 'Good in Bed' and find out what became of her. It is still a rare writer who can keep you enthralled, and make you feel that her fictional characters are people you may know in real life.	2002-11-17
US	52762926	R1RZM2REL7KHQE	0767905180	310021894	Jemima J: A Novel About Ugly Ducklings and Swans	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Well written, but with mixed messages	Although I enjoyed the style and the story of this book, and I was caught up in the trials and tribulations of Jemima Jones, I was left ultimately with mixed feelings. Jemima is very overweight, and, although a very talented writer, she hasn't been promoted at work mainly because of her looks. She is in love with Ben Williams, her handsome coworker, who thinks of her only as a friend. And, she is also friends with the beautiful Geraldine, whose copy she re-writes, and who was promoted before Jemima, mainly because of her looks.<br />We know that it is a cruel, one-dimensional world, and this is further proven when Jemima meets a California hunk on-line. He wants to meet her, so she drives herself into an exercise-obsessed, unhealthy diet, to make her into a beautiful woman. And, her life changes, but she still feels her old self on the inside.<br />Jemima travels from London to California to meet Brad, the hunk, but nothing is as it seems on the surface. Lessons are reviewed on the dangers of judging people by their outward appearance. Also, there are people who will love what is inside, but are afraid to show it to the world. But, the most confusing lesson is that it seems Jemima, who was always smart and talented and beautiful, could not find love until she lost weight. And, this is simply not true. And, were I Jemima, I would wonder how someone who loved her as a friend would suddenly fall madly in love with her once she was thin.<br />This is a light, entertaining read, but it has too many mixed messages for me to be left completely satisfied with the book.	2002-11-17
US	52762926	R36ERPXAZN5PBQ	0743418190	418870210	In Her Shoes: A Novel	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Not as good as her debut, but an enjoyable read	Jennifer Weiner's strength is in her characterizations. She makes you want to get to know the people she describes, particularly the heroines of her novels. Her heroines are not perfect, physically, or emotionally, and so many of us can relate.<br />This time around, the heroines are Rose and Maggie Feller, two sisters who could not be more different. Rose is a lawyer, a size 14 with a neglible love life. Maggie is dyslexic and gorgeous, but lost in the world. The \\"shoes\\" in the title are both literal and figureative. The girls can wear the same size shoes, and Rose can afford the latest styles, which Maggie borrows, without asking. Maggie does many questionable things, and it is clear that Rose is the favored heroine for most of the book.<br />However, in this book, Weiner has chosen to bring in a cast of characters who simply crowd the novel. There is not enough room to go deeply into the estranged grandmother, the bi-polar mother who died at 29, the milquetoast father and the \\"step-monster\\" he married out of loneliness, not love, and a desire to have a caretaker for his young, motherless girls. There is simply too much going on. And, it seems that, once Weiner realizes this, she speeds up the events to reach a conclusion that is not completely satisfying. A lot of things go unexplained, and some changes are too easy, and hard to believe.<br />I still think Jennifer Weiner is a very good writer, and I was engrossed in this story, up until the last quarter of the book, when I felt she had kind of lost me. I read it in three days, so she definitely had me in her grasp. I hope that, with her next novel, she sticks to one or two main characters, and tries to minimize the outer characters. Also, in a bit of literary license, we \\"bump into\\" the heroine of 'Good in Bed' and find out what became of her. It is still a rare writer who can keep you enthralled, and make you feel that her fictional characters are people you may know in real life.	2002-11-13
US	52762926	R3AU4FYIWCS3XQ	1903402328	108205685	The Magic of the Mask	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Unbelievable courage through unimaginable circumstances	Louise Ashby is truly an amazing woman. In her early 20's, freshly arrived from London to pursue an acting career in Los Angeles, she is involved in a horrific automobile accident which leaves her face disfigured on the left side, and keeps doctors shaking their heads at how she made it through the accident at all. Just a year after the death of her beloved mother, Louise somehow finds the inner strength to endure the pain, grief, humiliation, loss and other unimaginable challenges on her 10-year journey to being \\"re-built.\\"<br />For a woman whose face was, quite literally, her fortune, Louise Ashby could have sunken into depression and suicide following such a traumatic incident, but she doesn't. Ashby is a startlingly honest woman about her vanity, her failings, and also her determination to re-build the face back to the one that she had before. The journey is long, litigious, and excruciatingly painful. It is painful just to read the details of not only her brain surgery and subsequent re-constructive operations, but also to read of the humiliation she endures, ranging from a therapist who falls asleep during a session, to a wantonly cruel acting coach, and, simply, having the courage and tenacity to stick to her guns in a town that judges people completely on their appearance, when hers has been so radically changed.<br />I don't think Louise Ashby tries at all to paint herself as some sort of saint. She just seems to possess a natural courage and strength of spirit that drives her on toward her goals. She is fortunate, however, to be surrounded by a close-knit group of what appear to be wonderful friends. She is incredibly inspiring, unflinchingly honest, and, at times, painfully graphic and blunt. It is not an exaggeration to say that you feel the pain this woman endured, even if it is only a minute amount in comparison to what she actually went through. It is a difficult book to read in parts, but it leaves you with a tremendous sense of pride at what one woman, and, certainly, countless others go through, when fate alters a person's appearance in a society where the superficial is often valued above all else.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone who wants to read true courage and dignity, and a journey toward reclaiming a life. It is a journey you will never forget.an, and, certainly, countless others go through, when fate alters a person's appearance in a society where the superficial is often valued above all else.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone who wants to read true courage and dignity, and a journey toward reclaiming a life. It is a journey you will never forget.	2002-10-31
US	52762926	RRREX817K0RJ5	0679429220	523621984	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil	Books	4	3	4	N	N	True to life Fiction-an Oxymoron that works	To say that the filmed version of this book was a travesty is an understatement. The book, a classic in its genre, is mesmerizing. Although based on true events (the murder of the young lover of a prominent gay Savannah businessman), John Berendt admits to stretching the truth. Although, the characters he meets along the way in Savannah are stranger than fiction. The line drawn between them is very thin indeed.<br />I found this book fascinating from start to finish. It wasn't so much a \\"whodunit\\" as a character study, a mystery, and an absolutely unique telling of events. People who have seen the movie must read the book. Those who have read the book will find the movie completely out of synch. I couldn't wait to see what would happen next in this book. It is truly a page-turner.<br />I don't think the finest fiction writer could come up with the characters that are portrayed here, or the events that transpire. It is impossible to put this book in any particular niche, as a gothic-modern mystery-thriller true-crime southern fable...or as something else? It is definitely worth reading.	2002-10-26
US	52762926	R193KK1VNC1RO2	0811821706	500175611	The Bad Girl's Guide to the Open Road	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Incredibly witty, creative and a must-have on a road trip!	Cameron Tuttle does not encourage we women to suddenly go out and do a Thelma and Louise on the unsuspecting back roads of the United States, but she sure knows how to have a good time. For all you gal pals who suddenly get the itch to just &quot;take off&quot; this book is essential to have in your purse, back pack, or glove compartment. Think of it as the kind of book you wish you had when you were a child on all those boring road trips, when you didn't know where you were going or how long it would take to get there. Now, you're in control. You have the road games. You have the laughs. It's even a handy travel diary! It's slim, it's chock full of fun and info, and it's inexpensive. It can't be beat.	2002-10-26
US	52762926	R2M1MV8XN75TVW	0679722564	570736767	The Swimming-Pool Library	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Disturbingly Erotic	This novel is well-written, and vacillates between extremely well-written fiction and minutely detailed erotica. The story centers around Will, a promiscuous, narcisscistic, wealthy gay young Londoner in the pre-AIDS era of the early 1980's. Will has no financial or moral restrictions. He leads us on a journey through the hot summer of 1983, that is at times graphic, and also historically engrossing.<br />Will Beckwith's adventures are by far some of the most graphically-detailed I have ever read, but highly erotic for both gay and straight readers. Concurrently, Will encounters an elderly British Lord who wants Will to write his life story. There is an undercurrent of duplicity in all of his relationships, from his passionate, physical affair with the young, uneducated hotel employee, Phil, to the exact nature of his professional dealings with his Lordship. Also, there is a pitying tone to his relationship with his best friend, a doctor who is also gay, but who is the only person who seems to have Will's heart, instead of his libido.<br />This is not your ordinary novel. Alan Hollinghurst is an extremely intelligent writer, who can also write with an almost animalistic sense of depravity. It is almost like reading two novels; on one page, extremely explicit sex, on another, intellectual stimulation. It is certainly one of the most unique books of its kind I have ever read.	2002-10-26
US	52762926	R267Q1VPZNKYCA	0811834409	789995573	Vinnie's Giant Roller Coaster Period Chart & Journal Sticker Book	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Creative and somewhat useful	This is not great literature or even average comedy. This book is designed by a rather-talented cartoonist named Vinnie who is proud of his mono-brow and wants to make life easier for his female friends. The entire spiral-bound journal has each month designed as a roller coaster, and there are stickers to put on the roller coaster for PMS, first day of period, heavy flow...etc. It is really a quite creative and useful little journal, and comparing the menstrual cycle to a roller coaster is quite accurate. Besides all this, it is a great way to keep track of your cycles for that next Gyno visit!	2002-10-23
US	52762926	RCYD69VSOGH5H	0440235332	157167430	The Day Diana Died	Books	4	12	15	N	N	An engrossing account	I found this book to be incredibly informative and a fascinating read, which I read almost in one sitting. Instead of the usual tawdry gossip of most Diana biographies, it describes exactly, and in fascinating detail, about the events that led up to her death, the day she died, and the ensuing mourning that followed. We are made privy to details we never knew, and they are very essential details, in my opinion.<br />To me, the most interesting and ironic part of this entire tragedy is that Diana lay in the hospital in Paris, dead, with nothing to wear. Prince Charles and Diana's two sisters were on their way from London, and the world's most famous and well-dressed woman literally had nothing to wear. The clothes she had been wearing when she died had been torn from her body by doctors who were attempting to revive her. Her luggage had been whisked back to London by a paranoid Mohammad Feyed. And, here was the world's most glamourous woman, at death, being forced to wear a dress donated by the wife of the English Ambassador to France. This irony is just one of many sad ironies and twists of fate in this account.<br />We learn of the behind-the-scenes machinations leading up to Diana's funeral, the conflict between Prince Charles and his mother, the Queen, and how Diana's boys reacted. Prince Charles is definitely painted in a much brighter light than ever before. I was absolutely fascinated by this book, and I think it is well worth reading.	2002-10-14
US	52762926	R1A3VAK90S0QFE	1581822456	348398331	Hollywood Remains to Be Seen: A Guide to the Movie Stars' Final Homes	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Very well-researched, essential guide	Besides being very well-written and witty, this book is one of the best-researched &quot;graving guides&quot; I have seen on the market. I believe this is because Masek lives in the area, and is a regular visitor to these sites. Many other books have been written by people who either don't know the subject matter personally, or who have relied heavily on other, usually erroenous, sources. These mistakes are repeated over and over in guide after guide, but not in this one. Masek has clearly done all the leg work himself, and it shows.<br />Besides giving directions, the book also contains some very witty anecdotes about the people and the places they are buried. Although a bit large to sneak into the Great Mausoleum at Forest Lawn, this book really needs to be at your side for any excursion out there into the increasingly-popular world of celebrity grave-hunting.	2002-10-14
US	52762926	R41AUNIKK7J87	1573228583	407492360	Speaking with the Angel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A completely entertaining collection of stories	Author Nick Hornby has collected eleven first-person narrative short stories by mostly British writers (including one of his own) into a delightful, entertaining and almost completely satisfying addition to any short story library. First off is the cover art, of cake toppers and doll figures as personality icons. Inside are stories by authors made famous mainly by their novels, condensing their thoughts into short narrative prose.<br />Helen Fielding of Bridget Jones' Diary fame is short and sweet in the story Luckybitch. Actor Colin Firth proves a worthy writer in The Depth of Nothing. My personal favorites are Last Requests by Giles Smith, and The Wonder Spot by Melissa Bank, which manage to encompass the most depth in the least amount of space.<br />I recommended this book for those who are both fans of the writers featured, or not familiar with their work, since this is a fabulous introduction.	2002-03-20
US	52762926	R2VUQOI4LG7UIR	0345397398	405737243	The Vampire Companion: The Official Guide to Anne Rice's The Vampire Chronicles	Books	4	7	7	N	N	An essential companion for fans of the Vampire Chronicles	If you have read the first four books in the Vampire Chronicles and enjoyed them, then this book is for you. It cross-references characters, plots and themes from each of those books, plus contains exhaustive research. It should be on the shelf next to the books, almost as a study guide, certainly as a welcome addition.	2002-03-20
US	52762926	R32PC708L28P48	0312195567	397556684	At Home in the World	Books	2	13	25	N	N	Very disappointing	Perhaps my expectations of this book were too high, but with all the experiences in her life that she had to portray, Joyce Maynard comes up woefully short in holding the reader's interest. Her early passion for J.D. Salinger becomes a seething hatred, with the acclaimed author seeming no more than a curmudgeonly near-pedophile. And, for all the exorcising of her demons and the details of her private life she attempts to share in this book, she is surprisingly light on revelations. I wanted so much more, but found that she used pages to go out of her way not to tell more. It's frustrating, and an ultimately boring read. I was very disappointed.	2002-03-20
US	52762926	R3SREIKACCSJYP	0671000365	506661551	Fractured English	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Language has never been this funny	This book is so hysterically and funny in parts, it hurts. You will just recover your breath when you start laughing again. And, it's not the latest stand-up collection from a comic. It's the latest collection of flubs and foibles of one of the world's most complicated and misunderstood languages: English. Richard Lederer, the unofficial king of language, has produced another gem. This should be right alongside Anguished English and The Bride of Anguished English on your bookshelf.	2002-02-20
US	52762926	R3INODEZT7WR0J	0451180410	215863794	Mortal Fear	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Tense, frightening, but ultimately disappointing	This book had me on tenterhooks for the two days it took me to finish it. I couldn't fall asleep until I had finished it. Greg Iles is a very talented writer with a gift for keeping you on the edge of your seat. However, in the long-run, I felt a bit disappointed in the book. Plus, the hero carries on and on about his illicit love for his sister-in-law. His doctor wife is an amazingly strong heroine with incredible character. The subject matter hits very close to home for people who spend a lot of time on the internet, and can make you feel very vulnerable and frightened. This is a highly readable book, but it is a bit like having a wonderful meal, but being left with a stomach ache.	2002-02-20
US	52762926	RKIMVLZCSXKB3	0060392320	385099157	Sex Tips for Straight Women from a Gay Man	Books	4	28	39	N	N	A highly entertaining and unique sex manual	I loved reading this book, co-written by a gay man and his straight female best friend. They take turns writing their thoughts and tips, and it is highly entertaining and often very helpful. I have always maintained that a gay man is one of the best sources for a straight woman to go to for how to please a man. And, they give new meaning to tubes of cookie dough. The illustrations are incredibly good. It's a light, entertaining, and often eye-opening read, and I think some of the tips are incredibly good.	2002-02-20
US	52762926	R35ON3YV99GTDU	0871137062	535471453	Merrill Markoe's Guide to Love	Books	4	9	11	N	N	A hilarious look at the eternal search for love	The always-witty Merrill Markoe tells it like it is in her search through the quagmire of love in the modern world. She attends a seminar on giving the ultimate fellatio; she sees a psychic, joins a dating club...all in search of the answers..., but getting to that conclusion is one of the wittiest, most sarcastic journeys you will ever take.	2002-02-20
US	52762926	R23E01QVXMGPPI	0452275350	755189919	Too Good to Leave, Too Bad to Stay: A Step-by-Step Guide to Help You Decide Whether to Stay In or Get Out of Your Relationship	Books	4	24	26	N	N	An un-biased and realistic look at relationships	What I admire the most about this book is that it is one of the few books on relationships I have seen that doesn't try to pigeon-hole people into groups, or take sides, or give only one answer. Mira Kirshenbaum is a very fair and well-informed person, and she counsels, suggests, and advises, rather than trying to give clear-cut answers to the myriad of problems that arise in relationships. The reader is encouraged to list the good and bad aspects of their particular situation, to discuss, to work on it. The key to the success of a relationship, or to possibly salvaging one of the brink, is to work and communicate. That is the bulk of Kirshenbaum's words, and after reading this book I certainly felt that I had been given helpful advice, and that there indeed was light at the end of the tunnel. If you are having troubles in your relationship, this is one of the first books you should read.	2002-02-20
US	52762926	RDKLOPVJMRS7E	0312261810	649217320	Honeymoon in Purdah: An Iranian Journey	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An open-minded outsider views a misunderstood world	This is absolutely one of the most unbiased, open-minded &quot;outsider&quot; views on modern-day Iran that I have ever had the pleasure of reading. Alison Wearing went into Iran with an open mind and an open heart, and a double dollop of tenacity and courage. She emerges a person who has viewed the country the news media doesn't want us to see. This is the country of total strangers who invite you to stay and dine at their house; of people who are concerned with whether you find the restrictions of their country pleasant or stifling; and, the story of other ex-patriots who have made their home in this land, and how they view it as outsiders who have become insiders, as much as possible.<br />There are fascinating stories in this book, including the author's day spent escaping the stifling heat of the city with nomads in the mountains, including a 12-year old girl who is married but unable to consummate the marriage since she hasn't finished puberty. In Shiraz, Wearing meets a British woman who is raising her teenaged daughter with her Iranian husband. She bemoans her nieces in England who are struggling with teenage pregnancies, while her daughter is getting straight A's and planning for college. Not every story is positive, including the incident on the bus to Syria, which raises Wearing's ire. But, people are people no matter where you go. And, the majority of people she meets are a far cry from what anyone would expect.<br />I highly recommend this book, and have loaned my copy to several people so far. It tells things I experienced as the wife of an Iranian in that country, but is even more interesting because Alison Wearing is truly viewing this world as an observer.	2001-12-20
US	52762926	R23OAQM366RXO1	1569471142	823719980	A Much Younger Man	Books	4	13	15	N	N	A realistic and mature romance	The subject matter in this book is treated with respect and taste. We get to know Alyson, the 35 year old teacher, intimately. We cry for her. We want it to work with Tom, the much younger man, the son of her college friend. Tom sincerely loves Aly, but it will take a lot of courage to deal with society, Tom's parents, and the pressures on Aly as a schoolteacher. The eroticism is very tastefully done, but also highly sensual. Most of the characters are completely believable, with a few stereotypes thrown in to the mix. I know that I was caught up in the lives of the main characters when I began to helplessly sob in the next-to-the-last chapter of the book. This is not casual, light romance. This is serious stuff. It's heartbreaking, moving, and loving. You feel as if you have gone through the three years from the moment Aly and Tom first catch sight of each other on a commuter train. Aly goes from feeling Tom has an &quot;incipient crush&quot; to understand she is in love. Tom, being younger, feels it much sooner. But, in spite of being younger, his love lasts.<br />This book is written in a very unique style, jumping from first to third person with nary a breath. However, it works. Nearly everything about this book works, and I have re-read it several times. You can feel the emotions as you read about them. Fine story-writing like this is rare, and I highly recommend this book.	2001-12-20
US	52762926	R1HDQSECPWH0J2	1580631045	174117226	Linda McCartney	Books	3	17	18	N	N	Not Quite Enough	I have been wanting to read an intimate biography of Linda McCartney for some time now, so I was anxious to read this book. Written by her long-time close friend, Danny Fields, I would have expected a bit more. Even though the book delves deeper into Linda than any book on the Beatles has been able to, it still wasn't quite enough. A lot of what Fields says about her childhood and teen years, before he met her, is conjecture. There is very little detail about that period of her life. Fields knew her best in the mid-sixties when, as a single mother in New York City, Linda entered the then embryonic world of rock photography. There really was no rock press at the time, and Linda got in on the ground floor, and was able to be a part of a scene that very few people could imagine today.<br />While Fields vacillates from defending Linda to criticizing her, he is more than fair in his assesment, and, at times, a bit overboard in his praise of her. Although I didn't feel I knew Linda much better after reading the book, one point in Linda's favor became very clear. She was a very strong woman, with self-confidence and a deep, abiding love for her husband and children. She weathered storms I cannot imagine most women being able to handle. And, when the slings and arrows were aimed solely at her, instead of wallowing in self-pity, she felt instead a sense of pain for what the embarrassment caused Paul and her children to suffer.<br />This book doesn't shed a tremendous amount of light on Linda Eastman McCartney, but it is still valuable for the brief glimpse into the woman before Paul.	2001-12-19
US	52762926	R11OWG9VV61T5S	1569471142	823719980	A Much Younger Man	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A realistic, mature and sad romance	The subject matter in this book is treated with respect and taste. We get to know Alyson, the 35 year old teacher, intimately. We cry for her. We want it to work with Tom, the much younger man, the son of her college friend. Tom sincerely loves Aly, but it will take a lot of courage to deal with society, Tom's parents, and the pressures on Aly as a schoolteacher. The eroticism is very tastefully done, but also highly sensual. Most of the characters are completely believable, with a few stereotypes thrown in to the mix. I know that I was caught up in the lives of the main characters when I began to helplessly sob in the next-to-the-last chapter of the book. This is not casual, light romance. This is serious stuff. It's heartbreaking, moving, and loving. You feel as if you have gone through the three years from the moment Aly and Tom first catch sight of each other on a commuter train. Aly goes from feeling Tom has an &quot;incipient crush&quot; to understand she is in love. Tom, being younger, feels it much sooner. But, in spite of being younger, his love lasts.<br />This book is written in a very unique style, jumping from first to third person with nary a breath. However, it works. Nearly everything about this book works, and I have re-read it several times. You can feel the emotions as you read about them. Fine story-writing like this is rare, and I highly recommend this book.	2001-12-13
US	52762926	R3CG5ZN82NRDZR	0446391301	890882757	Geek Love	Books	3	77	84	N	N	Difficult to read, but impossible to ignore	Much like its subject matter, the side show &quot;freak&quot;, this book can be ugly and disturbing, but it is impossible to turn away. Told from the viewpoint of the bald, Albino, hunchback dwarf daughter of a mother who deliberately took drugs and chemicals to give birth to freaks for the family carnival, the narration can be incredibly calm in the midst of the storm. The parents, who run a freak show and have freak children for fun and profit, have a son with flippers, and daughters who are Siamese twins, and a seemingly normal son who has telekinesis. Katherine Dunn's imagination is frightening. The story runs the gamut from gratuitous violence to incest to rape and murder. I could not wait to finish the book, but once I did, I never wanted to read it again. I was disturbed, confused, intrigued. There are some gaping holes in the story, you have to suspend disbelief, and the concurrent story about the woman who disfigures beautiful women with battery acid is downright chilling. But, it certainly captures your interest. It is unique, and I, personally, had seen nothing of its type before. It's difficult for me to say whether I recommended it. I can only say proceed with caution; it is engrossing and also terribly un-nerving.	2001-12-13
US	52762926	R1KYPQSLOYXZ11	031215562X	347272731	L. A. Bizarro! The Insider's Guide to the Obscure, the Absurd and the Perverse in Los Angeles	Books	4	8	8	N	N	The most unique travel guide you will ever find	I love this book, partially because I have visited many of the oddly endearing sights mentioned in the book, but also because it celebrates L.A.'s less-plastic side. The authors take the gloss of the usual travel tome, and turn it into a dog-eared laugh-riot. I have made it my personal pilgrimage to visit many of the places they mention, and they certainly don't sugar-coat it. The authors can be downright rude, but mostly acerbic and honest, and that is refreshing. Be prepared for a lot of repetitive burlesque-type double entendre, but also a hearty dose of wanderlust from two men who clearly love the town, warts and all.<br />Be forewarned, you can't take the kiddies to half the places they review. And, they certainly don't &quot;recommend&quot; they just &quot;share the wealth.&quot; These are places you might not know exist, or even care to visit except for their appraisals. And, yes, there are even some places you can take the kiddies. There are places tucked into corners, restaurants with lousy food and rude employees that still sound like a great film noir. I have this book at my side whenever I venture to L.A. and its environs, or when I just need a good laugh. And, you will have plenty of those. I highly recommend it.	2001-12-13
US	52762926	R1L7HCXXAJPADI	0312261810	649217320	Honeymoon in Purdah: An Iranian Journey	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An open-minded outsider views a misunderstood world	This is absolutely one of the most unbiased, open-minded &quot;outsider&quot; views on modern-day Iran that I have ever had the pleasure of reading. Alison Wearing went into Iran with an open mind and an open heart, and a double dollop of tenacity and courage. She emerges a person who has viewed the country the news media doesn't want us to see. This is the country of total strangers who invite you to stay and dine at their house; of people who are concerned with whether you find the restrictions of their country pleasant or stifling; and, the story of other ex-patriots who have made their home in this land, and how they view it as outsiders who have become insiders, as much as possible.<br />There are fascinating stories in this book, including the author's day spent escaping the stifling heat of the city with nomads in the mountains, including a 12-year old girl who is married but unable to consummate the marriage since she hasn't finished puberty. In Shiraz, Wearing meets a British woman who is raising her teenaged daughter with her Iranian husband. She bemoans her nieces in England who are struggling with teenage pregnancies, while her daughter is getting straight A's and planning for college. Not every story is positive, including the incident on the bus to Syria, which raises Wearing's ire. But, people are people no matter where you go. And, the majority of people she meets are a far cry from what anyone would expect.<br />I highly recommend this book, and have loaned my copy to several people so far. It tells things I experienced as the wife of an Iranian in that country, but is even more interesting because Alison Wearing is truly viewing this world as an observer.	2001-12-11
US	52762926	R2VXN04OX3NWXI	0609608126	657839683	A Year in Van Nuys	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another gem from the Queen of San Fernando Valley angst	I love Sandra Tsing Loh's sense of humor, and having lived in virtually the same timeline and locations as she has, I can relate even more. I felt this book, a witty take-off on 'A Year in Provence' was a bit more angst-ridden than my previous favorite book of hers, 'Depth Takes a Holiday'. Perhaps it's age, frustration, the shallowness of the place she loves. It dragged in spots, but for the most part was incredibly amusing. I love the way she describes the most inane situations. My personal favorite moments were the night he &quot;perfect&quot; older sister does a &quot;birthday intervention&quot; with a plain-jane co-worker who seems to have more sex than anyone. Sandra thinks a jar of Loreal eye cream makes her irresistable to men. And she was going to spend the evening with Ben and Jerry, my two favorite guys!<br />Her husband and even her resented sister sound extremely supportive through her year of varying heaven and hell. The sarcasm she imparts to the know-it-alls at the doomed Amelia.com had me in stitches. Sandra is down-to-earth, witty as can be, and even more neurotic than you can imagine. This book is definitely another winner. I just wish she came out with books more often!	2001-10-15
US	52762926	R3GJE37DTBUT5Y	0806515430	846141076	A Fool in a Hurry Drinks Tea With a Fork: 1047 Amusing, Witty and Insightful Proverbs from 21 Lands and Languages	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Losing something in the translation was never so amusing	Readers who love language and idioms will enjoy this book immensely. But I also think it is valuable as a culture lesson. Idioms translated literally do not make sense. They lose their metaphor and their nuance. But, when looked at closely, we realize they are kissing cousins to our own expressions. The title idiom can be compared to \\"Haste makes waste\\". We're all the same, we're just separated by language. It's a light read, but a fun one, and it's one you'll want to loan out to friends, but make sure you get it back!	2001-10-11
US	52762926	RIA7DGOZUIT36	0743418166	780559593	Good in Bed	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Incredibly well-written	I cannot recommend this book enough. I was intrigued by the description and first chapter sample, so I ordered it. I could have finished this in one sitting if I hadn't been so busy this past week. Jennifer Weiner is an excellent writer. She has created a character, Cannie Shapiro, of such warmth, human foible, and believability, I felt as if I really knew her. Very few writers have the talent to create such interesting and heartfelt characters. Jennifer Weiner definitely has that talent.<br />I related completely to Cannie Shapiro. We are the same size, and although she is Jewish and ten years younger than I am, I still knew what she had gone through, I had been there. Her feelings are universal. The story is realistic, and always has that glimmer of hope about the old boyfriend, Bruce. We don't realize until the end of the novel that he really is not a nice person. Cannie's mother and lesbian life partner are hysterical. Dr. K. is an absolute gem. Cannie's sense of humor and pathos are both hysterical and touching. At one moment, I would be laughing, the next moment, my tears would not stop flowing. I had to put the book down after chapter 16, I was feeling so emotional.<br />Read this book. It is over 300 pages long and I didn't want it to end. Although the friendship with the Minnie Driver-esque actress and the trip to Hollywood may be a bit fanciful, the rest of the novel is pure gold. When I reached the end, I felt in limbo, and I wanted more! Oh please say there is a sequel in the works! I seldom get this worked up about a novel, but this one definitely has me in its clutches!	2001-08-31
