US	52768278	R2Q78VESC84XFW	0446690155	313333061	Talking to Addison	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Tremendously funny!	After reading and enjoying Amanda's Wedding, I wasn't sure how Talking to Addison would measure up.  I was hoping for a fun, light novel, which I did get, but then there was a bonus -- Talking to Addison was HYSTERICAL!<br /><br />This book probably has the most real comedy in it that I've ever read.  I don't think I've ever laughed so hard in my life.  The timing was perfect!  The characters were so fantastic and goofy.  I loved every second of this book.  I hope there is more to come from Jenny Colgan.<br /><br />Talking to Addison begins with Holly Livingstone living in the land of nightmares.  Her roommates are crazy clean freaks, and Holly just can't take it anymore!  So she begs her best friend, Josh, to let her move in with him and his roommates.  This is where the story really begins.  Living in the flat are Kate, a neurotic career-woman, and the ever elusive Addison, who holes up in his cavern of a room instant messaging his agoraphobic girlfriend 3000 miles away.  Holly is determined to make him hers, which leads to some very funny scenarios.<br /><br />I recommend this one very highly.  I rarely give chick-lit 5 stars because for the most part they are good, but not earth-shattering.  Well, I couldn't help myself on this one!  Talking to Addison is super-funny and I think well deserving of the highest praise.	2004-07-20
US	52768278	R24R1GMXM5VHEY	0525947671	7966085	The Lady and the Unicorn	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Chevalier's best work yet!	I didn't think Tracy Chevalier could top herself after Girl With a Pearl Earring, but I was wrong.  The Lady and the Unicorn was every bit as exhilarating, and for me, even more indulgent.  I loved every second of this book from beginning to end and can't wait to see what else Chevalier has in store.<br /><br />The Lady and the Unicorn tells the story of six real medieval tapestries that presently hang in a museum in Paris.  Chevalier has created a fictional account of how these tapestries came to be -- who commissioned, designed and weaved them, and what is the meaning behind them.  Opening the book with the designer, Nicolas des Innocents, a randy bloke with a roving eye, Chevalier's story begins with a mighty leap.<br /><br />Each chapter is told by a different character which allows the reader to see the story from all sides.  However, there is more to this novel than the six famous tapestries -- Chevalier has weaved one of her own, one that was entertaining and full-of-life.  I will read this book again!	2004-07-20
US	52768278	R1SNN9C0LFJ0S8	0966335236	458538475	Snowy: A Sequel to THE CHEERLEADER	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A good follow-up	After reading and falling in love with the gang from THE CHEERLEADER, I had to know what happened to them after high school. SNOWY allows just that. I was very happy with the turn of events for my favorite characters. Ruth Doan MacDougall has written another wonderful book for me to love.<br /><br /> SNOWY begins when Henrietta Snow (&quot;Snowy&quot;) is in college with her roommate Harriet. From there, MacDougall takes us on a journey through Snowy's boyfriends, new friends, old friends, first job, marriage, children, etc. SNOWY spans 40 years, which I love. Readers will really get a chance to know these characters inside and out.<br /><br /> I am glad to see there is another installment of this series, called HENRIETTA SNOW. I want to know what happens after age 48! Kudos for Ruth Doan MacDougall for writing another wonderful story with these wonderful characters. I can't wait to see what is next.	2004-07-20
US	52768278	R1HUXEDFL747IY	1862074801	749801953	Shamrock Tea	Books	3	3	5	N	N	A good book, but not an easy read	Reading Shamrock Tea was not as easy as first expected.  Given that this book has 101 3-page chapters, I figured it would be a fast one to get through.  However, that is not the case.  While I could still turn the pages rather quickly, the words were not frivolous ~~ Shamrock Tea definitely makes you think.<br />When first opening the book, the reader may not be aware of what is going on.  But the longer you read, the easier it is to pick out what is happening to the main characters.  Here is what I gathered:  The narrator, a young boy with the last name of Carson, and his cousin, Berenice, discover that smoking a substance labeled Shamrock Tea and staring into a picture, The Arnolfini Portrait, they would find themselves pulled into its world.  Later, Carson meets a friend at school named Maeterlinck, and together with Berenice, they find out the secret about their lives and the mission they are to undertake.<br />Having said that, this novel does not take the quick road to get to the end.  The author goes off on tangents about characters who aren't really characters in the book, telling stories about their lives, the Catholic saints' lives, and more.  Plus, the longer he goes on, the more confusing you can get ~ the stories of these characters and saints can, at times, blend together and suddenly you aren't aware of what happened to who.<br />I am not disappointed with this book.  I found it to be rather interesting, when I understood what was going on (which took me awhile).  Shamrock Tea is definitely a novel for an intellect, one who knows their Catholic saints or their Irish history.  Since I know neither, I had trouble.  But I was entertained, nonetheless, which is always a good thing.	2004-01-31
US	52768278	R333RZXR610FWB	0060958022	582577419	Five Quarters of the Orange	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Wow...	Five Quarters of the Orange has left me speechless.  Wow... what a wonderful novel.  I just finished last night and I don't know how I slept eight hours without thinking of these characters.  Joanne Harris, one of my favorite authors, has yet to disappoint me.  This 3rd book I've read by her is now my new favorite.<br />Five Quarters tells the story of Framboise Simon, a older woman who comes back to the town of her youth, Les Laveuses, a small village near the Loire.  She has come home in secret ~ no one in town knows who she really is:  the daughter of Mirabelle Dartigen, the woman whom the town had ridiculed, harassed, tortured and defamed nearly 50 years before.<br />While making her home once again in Les Laveuses, Framboise recounts her childhood in startling detail, beautiful and powerful prose that will leave the reader speechless.  Framboise, at the age of nine, was involved in something so innocent ~ wanting to be accepted and included in the lives of her older brother and sister, Cassis and Reine-Claude ~ but this innocence takes a harrowing and terrifying turn.  Set during the German Occupation of World War II, the events that take place that year will forever change her, her family and the town of Les Laveuses.<br />Joanne Harris is a true artist.  Her masterpiece, Five Quarters of the Orange, is so breathtakingly beautiful.  I was on the edge of my seat wondering what the big secret was, or at least that last final detail that changed everything.  I did not see it coming, that's for sure!  And it was truly stunning.	2004-01-31
US	52768278	R3BAESC3MWLB25	0688177743	280607679	Keeping Faith: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Keeping Faith is a keeper!	I am a huge fan of Jodi Picoult and have purchased every novel she has written thus far.  I am never disappointed when reading one of her books; Jodi has this wonderful storytelling ability that grabs readers from the beginning and does not let go.<br />Keeping Faith is the story of a little girl named Faith.  After witnessing a scene between her mother and father that culminates in a divorce, Faith suddenly begins having conversations with an imaginary friend.  Not a big deal, until Faith, who was not brought up in a religious household, begins quoting scripture.  Could this 'imaginary friend' really be someone more spiritual?  Maybe even God?  When Faith begins to develop stigmata and heals others around her, people from all over the country flock to the town to get a glimpse of this miraculous healer.<br />There is more to the story that that, of course, most of it dealing with the divorce of Faith's parents, custody arrangements, and how Faith's new-found celebrity plays into it all.  I found this book to be one of the best of Jodi's books (right up there with Plain Truth, my favorite), and certainly one that would spark an interesting conversation in book groups.<br />Jodi, you continue to outdo yourself with every book you write.  I can't wait for new releases and more opportunities to delve into your world.  Kudos on Keeping Faith -- a masterpiece in my opinion.	2004-01-20
US	52768278	R2NOBJDF48AYT6	0060988258	551668212	Running in Heels: A Novel	Books	3	14	17	N	N	Running in heels would have been more fun...	I had really high hopes for this book, especially after loving Anna Maxted's first book, Getting Over It.  I am sad to say that Running in Heels did not match up to my expectations.<br />While not a bad book by any means, I did have a problem with it.  The main character has major issues, and it was frustrating reading about her troubles without her doing anything about them.  Of course, I understand that there are a lot of people like that in real life, but for some reason this book rubbed me the wrong way anyway.<br />Running in Heels tells the story of a woman named Natalie who spends a whole lot of time mourning her best friend, who recently got married.  She also indulges in a good-for-nothing boyfriend, whines a lot, and -- out of the clear-blue -- suddenly has an eating disorder.  That's pretty much what the book is about.  It is definitely not a plot-driven story, but more of a slice-of-life sort of thing.  And while that may be okay for some, I prefer a little more meat and substance to my books, and Running in Heels did not provide that for me.<br />This, of course, is just my opinion.  I'm sure there are a lot of people out there who would enjoy this novel.  It all depends on what you like reading and what you are looking for.  On the upside, I do not regret the time I spent reading this book.	2003-12-11
US	52768278	R12863YFNX714I	0345445856	216274565	Milk Glass Moon (Big Stone Gap)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A great ending to the trilogy...	Reading the last book in the Big Stone Gap trilogy felt like coming home.  I loved everything about it - all my favorite characters and that nice comfy feeling you get when turning pages was there.  I couldn't have asked for a better way to end the story.<br />This time around the novel focus mainly on Ave Maria trying to raise her daughter, Etta.  The story spans about six years and so we get a nice glimpse into what Ave Maria goes through when trying to rear Etta through her teenage years.  And of course, Big Stone Gap wouldn't be complete without cantankerous Fleeta Mullins, Ave's help at the Mutual Pharmacy; all of Ave's wonderful family from across the pond; as well as one of my favorites, Iva Lou Wade Makin, who has a struggle all her own.<br />Chock full of homespun humor and as comforting as a warm glass of milk, Milk Glass Moon was everything I expected it to be.  I feel sad to say good-bye to all my wonderful friends at Big Stone Gap, but the ending of the book left me with such a nice feeling.  I highly recommend this trilogy to readers.  Thank you, Adriana, for this awesome gift.	2003-11-25
US	52768278	R5PSWD6RU5AP7	0743247612	493324331	The Funny Thing Is...	Books	5	11	12	N	N	The thing is...this one�s FUNNY!	For a knee-slapping good time, I always reach for the tried and true, and Ellen Degeneres has become that for me.  I've been a fan of hers way before her popular TV sitcom, and own some of her stand-up comedy as well as her other book, My Point...and I Do Have One.  And even though her writing isn't near as funny as her talking, I still find Ellen and anything Ellen-related top-notch comedy and will forever remain a fan.<br />The Funny Thing Is... is a riot!  There is no one who can make me laugh quite like Ellen.  And her book, full of short chapters of meandering thoughts about nothing in particular, is Ellen at her best.  I can hear her \\"voice\\" come off the pages, especially in the chapters about her dad, the tour of her home, and the blurb about the CD packaging.  Fans of Ellen will no doubt laugh on every page and will feel that every penny spent on this book is definitely worth it.	2003-11-11
US	52768278	R30ISXXWAQKC7B	0312966806	74138788	Tell Me Lies	Books	4	15	17	N	N	No lie...this one is a winner!	I've been a fan of Jennifer Crusie's for quite some time although I haven't read too many of her books.  I own them all, but it's a case of too many books, too little time.  Anyhow, I'm glad I made some time for Tell Me Lies.  It was a nice romantic story with a little page-turning mystery thrown in.  Light and simple and perfect for a day of relaxation.<br />Tell Me Lies is the story of Maddie Faraday who, during the course of a clean-out of her husband, Brent's, car, finds a pair of black, crotchless underwear under the seat - and they are not hers!  But that situation turns out to be the least of Maddie's problems - throw in an 8-year-old daughter who notices something awry with her parents, as well as two nosy neighbors, a best friend who has a big secret of her own, and gorgeous C.L. Sturgis, the boy who took her virginity 20 years before, back in town trying to get some answers.  Oh, and then there's that pesky little murder that really sends Maddie over the edge....<br />This is a funny story about a marriage gone wrong in the middle of a small town that sees everything.  I enjoyed reading this book and look forward to finally reading the rest of my Jennifer Crusie collection.  If you are looking for something light, yet page-turning, I suggest Tell Me Lies with two thumbs up - and that ain't no lie!	2003-11-11
US	52768278	R2LZS4SO701HEQ	0142001430	43461769	Year of Wonders: A Novel of the Plague	Books	5	6	7	N	N	�Wonders� is wonderful!	I am a sucker for anything historical, so I knew Year of Wonders had at least that aspect going for it.  And by novel's end, I felt very satisfied.  It was everything I expected, and even a little bit more.  And as depressing as this book may seem, I had a fantastic experience with Year of Wonders, and am looking forward to another book by Geraldine Brooks.<br />Set in a small village in England in 1666, Year of Wonders tells the story of young Anna Frith, a widow with two small boys.  When Anna takes in a boarder, an experienced tailor from London, he unwittingly brings with him the Plague contained in a contaminated bolt of cloth.  As the infection spreads throughout the village, the rector, Michael, asks the villagers to quarantine themselves in an effort to keep the sickness from escaping into neighboring communities.  And Anna soon finds herself in a position of healer, comforter and companion to the many families in which the Plague affects.<br />This was an incredible story.  And at first, one is puzzled regarding where the \\"wonder\\" fits in.  Then by the close of the book, it all becomes clear.  I was utterly fascinated by the struggle and strength of the Plague community.  I will remember this novel for a long, long time.  I hope there is another great story coming soon from Geraldine Brooks.	2003-11-06
US	52768278	R2N00E0TFHNG1I	0373250193	686455358	Loose Screws (Red Dress Ink)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Nothing screwy about this one!	I love it when a book from which you expect no great shakes turns out to be great!  Usually the Red Dress Ink books are light and easy reads, nothing taxing, and enjoyable for what they are - brain candy, fluff, bonafide chick lit.  So when I encounter one that offers something a little bit more, I always get a tad bit excited....<br />Loose Screws begins with 30-year-old Ginger Petrocelli drinking herself into oblivion on her supposed wedding day.  Being stood up at the altar doesn't do much for the self-esteem, and Ginger's missing fianc&eacute; didn't have the guts to dump her face-to-face.  However, it seems that no one has seen Greg lately - well, within the past couple of days anyway - and a knock at Ginger's door brings her past rushing up to greet her.  A police officer - a one-night stand deflowering from ten years ago - is on the other side of the door to inform Ginger not to leave town while they search for Greg.<br />But that's not the least of her problems.  From that moment on, Ginger's life quickly down-spirals, and it's one pothole in the road after another.  It doesn't help that the police officer, Nick, seems to be around at every turn, looking cute and intensely blue-eyed as ever.  So what's with Greg and his no-show stunt?  How will Ginger cope with everything now that life's been turned on its head?  Read this book to find out!<br />Loose Screws is a step above your average girlie book.  While still maintaining its feminine appeal, this novel doesn't make you feel more stupid for reading it.  I really enjoyed the story, and the writing was many, many notches above high-school level.  A fun, funny, crazy ride of a book.  Karen Templeton did good.	2003-10-29
US	52768278	RT8M1KP4M4EMH	0060930187	802369838	The Bell Jar: A Novel (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	241	280	N	N	A GREAT Classic!	I've been trying to broaden my reading range by throwing in a few classics here and there.  One I had been interested in for quite some time is The Bell Jar.  And with the Sylvia Plath movie coming out soon, I thought reading this book might be a nice complement to that.  And what a real pleasure it turned out to be!<br />The Bell Jar does not read like a classic - \\"classic\\" being the term of very old books with very old language - the description I've always had for the classic genre.  This book has a very contemporary writing style, and despite it being written in the 1960s, The Bell Jar's topic of mental illness certainly transcends the generations and can be related by many people no matter when they read the book.  I absolutely loved it!<br />The Bell Jar tells the story of a young Esther Greenwood at the beginning of her mental decline.  She first recognizes its oncoming during a summer of interning at a magazine company in New York City.  Trying to fit in with the other interns, as well as dealing with boys and co-workers prove to be a struggle at times for Esther.  And later, when the real depression and suicidal thoughts set in, readers are invited into a dark and scary world, one created realistically and with honesty by Ms. Plath.<br />This book ranks high on my list of all-time favorites.  I'm so glad I read it.  From now on, if people want to read a classic (or a darn good book for that matter), I won't hesitate to suggest The Bell Jar.  It's fantastic!	2003-10-29
US	52768278	R2FIXXYRX4EU8E	0380805421	10322470	Smart Vs. Pretty	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A no-frills read�	I had this book on my bookshelf for quite awhile, and thought I should read it once and for all.  I have heard mixed reviews on this book, so wasn't really expecting much.  I knew I'd either love it or hate it.  Well, I can't say I would go to either extreme; however, it doesn't venture far off from the typical chick-lit trail.<br />Smart vs. Pretty doesn't dwell so much on the sisterly rivalry like you would think.  It's mostly about the fact that two sisters -- one smart, one pretty - are forced into business together by running the family's dwindling coffee shop in spite of the profitable coffee chain next door.  Within nine pages of the woes of running a \\"ma and pa\\" store in the age of mass-production, in comes Clarissa, the girl who is going to turn it all around.  As part of Clarissa's marketing classes at college, she's appointed herself savior of the coffee shop with a marketing plan to drag it out of bankruptcy and into the stratosphere.<br />And by this time (remember, only nine pages into the book), one already knows how it is going to end...<br />One thing that surprised me, though, was the fact that the book turned from something light and chick-y to a mystery (albeit light and chick-y).  This mystery was its saving grace, however, since there was really nothing else to keep one turning the pages.<br />I didn't hate the book, but it is by no means fantastic literature.  It is light, easy to read, quick to get through, and perfect for brain-vacation reading.  I don't feel that my time was wasted, but I spent a lot of minutes rolling my eyes and guffawing at its predictability.  I do have Ms. Frankel's newest book on my shelf - here's hoping it is much, much better.	2003-10-28
US	52768278	R1LS77QEMUVFX	0380729741	589165254	River Angel: A Novel	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Another great Ansay novel!	I have read every book written by A. Manette Ansay, and while this isn't my favorite one, it is by no means a bad book - in fact, it's great!  I think Ansay is one of the better writers I've had the pleasure to read, and each of her books lends a wonderful reading experience.  River Angel is just one more beautiful book to add to my collection.<br />Set in the small town of Ambient, Wisconsin, River Angel tells the story of a community in need of miracles.  There is a local legend in town about an angel who resides near the river.  No one is really sure whether to believe it or not, but a little boy named Gabriel, in need of some change in his life, goes in search for the angel anyway.  Gabriel, who is a loveable, sweet character, is not a favorite of many of the town's citizens.  He is chubby and bothersome and easy to tease.  However, Gabriel becomes the catalyst for an amazing transformation - both for him and for many of Ambient's occupants.<br />A. Manette Ansay writes about several of the citizens of Ambient and their troubles in their lives.  I loved hearing their stories, all their dreams and disappointments.  But most importantly, I loved the writing.  A. Manette Ansay is a genius in my eyes.  She writes poetry without being poetic.  I will forever be in her debt for the joy she has brought into my reading experiences.  Can't wait for the next one!	2003-10-28
US	52768278	R217HKGB5VDHX1	0345441109	975014055	White Rose:  Una Rosa Blanca (A Ballantine Readers' Circle Book)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A wonderful historical novel...	This is the second book I've read my Amy Ephron, and I enjoyed it just as much as the first.  Of course, I love anything historical, so that helps, plus the storyline -- and the fact that it is based on a true event -- fascinated me.  I know for sure that I will buy anything Ms. Ephron writes, and I hope another one is forthcoming soon.<br />White Rose tells the story of the beautiful and young Evangelina Cisneros and her imprisonment in her native Cuba in the late 19th century.  Evangelina, like many others in the prison, are there because they have turned their backs on their Spanish government in an effort to liberate Cuba.  Soon, Evangelina will be transferred to a different prison -- one where no one survives....<br />Karl Decker, a journalist in New York City, is sent by his employer to Cuba under the pretense of interviewing Evangelina for a story.  However, he is actually there to aid her escape from the prison before she is transferred to a place of certain death.  But there are hurdles and many untrustworthy people along the way.<br />White Rose is a beautiful love story as well as a powerful tribute to patriotism.  I loved each page of this novel, and knowing it was a true story made it only better.  An awesome book that is highly recommended, especially for historical fiction lovers.	2003-10-27
US	52768278	R2GTT7R49FXN7O	0743464818	192272503	Thin Skin	Books	3	4	4	N	N	An edgy Hollywood story	While not a bad book, I have to say that I did not enjoy this one as much as I liked Namedropper.  It was a little hard to get into at first, not to mention the fact that the plot was practically non-existent.  However, I still enjoyed it for what it was -- a rambling, troubled journey of a burned out, young Hollywood actress.<br />Thin Skin tells the story of Ruby, a frustrating character who is in major need of counseling.  She goes from boyfriend to boyfriend all the while keeping an unhealthy obsession of her long-lost crush on the front-burner.  She is suicidal and bulimic and a major pain in the backside.  And with only a couple of weeks past since I read this book, I'm finding it very hard to tell you anything more in great detail.<br />I do, however, find this book to be quite an accomplishment for such a young author.  And it does have its appeal -- it's like a coming-of-age novel for someone who should already have come of age.  It's gritty and edgy and the writing is very raw and honest.  A good effort for the writer, and although it is not as good as her first book, I will definitely read whatever she comes up with next.	2003-10-06
US	52768278	R19BNH3W0KP5RK	0345438817	934434205	Welcome to the Great Mysterious	Books	5	5	5	N	N	No mystery about this one!	This is the fourth book I've read by Lorna Landvik, and I must say that it is my favorite so far!  I absolutely loved the storyline.  I've never read so much in one day in my entire life!  I highly recommend this book with two very enthusiastic thumbs up.<br />Welcome to the Great Mysterious tells the story of Tony-winning Broadway actress, Geneva Jordan, and her escape from her life.  After getting dumped by her co-star and boyfriend, Trevor, Geneva quits her run as Mona Lisa in the Broadway play, Mona, in order to nurse her wounds (and a severe case of menopause!) in peace.  However, Geneva's sister, Ann, has other ideas for her vacation -- after 13 years of being a full-time mother to Rich, Ann is finally going to take a month-long vacation with her husband, Riley, and needs Geneva to baby-sit.  Which wouldn't be such a bad idea except for the fact that Geneva doesn't know how to baby-sit....<br />Rich, who has Down's Syndrome, proves to be a beautiful and heartwarming character.  I loved the interaction between him and Geneva.  Rich has a heart of gold and is funny and sweet and a pleasure to read about.  He really stole the whole show for me.  Throughout the month, Geneva learns a lot about herself and what is really important, and I loved every second of it!  The best so far... I can't wait for more.	2003-10-06
US	52768278	R2VEIH39G1NQMF	037570731X	22798973	The Ladies' Man	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A fun and readable book...	This is only the 2nd book I've read by Elinor Lipman, but it certainly won't be the last.  This one is even better than the other one I read, The Inn at Lake Devine.  It is definitely funnier and kept me turning pages.<br />The Ladies' Man is set in Boston and tells the story of the three Dobbins sisters, Adele, Lois and Kathleen, all set in spinsterhood, and Nash Harvey, the man who dumped Adele on the night of their engagement party 30 years before.  It seems Nash can't move forward in his life (relationship or otherwise) without first mending ways with Adele.  So he leaves his girlfriend in California, flies to Boston (and of course, makes a date with Cynthia, his plane-mate), and shows up on Adele's doorstop out of the clear blue.  Thing is, Adele is not willing to forgive him.  Regardless, Nash's stay in Boston has an effect on her as well as her sisters and brother, Richard, in different and funny ways.  And of course, Nash's \\"Ladies' Man\\" ways are evident from the very first page.<br />I really enjoyed this book.  It was a simple story, but very interesting and fun to see what would happen next.  I recommend The Ladies' Man as a quick, light read and one that will no doubt entertain readers 100 percent.  Will be reading more by Elinor, guaranteed!	2003-10-06
US	52768278	R3RKX2JS5SY9AJ	0618197281	238790974	Fred & Edie: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A great true, historical novel�	I really enjoyed reading this true crime novel by Jill Dawson.  I'm not normally into true crime, but this one was written so much like a novel that you almost forget that it isn't fiction.  Plus the historical London setting always puts a nice, atmospheric spin on everything.  I highly recommend this book.<br />Fred &amp; Edie tells the true story of a man, Percy Thompson, who is killed after walking home from the theatre with his wife, Edie.  Shortly thereafter, Edie and her lover, Fred Bywaters, are arrested for his murder.  Most of the novel is made up of letters from Edie to Fred, written from her jail cell during the trial.  However, the flashbacks of how Edie met Fred, as well as her tumultuous marriage to Percy, are what make this novel more than just a newspaper headline.<br />For fans of historical fiction, true crime, stories about scandalous affairs, and lovers of all things British - this novel is for you!  It took a bit to get used to the letters/newsclipping writing style, but once it got rolling, I didn't want to put it down.  I can't wait for what's next from a new favorite author, Jill Dawson.	2003-10-03
US	52768278	RBCTG4RBGMZRP	0385336772	623152480	Diary of a Mad Mom-to-Be	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The Mad Bride is Back!!	For a super fun, funny read, you MUST read the Mad Bride books!  Starting with the hilarious Diary of a Mad Bride and continuing on with Diary of a Mad Mom-To-Be, readers will be entertained with laughs-a-plenty and many will be able to relate 100 percent.<br />After two years of marriage, Amy Thomas Stewart is starting to feel the pressure to procreate.  After a lengthy (and persuavive) discussion with Amy's husband, Stephen, the plan is finally put into action.  Only things don't go exactly as envisioned, and Amy's commentary on the situation is, as usual, hilarious.  And armed with her &quot;Baby Now, Baby How&quot; book and ever-present To-Do List, Amy's adventure is sure to have readers falling off their seats with laughter.<br />Don't read this one without first reading Diary of a Mad Bride since they go together.  Both novels are a lot of fun to read and I hope there is another installment soon -- perhaps Diary of a Mad Mom-of-a-Two-Year-Old?!	2003-09-10
US	52768278	R8VVAQJESTKV9	0743418735	194962038	Perfect Match	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A perfect book...	I'm not sure what it is exactly about Jodi's books that make me love them so much.  Perhaps it is the riveting nature of the storylines, or the vividness of the prose, or maybe the fact that I can sit and turn pages for hours and never get bored.  I have never been disappointed by any of Jodi's novels.  Perfect Match is no exception....<br />A little bit on the controversial side, especially in light of things that have taken place in this country lately, Perfect Match delves into the lives of District Attorney Nina Frost, her husband, Caleb, and their 5-year-old son, Nathaniel.  Spending her days in the courtroom and her nights preparing for cases, Nina's job takes up a lot of her time.  Prosecuting rape cases and child molesters is just part of the job...until it becomes personal.  Nathaniel has suddenly and unexplainably become mute.  After a visit to a psychologist, the Frost family learns the awful truth -- Nathaniel has been sexually molested.<br />The book opens with a bang -- literally -- and doesn't stop building until the very end.  There were some surprising twists in here, which I've come to expect and love in Jodi Picoult's writing.  Jodi has written this very sensitive subject with tenderness and honesty, and no doubt Perfect Match has become one of my favorites.  Can't wait to read more!	2003-09-10
US	52768278	R29Q9A5YD26FGC	0316168688	744408823	The Dogs of Babel	Books	5	24	28	N	N	Surprisingly fabulous!	Prior to reading this novel, I wasn't sure if I wanted to or not.  I had heard good things about it, but I didn't think I'd find it very interesting.  Boy was I wrong!  The Dogs of Babel is officially on my list for the best books I've read this year.<br />Paul Iverson's wife, Lexy, is found dead after an apparent fall from an apple tree in their yard.  The only witness is their dog, Lorelei, who cannot relay the answer to Paul's most important question -- did Lexy fall on accident, or was it suicide?  As a linguistics professor, Paul does a lot of research and work with the spoken word.  Why couldn't he teach Lorelei to talk?  So Paul takes a sabbatical and embarks on the process of teaching Lorelei to say what she knows about that fateful day.<br />I loved every minute of this book.  The Dogs of Babel is beautifully written and I commend Carolyn Parkhurst for writing this story.  However, it is more about teaching a dog to talk.  The flashbacks of Paul and Lexy's life together are the best parts of the book.  Lexy is a free-spiritied and troubled character, and their courtship and marriage was incredibly romantic and tragic at the same time.  And despite some sensitive material about dog abuse, I still found The Dogs of Babel an exquisite read.	2003-09-10
US	52768278	RAD6ZK8B137EE	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Very deserving of its award!	This is one of the most unique storylines I've read in a novel in quite some time.  A mixture of sadness and humor, of hardship and triumph -- Life of Pi is one novel that will stay with me for a long, long time.  Yann Martel is 100% deserving of the Booker Prize.<br />I wasn't quite sure what to make of this book when I first started it.  It was slow to get into, and there were parts that seemed to go on and on.  But while it felt bogged down, it also held my interest.  I mean, how many books do you read involve a 16-year-old Indian boy and a Bengal Tiger adrift on a lifeboat in the middle of the Pacific Ocean?  Perhaps the long-windedness of the story (in regards to zoo politics and descriptions of everything) was pertinent, a way of creating the atmosphere of boredom -- a feeling I'm sure was at the top of the list for Pi Patel as he floated endlessly in search of rescue.<br />The book was set up in three parts -- part 1 gives us background information on Pi and his family and their zoo; part 2 sends the family and their zoo on a Japanese cargo ship across the ocean to their Canadian destination (which ultimately ends in disaster); and part 3 is the conclusion of the book (which will remain a secret...you'll just have to read!).  I must say that all three parts of this novel were exquisitely rendered and toward the end I had tears in my eyes.  The long, long wait (Pi's journey in the Pacific) is definitely worth the ending.  Awesome, amazing, wonderful...I highly recommend this novel -- stick with it and you will absolutely be rewarded.	2003-08-28
US	52768278	R1KMDQHE4MRKPE	0446531588	703746704	Derailed	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Talk about a bad day...	I was on vacation in New York City earlier this year, and on my subway ride to the Statue of Liberty I saw a woman reading this book.  Proof that I can find reading suggestions EVERYWHERE I go!  I immediately bought this book and devoured every page.<br />Derailed tells the story of Charles Schine about his amazing twist of fate.  Running late for work one morning, Charles is forced to take a later train.  On this train he meets the beautiful Lucinda -- Lucinda of the short skirt and long legs.  Shortly, Charles and Lucinda strike up a conversation, which soon turns into a heated affair.  But this seemingly fun, passionate thing (albeit adulturous) becomes the spark to ignite the flame, and Charles's world comes crashing down around him.  One thing after another, like a horrid chain of dominoes....<br />I was utterly fascinated by this story.  Would make one think twice before cheating on their spouse, that's for sure!  Maybe this book should be on every brides' wishlist!!  I will most definitely read another book by James Siegel.  He did an awesome job with this one and kept me entertained from the very beginning.	2003-08-19
US	52768278	R10DWEP455EZTC	1573228184	553362454	The Cigarette Girl: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Hollywood chick-lit story with a slight edge...	I've had this book on my book shelf for quite sometime; I finally decided it was time to read it.  And while it did not offer anything new to the chick-lit genre, it had a nice Hollywood touch to it and provided entertainment for a few days.<br />Cigarette Girl tells the story of 28-year-old Elizabeth West and her quest for Mr. Maybe.  Elizabeth is an action-movie screenwriter who is currently writing for her long-time crush, Jake.  Problem is, Jake is a bad-boy, with a Blonde-of-the-Month in tow at all times.  Mostly, Elizabeth yearns to be free of The Zone, the area in life where singeltons worry about settling down, getting married and having babies before it's too late.  But every date on which she goes doesn't hold much promise.  Will Elizabeth EVER find true love -- with a bad-boy or anyone else?<br />This book was pretty typical in its presentation.  I wasn't really expecting anything different.  I did enjoy the book, and the Hollywood setting the most because I think that is what gave this book its edge.  Plus all the premiere parties and screenings were just plain fun to read.  I would read another book by Carol Wolper -- she did a pretty decent job and for chick-lit fans, I think Cigarette Girl will provide a good time.	2003-08-19
US	52768278	R1UIJJZBUVYFEE	0373250304	632312082	The Thin Pink Line	Books	4	21	27	N	N	Finally!  An Original Chick-Lit!	The Thin Pink Line is by what all other chick-lit books should be measured.  A sparklingly original storyline, not so much emphasis on the oh-woe-is-me, and bonafide humor is what sets this novel apart.<br />While reading this book, one must ask oneself repeatedly -- is Jane insane?!  The heroine, almost-30 Jane Taylor, wants what she doesn't have -- a baby.  Seems she has deduced (via her not-exactly-like-stalking research technique) that pregnant women are treated extra special.  Doors are held open, smiles are frequently bestowed upon them, and getting out of doing any work is a given.  So when Jane is \\"late\\" she feels she is finally getting what she rightfully deserves -- that rosy place called pregnancy.  Jane's boyfriend, Trevor, seems nonchalant about it, which could only be a good thing, right?  But when Jane finds out she isn't really pregnant, her hopes shatter into a million pieces.  Seems like she'll have to do what any other woman would do in her situation -- she fakes it.<br />Lauren Baratz-Logsted has written a clear winner.  The Thin Pink Line is so refreshing to read, especially after the typical single-girl-in-the-city stories have worn themselves out.  A true treat with humor to match.  I loved every page.  All future Red Dress Ink books should only hope to come close....	2003-07-23
US	52768278	R1PU244XVHWAA9	0425185508	112076379	Picture Perfect	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Perfect...	Jodi Picoult never fails me.  This is the 5th book of her that I've read, and despite the fact that it isn't one of her page-turning courtroom drama types, Picture Perfect ranks right up there with my favorite, Plain Truth.<br />Anthropologist Cassie Barrett wakes up in a cemetary with a cut on her head and wondering how it got there.  Will Flying Horse, a Native American police officer for the LAPD, finds Cassie wandering the streets and rescues her.  Cassie doesn't know who she is or what she is doing -- a classic case of amnesia.  Will aides in finding Cassie's family only to discover that she is none other than famous Hollywood actor Alex Rivers's wife!  Slowly Cassie integrates back into Alex's life of fame, fortune, and house help.  Until one day, triggered by something she sees, Cassie's memories and the reason for the cut on her head come flooding back to her.  Now the only thing left for Cassie to do is escape....<br />I don't know what it is exactly that made me love Picture Perfect so much.  The writing, as always, was exceptional, and the style of the writing was very easy flowing.  And the story itself was very interesting, honest and believeable.  I am an avid fan of Jodi Picoult's and reading Picture Perfect was a solid reminder of why.  Kudos to you, Jodi, for another wonderfully rendered portrait of a novel.	2003-07-17
US	52768278	R1J4PSNPJMADUV	0373250185	672445191	Strapless: Australia or Bust: A Novel	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Not the best RDI book...	I've been religiously reading the Red Dress Ink series and have been pretty satisfied...until now.  Strapless is a whole different type, in disguise as chick lit, but really it's just another Harlequin bodice ripper with a snazzy cover.  Definitely on the bottom of the pile for me.<br />Strapless tells the story of almost-30 Darcie Baxter, who lives with her grandmother and evil cat, works at a popular lingerie company, Wunderthings, and spends every Monday evening having a meaningless rendezvous with Merrick Lowell in a Hyatt hotel room.  Darcie also spends a lot of time trying to avert the snooping co-worker, Greta, in an effort to win a promotion.  And once she does, Darcie is sent off to Australia to scout locations for Wunderthings's new store.  But Darcie does more than that -- she meets Dylan Rafferty, Aussie sheepherder, and falls head over heels, despite the fact that he is stuck in a time warp when it comes to women.<br />As for the story, I didn't hate it, but it was disappointing as far as what I've come to expect from Red Dress Ink.  I spent a lot of time rolling my eyes at the hokey dialogue, especially from the 82-year-old grandmother and her overexhausted libido.  As for the writing talent of Leigh Riker, I'm not going to complain about it.  It was perfectly fine for the genre that she specializes in -- strictly romance -- it just did not have a place in the chick lit field.  If she had developed the characters a little better, making us, the audience, care about them PRIOR to them jumping into bed together, then I think this reading experience would have been much more enjoyable.	2003-07-07
US	52768278	R34GG2B1E8C804	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	5	8	N	N	An exceptionally told thriller...	I just finished this whirlwind of a book last night, and I am completely speechless.  I'm not even sure what to say here except that The Da Vinci Code has to be the best, most intellectually written and fascinating thriller I've read...ever!  Kudos to Dan Brown for creating this exceptional, brilliant tale.<br />The Da Vinci Code is a richly layered mystery involving codes, symbolism, historical theories, and secret societies.  The curator of the Louvre museum in Paris, Jacques Sauniere, is found murdered inside, but before his final moments, he was able to leave a hidden message behind.  Authorities call in reknowned American symbologist, Robert Langdon, to help decipher the code.  But Sauniere, a master code writer himself, did not make this an easy task, even for an expert.  Langdon thus embarks on a roller coaster ride, sending him on a feverish chase throughout Europe, into churches and chateaus, in a desperate search for answers.<br />I loved this book and couldn't wait to see how it would end.  I was glued to my seat for hours on end because I absolutely couldn't make myself stop reading.  I learned a lot about Da Vinci, as well, and now my interest in him and his paintings have been piqued.  A lush, vivid landscape and an eerie tone throughout, The Da Vinci Code wins hands-down as my favorite book of the year.	2003-07-01
US	52768278	RH5AVWP7AK0K8	0684854503	640173342	Lucy Crocker 2.0: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A wonderful journey...	Having read Jackie By Josie a couple of years ago, I knew I would enjoy Lucy Crocker 2.0 just as much.  However, when a book sits on my bookshelf for so long, the excitement about reading it tends to go away.  I finally decided to read it, and now I'm wondering what took me so long.  Lucy Crocker 2.0 is a delightful book and one that speaks volumes about marriage, motherhood, and self-identity.<br />After many miscarriages, Lucy Crocker found solace in designing a #1 best-selling computer game, Maiden's Quest.  Ed, her husband and founder of Crocker Software, encouraged her in this process, but is now nagging her about the sequel.  But Lucy's got writer's block, cannot concentrate for the life of her, and therefore, the progress meeting with Crocker's game team did not go over so well.  To top it all off, Lucy finds a questionable e-mail to Ed from his sexy employee, Ingrid.  But that's not the end of it -- Lucy's twin boys, Benji and Phil, who run their own business installing software and designing websites for businesses, are spending their free time browsing porn sites.  Oh yes -- Lucy is having a very bad day.<br />While Ed is away at a gamer's convention, Lucy decides to take control of her life that seems to be quickly unraveling.  With a retreat to her father's old cabin at Little Lost Lake in Wisconsin, Lucy is certain to figure it all out.  But Benji, Phil and Ed are in for some adventure of their very own....<br />I enjoyed this book a lot and thought it rang true about marriage and being a mom.  Caroline Preston's writing style was very refreshing and made perfect sense.  But there was something else about it that I can't quite pinpoint -- maybe it was the tone of a frustrated housewife that kept me turning pages.  One thing is for sure:  Lucy Crocker 2.0 is a journey of discovery.  Readers will no doubt be glad they rode along.	2003-06-20
US	52768278	R2OGJHOJW9AUXY	0140257934	396807558	These High, Green Hills (The Mitford Years)	Books	5	43	44	N	N	Ahhh...to be back in Mitford!	There is just something special about Mitford, North Carolina.  Jan Karon has created a magical yet ordinary place, with memorable, endearing characters.  I love these novels and enjoy each and every trip I take back.<br />In the 3rd installment, things are looking up!  Father Timothy and Cynthia are settling into married life, and the marvels at having a soul mate after Tim's 60-plus years of bachelorhood has yet to stop amazing him.  Their first year will definitely be an adventurous one -- a camping trip gone awry; a 90th birthday party for Timothy's favorite parishioner, Sadie Baxter; the opening of the new nursing home, Hope House; as well as a few newcomers to the Mitford community.  And of course all of our favorite characters, like Dooley, Mule and Fancy Skinner, and J.C. Hogan, and places, like The Grill, The Porter Place, and Fernback are back in full swing.  Reading these books feel like the best a family reunion has to offer.<br />A helpful hint for those who are reading the books in order:  Book 6 actually fits in between book 2 and 3 -- it is a detailed story of Timothy and Cynthia's wedding.  I read it before reading These High, Green Hills.  I suggest doing this if you are the type of reader that likes things in chronological order.<br />I can't wait to continue on with the series.  There is a certain beauty about these books, a calming, soothing beauty that makes me want to pack up and move to Mitford!  Although not novels of huge, twisting, turning action, Jan Karon manages to turn the ordinary things of life into great milestones.  I applaud her and the rewards I receive every time I visit.	2003-06-13
US	52768278	R2H3WT2RFO8AS3	0688170528	990695172	The Pact: A Love Story	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Another riveting story by Picoult	I'm relatively new to Jodi Picoult's books, with The Pact being my 4th one of hers I've read, but I can say with confidence that I will be a fan for life.  I am always intrigued and captivated by her stories, her characters, and the fact that I sit on the edge of my seat turning pages feverishly is one activity I've come to associate with her books.  The Pact is no exception.<br />Teenagers Chris Harte and Emily Gold are many things to each other -- at first neighbors, then best friends, and eventually ended up falling in love.  Having grown up next door to each other for 17 years, it was only expected of them to be together -- a fact that pleases both sets of parents.  But a call comes in the middle of the night, the one call dreaded by every parent -- there's been an accident and Chris is in the hospital and Emily is dead.  Chris admits to the authorities that Emily's death is the cause of a suicide pact that was never completed -- he passed out before he could actually kill himself.  But with any unnatural death, there has to be an investigation, and the Medical Examiner's conclusions point to things that, instead of suicide, might spell MURDER.<br />This book was a very intense roller coaster for all involved.  The relationship between Chris and Emily's parents, once so strong and supporting, now lies crumbled and torn down with accusations and blame.  Emotions run high for each of the parents individually -- how could they not know that their children were suicidal?  And if it really is murder, what was the reason for it?  I found The Pact highly emotional and very riveting and it places the reader in the shoes of each parent, wondering in which side to empathize with the most.  I loved it and can't wait to read the rest of her novels that I have on my shelf.	2003-06-09
US	52768278	RVLZ2R6EKBGS8	0452283108	693621557	Bitch Goddess	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Need fun?  Read this one!	When I started reading this book, I wasn't quite sure what to make of it.  I guess I was sort of ho-hum about it. It was cute, funny and had a neat style to it, but there didn't seem to be anything special about it.  Then, surprisingly, that all changed.  Bitch Goddess really started to grow on me.  Soon, I found myself reading it for hours just to find out what happened next.<br />Viola Chute is one memorable character!  Author Robert Rodi has created this fabulous life for her, a former B-movie actress who has found a rise in her career through the nighttime soap opera, The Winds of Wyndamville.  But there are a few years in Viola's life that are unaccounted for.  Where was she between 1979 and 1982?  There are no records, articles or interviews claiming a much-needed vacation or a few years spent at a spa retreat.  And when anyone brings it up, Viola is the queen of changing the subject.<br />Mr. Harry is hired by Viola to ghostwrite her biography.  While doing so, he becomes intrigued by the missing years and goes in search of the truth.  And by this time, readers will be curious, too.<br />The story is told entirely in interviews, articles, answering machine messages, faxes, e-mails, and tape-recorded conversations between Mr. Harry and Viola.  It was very easy to follow along with the style, and I think this aspect of the novel is what made it so much fun to read.  This is my first try with a Robert Rodi book, and I'm thinking another one will be in order soon!	2003-06-05
US	52768278	R2BIIHGFQRPH86	0446530239	84426835	If Looks Could Kill	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Fun diet-mystery	Add me to the list of those who are reading all of Kelly Ripa's book selections.  I am a huge fan of Kelly, so anything to tells me to read, most likely I'll read.  Her first choice, If Looks Could Kill, was a fun, light beginning to her bookclub.<br />Bailey Weggins, true crime reporter for Gloss magazine, receives a frantic call from her boss, Cat -- Cat's live-in nanny, Heidi, has not showed up yet nor does she answer her door.  Cat begs Bailey to come over and check things out; she's afraid something has happened to Heidi and doesn't want to be alone.  Once Bailey enters Heidi's apartment, something is immediately amiss -- if the smell wasn't a dead giveaway, then Heidi's lifeless body is a sure tip-off.  Who killed Heidi, and why?  Cat asks Bailey to help solve the mystery, and by the novels' end, everyone seems to be a suspect.<br />Told with a light, easy tone, this mystery is not for die-hard, edge-of-your-seat fans -- this is more for the chick-lit fan who wants something a little different than the norm.  Author Kate White did a very good job of keeping me guessing -- I thought the killer was every character at least once throughout the book -- and had me surprised once the killer was revealed in the last few pages.  The writing was very easy and flowing, and the New York City setting made it all the more fun, especially since my first trip to NYC was only a few weeks ago.  I recommend this book for an entertaining beach read or for anyone wanting a quick, satisfying, light story.	2003-06-02
US	52768278	R19JV0P0B6BQF8	0345436911	441036137	The Dress Lodger (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A dark, disturbing and page-turning tale...	I am a huge fan of historical fiction so I knew I would like The Dress Lodger at least in that respect.  But about 2 or 3 chapters into the story, I realized I was going to LOVE The Dress Lodger for many more reasons.  This book will transport you, make you feel as if you, too, walk the slummy streets of Sunderland, England in the midst of the cholera epidemic.<br />The Dress Lodger twists together two lives -- one of 15-year-old potter's assistant and prostitute, Gustine, and shunned doctor and anatomy instructor, Henry Chivers.  Set back in the early 19th century, this novel describes Sunderland, England's political state as well as its health and how the two intertwine.  Dr. Chivers knows there is no way to study anatomy or teach his students properly without bodies, and there is no way to legally procure bodies.  He had already gotten in trouble once by being associated with Burke and Hare, the famous body snatchers and murderers from London.  Determined to start anew in Sunderland, Dr. Chivers waits patiently for his day to arrive....<br />Then there is Gustine who is in a desperate search for a miracle.  Her 4-month-old baby was born with a rare deformity -- his heart lives on the outside of his chest cavity.  Gustine works her two jobs in an effort to support her son, but it is Dr. Chivers with whom she places her hope, praying that he will be able to cure him of his condition.  Gustine strikes a deal with the doctor -- help her and she will help him...by finding him dead bodies.  This brief encounter becomes the pivotal moment in the story, the ledge from which we jump, down, down, down, a freefall to devastation and perhaps a little hope.<br />Sheri Holman's narrative style is a little different in this book.  Readers are not really sure who is telling the story, and we are actually placed as a character in the book at one point (or at least seems that way).  It took a few chapters to get used to it, but then it starts to read just like any other story, except that this one is fascinatingly incomparable to many.  Sheri Holman's writing is exquisite and haunting, and her descriptions of dreary Sunderland leave vivid pictures in your mind.  I loved this novel, everything about it, and I can't wait for more from this author.ept that this one is fascinatingly incomparable to many.  Sheri Holman's writing is exquisite and haunting, and her descriptions of dreary Sunderland leave vivid pictures in your mind.  I loved this novel, everything about it, and I can't wait for more from this author.	2003-05-23
US	52768278	R106VFQ0T9850I	0373250177	776542418	On The Verge (Red Dress Ink (Numbered Paperback))	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Chick-lit with an edge...	Out of the seven Red Dress Ink books I've read, On the Verge is probably the most different.  But is that a good or bad thing -- I guess it all depends on what you prefer.  To me, this book was still chick-lit, but less chick-lit than most.  Here's why:<br />On the Verge tells the story of 23-year-old Eve Vitali and her life after college.  She is employed as a glorified secretary at a huge magazine conglomerate, although the magazine who employs her is none other than &quot;Bicycle Boy,&quot; which is bad in two ways:  1) She does no sort of physical exercise, and 2) She is not a boy.  Eve's friend, Tabitha, works in the same building but for the more glamorous magaine, &quot;NY By Night,&quot; therefore assuring their admittance into all sorts of celebrity-infused parties and charity functions.<br />The story doesn't really go anywhere as far as plot - it's more of a slice-of-life character study of a typical New York City girl looking forward to the future and the greatness that lies in waiting.  This is all pretty much standard in your average chick-lit story.  But what I think sets this book apart is the tone that Ariella Papa chose to use.  The character of Eve has attitude, and her humor is not in-your-face, but more funny about 30 seconds afterwards.  It took some getting used to, but around 70 or 80 pages in, it grew on me.  I also think this book was less about finding a husband and more about finding career success.<br />I enjoyed the book, although it took some time to get into the story.  Sometimes I felt like I'd been reading for ages only to glance up and notice just 10 pages had gone by.  Although this book has a different feel to it, it is not my favorite Red Dress Ink book (Dating Without Novocaine holds that honor).  But I would definitely be interested in reading another book by Ariella Papa, an author I feel is truly &quot;on the verge.&quot;	2003-05-19
US	52768278	RVOGH8QDNI91A	0060008024	568824372	Angels	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Marian Keyes never fails!	I've now officially read every book written by Marian Keyes that has been published in the U.S., and she has yet to disappoint me.  Granted, Angels isn't my favorite book by her (Rachel's Holiday holds that honor), but I was still very entertained and will continue to buy anything she has in print.<br />Angels tells the story of another of the Walsh sisters -- this time around it's Maggie, the well-behaved one, the one with the perfect life...until she loses her job and her husband in one fail swoop.  Slinking back home to her family, Maggie quickly realizes she needs to turn her life around.  So when her friend, Emily, invites her to stay with her in Los Angeles, Maggie jumps at the opportunity.  L.A. has a sort of backwards effect on Maggie, however -- instead of turning her life around, Maggie somehow turns it upside-down, doing things she never thought she'd do.  And the journey ends up being more than just a flight over the Atlantic...<br />I really enjoyed reading about another Walsh sister.  I love the dysfunctional, eccentric qualities about each of them, and I think I could relate to Maggie the most.  Marian Keyes has continued to write engaging, wonderful stories that are both funny and heartwarming, but also serious in subject matter.  Undoubtedly she will remain on my favorite authors list for a long, long time.	2003-05-13
US	52768278	R2N9SYNTKVHZ3K	1551666839	632396534	Dead Run (MIRA)	Books	5	31	37	N	N	Run to get this one!	If you want a book that will keep you turning pages for hours on end, one that has surprises around every corner, and one that will undoubtedly have you on the edge of your seat, then Dead Run would be perfect for you!  This is my first [time] at reading a book like this, a \\"chilling thriller\\" as advertised on the book spine, and I know for sure it won't be my last!<br />Dead Run tells the story of Liz Ames, a family counselor from St. Louis, who receives a phone call from the Key West Police Department -- her sister, Rachel, pastor of the Paradise Christian Church there, is missing.  Soon after, Liz moves to Key West and sets up her practice, determined to find out what really happened to Rachel.  But the police aren't very helpful, leaving Liz to do the sleuthing all by herself.  And then more people go missing -- even some are found dead.  And what happens after is bar none the best twisty-turny story I've ever read.<br />I believe \\"chilling thriller\\" is an understatement.  Erica Spindler did not leave one thread untied, and I was completely mesmerized by the storyline.  I caught myself many times smiling because I couldn't believe my luck at finding such a good book to read!  I am definitely reading more books by Erica -- she's got a new fan in me!	2003-05-12
US	52768278	RU1V3SXPHWULZ	0316785261	658358380	The Fig Eater: A Novel	Books	5	11	15	N	N	A historical fiction lover�s feast!	All I can say about this book can be summed up in one word:  WOW!  I was so impressed with The Fig Eater; I can't believe I let it sit on my bookshelf untouched for so long.  Everything about it was wonderful:  the suspensful storyline, historical setting, and the obviously researched details in the writing.  My only regret is that there aren't any more books by this amazing, talented author.<br />The Fig Eater opens with a puzzling murder.  Eighteen-year-old Dora is found dead in an Austrian city park with no clues as to who did it or why.  The Inspector in brought in for the investigation, and the suspensful journey begins.  The rest of the novel details the protocol for an investigation and what evidence in uncovered along the way.  But not only do we get involved in the official side of things, readers are treated to the amateur sleuthing of the Inspector's wife, Erzebet, and her secret desire to find out what happened to poor Dora.  The Fig Eater opens up a world of an early 20th century crime investigation; Gypsy talismans, superstitions, and rituals; and sexual secrets.<br />I loved everything about this book.  I was on the edge of my seat most of the time, waiting for the outcome to come to light.  Jody Shields is an incredible author -- her writing is richly detailed and exquisitely rendered.  The 1910 Viennese landscape created an atmosphere that was very much 3-D for me, which, in my opinion, is very rare.  Kudos to Jody, and a desperate plea from me:  write more soon!	2003-04-28
US	52768278	RI3I1X4RDLBRB	0618154442	504583572	My Life on a Plate	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Very funny and wise...	I've had this book on my bookshelf for awhile, and finally decided to read it since I was in the mood for something light and quick.  I am pleased to say that My Life on a Plate ended up being such fun to read.  I thought the main character was hilarious, and her take on marriage and motherhood was as honest as it gets.<br />My Life on a Plate is more of a portrait than a novel.  Author India Knight provides a winning character study of a wife and mother and the things that happen to her day-to-day.  Clare Hutts is a part-time magazine writer who has been married to her husband, Richard, for the past eight years.  And while their marriage doesn't seem so bad, Clare can't stop thinking that something is missing.  Not kids -- they have two small boys -- and certainly not the fairy tale lifestyle -- financial security, a beautiful house, and working from home.  Maybe it's the fact that Richard doesn't ever feed the boys breakfast, or perhaps it's because they aren't romantic anymore -- whatever the reason, Clare's journey throughout this novel is eye-opening at best.<br />I really enjoyed reading this book.  Clare is a hilarious character, and her insights on marriage are as honest as they are funny.  I felt the tone of the book was consistent throughout, and by the time the last page rolled around, I knew it couldn't end any other way.  India Knight did an excellent job with this one, and I look forward to her future books.	2003-04-21
US	52768278	RRUACNH6IFB8U	0316678104	155429542	Fortune's Rocks: A Novel	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Worth a fortune...	I had only read one book by Anita Shreve (The Pilot's Wife) prior to picking up Fortune's Rocks, so I wasn't really expecting anything phenomenal, just a good, decent story.  Was I ever pleasantly surprised!  Fortune's Rocks was way more than your average book -- the historical setting by itself was enough to keep me reading.<br />Fortune's Rocks tells the story of 15-year-old Olympia Biddeford and the summer that changed her life.  While vacationing with her family in Fortune's Rocks, New Hampshire, Olympia notices something different about herself.  She does not feel like a little kid anymore, but more of a woman, aware of her surroundings and the looks she receives from the boys on the beach.  But it isn't just boys who find themselves drawn to Olympia -- at a dinner gathering, Olympia's father's guest, John Haskell, a 40-something doctor and writer, feels himself drawn as well.  Soon, Olympia and John embark on a love affair despite their age difference -- and despite the fact that John is married and the father of four small children.  And this affair, although true love for Olympia and John, only proves to be disasterous for all involved.<br />Set in 1899, the historical era of the novel is its best asset.  I love historical fiction, and I believe this aspect is what made the story so involving and good.  Anita Shreve's writing is very complementary to the time frame -- I really felt I was dropped in the midst of 1899 while reading.  Fortune's Rocks was less predictable than Pilot's Wife, and I was actually surprised a few times at the direction the story was taking.  I highly recommend this novel -- especially to those who love historical fiction.	2003-04-16
US	52768278	R1URVLV4M5X7UV	0786886625	818919880	Spilling Clarence	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Moving and memorable...	The main reason that prompted my buying of this book was the interesting premise.  I thought the idea behind this book was something very original and unique, and I was definitely excited about reading it.  And while Spilling Clarence did provide me with something out of the ordinary, I believe the novel was more depressing that I anticipated.<br />Spilling Clarence tells the story about a small town, Clarence, and the chemical leak that changed everything.  An explosion at the town's psychopharmaceutical plant has sent mind-altering vapors into the air.  At first, authorities weren't actually sure what to make of the incident, but soon they got their answers.  These vapors, a chemical called Deletrium, unlocks the brain's hidden and repressed memories, encouraging patients (or in this case, town residents) to remember things they had forgotten.  At first it doesn't sound so bad -- who doesn't like a trip down memory lane every once in a while?  But soon, most of the town starts to unravel -- not everyone's memories bring smiles and joy.<br />While the story talks about many of Clarence's citizens, most of the detail is reserved for three main characters:  Bennie, a college psychology professor, whose memories bring his deceased wife, Lizzie, back to life; Madeline, Bennie's mother, who resides at the Sunny Shadows retirement home, remembers the life she led as a wife and as a widow; and Susannah, an aide at the retirement home, who has her own troubled past, mostly in the form of a mentally ill mother.  All of these characters are portrayed in rich detail, and author Anne Ursu leaves no rock overturned.<br />Spilling Clarence is an insightful, moving story about memories and the mind's natural process of storing them away.  The writing is exquisite and thoughtful, yet simple and easy to understand when the author flits back and forth between past and present.  The tone is more depressing than I expected -- there is a lot of &quot;falling down into a crumpled, shaking heap&quot; in this book! -- but then again, that is life and a lot memories we repress mostly relate to an unhappy time.  Spilling Clarence is an honest piece of work, and I applaud Anne Ursu for writing it.ng heap&quot; in this book! -- but then again, that is life and a lot memories we repress mostly relate to an unhappy time.  Spilling Clarence is an honest piece of work, and I applaud Anne Ursu for writing it.	2003-04-09
US	52768278	R8XAXLKJ9DI3V	0060517662	7253690	Isn't It Romantic?: An Entertainment	Books	4	12	14	N	N	A hilarious French romp through the Midwest...	This is the only book I've ever read that reads just like a movie script -- and this is a good thing!  Ron Hansen has written an exciting, hilarious story that would fit perfectly on a movie screen without having to chop out any scenes.  I loved it; it was entertainment at its finest.<br />Isn't it Romantic? tells the story of a French couple, Natalie Clairevoux, and her fiance, Pierre Smith, as they journey across America on a bus tour.  Natalie, fed up with Pierre's loverboy ways, has decided to take the vacation of her dreams -- alone.  But Pierre tracks her down in Omaha, wondering what in the heck?  Pierre's cosmopolitian, European self doesn't belong amidst Midwest corn fields, so certainly this vacation of Natalie's must be a joke, right?  Some sort of punishment for his waywardness?  Then the bus breaks down in Seldom, Nebraska -- population 395 -- and the fun really begins.  Stranded in the middle of nowhere, Natalie and Pierre are taken in by the friendly, quirky residents of this sleepy, peaceful town.<br />I laughed so much at the madcap scenes in this book.  I can totally visualize the actions in my head in perfect detail.  The citizens of Seldom are one of a kind, especially Owen, who has dreams of marketing his Nebraska wine, and Carlo, the cook at the caf&eacute;, who embarks on a matchmaking mission.  Ron Hansen did an incredible job bringing these characters to life, and I will be looking for the movie adaptation in the future (hopefully!).	2003-04-02
US	52768278	RTFIFJTGIO02R	0425167313	184894886	Here on Earth (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	81	83	N	N	Good introduction to author...	I have never read anything by Alice Hoffman before, so I am very pleased that Here on Earth ended up being such a good introduction.  The writing was extremely well done, and the storyline was surprisingly page-turning.<br />Here on Earth tells the story of March Murray and her 19-year-absence from her hometown in Massachusetts.  After living in California with her husband, Richard, and 15-year-old daughter, Gwen, March is called home for the funeral of Judith Dale, the woman who took care of her as a child.  Accompanied by Gwen, March is thrust back into her old life -- her friends and her old house.  But something worse haunts her heart -- March's childhood sweetheart, Hollis, is still in town and is just as much a magnet to her as he was before.  Before she knows what hits her, March and Hollis rekindle their romance -- but this time things are very, very different.<br />I was very surprised at the direction this story took, but I loved the twists!  I started out with my feelings for certain characters pretty much set, then all these secrets start coming out of the woodwork and my emotions do a 180.  I believe that when an author can evoke such reactions out of a reader, that is the hallmark of a talented writer.  Here on Earth also had a fantastic supporting cast that carried the story well.  Alice Hoffman surpassed my expectations, and I'll be sure to read another of her novels soon.	2003-03-31
US	52768278	R2KF97G4E7NV6E	1931686351	510602348	Night of a Thousand Boyfriends (Date With Destiny Aventures)	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Pure fun!	While not being anything close to a literary accomplishment, Miranda Clarke's \\"Date With Destiny Adventure\\" book is one of the most fun I've read!  Styled like those Choose Your Own Adventure books you've probably read as a child (although not affiliated with them in any way), Night of a Thousand Boyfriends will provide readers with the chance to decide what they want to do.  To date or not to date...that is the question!<br />The book starts off with you as the main character and your best friend, Marcy, planning a lonely Friday night together.  The guy you met a few days before at the bookstore hasn't called you like he said he would (typical!), so you've readied yourself for another boring evening.  But then the phone rings -- and the adventure begins!<br />I read this book in one sitting.  It really was a lot of fun choosing what would happen next, and I ended up with 24 different endings that left me boggled as to how I got there.  I would definitely read another one of these books simply because they are so fun, the writing is so simple it's practically elementary, and I can't think of a better way to pass a couple of hours -- well, reading-wise anyway!	2003-03-28
US	52768278	R2E2MKIS6TM4MH	0743222768	764224185	The Cat Who Covered the World: The Adventures Of Henrietta And Her Foreign Correspondent	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Good book for cat lovers...	When my local bookclub picked this book for our monthly selection, I wasn't sure what to think.  I mean, how much discussion can be generated by a cat book?  Thankfully I am a die-hard cat fan, so at least I'll have some funny cat stories to share.<br />The Cat Who Covered the World tells the true of story of New York Times Foreign Correspondent (and author), Christopher Wren, as he travels around the world with the family cat in tow.  Not a born cat-lover, Chris took his time warming up to Henrietta.  Eventually, however, she became an integral part of the family.  And when Chris was dispatched to his first overseas assignment, Henrietta was sure to tag along.  This book paints a sweet picture of a man just doing his job and the cat who made it bearable for 18 years.<br />As for the book itself, it's cute.  The writing is for the most part simple, but I did tend to get a bit confused when the author reminisces about certain political happenings in the countries he lived in.  If you're not up on your foreign history, be forewarned!  However, the story as a whole is good; the cat, Henrietta, is a very endearing and sweet character, and I see much of her in my own two cats; and the different countries discussed will allow the reader to do some armchair traveling of their own.  I recommend this book as a quick weekend read, but I believe it was written solely for the cat lover.  All others may not find it as endearing or sweet, or may not relate to the relationship between author and family pet.	2003-03-25
US	52768278	R23Y9F3G223Y6T	0312287364	990948943	Feeling Sorry for Celia: A Novel (Ashbury/Brookfield Books (Paperback))	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Feeling good about this one...	I finished Feeling Sorry for Celia over the weekend, and I must say what a wonderfully unique book this is!  Jaclyn Moriarty has done an excellent job with this one, and I will most definitely be on the lookout for her second book.<br />Told entirely in letters, memos, postcards and faxes, Feeling Sorry for Celia tells the story of teenager Elizabeth Clarry.  Elizabeth deals with the typical teen problems, but the main one is her best friend, Celia, who can't seem to stay home for more than a week before running away to far away places.  The novel begins with Celia's disappearance once again, and Elizabeth is at a loss who to talk to.  So when one of her teachers begins a pen-pal project with another school, Elizabeth finds a new friendship and confidante in Christina.  Aside from dealing with friend problems, Elizabeth also finds that her absentee father has caused a little havoc himself.  This novel takes readers on a journey through Elizabeth's life that is both funny and heartwarming.  But there is a serious side to the story as well...read on to find out....<br />Interspersed between the real conversations amongst Elizabeth, her friends, mother and father, are letters from fake organizations like The Association of Teenagers, who accuse Elizabeth of not being a real teenager, or The Cold Hard Truth Association, who remind Elizabeth that she is not pretty enough for the boy of her dreams.  This is the part that makes this novel unique -- I believe these fake letters reveal a part of Elizabeth's self-consciousness and make this story truly believeable and a joy to read.  A quick weekend book, and one adults will love, too.	2003-03-24
US	52768278	R2LJFL1WSPMQJW	0064473627	895150967	Knocked Out by My Nunga-Nungas: Further, Further Confessions of Georgia Nicolson (Confessions of Georgia Nicolson, Book 3)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Wanna laugh?  Read this!	Oh, to be a teenager again!  Georgia Nicolson makes it sound like so much fun!!  If you have been reading and loving the series, Knocked Out By My Nunga-Nungas will not disappoint you.  I caught myself giggling like a school girl a hundred times over, and I look forward to continuing with the next book in the series.<br />Knocked Out By My Nunga-Nungas continues the story of 14-year-old Georgia Nicolson and her adventures as the new girlfriend of Sex God, Robbie.  But probably the most funny is the tale of Angus, the Scottish Wildcat.  Angus, who has a crush on the Burmese sex kitten across the road, only causes the Nicolson family havoc when desperately trying to reconnect with his true love.  And of course, Georgia's parents wreak their own kind of havoc, especially when dragging Georgie to Och Aye Land (Scotland) on a hideous family vacation, when all she'd rather do is sit home and snog with Robbie.<br />I love reading about the trials of Georgia.  She and her friends are absolutely hilarious and I guarantee laughs on every page.  The ending on this book, however, seemed a bit abrupt, but I guess it only serves to get people to buy the next book in the series right away!  I know I will be.	2003-03-19
US	52768278	R1UOHVHTSS4OK2	0451408888	475370067	The Trials of Tiffany Trott	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Better Than Chick Lit!	I hardly ever give Chick Lit 5 stars, but I couldn't help myself with this one!  I don't know why it's taken me forever to get to this book, but I am so happy I finally read it.  I was very surprised at how wonderful it would turn out to be, especially after reading so many formulaic single-girl-in-the-city books.  Two thumbs up for this one!<br />The Trials of Tiffany Trott tells the story of our lovely heroine, Tiffany, and her struggle to find happiness.  After being dumped by Phil, her boyfriend of three years, and Alex, the one who likes to wear women's underpants, Tiffany is at a loss.  Being 37-years-old doesn't help much either, especially when her biological clock can be heard ticking from miles away.  If it wasn't for her group of mostly single friends, Tiffany would probably go insane.  But Tiffany is determined not to be knocked down, to get back on that horse and ride, to put herself through tortuous blind dates, numerous singles events, and the dreaded personal ad, in order to find to Mr. Right.<br />Sounds like your typical chick lit story, but there is just something different about this one.  Maybe it is because the main character is older and not ditzy, that she likes her job, or maybe because it is tons funnier than other reads in this genre.  Whatever the reason, I believe all fans of chick lit will find something a little bit better in this book.  I highly recommend it for its laughs and incredible storyline.  And now I've got two more of her books to look forward to!	2003-03-17
US	52768278	R1HZLW0MF7J2M8	0385336179	902335429	Shopaholic Ties the Knot (Shopaholic, No 3)	Books	5	35	41	N	N	In typical Becky fashion...	Reading the Shopaholic series has got to be the most fun I've had (reading-wise!) in a long time.  Sophie Kinsella has created a genius character in Becky Bloomwood and a hilarious -- yet frustrating -- storyline for her in all three books, and I just can't get enough!<br />This time around, Becky has finally got it under control.  She is happily paired with boyfriend, Luke; they are living together in fabulous New York City; Becky's job as personal shopper at Barney's couldn't be better; and things are going well with her family and friends.  But when attending best friend, Suze's, wedding, Becky realizes there is something missing her life -- an engagement ring.  However, Luke is one step ahead of the game -- he proposes to Becky and all is well with the world...or so it seems...<br />Suddenly, Becky finds herself in a new dimension of bridal registries, wedding planners, engagement parties and more!  Her old shopping habits rise to the surface when it comes to picking out cookware -- I mean, who doesn't need a state-of-the-art toaster?  But believe it or not, there is a much worse predicament that Becky's got herself into -- she's somehow agreed to getting married in two different places.  Now how is she going to get herself out of this mess?  Read on to find out...<br />Shopaholic Ties the Knot is pure fun.  Becky is just as outrageous as ever, although this time, I believe, she is also pretty frustrating.  Sophie Kinsella has done an excellent job with this new chapter in Becky's life and if you loved the first or second book, you won't be disappointed with the third.  The ending of this novel left room for another in this series -- let's hope and pray Sophie Kinsella is listening.  Becky Bloomwood is one character I'd rather not do without.	2003-03-11
US	52768278	R10UCKDE3VIX91	0385722109	660348741	Hotel World	Books	4	19	22	N	N	A hard but worthy read...	It's hard to say exactly what I think about this book.  It was good, but not great; parts were very interesting to read, while some were more difficult.  I am not normally drawn to the dreamlike writing style that Ali Smith displays here -- I just don't like to think that much when I read.  However, I found that Hotel World was easier to understand than most of these stream-of-consciousness novels.<br />Instead of being a cut-and-dried story, Ali Smith has chosen to break up her novel into five separate vignettes.  The main point of the novel, I believe, is Sara Wilby, a chambermaid at Global Hotel, who fell to her death in a dumbwaiter on her second night on the job.  Sara's spirit haunts the hotel, her family, and tortures her own corpse in an effort to find out the details of her death.<br />Following this story (which was excellent and the reason why I continued on), readers are introduced four other women:  Else, a homeless woman who camps out in front of the hotel; Penny, a journalist on a business trip who finds herself bored and goes in search of something different; Lise, the hotel's receptionist who recalls the events that take place in the hotel after Sara's death; and Clare, Sara's sister, whose meandering thoughts depict her grief over the loss of Sara, and her determination to carry on.<br />I found this novel to be a difficult read because of the writing style.  However, I'm not sure if a linear approach would have made this story come out right.  The dreamlike quality put on an atmospheric, ghostly spin, and I believe the book is better for it.  Hotel World was definitely worth my time, although I questioned myself many times throughout my reading.  But now that I am done and have had time to reflect on it, I realize that I did enjoy this book, and for other readers who can persevere, I believe they will find it worth it, too.	2003-03-05
US	52768278	RRG4HMF93T5O4	0252061632	578261424	The Lemon Jelly Cake (Prairie State Books)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Soothing book layer by layer...	There is something special about The Lemon Jelly Cake!  Reminiscient of Jan Karon's fictional town of Mitford, Babcock Smith's story takes place in sleepy Tory, Illinois at the turn of the century.  Tory is the kind of town where your neighbors know your business and the only crime is getting beat by your rival at the pickle competition.<br />Told through the eyes of 11-year-old Helene Bradford, The Lemon Jelly Cake chronicles the first summer of the new century and all the happenings it brings.  The cake itself plays a double role in this story:  Helene's mother, Kate's, own specialty dessert that is eaten at all funerals, weddings or social functions, as well as representing life and it's many layers.  When a rich lawyer from Chicago comes to town, Kate interprets his level of sophistication and adventure as what life would be like outside the Tory layer.<br />This novel, written in 1952, has a wonderful appeal to it -- it brings readers back to a simpler time.  There isn't any dramatic action in this book, but for those looking for an old-fashioned story, quirky characters, and small-town charm, this book is for you.	2003-02-28
US	52768278	R4WPRGC6XYIVI	0373250169	255773259	L. A. Woman (Red Dress Ink)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Good as far as this genre goes...	When I first heard Red Dress Ink was going to be publishing monthly books about the single girl, I thought I had struck gold.  I'll admit to being a little fanatical about chick lit.  However, I've sort of burned myself out on this genre, although I do favor a nice, breezy read in between my meatier ones, and the Red Dress Ink books are perfect for that.  L.A. Woman is your typical story for this type of book.  No great shakes, but not a total time waster either.<br />L.A. Woman tells the story of 25-year-old Sarah Walker, who has recently moved to L.A. to be closer to her long-time fiance, Benjamin.  With hopes of finally being able to move in together and work toward planning their wedding, Sarah's love life is definitely looking up -- until Benjamin's moving plans fall through, leaving Sarah alone and broke in a new city.  And when Ben's unsupportiveness regarding her job woes and money problems reach the breaking point, Sarah also finds herself suddenly single.  But with the addition of a new roommate, Martika, and gay friend, Taylor, Sarah will be on the road to recovery...albeit a rocky one.<br />Nothing new here in this novel that I've never read before.  L.A. Woman does not offer up anything more than any other book in this genre would.  However, the story is fun to read, and Benjamin's jerkiness is enough to invoke some serious ire in readers.  Cathy Yardley has a promising talent, and I wouldn't hesitate to read another of her books in the future.	2003-02-24
US	52768278	R3EYVZM5DHLEE8	0399149368	309604858	Prince of Lost Places	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Another good one, but not the best one	I have been a fan of Kathy Hepinstall ever since I read her first novel.  Each of her stories is compelling, gripping, and definitely unique.  She's a truly excellent writer and storyteller, and I expect her to remain one of my top favorites authors of all time.<br />Hepinstall's latest offering, Prince of Lost Places, was different for me.  I really enjoyed the story and was sad that it didn't go on for at least 100 more pages.  However, if I compare it to her other two novels, I would have to put this one last.  It wasn't as suspenseful and page-turning as I was expecting.<br />Prince of Lost Places tells the story of a mother, the love she has for her son, and her determination to keep him safe in a dangerous world.  There has been a killing in 6-year-old Duncan's school, and the little neighbor girl, Linda, is dead.  Duncan's mother, Martha, is beside herself with worry -- so much so that she is constantly checking on him in the middle of the night.  For fear that she is no longer able to keep Duncan safe, Martha steals away with him in the middle of the night to a cave on the Rio Grande where they will live, hidden, from the dangers of the world.  However, their safety is soon threatened by an intruder -- the private detective who's been hired to find them.<br />The ending of this story came from absolutely nowhere and knocked me flat!  It was truly the best part of the book, and it makes me want to read the story over again knowing what I know now.  I recommend this book to all Hepinstall fans because I believe you will be pleased.  However, for new fans, I believe The Absence of Nectar is a better display of Kathy Hepinstall's exceptional storytelling talent.	2003-02-19
US	52768278	R344AJ1GIQ9EXA	0060094850	92625729	The Torn Skirt	Books	4	37	38	N	N	A gritty coming-of-age tale...	For those who enjoy books about teenagers and coming-of-age stories, The Torn Skirt is just for you.  Rebecca Godfrey's offering, however, is a very dark, edgy tale of drugs, prostitution, crime, and runaways.  Very good and very scary.<br />Sara Shaw is tough.  Abandoned by her mother at an early age, she lives with her hippie, drug-addict father and plays the role of caretaker and billpayer as best she can.  Suddenly, once Sara turns 16, things in her life start changing.  A form of rebellion heats up inside of her, made more flammable by her father's abrupt departure from her life and a strange and elusive girl named Justine whom she meets while skipping school.  Now Sara is on her own and not sure where to go from there.  However, the girl Justine has piqued her interest and Sara sets out to find her again.  This journey will lead Sara into a world of all sorts of illegal, terrifying things -- a journey that ultimately comes to a horrible conclusion.<br />I enjoyed this book, but I believe it isn't for everybody.  The writing style is a bit poetic, which at times can be sort of weird (and annoying) to read through.  Rebecca Godrey is quite talented, though, and the foreshadowing of the ending was enough to keep me turning the pages to find out what happens.  The Torn Skirt does open readers' eyes to a new world of teenage rebellion and all the scary things that hide around each corner.  The character of Sara Shaw is both innocent and experienced, and I felt motherly and protective toward this girl while reading her story.  The mark of a good book:  one where the author has managed to make me truly care about a character.  Sara Shaw, The Torn Skirt, and Rebecca Godfrey will remain in my mind for quite some time.	2003-02-17
US	52768278	R2EPRNW2WMB34F	0312288352	287100403	The Tea Rose: A Novel	Books	5	211	220	N	N	Definitely my cup of tea!	Wow!  Finishing this book was the one thing I dreaded.  The Tea Rose was a captivating, heartfelt, and engaging read.  I was lost in this fascinating, atmospheric world of 19th century London, and would love to go back sometime and revisit the wonderful characters that Jennifer Donnelly created.<br />The Tea Rose tells the story of 17-year-old Fiona Finnegan and her beau, Joe Bristow.  Fiona, a worker in a tea factory, and Joe, a coster in his family's produce business, have big dreams of opening their own tea shop one day.  Saving money from every paycheck into an old cocoa tin, Fiona and Joe slowly get closer to realizing their dream.  But things don't always work out they way they're planned -- the unionization of labor workers, a serial murderer on the loose, and a scheming buxom blonde play their part in destroying everything Fiona and Joe has worked for.<br />There is so much more to this novel, however, but I don't want to ruin the fun for readers to discover for themselves.  There are many supporting characters that add complexity and texture to this story, and Jennifer Donnelly has done an exceptional job of bringing them all to life.  The writing is concise and the perfect balance of dialogue and description.  I loved every page, especially since there was always something new and exciting happening.  The best book I've read so far this year, and most likely one that will be hard to top.	2003-02-11
US	52768278	RRPFMQ3T10VVD	0312878915	253292490	Chemical Pink	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Two words:  OH MY!	I got WAY more than expected with this novel.  I was under the impression this book was solely about female bodybuilding and one character's dream of making it big.  But during my reading, I became increasinly aware that Chemical Pink is about more than that.  Much, much more.<br />Katie Arnoldi, a former bodybuilder herself, has used her expertise and experience to pen an accurate account of what really happens to female weighlifters -- at least in the scientific aspect.  I learned so much about this industry and the irreversible damages that \\"power\\" drugs wreak on the body.  But it is the supporting characters that completely blew me away.<br />Chemical Pink tells the story of bodybuilder Aurora Johnson; her 12-year-old daughter, Amy, and the man who becomes Aurora's sponsor, Charles Worthington.  Charles offers Aurora the chance of a lifetime: a house, a car, a lifestyle that she's always dreamed of, and the opportunity to train under his wing in an effort to become a professional bodybuilder.  Aurora immediately jumps at the chance, but there is one catch -- she is required to make Charles happy on a daily basis.  Aurora becomes Charles's object of obsession, his sexual role-playing partner, his trophy, his clay to mold.<br />This novel is very good.  The effects of steroids and other chemicals discussed in the story are horrific.  But it is the addictions and obsessions of Charles that really come alive.  His sex scenes are quite possibly the grossest I've ever read and left my mouth hanging open with shock!  As far as the writing goes, Katie Arnoldi is very talented and can tell quite a story.  I believe there is much more to come from her, and I look forward to reading more of her work.	2003-01-30
US	52768278	R2LLUYO47H1R7	0743457463	907675299	Irish Girls About Town	Books	4	36	36	N	N	Chock-full of Irish Charm	I'm normally not a fan of short story collections, but two of my favorite authors, Maeve Binchy and Marian Keyes, contributed so I thought I'd give it a shot.  I must say that this is one of the better collections I've read.  All of the stories were interesting with the exception of one that I didn't particularly care for.  However, the reading experience was very relaxing and most of the stories were fun and easy to read.<br />My favorite story is the one told by Cathy Kelly about two friends who take a roadtrip in the United States.  I also enjoyed the offering by Morag Prunty about an older, single woman who takes a chance on answering a personal ad.  The one I didn't really care for was by Gemma O'Conner -- her writing ability is not the complaint; the story didn't make sense to me and definitely did not fit in the \\"about town\\" or \\"irish girls\\" theme.<br />The best thing about this book is the fact that it gave me the chance to sample stories by new-to-me Irish authors.  Plus the short story format made it easy to read along with another novel.  I highly recommend this collection, especially to readers who aren't fans of short stories.  I think this one might turn a few heads.	2003-01-27
US	52768278	RA0OU2UT7DBIA	0767905385	262010179	Catch Me If You Can: The True Story of a Real Fake	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A whirlwind of a story!	After watching and loving the movie, I absolutely had to read the book!  I knew the book was written 20+ years ago, and is a true crime/memoir, so I had to know -- was everything in the movie true or were parts added to give it that Hollywood excitement?  The tricks and scams pulled in the movie were so unbelieveable.  So imagine my surprise...<br />Frank Abagnale, Jr. is most likely the smartest, most brilliant con man that ever lived.  How he duped as many people as he did is beyond me.  But he did it -- over and over and over again.  It all begins when Frank's father gives him his first car at age 16 and all the female attention he receives as a result.  Spending money on the ladies is his new hobby and forging checks and pulling scams is how he does it.  And from that point on, the journey only gets more twisted and wild.<br />It is quite obvious throughout the pages of this book that Frank is rather pleased with himself and all he's gotten away with.  Catch Me If You Can is truly a fun book to read, especially knowing that it is all true despite its high &quot;unbelieveability&quot; quotient.  Frank Abagnale Jr. was one heck of a gutsy kid, and the ride on which readers are taken is full of surprises and mouth-gaping astonishment.  A real whirlwind of a read.	2003-01-27
US	52768278	R2ESBF6DUY7JW	0151008884	472760741	The Life Before Her Eyes	Books	5	37	39	N	N	A compelling and haunting story...	I was totally blown away by this book!  My local book club chose The Life Before Her Eyes for our monthly selection, and I can't wait to discuss it with everyone.  The writing was pure poetry, and the story captivated me from the very beginning.  And the ending was one that I did not expect.<br />The Life Before Her Eyes begins with two best friends, Diana and Maureen, as they are primping in the girls' restroom at their high school.  Suddenly, one of their classmates comes in and points a loaded gun straight at them.  \\"Which one of you should I kill?\\" he asks....<br />At that point, the story takes off around 25 years into the future.  Diana is a happily married artist and mother of 8-year-old Emma.  She is the typical minivan-driving soccer mom.  Everything is going well, but then there begins these subtle changes -- changes almost of a ghostly nature that impact Diana's life in terrifying ways.  And interspersed between the paragraphs of Diana's future are excerpts from Diana's past with her friend, Maureen, before the shooting.<br />I was completely mesmerized with this book.  I felt that something was building up, some sort of surprise or twist to the story, but I could quite figure out what it would be.  And by novel's end, I was so out of breath with the anticipation!  Laura Kasischke has written an amazing novel.  She has a great gift of storytelling that is unshakeable.  I loved every minute and every word, and I look forward to reading more by this author.	2003-01-22
US	52768278	R7FCBZ6IEH2OZ	0684865386	875879761	Namedropper: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Edgy and hip...	When I first started Namedropper, I wasn't sure what to think.  The prose was a little disjointed for my taste; it almost seemed like the author was rambling on a bit.  However, once I got into the book (roughly 60 pages or so), I found that I was really enjoying myself.  The main character, Viva, is extremely likeable and funny, even though I don't think she means to be.  Definitely a book to try out.<br />There isn't much by way of plot or twists and turns in this novel.  Namedropper is basically the story of 16-year-old Viva, who lives with her gay uncle, Manny, in London.  She has two best friends, beautiful drug addict Treena and famous rock star, Ray.  Viva spends her days skipping school, failing exams, going to concerts, having meaningful conversations with people she's just met, and feeding her infatuation with Elizabeth Taylor.  Viva is well-read and extremely smart, but bad at test-taking.  Viva is also helplessly devoted to her virginity.  She is obsessed with the thought of suicide, despite the fact that she'd never do it.  And of course, like the title suggests, Viva's story is sprinkled with the names of countless famous people.<br />Namedropper is a totally fun book, and the heroine is one of the best teenage characters I've come across.  Viva's innocence in the face of rebellion is quite captivating, and her desire to fall in love in a dramatic way is endearing.  However, this novel may not be for everyone because it does tend to ramble a bit, going off on tangents then back again.  And while I think it is edgy and hip, others might find it just plain odd.  Either way, though, I think Emma Forrest is a talented writer and I look forward to reading her next book.	2003-01-17
US	52768278	R3DK7RQCMP0AKH	0385491069	153232466	The Edible Woman	Books	4	82	84	N	N	A tasty treat!	I will have to admit that curiosity is the prime reason for reading this book.  The back cover blurb doesn't give much by way of details of the actual storyline, just that the main character feels like she is being eaten.  I couldn't stop myself from reading this book after reading that!  However, the story wasn't exactly what I was expecting, although it was still pretty good.<br />Set in Canada in the late 1960s, the women's role in life is slowly trying to break free from the 50s television version of the housewife that vacuums in pearls and heels.  Marian, a recent college graduate, considers herself a pretty independent woman.  Even her relationship with her boyfriend, Peter, doesn't get in the way of her independence.  She lives on her own with her roommate and best friend, Ainsley, and she makes her own living as copywriter for a survey service.  But when, out of the blue, Peter proposes marriage, strange things start happening.  Marian begins to feel consumed with making plans, quitting her job, moving in with Peter, and settling down for her role as housewife.  All of a sudden she can't eat certain things and she has strange panic attacks that come from nowhere.  Her freedom is being threatened, but Marian sees no way out.  Or is there?<br />While Marian's story is the core of this novel, the host of supporting characters intrigued me the most.  Ainsley decides she wants to have a baby and begins her search to find the lucky man to help her out.  Marian's friend, Clara, and her husband, Joe, provide a stunning example of what married/family life will be like (and not always in a good way).  Then there's Duncan, a man who answers the door when Marian is out doing surveys, who has his own issues.  All of these storylines are full of feminist symbolism, and I believe it is important to know this before you read the book.  It will definitely help you understand the novel more clearly.<br />I'm a new Atwood fan, having read and loved The Handmaid's Tale just a month ago.  And while The Edible Woman is not as exhilarating or fascinating like Handmaid, I still found it to be very well-written with an interesting storyline, despite its heavy symbolism that mostly went over my head (I'm not too good at picking that stuff out!).  I have two other Atwood books on my shelf and I'm looking forward to reading them.  I believe that imagination and originality is Atwood's forte, and I have high hopes that the rest of her novels will provide a healthy dose.onth ago.  And while The Edible Woman is not as exhilarating or fascinating like Handmaid, I still found it to be very well-written with an interesting storyline, despite its heavy symbolism that mostly went over my head (I'm not too good at picking that stuff out!).  I have two other Atwood books on my shelf and I'm looking forward to reading them.  I believe that imagination and originality is Atwood's forte, and I have high hopes that the rest of her novels will provide a healthy dose.	2003-01-13
US	52768278	R1AHQH4AW07OPR	0385498233	855545205	What She Saw...: A Novel	Books	4	16	16	N	N	A wild ride...	I really enjoyed What She Saw....  I thought it was a very well-written piece of work, despite the fact that the main character, Phoebe, has serious issues.  Lucinda Rosenfeld has done a wonderful job with this novel, and I will be sure to look out for her next offering.<br />Phoebe Fine begins her story in the late 70s during her fifth grade year in school.  The boy's name is Roger &quot;Stinky&quot; Mancuso, and Phoebe has a crush on him that won't quit.  However, Stinky becomes more than just a dream for Phoebe, in ways both good and bad, and this experience becomes the stepping stone for a long and twisted journey.<br />What She Saw... takes the reader through the odyssey that is Phoebe's love life.  It is interesting to watch Phoebe grow up before our eyes, beginning with a sweet, curious kid to a messed-up adult still in search of love and fulfillment.  The men that come into Phoebe's life sometimes stay, most often go, but always leave behind a piece of themselves that Phoebe carries with her.  It is also interesting to see how each relationship develops and how, ultimately, they crumble.  By the book's end, readers are left wondering about Phoebe -- does she make it; does she find true love; does she finally mature and realize that she is more than just the other half of a man?<br />I recommend this novel with confidence.  However, it won't be for everyone.  Phoebe is not a wholly likeable character.  She is quite frustrating at times.  But she is also human with the most basic of desires -- to find love and be loved in return.  I could relate to Phoebe on this level, and I think that is the part that cinched the book for me.  What She Saw... is indeed a wild ride, but definitely one worth taking.	2003-01-07
US	52768278	R2ZLDF8STDGM64	0064472795	287069968	Princess in the Spotlight (The Princess Diaries, Vol. 2)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	The fun continues...	Princess Mia is back and better than ever!  For fans of the first book, The Princess Diaries, the next in the series, Princess in the Spotlight, will offer more fun and excitement.  A great series for girls (or grown-ups!) with an easy, breezy style that keeps the pages turning!<br />Mia Thermopolis is trying her best to be a simple teenager despite the fact she is the sole heir to a small European principality, the country of Genovia.  Her gawkiness and typical teenage angst is the prime target of Mia's grandmere, who has been giving her \\"princess lessons\\" after school.  But then things start happening that rock the already shaky world that Mia has now come to know.  First her mother makes a shocking announcement that leads Mia to spend days obsessing over.  After that, grandmere sets up an interview for Mia -- on national television.  But the icing on the cake -- Mia's new secret admirer.  Who is the boy behind the mystery e-mails?  Is it her crush, Michael?  Or the annoying, violin playing Russian, Boris?  Or -- gasp! -- could it be the boy that complains about the corn in his chili?!<br />Princess in the Spotlight is a fun read that will have readers laughing off their seats.  A cute story that breathes with life.  Teenagers will be able to relate with most of this story (irregardless of the princess thing), and grown-ups will have a great time reminiscing about the by-gone days of high school, crushes, and hanging with your friends.  Can't wait to read the next book in the series!	2003-01-06
US	52768278	R2LZ5NK5EYIWH7	0312150601	240594756	Behind the Scenes at the Museum: A Novel	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Wonderful!	I bought this book about 3 ½ years ago, then let it sit on my bookshelf collecting dust.  This year I have made an attempt to read as many &quot;old&quot; books as possible and decided finally to read Behind the Scenes at the Museum.  I must say, I can't think of a better book to end 2002.<br />There are many things that make this book wonderful.  The story, the style of the story, the exquisite writing...all of it is fantastic!  It's not often you find an author's debut work worthy of awards, but Behind the Scenes at the Museum is definitely one of them.  It is truly an astonishing piece of literature.  Kate Atkinson's writing is finely honed, with clear, crisp words that flow like silk.  This is the way I like my books!<br />The story is very addictive.  If you are the type of reader that enjoys following a character from birth -- literally from the moment of conception -- until adulthood, then Behind the Scenes will please you immeasurably.  But more than that, this novel also delves into the main character's history before she was born.  We are privy to the lives of three generations of family and all their secrets and surprises.<br />I highly recommend this novel.  Behind the Scenes at the Museum is just that -- a behind the scenes look into the life of Ruby Lennox and her family.  A real slice-of-life novel complete with comedy, sadness, and some really awesome plot twists.  A great engaging book and one that will stay with me for a long, long time.	2002-12-30
US	52768278	R16F0NG99W3CLH	038549081X	709722953	The Handmaid's Tale	Books	5	156	195	N	N	A fascinating and horrific look into the future...	I had this book on my bookshelf for three years before I finally decided to read it.  Now I'm kicking myself for waiting so long!  The Handmaid's Tale is awesome and it has completed my favorites list of 2002.  Highly recommended.<br />Margaret Atwood's story is set in the future after the United States has undergone a nuclear war and the government has been destroyed.  In place now is a strict and dangerous political scene, where any type of crime can result in an execution and a public hanging on The Wall.  Not only that, but women are made secondhand citizens and are no longer able to hold jobs, make money, read or write.<br />The Handmaid's Tale is told through the eyes of Offred in the former state of Massachusets, now called the Republic of Gilead.  Offred is a Handmaid, or a surrogate mother of sorts, who is appointed to an infertile couple in order to get pregnant and help boost the population.  However, it isn't as easy as that since the only legal way to get pregnant is the old-fashioned way, which causes jealousy and tension throughout the household.  And with the rigorous government, Offred isn't allowed to complain or refuse unless she wants to be shipped off to clean up toxic nuclear waste for the rest of her life.<br />I absolutely loved this book and will recommend it to all my book friends.  The Handmaid's Tale is the perfect book for book clubs as it will evoke numerous discussions on feminism, nuclear war, radical government policies, slavery, etc.  Margaret Atwood poses the question of &quot;what if?&quot; and one can only hope that this tale remains fiction.  Excellent, thought-provoking, fascinating and heart-pounding -- this novel will never be forgotten.	2002-12-23
US	52768278	R16BVN4GIYRIKL	1573227749	593444393	The Tesseract	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Brilliant...	I wasn't sure what to expect after reading Alex Garland's incredible debut, The Beach.  I was hoping for similar excitement and fast-paced adventure.  Well, I definitely got that in spades!  The Tesseract is so much more realistic and dramatic, and I was feverishly turning pages to find out how this tesseract would unravel.<br />Told in four parts, The Tesseract begins with Sean, a sailor on the shipping waters of Manila, waiting in a seedy, run-down motel for the gangster, Don Pepe, and his motley crew.  Then the story switches gears entirely and begins the tale of Rosa, a woman who remembers her first love, Lito, through flashbacks.  This part of the story is told gently and almost romantically.  The next story follows two Filipino street kids, Vincente and Totoy, as they wander the streets of Manila in search of hand-outs and a little excitement.  Finally, the fourth part, a gritty and fantastic conclusion, has all three stories violently entwined.<br />I'm positive this novel was no easy feat to write; however, Alex Garland has done it flawlessly.  The stories within this novel are powerful and dramatic, some violent, one wistful and romantic, and all are stunning and solid.  A perfect novel to pick apart and invoke energetic discussions.  Some things might go over novice readers' heads (when one of the characters, Alfredo, waxes philosophic), but for the most part it is easily understood.  A highly recommended novel about how your destiny can be shaped by strangers, and how forces beyond your control can come crashing into your life in a moment's notice.  Brilliant.	2002-12-17
US	52768278	R22BD9MP94C0I3	0385335830	41523586	Diary of a Mad Bride	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Oh, the madness!!	I haven't laughed this hard since reading the Shopaholic books by Sophie Kinsella!  Laura Wolf is undoubtedly an entertaining, funny, talented writer, and she had me in stitches more times than I can count.  I highly enjoyed Diary of a Mad Bride and can't wait to read her next book.<br />Meet Amy Thomas -- a self-proclaimed anti-marriage posterwoman.  I mean, why fix it when it isn't broke, right?  Amy is wildly in love with Stephen and the marriage question hasn't even come up, which suits her just fine.  Why turn herself into a crazy woman with all those nutty, self-absorbed, time-consuming wedding plans anyway?  Then out of the clear, blue sky, Stephen proposes and opens up a whole new world for Amy.  One she didn't even know she wanted.  Follow Amy on her hilarious (I mean, of the knee-slapping kind) journey from normal, satisfied woman to harried wedding planner of the worst kind.  And relish every step of the way.<br />Written in easy to read diary form, Diary of a Mad Bride is addictive and breezy and the pages will fly right by -- which can be a bad thing since you really don't want the book to end!  Amy is endearing, her two friends, Mandy and Anita, are priceless in their own crazy way, and the families-in-law are almost too much to bear.  Prepare to laugh and your mood to be lifted -- this novel is the best medicine.  Looking forward to reading futher Mad adventures.	2002-12-11
US	52768278	R39HSJTFGRXBHW	0380815923	418329284	Blackberry Wine: A Novel	Books	5	51	51	N	N	A sparkling, delicious novel...	Joanne Harris has done it again.  After indulging myself in Chocolat, I was a little nervous about reading Blackberry Wine.  So many times after a smashing debut, the sophomore effort doesn't match up.  However, that wasn't the case with this one.  Blackberry Wine is utterly intoxicating.<br />Thirty-seven-year-old writer, Jay Macintosh, is stuck in the past.  During his childhood, Jay spent three magical summers in rural England with retired miner and eccentric gardener, Joe Cox, a man who would become a source of inspiration for Jay.  Joe, with his talismans, good luck charms and rituals, taught Jay many things, mostly about luck, magic, gardening and winemaking, before disappearing without a trace one day and impacting Jay for the rest of his life.  And several years later, after the overwhelmingly success of his only novel, Jackapple Joe, Jay has found himself struggling with writer's block.  On a whim, Jay purchases a small cottage in a remote village in France where he hopes to recreate those magical summers and let his imagination and creativity flow.  But there are all sorts of surprises in store for Jay -- for one, a mysterious woman with a secret past that influences Jay in more ways imaginable.<br />Blackberry Wine is a beautiful, lush piece of work.  However, I couldn't fully appreciate it until I'd read the whole story -- it was too hard to decide if I liked it or not when all the pieces were unread.  Now having reflected on the complete story (and after ravishing the last few chapters), I realize that Joanne Harris's touch is still magical.  Blackberry Wine will seduce you little by little, and it is so worth it by novel's end.	2002-12-09
US	52768278	R20T7PEJ0BQTH	0373250150	485798933	Confessions of an Ex-Girlfriend	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Confession:  I loved this book!	Chalk up another point for Red Dress Ink!  Ever since being introduced to this new line of books, I will admit to being addicted.  And while they are mostly predicable and breezy reads, sometimes you get one that is surprising and deep.  Confessions of an Ex-Girlfriend is one of the latter.<br />Meet Emma Carter, Ex-Girlfriend Extraordinaire.  After being dumped by her boyfriend of two years, Emma suddenly finds herself smack-dab in the middle of Single Girl-dom.  And for a girl who hasn't been single for quite awhile, for a girl who thought she'd be married by now, Single Girl-dom is no place to be!  But with the help of her two best friends, Jade and Alyssa, her job as contributing editor at Bridal Best magazine, and the preoccupation with her mother's forthcoming wedding, somehow, someway Emma will make it to the other side.  Or will she....?<br />I rank this book up with my other favorite Red Dress Ink book, Dating Without Novocaine.  Both were surprisingly thoughtful, deeper-meaning reads.  However, Confessions of an Ex-Girlfriend did not clue me in on anything -- I had no idea where it was leading.  Would Emma find a new boyfriend?  Would she get back together with Derrick?  Would she stay single and enjoy her new-found self?  I loved not knowing the outcome, which made this novel a bit different from the rest.  Highly recommended for all chick lit lovers.	2002-12-03
US	52768278	R1VJK8ZVUTIVL5	0452282128	540342564	Thirtynothing	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Thirty-SOMETHING!	Lisa Jewell's second novel, Thirtynothing, surprised me.  I was expecting nothing more than a lighthearted romp of a story, something akin to the typical chick lit I've read countless times over.  But I was wrong.  Thirtynothing, while having many of the chick lit qualities, was more than your average looking-for-love saga for me.<br />Dig Ryan and Nadine Kite's friendship has stood the test of time.  And after 15 years together, Dig and Nadine make a decision -- to finally find their soulmate.  For Dig, turning 30 and discovering a 17-year-old in his bed was a wake-up call.  Same for Nadine, who finds fault with every guy she goes out with and never makes it past the 1- or 2-month anniversary.  The pact is made, the bet is shook upon, whoever finds their soulmate first wins $100.  Sounds fair, right?  Well, it did until moments later Dig runs into his first and only love, Delilah Lillie -- the woman who had threatened Nadine's friendship with Dig and proved to be a constant source of anguish and frustration for her.  So, Nadine does what anyone else would do in her situation -- she rings up her first love, Phil, with determination not to let Dig win the bet or for Delilah to get the best of her...again.<br />It's war between the sexes, but mostly it's all about crossed wires.  And the troubled pasts that Delilah and Phil bring into the picture adds another complicated layer to the cake.  I wasn't surprised at the ending, but I enjoyed how the story unraveled to get there.  Lisa Jewell has written a page-turner, a soul-searching journey for Dig and Nadine, and a romantic adventure that will have readers everywhere sighing with happiness.	2002-11-26
US	52768278	R1J0CNYZOKWE14	0767915054	358484575	A Girl Named Zippy	Books	5	67	69	N	N	One of the best memoirs ever...	I just read the last page in A Girl Named Zippy, and now I'm at a loss.  I want Zippy back!  Normally, I'm not a fan of memoirs or non-fiction in general, but I had heard nothing but praise about this book.  Thankfully I listened...<br />Haven Kimmel, or Zippy as she's come to be known due to the fact she used to zip around the house as a toddler, has opened her life to us.  The laughter begins on page 2 when Zippy's sister comments on the type of people who would be willing to read a book about life in teeny Mooreland, Indiana.  Well, count me in!  Reading this book was such pure, emphatic joy.  Zippy reminds me a bit of a female Dennis the Menace -- little bit of a pest, but sweet, mostly innocent, and a lot curious.  The stories inside are told with a poignant tone, a wistfullness for the days when life was simple, despite how big it all seemed when you were only 3-feet-tall.<br />A happy childhood -- a breath of fresh air if you ask me.  Stories like this make me grateful I grew up in a small town, and that if I thought hard enough I could come up with some stories of my own.  A Girl Named Zippy has something for everybody, and a book that I will forever hold in high regard.  Wonderful!	2002-11-20
US	52768278	R2OUQPBNC41R0F	0440509238	201081948	Spin Cycle	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Take this book for a spin!	If you like your books funny, sexy, saucy, naughty and fun, set your sights on Sue Margolis's newest offer, Spin Cycle.  It has all these elements plus some, and sends readers on a riotous, raunchy ride.<br />Spin Cycle tells the story of budding stand-up comic, Rachel Katz.  She's had all sorts of problems:  her husband is gay, her fiance is a compulsive neat-freak dentist, her 10-year-old son has an unnatural obsession with Barbra Streisand, and her mother is acting in a most unlikely way.  On the plus side, she has her comedy; her bohemian pregnant friend, Shelley; and her job cleaning house for oddcouple of the year, celebrities Otto and Xantia Marx.  Enter Matt Clapton.  When the Marx's washing machine goes on the blink, sexy repairman Matt comes to the rescue.  Suddenly, Rachel finds herself in quite a predicament -- if her fiance is off working in South Africa for a month, is it okay to indulge herself in matters of a sexual nature?  Especially since her fiance hasn't given her the time of day in weeks?<br />I really enjoyed this book.  It has some good humor, although not necessarily knee-slapping.  The stand-up comedy bits are funny, though, and I spent many moments reciting the jokes to my husband in my best stand-up comedian voice.  I will admit to the storyline being tied up too neatly, and it is horribly predictable, but for readers who don't mind such things, Spin Cycle will be another great novel on your bookshelf.	2002-11-18
US	52768278	R35U6KQX4T26U4	0452281881	800097079	E: A Novel	Books	4	13	14	N	N	e-mazing read!	If you are in the mood for something quick, light, fun and funny, look no further than \\"e.\\"  I didn't really know what to expect from a book written entirely in inter-office e-mails, but it works!  Matt Beaumont has done a superb job with this novel.  I eagerly await the sequel.<br />\\"e\\" is the story of a group of employees at one of London's top advertising agencies, Miller Shanks, and the two weeks of preparation before the big Coca-Cola pitch.  Landing Coke is quite a deal, but left in the...ahem...capable hands of the creative department, it is as good as done.  Meanwhile, there are disasters on the horizon with other clients, and, of course, an office isn't an office without co-worker rivalry.  \\"e\\" provides readers with all the juicy details!<br />Despite knowing any background information or characteristics of the characters, Matt Beaumont has managed, through the e-mails, to give them all distinct voices.  It took several pages to finally put it all together, but their personalities eventually shined through.  I loved this novel and all it's two-faced bigwigs, [weak] employees, backstabbing, love triangles, and corportate politics.  Hilariously written and one I will definitely read again.  I also suggest Syrup by Maxx Barry, another great novel based in the corporate world, this time in behind-the-scenes Coca-Cola itself.	2002-11-13
US	52768278	R29DL5SXU2NEN2	0373250142	877785637	Dating Without Novocaine (Red Dress Ink)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A blast...the best one yet!	I have been reading these Red Dress Ink books in the order in which they were published, so with Dating Without Novocaine only being my 4th one, I'm not sure if this statement holds merit or not, but it is my absolute favorite one so far!  The writing seemed more intelligent, and the subject matter was more realistic to me.  I am so pleased with it, I am now looking forward to many more contemporary novels by Lisa Cach.<br />As usual, this story is your typical single-girl-looking-for-love saga.  Twenty-nine-year-old Hannah O'Dowd is determined to meet the man of her dreams before her 30th birthday.  However, with only four months left to go, the prospects are getting very slim.  So with the support of her circle of friends, Hannah kicks her plan into high gear and embarks on a dating whirlwind -- with some very hilarious results.<br />Sound like a cut-out of all the other single-girl books?  It is for the most part; however, Lisa Cach has went one further step.  Dating Without Novocaine has a special something -- a bright splash of red in the middle of a white wall -- that separates it from the rest.  I thoroughly enjoyed the story, and despite its predictability, loved turning the pages to see how it would unfold.  Hannah has a wonderful web of friends that help keep this story afloat, and Lisa Cach has done a fantastic job of fleshing each one to practically 3D-like proportions.  A romantic, realistic romp of a read -- don't miss it!	2002-11-08
US	52768278	RSAS66GYA6JQB	1551668653	684993289	Getting Rid Of Bradley	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Crusie is so juicy!	Jennifer Crusie's second romance novel, Getting Rid of Bradley, has a lot to offer.  For those who enjoy light, fun, easy reads -- this one works; for readers in dire need of romance and sex -- this one fits the bill; or for those who love a good mystery -- well, need I say more?<br />Getting Rid of Bradley starts off in the middle of all the action:  Lucy Savage Porter is stood up by her husband, Bradley, at their divorce hearing, so she and her sister, Tina, take a break for lunch at Harvey's Diner.  Meanwhile, police officers Anthony and Zach are at Harvey's, too, following up on a tip of the whereabouts of their latest case, embezzler John Bradley.  Of course, their efforts are fruitless when John Bradley doesn't show, but there may be a break in the case afterall -- Zach overhears Lucy mentioning something about \\"getting rid of Bradley,\\" and everything snowballs from there.<br />Is Lucy's Bradley the same guy Anthony and Zach are looking for?  Is it possible that Lucy did not know her husband AT ALL?  And what about Lucy's unfortunate luck with men -- will Zach help turn her frown upside down?  Discovering the answers to these questions is plain, pure fun.  I will admit to being a bit overwhelmed in the beginning since it jumped in with all these characters and all this action, but it did not take me long to settle down comfortably in the plot.  Jennifer Crusie is a master of her art -- light, frivilous, juicy stories in a concise, sharp, easy language that make her novels a pleasure to read.  Perfect for the beach, by the fireplace, or a vacation from heavier books.  I look forward to more!	2002-11-05
US	52768278	R1J07KYZ6K9MK5	0375725849	835505349	Perfume: The Story of a Murderer	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Frightfully wonderful!	I wasn't sure what to expect from this novel, but I thought the story idea sounded fascinating.  Sure, it's mostly improbable, almost like a frightening fantasy, but I enjoyed it nonetheless.  Patrick Suskind has gained a new fan in me.<br />Perfume tells the story of Jean-Baptiste Grenouille, a boy born with no scent of his own but who has an amazingly keen sense of smell for his surroundings.  Abandoned at birth and raised in a foster home, Grenouille is finally sent off into the world in search of his destiny:  to create the world's most perfect perfume.  Should be an acceptable task for any normal person, but for Grenouille, who holds this astonishing gift of smell, can not rest until he learns the perfume trade inside and out, as well as find the perfect ingredients for his ultimate perfume -- even if it leads him to murder.<br />Eighteenth-century Paris provides a spectacular backdrop for this amazingly crafted story.  Perfume is eerily brilliant and begins and ends with a bang (despite a slight lag somewhere near the middle).  I loved it and recommend it to everyone.  However, this is not a conventional story and will not appeal to all readers, but I think historical novel lovers and those who enjoy creative, unique stories will find their amusement here.  A fable of disastrous proportions -- a must read!	2002-10-31
US	52768278	R1E3QRZTTZC1SS	0743418719	768832350	Salem Falls	Books	5	9	12	N	N	A gripping, feverish read...	I swear, Jodi Picoult is a magic story weaver!  I am so impressed with this novel and the fact that it completely surpassed my expectations, especially after reading the stellar Plain Truth.  Salem Falls is so juicy and exciting, an intoxicating cocktail of everything I love in a suspensful, page-turning drama.  And even though I had a strong hunch about the book's ending, it was no less exhilarating to watch it unfold.<br />Salem Falls tells the story of Jack St. Bride, a former teacher who, according to him, was wrongly accused of sexual assault against one of his students.  After doing his time in jail, Jack heads out to start a new life and stumbles into the peaceful, sleepy town of Salem Falls.  But it doesn't take long before his past catches up with him, and Jack finds himself fighting another battle for his life.  And at its core is a quartet of girls, best friends who are part of a witches coven -- and one girl in particular who has the power to destroy Jack St. Bride.<br />A perfect blend of magick, power, desire and betrayal, with an explosive courtroom drama of an ending, Salem Falls will have any reader glued to their seats, feverishly turning pages.  I loved this book and look forward to reading the rest of Jodi Picoult's novels.	2002-10-23
US	52768278	R4EUWLMWVNTLH	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	5	25	35	N	N	Get caught with this one!	...  Catcher in the Rye is a wonderful piece of literature that is easy to read, funny and wise.  I loved it!<br />While not very plot-driven, Catcher in the Rye tells the story of 16-year-old Holden Caulfield, a cynical, jaded teenager who is expelled from boarding school for his bad grades and lack of classroom attendance.  The story spans the two days after leaving his school and follows Holden on his journey home via hotels, bars, and bus stations.  And while the premise of the story doesn't sound like much, reading this book was a lot of fun and some may even being able to identify with Holden's attitude toward life.<br />Having read this for the sheer pleasure of it, I'm now pondering the reasons Catcher in the Rye has reached its \\"classic\\" status.  Possibly it broke new ground with all of its cursing and sex-talk, which was most likely unheard of in the 40s, much less from a novel written through the point of view of a teenager.  Whatever the reason is, undoubtedly readers will have fun with this novel and will find intelligent topics of discussion regarding its contents.  A must read for every book fanatic.  One of the best classics I've read.	2002-10-15
US	52768278	RN75ZZYKTKHQF	0679426159	668262969	Standing in the Rainbow: A Novel	Books	5	127	130	N	N	Sweetly drawn story of small-town life	I am an avid fan of Fannie Flagg and have read all of her novels.  Her latest, Standing in the Rainbow, is nothing short of miraculous.  I loved it!  The writing, as always, is quick, light and honest, but it is the genius storytelling in this novel that makes it a 5-star read for me.<br />Standing in the Rainbow tells the story of the lives of the citizens of Elmwood Springs, Missouri, spanning through five decades beginning in the 40s.  We have Dorothy Smith, hostess of the radio program, The Neighbor Dorothy Show that is transmitted live from her own living room.  And Tot Whooten, the town hair stylist, who seems to be a walking, talking advertisement for bad luck.  Also in town are the Goodnight sisters; Ida Jenkins, a wanna-be socialite; the Oatman Family Gospel Singers; Hamm Sparks, a very ambitious salesman; and Doc Smith, the local pharmacist.  This novel has them all and more -- every character under the sun, a perfect blend of a neighborhood.<br />I wasn't even born during most of the time frame this novel takes place in, but Fannie Flagg sure makes me wish I had been!  A highly atmospheric story that evokes feelings of nostalgia and longing for the good ole days.  The characters are unforgettable, Elmwood Springs is the perfect town, and after reading this book, you will feel as if you've lived there your entire life.<br />Not much by the way of plot, however.  Standing in the Rainbow is more of a slice-of-life novel, a darn good story about the lives of people in a small town and the events that take place throughout the years.  Engrossing, funny, sweet, wistful and warmhearted, all Fannie Flagg fans will delight in this novel, and new fans will discover a treasure of an author within these pages.	2002-10-11
US	52768278	R2PLFQ1TC9LKMK	0316284955	613460974	White Oleander (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Powerful and riveting...	This novel was just exquisite.  I loved everything about it...the writing was very sharp and poetic, the storyline was deep and engaging, the flow of the novel was very quick and rhythmic.  White Oleander surprised me with its many fine points -- I highly recommend this book.<br />Ingrid Magnussen, free-spirited poet and mother to 12-year-old Astrid, has finally done herself in.  After being pursued by Barry, a man her total opposite,  Ingrid does what she's always said is overrated -- falls in love.  And Astrid, who is desperate for a family life, someone to take the place of her missing father, couldn't be happier.  Suddenly things take a turn for the worse, however, when Barry's interest in Ingrid starts to wane.  Ingrid, a fierce and fiery woman, cannot accept Barry's rejection and does what only comes natural to her -- she kills him.<br />White Oleander is a novel of epic proportions, charting the journey of Astrid as she moves between foster homes and learns lessons about life.  A somber, penetrating story of passion and power, weaknesses and desires, and the reality of what happens when anger comes before sanity and the destruction that is left behind.  Excellent and truly wonderful.	2002-10-01
US	52768278	R27Q9V08TTZXGT	0345425707	495995638	A Cup of Tea (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A perfect, leisurely read...	After hearing not so many good things about A Cup of Tea, I wasn't sure what I would think.  I love historical fiction novels so this book at least had that much going for it.  However, once I started reading, I was hooked!  A simple, elegant love story with a twist that isn't necessarily new, but one that made this novel juicy and addictive.<br />A Cup of Tea tells the story of a well-to-do woman, Rosemary Fell, in 1917 New York City.  The novel opens with Rosemary doing her philanthropic duty of the day by taking in a woman, Eleanor Smith, whom she found huddled near a streetlamp in the dark and freezing cold.  After taking tea with Eleanor and letting her warm herself by the fire, Rosemary's fiance, Philip Alsop, stops by.  There is a look between Philip and Eleanor that Rosemary cannot deny -- a look that spells disaster for everyone.<br />I highly recommend this read for those who want something quick and easy, but also with a good, rousing story.  The writing is exquisite, and the story is very simple with wonderful concise chapters and page-turning qualities.  I loved it!  Definitely my cup of tea!!	2002-09-23
US	52768278	R3L6KBTGGWN1WH	0743418174	780559593	Good in Bed	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Much more than expected...	I was totally floored by Good in Bed!  I was expecting a light, fluffy, chick-lit type of read (this assumption made by the title and fun, frivilous-looking cover).  However, once I started reading, I realized this story is much more than that.  There is depth and meaning to this book, and I have to say that I liked it better because of it.<br />Good in Bed tells the story of 28-year-old Cannie Shapiro, whose claim to fame comes from her ex-boyfriend's tell-all article in Moxie magazine about what it was like for him to love a larger woman.  Cannie is furious, despite the fact that Bruce's article was quite accepting and complimentary of Cannie's plus-size body.  Once the dust settles, Cannie realizes Bruce did not mean her any harm and sets out to make things right.  But that is only the beginning of the story...  What follows is a journey that deals with love, loss, her past, her future, and her acceptance with the things she cannot change.<br />Jennifer Weiner has debuted with an amazing story -- one of the better first novels I've read in awhile.  The writing is crisp and clear, the storytelling is honest and at times, heartwarming.  The only thing that was hard to grasp is Cannie's blossoming friendship with someone famous -- I mean, how often does *that* really happen?!  I highly recommend this novel, especially for those who are tired of the formulaic stories of the single city girl looking for love.  This one has much more meaning.	2002-09-18
US	52768278	R2J72NDIZIT887	0345443284	471049102	While I Was Gone (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Good, but I ruined it...	I was looking forward to finally getting While I Was Gone read and alphabetized on my bookshelf,...  And while I found the book very engrossing and the writing superb, I couldn't keep my mind off \\"who-done-it\\" and it did spoil the fun for me.<br />While I Was Gone tells the story of a restless wife, Jo Becker, who, after 25 years of marriage to her husband, Daniel, still can't find her bliss.  Nothing ever seems to suit her.  Her career as a veterinarian is rewarding, but sometimes being stuck in a routine bothers Jo.  Then one day, a blast from the past comes sweeping through the vet door, and Jo's world is turned on its side.  Talk about something to spice things up...<br />Jo's blast comes in the form of Eli Mayhew, her former roommate from 30 years ago when they lived in a group house with five others during college.  It was a magical time for Jo, despite the secrets she carried with her, until it tragically ended with the death of one of her best friends.  Now with Eli back on the frontburner, those memories of the person she was and the life she was trying to escape from come back with full-force and threaten to destroy the boring life she leads now, the one she thought could use a little excitement.<br />I'm sure my rating would have been a five if only I had the pleasure of finding out the mystery on my own.  Once the mystery was revealed, I was bummed -- I missed out on the delicious shock-value I look forward to in books like these.  I think a major part of the appeal of this book is the \\"who-done-it\\" and is best left for the reader to relish alone.  Excellent writing skills and a great storyline helped pull me along despite knowing the outcome.	2002-09-12
US	52768278	R34Z9HI8U4H14K	0060086386	159388950	Filthy Rich	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Rich in fun!	If you are in the mood for some extremely light fiction, Filthy Rich would be a good pick.  Cute, fun and easy to read -- this book is the perfect refresher after something lengthy or intense.  Dorothy Samuels has written a nice, leisurely read and I will look forward to more novels from her in the future.<br />Filthy Rich tells the story of 34-year-old Marcy Lee Mallowitz's rise to fame.  During a taping of the popular TV game show, So You Want To Be Filthy Rich, Marcy's boyfriend, Neil, is in the hot seat and about to win the $1.75 million dollar prize.  His mistake:  asking Marcy to be his Lifeline and give him the answer to the winning question.  When Marcy gets the answer wrong, Neil blows up and dumps his girlfriend of three years right on national TV!  Suddenly, Marcy has become America's Sweetheart -- interviews, commercial spots, walk-on roles, and gifts galore coming pouring in from celebrities, talk-show hosts and journalists all trying to get the exclusive scoop.  But what has started as a humiliating debut on television could possibly be a blessing in disguise...if Marcy plays her cards right.<br />Filthy Rich is cute but no great shakes.  The idea is semi-original since the author patterned her book after Who Wants To Be a Millionaire and Survivor, but it's still fun to read.  This novel is diet food for the brain -- nothing heavy or meaty here -- but loads of readers will enjoy the plight of Marcy, the world's most famous dumpee, regardless of how literary they like their books.	2002-09-11
US	52768278	R2KZYC4VWNW0DK	1573229571	602052020	About a Boy (Movie Tie-In)	Books	5	61	66	N	N	My new favorite Hornby book!	I must admit, if it wasn't for the movie version of this book, I may never have read About a Boy.  I knew the book existed, but was never compelled to read it.  Then I saw the movie and realized what I was missing.  And while the book and movie endings are different, About a Boy (the book) is nothing short of spectacular.<br />Will Freeman, quite possibly the world's most useless man, is jobless and responsibility-free -- and he likes it that way.  Living off the royalties of his father's one hit song, Will finds his days full of lounging around, going to movies, and sitting in front of the TV watching Countdown.  And while all this free time is at his disposal, Will has plenty of time to discover that single moms seem to be the most grateful for a date with him.  Thus, Will puts a fool-proof plan into motion -- make up an imaginary son and join one of those single-parent support groups in an effort to meet women.<br />However, About a Boy is not all about Will meeting single mothers.  It's... about a boy, Marcus, the 12-year-old son of one of the single mothers who comes into Will's life and turns it upside down.  Suddenly Will finds himself, unwillingly, as some sort of mentor or father figure for Marcus, which totally distracts Will from his true purpose of being free from problems and responsibilities.<br />I loved About a Boy.  The writing is authetic Nick Hornby, full of humor and sarcasm, but also there is a lively perceptiveness at work here that goes to show you one spontaneous decision can sometimes add meaning to your life.  Prepare to laugh out loud with this one!	2002-09-09
US	52768278	R1JH8QY0SUV8BW	0142000345	262039850	A Common Life (Mitford)	Books	5	46	46	N	N	Short and sweet	I read this sixth Mitford installment after completing the second one, which is where it really belongs, and I have to say that Jan Karon continues to please me.  While A Common Life is not as long or as in depth as her other Mitford novels, it still maintained that downhome sweetness and comfortable, cozy feeling that I've come to expect and love in these books.<br />A Common Life tells the story of Father Tim's acceptance of the importance and neccessity of Cynthia in his life.  After proposing, the couple encounters the typical problems, jitters and joys that most engaged couples do.  And as expected, the whole town of Mitford is getting into the celebration:  Hessie Mayhew is in charge of the flowers, Esther Bollick is waiting for her invitation to bake the cake, and Uncle Joe is busily searching for the best joke to tell at the reception.  And of course the wedding couldn't come off without at least a small hitch -- at 10 minutes after starting time, Cynthia is nowhere to be found...<br />Jan Karon has written another pleasing and endearing story.  It is written in the same beautiful, classy way as the others, and any Mitford fan will consider this novel to be a wonderful addition to the series.  Having said that, I can see where some readers could be disappointed if they were reading the books in order since A Common Life (#6) does not continue with the story where #5 stopped but instead goes back in time to between #2 and #3.  However, despite which order you read it (and I recommend #6 after #2), I believe A Common Life is a treasure and perfect as a gift for any engaged or newly married couple as it celebrates a wonderful and simple romance.  Looking forward to continuing on with the third book in the series.  I know I won't be disappointed.	2002-09-04
US	52768278	R1SL66S1Y71VM1	0345427025	736363816	The Flamingo Rising (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Nostalgic and sweet...	What good things can I say about Flamingo Rising that hasn't already been said?  I completely enjoyed this story and was mesmerized by the innocent coming-of-age story by the narrator, Abraham.  This novel is a quick read, chock-full of meaning and sweetness, and invokes a peaceful feeling of nostalgia for the bygone days when there was nothing more magical than a drive-in theatre.<br />Flamingo Rising tells the story of the feuding Lee and West families in the 1960s.  Turner West has built his funeral home overlooking the Atlantic ocean.  Not long after, Hubert Lee builds his lifelong dream -- the world's largest drive-in theatre, an icon of life, happiness and merriment -- right next door to the funeral home.  Their sparring is nothing short of funny and immature.  But what happens later, the involvement of Turner's daughter, Grace, and Hubert's son, Abraham, is what really spark the flames.  It's Romeo and Juliet with a twist!<br />I urge everyone to read Flamingo Rising.  The story is told through the eyes of the almost-50 Abraham as he reflects on his childhood and his coming-of-age. However, it is so much more than a love story between the children -- the drive-in employees are so much like a family, the relationship of the Lees and Wests are at times riotous, bittersweet and poignant.  And the ending was totally unexpected and very moving.  Larry Baker has created a sweetly atmospheric story and one that will stay with me forever.  A feel-good, warm-in-the-belly kind of book. If you see a copy, grab it!	2002-08-28
US	52768278	R2CUCZW8STRGHK	0375704299	699405656	Goodnight, Nebraska	Books	4	28	28	N	N	Goodnight is a GREAT book!	I'm not sure what I expected from this novel, but I can say for certain it wasn't much.  Maybe because it sat on my bookshelf collecting dust for the past three years, and my excitement for it had all but disappeared.  However, now that I've finally read it, I can say with confidence how wonderfully surprising Goodnight, Nebraska is!  The writing is flawless, the storyline is compelling, the novel...simply perfect.<br />Tom McNeal's novel tells the story of Randall Hunsacker and his seemingly dysfunctional life.  Beginning in Utah and the shooting of his mother's boyfriend, Randall gets another chance at life when offered free room and board and a spot on the high school football team in Goodnight, Nebraska.  While there, in addition to being feared and admired by his teammates, Randall falls in love with Marcy Lockhardt, a beautiful and popular cheerleader.  What progresses afterward is a slowly unfolding story of the love, loss, friendship, loyalty and betrayal experienced not only by Randall, but by those that surround him.<br />I was captivated by this novel and hated putting it down so I could work and sleep.  Tom McNeal has captured the perfect small town tapestry, where everyone knows your business and nothing goes unnoticed.  Teen angst is only one small part of this terrifically moving story.  A novel of surprising depth and honesty -- I loved it!	2002-08-23
US	52768278	R2C7NK87L6LEY0	0679751521	523621984	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil: A Savannah Story	Books	5	191	201	N	N	Exceptional...	I'm embarrassed to admit that I had this book on my bookshelf for over three years before finally picking it up.  Better late than never, right?!  Now that I've finally read it, I must say how truly wonderful and exciting it is.  The characters are so eccentric and bizarre, I had to keep reminding myself that these are REAL people.  And John Berendt did an excellent job recreating this true-crime story into something so readable, humorous and delicious.  Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil is fabulous...I couldn't get enough of it!<br />The main character in this novel is first and foremost, Savannah, Georgia.  Such a glorious and mysterious backdrop for such an intriguing storyline -- and John Berendt fleshed it out so magnificantly, that Savannah breathes and lives as easily as those who live there.  Mostly this book is about a rich antique dealer, Jim Williams, who was accused of murder.  However, it is not an ordinary murder case -- all sorts of twists come out of the woodwork for this one, making this novel not only a true-crime story, but a mystery as well.  Surrounding the murder aspect are the citizens of Savannah that the author comes in contact with:  Luther Driggers, a former pesticide employee, who has a vial of poison potent enough to kill every one in the county; Chablis, the potty-mouthed drag queen and performer; Joe Odom, a modern vagrant who uses his home(s) as a tourist stop; and Minerva, the voodoo priestess who uses roots, herbs, and graveyard dirt to weave her magic spells.<br />Excellent writing and amazing storytelling make Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil and must-have book.  One of the better novels I have read this year.  I watched the movie afterwards, but the book, by far, tells the story better.  I recommend this one to everyone -- southern fiction fans will delight in its eccentricities, true-crime lovers will enjoy the murder case, and armchair travelers will be booking trips to Savannah soon after the close of this book!  Good job, John Berendt!Good job, John Berendt!	2002-08-19
US	52768278	R1DA2KNUW45DKQ	080504860X	928457605	Bigfoot Dreams	Books	2	12	17	N	N	Good book?  Dream on...	I tried.  I really, really tried.  Bigfoot Dreams missed the mark, despite my attempts to enjoy myself.  At first glance, the premise of this novel had lots of potential.  A woman who makes up stories for a weekly tabloid finds herself in one heck of a predicament -- after five years on the job and no problems thus far, one of her stories turns out to be true.  My imagination ran wild with me...what story was it?  How strange would that be?  What will happen to her?  The author did elaborate on these questions, but my expectations far outweighed the results.<br />As for the writing itself, Francine Prose did a very good job.  Much better than I could ever do, so immediately she gets two thumbs up.  I believe the problem I had with Bigfoot Dreams was the story itself.  It was a thinker-novel, not as cut-and-dried as one might think.  And while sometimes this can be good, I was disappointed in this case.  Bigfoot Dreams seemed like it would be a riot; in the end, I was bored to tears and wondering where all the fun went.  A quirky subject deserves a quirky explanation, but there was too much psychological babble going on.<br />Best parts about this book:  the main character, Vera's, job -- how fun it would be to sit around making up stories all day; Vera's friend, Louise -- I was far more interested in Louise's antics as a former member of a cult who wore all white and ate salad every day; and also Vera's on-again, off-again husband, Lowell -- an Arkansas hippie (need I say more?).  Bigfoot Dreams had vast potential to be so funny, crazy, and imaginative, but Ms. Prose weighed it down with too much reality.  I'll try again, though.  Maybe Blue Angel will be more suited for me.	2002-08-12
US	52768278	R7FLJ489Z9KA8	0446670251	437057713	The Virgin Suicides	Books	5	239	257	N	N	Haunting and compelling...	Wow.  What a fabulous, page-turning, fascinating book!  It's been two years since I saw the movie, but from what I can remember, the movie doesn't do this book justice.  Maybe it is the unique style of the narrative that made me love it so, or the sweet obsession of the narrators...I don't know what exactly, but The Virgin Suicides was simply wonderful despite the morbid subject.<br />Set in 1970s suburbia, The Virgin Suicides tells the story of the Lisbon family from the point of view of a group of boys living in the same neighborhood.  Mr. and Mrs. Lisbon are both sort of boring and normal, but their five daughters, Therese, Mary, Bonnie, Lux and Cecilia are exotic and mysterious...so different from their parents, it's hard to imagine how it happened.  The story opens with the suicide of Mary, the last in the &quot;year of the suicides&quot; of the five sisters.  From there, the story starts at the beginning as seen through the eyes of the neighborhood boys and is compiled through heresay, interviews, diary entries, personal contact, and their avid spying.  What is so unique about this story is since it is told from an outside perspective, the answers to many questions remain unanswered, only assumed.<br />The Virgin Suicides takes readers through a year in the life of the Lisbon sisters, their untimely demise, the speculations of the neighborhood, as well as the unraveling of the Lisbon family.  A tender, lively story with the ending already known, but fascinating to see how it gets there.  I was impressed over and over and highly recommend this profound, moving novel.	2002-08-05
US	52768278	R2NXSLD1EMGEHP	0525946403	1503803	The Trouble with Catherine	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Had &quot;trouble&quot; with this one...	Thankfully The Trouble With Catherine was a short book; I'm not sure how long I could've lasted.  This novel started with an incredibly negative tone and, in my opinion, never looked up.  My suggestion to readers who are engaged and looking forward to getting married:  Skip this book!<br />Twenty-nine-year-old Catherine Lacey is surrounded by weddings --  all her friends are getting hitched, leaving Catherine the solo member of the Bachelorette Club.  It could be her parents' fault -- after raising her in an unattached sort of way (read:  their version of teaching independence), Catherine has never found it necessary to grow past her wild, tomboyish, single-life ways.  But when Steve proposes, Catherine accepts without fulling thinking it through.  Should Catherine give up her independence just because she's a couple years shy of spinsterhood?  Is the fairy-tale worth believing in?  Read on to find out.<br />As for the writing talent, Andes Hruby is obviously very gifted.  I think my problem with this novel is the fact that it was such a downer.  Or maybe I'm just tired of reading about wedding woes.  Nevertheless, I will read another book by Ms. Hruby -- and hopefully the next one will be a little more upbeat.	2002-07-29
US	52768278	R9XXNGKWQEFZN	0452283868	921712930	Sula (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	18	21	N	N	A powerful story of friendship...	Another Toni Morrison under my belt and proud of it!  I've always heard that her novels are difficult reads, but after completing (and enjoying) the two that I've read, I'm going to disagree with that statement.  Toni has a way with words that make even the most mundane of statements seem eloquent and rhythmic.<br />Sula tells the story of a small black community called The Bottom located in Medallion, Ohio and its many colorful citizens.  We have Shadrack, who, after returning from the war, has spent every January 3 celebrating a holiday of his own making, National Suicide Day.  There is Eva Peace, the one-legged grandmother; Hannah, Eva's daughter, who shares her bed with her friends' and neighbors' husbands; and Sula, Hannah's daughter, who shares her mother's wild spirit and befriends her complete opposite, the calm and mature, Nel Wright.  This novel tells mostly about the friendship of Sula and Nel and how their lives take different paths as they grow older.  However, there is some very powerful writing with the background characters that shock and surprise the reader.<br />Sula is set in the early 1900s and spans 40 years or so.  I truly enjoyed this novel and am very glad I read it.  Granted, there are parts of this story that wax poetically and go totally over my head, but for the most part I understood what I was reading and was continually immersed in the lives of The Bottom citizens.  After my second successful attempt at a Toni Morrison novel (the first being The Bluest Eye), I'd be more than happy to try another one.  So far so good.	2002-07-26
US	52768278	R1PK0TL4IXSIRK	0671798650	166590970	Selling the Lite of Heaven	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A gem!	I've had my eye on this book for the past four years now, and finally I got the chance to read it with my local book club.  I must say that this book was a pleasant surprise.  It is light, sweet and endearingly funny -- with much more depth than I expected.<br />Selling the Lite of Heaven tells the story of a woman who has waited patiently for love.  The only daughter of Polish immigrant parents, the narrator of this story wasn't allowed to date until she turned 18.  Well, that time came and went, and still no prospects in sight.  She spends all her time as a developer at the Fast Foto, going to church and living under the same roof as her parents, enduring the strict eye of her mother, despite her 32 years.  But then there's Eddie Balicki...  They fall in love, become engaged, and her prayers are answered -- until he breaks off their engagement to become a priest.<br />The chapters alternate between the past -- detailing the narrator's childhood, the citizens of her small-town Polish community, and meeting and falling in love with Eddie -- and the present, where she meets with customers who want to buy the engagement ring she has advertised in the Pennysaver.  This story is so sweet, honest and heartfelt -- I could relate on many levels, especially trying to find someone to love, only to be disappointed in the end.  I am looking forward to my book club discussion as well as reading more books by Suzanne.  Kudos!	2002-07-22
US	52768278	R2OU1TQ2FHLLR4	0316910333	680713352	Gossip Girl #1: A Novel (Gossip Girl Series)	Books	4	32	45	N	N	Juicy Gossip!	Wanna know how the other half lives?  From the viewpoint of a teenager?  Then Gossip Girl will provide!  One part internet gossip site and two parts rousing commentary from rich Upper East Side private school-ers.  Gossip Girl is a lot of fun; the characters are smart, spoiled, selfish and too big for their britches; and the storyline, which takes place in the matter of a week or so, spotlights the best mix of teen angst in a grown-up world.<br />Serena van der Woodsen is back in town after a year of boarding school in Connecticut, and things couldn't be worse.  Seems something is amiss with Serena's old friends.  Blair, Isabel and Kati have better things to do besides wonder what Serena did to get kicked out of boarding school.  However, not everyone is upset over Serena's return:  Blair's boyfriend, Nate, is having a hard time being faithful; Nate's slimy friend, Chuck, is hoping the rumors of Serena's promiscuity are true; and Jenny, Dan and Vanessa find things in common with their new friend.<br />Not sure if this book would be for the young adult set or not, but it would be a great book either way.  A different teen novel where no one gets carded, everyone smokes and fundraising parties (complete with Kate Spade goodie bags) are hosted by illustrious teenage committees.  Very quick read and simple writing that doesn't sound like a high school essay.  I recommend this novel with two manicured thumbs up!  Hope there is a sequel in the works.	2002-07-18
US	52768278	RN1L5FX5MHR2G	0375724850	690407391	An Italian Affair	Books	4	31	37	N	N	An Affair to Remember...	Forget Fodor's -- An Italian Affair is the best guidebook to Italy ever!  I was totally mesmerized by Laura Fraser's descriptions of Italy (and beyond), its landscape, city life and food.  Reading this book was just as good as being there -- and the fairy tale romance was the &quot;cherry on top of the cherry on top of the sundae.&quot;<br />Written as a travel memoir, I was a bit surprised that An Italian Affair turned out to be a true story.  It sounded like such a great fiction novel, so knowing this story actually happened to someone made it all the more incredible.  Laura Fraser's story begins when her husband of one year dumps her for his high school sweetheart.  Devastated, Laura decides to visit her friends for a therapeutical trip in Italy.  Exploring one of the outer islands, Ischia, on her own one day, Laura crosses paths with her destiny.  M., a dashing Frenchman, on a vacation of his own, finds Laura having breakfast in the same hotel, and from there a spectacular romantic rendez-vous ensues.<br />M.'s and Laura's love affair is at once sweet and nurturing, but also has magical healing powers.  Since meeting M., Laura's post-divorce depression has had a back-burner storyline in her life, and through M., Laura has been able to become the independent, strong woman she thought she had lost for good.  Endearing and smart, An Italian Affair is a wonderful testimony of being a woman, falling in love and getting back your life.  Highly recommended for a fabulous, quick read.	2002-07-15
US	52768278	R183P4IGLDBI7G	0312288115	370098606	Confessions of a Sociopathic Social Climber: The Katya Livingston Chronicles	Books	4	24	30	N	N	Sarcastic and fun!	Kelly Ripa did a good thing by choosing Confessions of a Sociopathic Social Climber as one of her book club picks -- now all of America (and beyond) knows about the evil, selfish, irresponsible Katya Livingston -- and I think my life is somehow better for it...<br />This book is written in diary form and spans an entire year in the life of Katya Livingston, quite possibly the most self-centered, conceited, full-of-bull character I've come across in a long time.  But these qualities that, in a real person, would make you despise her, only serve to make you love her once you are assured this book is fiction.  Reading Katya's story was so much fun -- trying to see how she could top herself was almost like a game.  Poisoning small animals, blatantly making fun of her friends and others who are less fortunate, and knowing without any doubt all men want her are just three things on her long repertoire list.  Each page houses every bad quality you can think of -- and frankly, that's all the fun.<br />Adele Lang has done an excellent job creating a character readers will love to hate.  Katya is quite a breath of fresh air -- so refreshingly honest and frank.  This gal does not beat around the bush on anything!  I will most definitely read the next offering of Adele's.  I'm thinking a Katya Livingston Part Two is in order!	2002-07-11
US	52768278	R2DV0T2W0E3M9	0316355569	710045321	Swimming Sweet Arrow : A Novel	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Gritty, dirty and real...Swimming Sweet Arrow does the deed!	Swimming Sweet Arrow is a wonderful novel.  The author has done a fantastic job of writing what, at first, seems to be a novel about sex.  But once the reader moves through the story, it becomes clear that this novel is about more than the blatant sexuality of the core characters -- there's a lively tenderness at work here.  Swimming Sweet Arrow is a story about love and acceptance, real life and growing up, and some very powerful friendships.<br />The novel opens with friends Vangie and June making out with their boyfriends, Del and Ray, in the same car at the same time.  One would think it would be awkward to see each other, as well as the other's boyfriend, naked all the time, but this whole invasion-of-privacy thing has only brought the two couples closer together.  They share the same job at the chicken farm and the same dreams of living on their own after highschool.  Swimming Sweet Arrow is a chronicle of their lives, together and separate, and the unmistakable bonds that hold them.<br />The language is crisp and honest, nothing is held back in this novel.  Maureen Gibbon has crossed a line with her prose -- and it should definitely have an NC-17 rating attached -- but it is refreshing to read something so achingly real no matter how far into the danger zone it reaches.  I loved it, and can't wait to see what comes next for this author.	2002-07-08
US	52768278	R211431DB8XVGF	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Sparkling and magnificient...	All I can say is...Wow!  Girl With a Pearl Earring is a positively stunning novel, and one that I will remember for a long time to come.  The historical detail quickly pulls the reader into another world, and the sparkling prose breathes new life into artist Johannes Vermeer, his family and most especially Griet, the girl hired as maid to the Vermeer household.<br />Set in 17th century Delft, Girl With a Pearl Earring begins with 16-year-old Griet chopping vegetables in her mother's kitchen.  Griet's family has fallen on some hardships, and her mother has informed her she is to become a maid in order to help support them.  Vermeer and his wife, Catharina, agree that Griet will make a fine maid, and with that quick decision comes a fate that Griet could have never imagined...a world of color and symmetry, secrets and passions, and one in which could spell her ruin.<br />Author Tracy Chevalier has created a magnificient fictional account about what could have been, the inspiration behind one of Vermeer's most celebrated works.  Truly a masterpiece and one history, romance and art lovers will enjoy.  Girl With a Pearl Earring starts as a fever and rises and flourishes with each turning page.  I highly recommend this beautiful, eloquent, evocative tale.  Readers will find themselves lost in the world of Vermeer and Griet; this atmospheric novel will have nothing less to offer.	2002-07-05
US	52768278	R19BFVA8JLX8ZE	0671042572	835489451	Jewel	Books	3	52	65	N	N	Jewel is not much of a gem...	What a struggle this book was!  Aside from the fact that Bret Lott is obviously a very talented writer, I had such a hard time moving through this story.  I'm not sure what it was about Jewel that failed to excite me.  Excellent writing skills and a decent storyline are both present; however, I could not enjoy myself.  Something was definitely missing for me.<br />Jewel Hilburn is a good wife, bringing forth five strong, healthy children and making a comfortable home for her family.  Although late in life, Jewel finds herself pregnant again -- a sixth child, the baby of the family, the apple of her eye.  But five months after little Brenda Kay is born, Jewel notices something dreadfully different from her other children.  God has blessed the Hilburn family with a special child, a Down's Syndrome baby, and one who will prove she is both the burden and joy of all their lives.  The story spans an entire lifetime, beginning with flashbacks of Jewel's childhood and ending with Jewel in her 80s.  For readers who enjoy epics and characters that grow up before you, Jewel, at least in that respect, will provide.<br />I am clearly stumped as to the drawback of this book (for me).  Pages did not turn quickly, I was never excited to pick it up and return to the world of Jewel and her family.  I will say the last few chapters of this book did evoke some emotion, but other than that, Jewel fell flat.  There is an audience for this book; however, be aware that the story does not move quickly, paragraphs are overly descriptive, and there is not enough dialogue to push things along.  If you are in a reading slump, bypass Jewel for something more exciting.	2002-07-01
US	52768278	R1KTCHI07TVH0G	0316776963	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	3	45	93	N	N	Me glad this book is finished...	I read this book for my local bookclub, and I must say that if I had never read it in my lifetime, I don't think I ever would have missed it.  However, the essays were written well and most were funny.  I would be interested in reading a full-fledged novel if David Sedaris ever chose to write one.<br />Me Talk Pretty One Day is a book of autobiographical essays that tell the story of the author's childhood and the strange behavior of his parents in relation to jazz, food, dogs and so on.  Other essays talk about the many jobs taken on by Sedaris, the move to Paris with his boyfriend, Hugh, and his life living in a foreign country.  I laughed most of the time; however, the mediocre essays far outweighed the fabulous ones.  My favorites are Go Carolina, You Can't Kill the Rooster, The Youth in Asia, Big Boy, The Last Show, and I'll Eat What He's Wearing.  All the others had humor in them, but fell short of my own knee-slapping expectations.<br />Of course, this is just one opinion and mine may not be of the popular variety.  I am just the type of reader that enjoys novels more than short stories (or essays) and therefore did not find Me Talk Pretty One Day to be particularly fascinating.  I don't regret reading it, but the hype was too much for me.  Mr. Sedaris, call me when you have a novel out -- I'll be the first in line.	2002-06-24
US	52768278	R1BRK4DIDWSMNX	0140254544	614661659	A Light in the Window (The Mitford Years)	Books	5	45	47	N	N	Another great trip to Mitford	It had been over a year since I read the first Mitford book, so I figured it was time to take another visit.  I will admit I wasn't too excited about reading Mitford #2 because I knew there wouldn't be much action in the story.  However, after about 50 pages or so in A Light in the Window, I realized what I was missing.  I was finally home once again...<br />This second installment is chock-full of happenings.  We have recent widower, Edith Mallory, setting her eyes (and hands) on Father Tim; a mysterious Irish cousin who comes to stay in the rectory for questionable reasons; and we meet a new character, Buck Leeper, the hardened, unpleasant building supervisor hired to build Mitford's new nursing home.  But the most important part of this book is Father Tim's growing feelings toward his neighbor, Cynthia, and his struggle to accept them, be happy, and let nature take its course.  And naturally, Cynthia has a word or two to say about that!<br />I enjoyed A Light in the Window much better than the first one. I found myself reading this novel until the wee hours of the morning because I couldn't get enough of the characters or heartwarming storylines.  No action, no plot twists, no shocking endings -- but I simply didn't care.  Jan Karon has a way of telling a story that makes all those other page-turning qualities seem unimportant.  Mitford is a home away from home, a fictitious account of REAL life, and a place where I will look forward to visiting in the books to come.	2002-06-20
US	52768278	R27H9A1BEVKG1K	0373250134	559572782	Slightly Single (Red Dress Ink paperback}	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Slightly typical, but a great read...	Yes, it's typical.  Slightly Single's heroine is a twentysomething single girl living in the City who is miserable with her entry-level ad position (or glorified secretary -- take your pick), overweight, and in love with a man who is commitment-phobic and just plain not-very-nice.  There is nothing new here in this novel that I haven't read before.  However, Wendy Markham's version of the City girl plight is fun to read, a perfect weekend or beach book, and her characters have just the right qualities for readers to either love them or hate them.<br />Our heroine, Tracey Spadolini, has finally made a life for herself in the Big City.  Granted, it comes in the form of a crappy job and part-time boyfriend; however, Tracey is convinced it's all about to change for the better.  Once Will, the actor-slash-boyfriend, returns from his summer job doing theatre in upstate New York, Tracey is certain he will be ready to commit and move in together.  And while their summer apart definitely holds change in store, Tracey adds epiphanies into the bargain: about her relationship, her position in life and the woman she strives to be.<br />What I have come to expect from a Red Dress Ink novel is epitomized in Slightly Single.  A very easy read; increasingly enjoyable with each turning page; and despite its predictability, its appeal kept me reading.  No great frills in the writing style -- it's kept more conversational and relaxing -- and the plot does not punch and pop, but Wendy Markham has created a very relateable character, very human, with warts and all.  And in her effort, has also created a fan in me.	2002-06-13
US	52768278	R1FPU6RZVG1GV7	1573222038	595147475	Fingersmith	Books	5	93	100	N	N	Another great novel from Sarah Waters	After reading and enjoying Sarah Waters's previous novels, I knew Fingersmith would meet my expectations.  However, I had no idea!  Fingersmith, as usual, had the gorgeous, atmospheric qualities that I think is Sarah Waters's trademark.  And of course, the writing is simply genius.  But more than that, Fingersmith is fantastic -- this novel told a darn good story.<br />Set again in 19th century London, Fingersmith begins with Sue Trinder's tale as an orphan and a thief.  She lives in a house filled with other orphaned babies and an assortment of pickpockets, or \\"fingersmiths,\\" along with the lady of the house, Mrs. Sucksby, who took care of Sue since she was an infant.  Now 17, Sue's opportunity to show her appreciation to Mrs. Sucksby finally comes -- in the form of Gentleman, a seedy con man and friend of the household.  Gentleman is armed with a plan to make them all rich and enlists Sue as his helper.  But things aren't always what they seem, and as the plan unfolds, all sorts of secrets and twists come unraveled.<br />Fingersmith is everything I had hoped it would be -- beautiful writing, a stunning cast of characters, and a riveting, compelling storyline.  I was helplessly drawn into the slums of London as well as the drab, solemn English countryside where Sue and Gentleman spend their days spinning their treacherous web.  I will admit that there weren't as many shocking surprises (for me, anyway) like Affinity, but this novel was much like Tipping the Velvet in how it pulls in the reader from the beginning with a rousing good story.  I can't enough good things about Sarah Waters, her novels, and her talent.  She's exceptional, and Fingersmith is nothing less than stellar.	2002-06-10
US	52768278	RIL73D8ZKT8LZ	0375705198	314955975	Amy and Isabelle: A novel	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Great writing, okay story...	After having this novel sit on my bookshelf for 2 ½ years, I thought it was time to finally read it.  And while I can't say I was totally mesmerized by this book, I did enjoy it.  However, it isn't the storyline that cinched it for me -- in this case, Elizabeth's Strout exceptional writing talent made Amy and Isabelle a 4-star book.<br />Sixteen-year-old Amy is disenchanted with high school.  Spending her classes in a fog and smoking cigarettes with her pregnant friend, Stacy, during lunch seems about as good as it will get.  But when Amy's old math teacher is replaced mid-year with Mr. Robertson, things start to perk up.  And when Mr. Robertson starts paying special attention to Amy, the rest of the school year, and ultimately her life, changes forever.  Into this mix is Amy's mother, Isabelle, who craves acceptance from her daughter, her boss, and her co-workers at the shoe mill office.  And once Amy's secret about Mr. Robertson is out in the open, Isabelle questions herself, her parenting, and her own secrets from her past.<br />I will admit that the storyline did not grab me like I had hoped.  The tone of the story was very mundane, unhappy, and drained of color.  However, in some strange way, I ended up liking the book, and I will have to attribute that in part to Elizabeth Strout's excellent writing skills.  I would definitely read another book by this author with hopes for storytelling/writing equality.	2002-06-03
US	52768278	R3IP7SD2UQR41I	0375705171	330040046	Trans-Sister Radio	Books	5	22	26	N	N	A fascinating and thought-provoking story...	What would you do if the man you loved told you he wanted to be a woman?  Trans-Sister Radio asks this question, and as the answer unfolds, readers will be captivated, fascinated and torn between right and wrong and your own beliefs about sex, gender and what is really important in the one whom you fall in love.<br />Allison Banks, divorcee and mother of 18-year-old Carly, has finally found the one.  Dana Stevens, a college professor, has everything Allison has ever wished for.  He's kind, sensitive and handsome.  However, after a few months of blissful dating, Dana delivers the news:  he is two months away from a sex change operation.  What follows is a moral dilemma that rocks the tiny Vermont town in which they live.  Should Allison still date Dana?  As a teacher, is Allison violating the \\"role-model/decency\\" clause?  Trans-Sister Radio explores these questions as well as how Dana Steven's sexuality affects those around him.<br />Chris Bohjalian has written another winner.  The writing style is wonderful and gives a birds-eye view from several characters and their thoughts about and reactions to gender dysphoria, homosexuality, and falling in love.  Brilliantly told story and one that held me in rapt attention until the conclusion.  A highly thought-provoking and intelligent novel.	2002-05-28
US	52768278	RE1CEYFP54LR	1565122968	780904511	Gap Creek : The Story of a Marriage	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Life as it is on the mountain...	Gap Creek is a wonderful novel that chronicles the life of a mountain woman and all the struggles, hardships and joy that she experiences.  I found this story not to be particularly page-turning, but more of an easy-flowing journey.  Gap Creek is truly a triumphant statement of the strength of women in an era when women were to be no more than mothers and housekeepers.<br />Life still goes on in the Harmon household after the death of the youngest child, Masenier.  For 17-year-old Julie, that means getting back to what she does best:  chopping firewood and slaughtering hogs.  This hard-working life seems to be all there is for Julie since she never has time to be a teenager.  But that all changes one day when Hank Richards comes by to ask directions to a neighbor's house.  Soon, Julie finds herself married to Hank and living far down the mountain in Gap Creek, South Carolina.  Mountain life in her new home is much harder for Julie now that she's without her family.  But Julie shows insurmountable strength and determination in every situation and struggle that comes her way.<br />In Gap Creek, Robert Morgan has shown us another great literary character.  Julie Harmon Richards embodies the true status of a mountain woman.  Her perseverence is one quality that all of us can strive to achieve.  This novel is well-written and heartfelt; however, it is explicit in some of its details (which can be good or bad depending on your outlook).  Nonetheless, Robert Morgan deserves a big \\"Thank you\\" for creating such a memorable character and for writing such a believable and emotional story.	2002-05-21
US	52768278	R37EUJ2DVQE2LV	0446678112	831796799	Amanda's Wedding	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Here comes the bride?	As a Brit Lit connoisseur, I have read and purchased many novels in this genre.  I've had my eye on Amanda's Wedding for quite some time, and now, having read it, I can confidently place it on my list of favorites.  Not only is this novel good, but author Jenny Colgan has a distinct sense of humor that translates well onto paper.<br />Melanie, Fran and Amanda have been friends since elementary school.  This bond of friendship should have lasted well into old age; however, since Amanda's father got rich off some invention of his, suddenly she is too posh for the likes of Melanie and Fran.  And now, to top it all off, Amanda announces her engagement to Scottish Laird Fraser McConald -- the very same Fraser who Melanie had a major crush on back in college.  Well, that just won't do!  So Melanie and Fran form a committee with one goal in mind:  to destroy the happy couple and make sure this wedding will never take place.<br />Yes, it's just another typical Brit Lit novel.  But honestly, can one *ever* get enough?!  However, with Amanda's Wedding, I was actually surprised at the end.  I thought for sure I knew how it would end, but I was wrong, and that is such a refreshing change when reading these types of novels.  Good job, Jenny Colgan!  I am now a fan for life.	2002-05-15
US	52768278	R2P6I16EL7JFVP	0345406516	18655254	The Aguero Sisters (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	17	18	N	N	A haunting, mythical tale...	The Aguero Sisters is my first book by Cristina Garcia, but I can say with confidence it won't be my last.  This novel was a truly mesmerizing feat; each page a veritable feast for the senses with beautiful, rich imagery and lush details of the Cuban landscape.  This book sat on my bookshelf for over two years -- and now I'm wondering what took me so long.<br />Mystery and mythical religion is the backdrop for Cristina Garcia's haunting and descriptive tale of The Aguero Sisters.  The story opens with drama and mystery surrounding the death of Constancia and Reina's mother, Blanca.  What follows are chapters told in each sister's voice -- Constancia, a successful cosmetics entrepreneur, who lives in Miami with her husband Heberto -- and Reina, an electrician, whose skills are in high demand all over Cuba.  Each sister gives details of their lives, their feelings about their mother's unexpected death, and the background of their estrangement from each other.  Also in the mix are chapters from Constancia and Reina's children as well as the family history told by the sisters' deceased father, Ignacio.  And as the months pass by, each sister gets closer and closer to each other and learning the truth about their mother.<br />The Aguero Sisters is a beautiful and haunting tale about growing up in Cuba in the midst of political upheaval, their struggles in trying to escape, and their need for reconciliation of the past.  I was captivated by the writing style and eloquent language as well as the mysterious storyline and descriptions of a country I will never get to see.  Highly recommended read.	2002-05-13
US	52768278	R2N0KFV4ZR6MJH	0312278586	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	4	8	12	N	N	Validates my reasons for not being a nanny...	After reading The Nanny Diaries, I can tell you this for sure -- I'd never have the patience to be a nanny.  Emma McLaughlin and Nicola Kraus have written a cringing story of the rich, pretentious, and motherly -- and those who are paid to deal with them.  This tender portrayal of the bond between child and caregiver, however, shows how putting up with selfish, snotty mothers can make it all worthwhile.<br />NYU Senior, Nanny, takes up a job as nanny to 4-year-old Grayer X as a way to pay for her overpriced New York apartment.  The X family is every nannies nightmare:  rich, selfish, unapproachable.  Especially heartbreaking is the way they interact with their own child.  Sure, Grayer has the world handed to him on a silver platter, but all the love and attention responsibilities fall into the hands of Nanny.  And as time moves on, the X family becomes increasingly difficult to handle, and the situations Nanny puts up with will have readers red-faced with emotions.<br />If this novel doesn't garner some respect for the nanny profession, something must be wrong!  The ending of this book satisfied me beyond belief -- I cried, I shouted, I whooped for joy.  The Nanny Diaries will definitely mess with your emotions, which is the true mark of a very good book.  Highly recommended -- an excellent debut novel.  Will be looking for more in the future from these two young authors.	2002-05-06
US	52768278	R26WCNPQK0DBEI	0759658919	167770894	Jay: A Spiritual Fantasy	Books	3	14	15	N	N	An easy but thought-provoking story	Louis N. Gruber's novel asks one important question:  If Jesus came back, would you believe?  What makes this question so difficult to answer is the fact that Gruber's version of Jesus wears a suit and eats ice cream -- no robes and sandals for this guy!  So is this modern-day Jesus for real or just another crazy guy claiming he is?  Read along to find out!<br />Jay: A Spiritual Fantasy is a very quick read and displays Jesus, his personality, and his teachings as the author perceives them.  A very imaginative work that poses thought-provoking questions about religion, prayer, sin, healing, miracles and faith.  Short and to the point, this novel is mostly made up of dialogue -- description-lovers, beware!  However, if you like to read stories that are quick, light and different, I would suggest this one with confidence.  I would be interested in reading a second book by this author.	2002-04-29
US	52768278	RHHATGZFBUISW	0743431014	286980309	Songs of the Humpback Whale: A Novel (Wsp Readers Club)	Books	4	39	39	N	N	An impressive debut	I've only read one other book by Jodi Picoult (Plain Truth) that I absolutely loved, so I wasn't sure what I would think reading her debut novel.  Most authors get increasingly better and more honed writing skills with each novel, so I wasn't expecting Songs of the Humpback Whale to live up to my Plain Truth expectations.  However, even though I still liked Plain Truth better (gripping and compelling), Jodi Picoult's debut effort was nothing short of wonderful.<br />Unique in its telling, Songs of the Humpback Whale portrays a woman, Jane Jones, whose marriage to Dr. Oliver Jones plays second-fiddle to his lucrative career as a San Diego marine biologist.  The fact that Oliver won't be around to share in his daughter, Rebecca's, 15th birthday, strikes a nerve with Jane, and after a devastating argument, Jane and Rebecca are in the station wagon preparing for a cross-country escape to Jane's brother, Joley, in Massachusetts.  Interesting people are met along the way as Joley's letters waiting in different post offices assists Jane's and Rebecca's journey.  But the most surprising is what awaits for Jane and Rebecca once they arrive in Massachusetts.<br />Songs of the Humpback Whale is a novel told in five different perspectives.  What is unique, however, is Rebecca's tale, which is told from end to beginning.  Sounds confusing, but after a few of her chapters, the reader will be resting comfortably in the story.  Songs is an omnipotent tale with awakenings around every corner.  I highly recommend this book to all Jodi fans -- no courtroom drama here, but fascinating nonetheless.	2002-04-26
US	52768278	RHEG6LBYKD1VL	0375760628	447916207	Slave to Fashion: A Novel	Books	4	15	15	N	N	A fashionista's saga...	As a collector of Brit Chick Lit novels, finding Slave to Fashion on the bookshelf was like discovering a jewel in a treasure chest.  However, *reading* Slave to Fashion was worth much, much more!  A heavier, more sarcastic version of the genre, but it is just as satisfying.<br />Katie Castle has made it.  After her embarrassing beginnings as daughter of two ignorable parents and citizen of a less-than-fabulous part of London, finally making her mark as production manager of a successful clothing company is a dream come true.  But while all is well in the job department, Katie feels something is missing.  No, not a man, because she is engaged to Ludo, but maybe -- just maybe -- she needs to sow her last oats before taking the plunge.  Be careful what you wish for, Katie!  Ludo is your boss's son and cheating on him could spell trouble in more ways than one....<br />Funny, wry, and observant, Slave to Fashion packs a punch.  And while Katie Castle may be the anti-Bridget, I believe all Chick Lit lovers will find something in this novel to love.  It starts out a little bland, but never fear -- it does pick up!  Chock-full of fashion, parties, and celebrity -- a wild ride on the other side and one not to be missed!	2002-04-22
US	52768278	RZMAZLA5MR9S1	0373250126	471365971	Milkrun	Books	4	34	37	N	N	All Aboard the Milkrun!!	If you are in the mood for a quick, light, refreshing read, then Milkrun is for you.  I recently finished a very lengthy, heavy book, so reading Milkrun was like a breath of fresh air for me.  A simple tale about a girl getting dumped and her determination to get over it quick -- something a lot of us can relate to.<br />Twenty-four-year-old Jackie Norris just got the boot in the tackiest way -- via e-mail.  Her boyfriend, Jeremy, has been off &quot;finding himself&quot; in Thailand -- in the arms of someone else.  Jackie is devastated but will not let it get her down as she swears to get back in the dating game.  Meanwhile, Jackie's roommate, Samantha, is fed-up with Marc, her no-commitment boyfriend of five years.  So she issues the ultimatum -- and the response wasn't quite what she was expecting.<br />Told with a funny, wise-cracking sense of humor, Milkrun is definitely a winner.  Not a deep-meaning dating drama by any means, but there are many situations in the story that are highly relateable, and readers will most likely recognize a part of Jackie in themselves.  I urge all readers who want an easy, no-frills read to pick this book up and enjoy.  The perfect in-between-books book or for a lazy day on the porch swing.	2002-04-15
US	52768278	R10O9YXDTXSP3O	0679735909	627682796	Possession	Books	4	25	27	N	N	A heavy but worthy read...	Possession is probably the most difficult but unique book I have ever read.  A.S. Byatt is obviously very talented and much deserving of the Booker Prize.  Possession is truly a tour-de-force of many facets, although the writing style and complexity of the story may be a bit much for some.<br />Roland Michell, an academic and researcher of the 19th century poet, Randolph Henry Ash, has stumbled across something that could change the very foundation of his research: two drafts of a letter that Ash sent to a mysterious woman, who later is found to be another poet, Christabel LaMotte.  Roland enlists the help of the LaMotte scholar, Maud Bailey, to fit the puzzle pieces together.  The fact that Ash is married and LaMotte a supposed lesbian and feminist makes this journey of discovery one that will change the face of history as they've known it.  And as their research takes them further along, the mystery and suspense builds, letter by letter, until the fascinating climax at the novel's end.<br />This book, regardless of its stunning display of talent, will not be for everyone.  It took me on a roller coaster ride throughout with its high and low points as my interest in the story waxed and waned.  Interspersed with poetry, diary entries, letters, and passages from books makes Possession a very unique and creative novel; however, these things which make it unique also has the capacity to tear it down -- some of the poetry could have been left out, and the letters, albeit important to the story, were at times laborous.<br />Possession is a literature buff's dream novel.  Reader's who enjoy 19th century British literature and can actually understand poetry of that century will get more out of this novel than I did.  Throughout my reading, my rating hovered between 3 and 4 stars, but decided to round up simply for the fact that Possession is truly a novel of dynamic proportions.  It'll just take me a second read-around to understand it better.	2002-04-10
US	52768278	R3ATQVFYRW1S6G	0375706771	930468436	Midwives (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	142	146	N	N	A compelling story...	Midwives is a wonderfully written and powerfully told story of a family's life in small-town Vermont and the events that changed it forever.  Gripping and real, Chris Bohjalian has woven together a murder mystery that will have readers guessing until the very end.<br />Sybil Danforth, midwife and mother of the story's narrator, 14-year-old Connie, has a thriving practice and normal family life.  Then the unthinkable happens:  on a cold winter night in the middle of coaching Charlotte Bedford through her lengthy and strenuous labor, tragedy strikes -- Charlotte dies while trying to give birth to her son.  With phone lines heaving with ice and roads too treacherous to drive upon, Sybil is forced into a decision -- to save the unborn baby via a homemade Caeserean or let him die along with his mother.<br />As the events of that evening unfold, readers are privy to shocking information:  the Caesarean Sybil is forced to perform may have been done on a living woman.  Soon a courtroom battle ensues, pitting the medical community against midwifery, and readers will be left wondering after each page is turned what really happened on that cold, dark night.<br />Chris Bohjalian is a very talented writer who has obviously spent a lot of research on this novel.  Telling this story in a female voice as accurately as he did makes Midwives all the more compelling and authentic.  His writing style was very easy to understand even though it jumps back and forth between past and present.  A hearty mystery with a riveting conclusion.  I will be reading more by this author.	2002-04-01
US	52768278	R1T597523K9D34	0375706062	449261090	Lying Awake	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Beautiful and thought-provoking...	I've never read anything by Mark Salzman before, but I believe Lying Awake is a good starting place.  This novel is a very profound, yet simple statement about faith and brings to life the journey of a nun who is faced with a heartbreaking decision.  Eloquent writing and vivid imagery pull readers into a sanctuary of peace, undying love for God, and one woman's struggle to justify her faith.<br />Sister John of the Cross, a Carmelite nun in Los Angeles, has spent the past 28 years in contemplative life.  Like others before her, Sister John questions her reasons for being a nun and whether her faith is strong enough to sustain her.  And like an answer from God, one day Sister John experiences intense holy visions unlike anything she's ever known before.  The visions, although inspiring and glorious, are also accompanied by painful headaches that doctors feel is detrimental to her health.  Now Sister John has a decision to make -- to ignore these cautions and accept these visions as special religious favors or to correct the &quot;problem&quot; and return to the ache and loss she felt before.<br />Mark Salzman's novel is stunning and clear:  With visions that bring Sister John closer to God, what consequences are there to her, one who has spent her whole life serving that God, once those visions disappear.  Beautiful and powerful for such a short little book and one that will remain in memory for a long time to come.	2002-03-25
US	52768278	R1VTU0JNFD3LXF	0425162443	139645956	The Rapture of Canaan	Books	5	56	61	N	N	A must-read novel about faith and freedom...	Rapture of Canaan is an honestly good book.  A highly engrossing tale about an extremely religious commune and the severity of their faith.  A novel of sharply-crafted twists and turns and one that will play with your emotions.  This is a story of one girl's faith in her church and in God and her struggle to balance freedom within the iron walls of the world in which she lives.<br />Grandpa Herman, founder of The Church of Fire and Brimstone and God's Almighty Baptizing Wind, has a flock to tend to -- his congregation, where some mimic Herman's steadfast and unnerving faith, and some who occassionally stray from the righteous path.  And perhaps the most surprising stray of all is his granddaughter, Ninah.  Twelve-year-old Ninah, who finds difficulty in controlling her first adolescent stirrings, manages somehow to twist them and convince herself the things she does with her prayer partner, James, is nothing more than learning about Jesus's love through each other.  And once the community finds out, the whole system of the Church is shocked to a halt.  \\"The wages of sin is death,\\" says Grandpa Herman.  The story plays out wickedly as the truth of Ninah's transgressions plummets to an end....The rapture has come.<br />The Rapture of Canaan is a powerful and stunning novel.  Shari Reynold's prose is a tapestry of faith, religion, fear, sadness, life and death, all woven to create a picture of a cult-like existence and how it effects those in which it governs.  A truly page-turning saga that expresses the all-encompassing love for Jesus and the trials of a girl finding her way.  An uplifting and frightening mix.  A great read.	2002-03-24
US	52768278	R2U5WZEXSUYWSU	0345389247	484612515	Crazy in Alabama	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Definitely crazy!	Your homework for tonight:  Drop everything and read Crazy in Alabama! This is such a great book -- much better than the movie.  Mark Childress's carefully drawn characters come alive in these pages.  Aunt Lucille will amaze you will all the nutty things she does.  And Peejoe's story will have your heart breaking.<br />It all starts when Aunt Lucille and her six children come ambling up the driveway of her mother's house early May 1965.  She's killed her bullying husband and stashed his head in a Tupperware bowl (with a Press-and-Lock seal that really works!), and now with him out of the way, she's free to pursue her dream:  to become an actress.  Leaving her children with her mother, Lucille has zoomed off to Hollywood, evoking suspicion and evading arrest at every turn.<br />Twisted into this story is another tale told through the eyes of 12-year-old Peejoe.  He and his brother, Wiley, spend the summer in Industry, Alabama with Lucille's brother, Uncle Dove.  As the county coroner and local funeral director, Dove has quite a busy summer ahead of him -- when Industry opens up their new &quot;whites only&quot; municipal swimming pool and the entire town takes a tragic turn.<br />Crazy in Alabama is both riotous and rollicking as well as a sad reminder of the Civil Rights Movement and its history.  Lucille's adventures will have readers laughing out loud as suppressed feelings awaken in her on her journey across the country.  And the view through the innocent eyes of Peejoe will have readers wondering why all life's answers can't be so simple.  An action-packed novel and one that won't be forgotten!  Has all the qualities of a quirky southern tale that will amuse you and move you.	2002-03-19
US	52768278	R2ZH3U29SWMNW2	0688180728	543757976	Last Chance Saloon: A Novel	Books	4	18	22	N	N	Give this one a chance...	Last Chance Saloon is such a great book! I have read four Marian Keyes books, and she has yet to disappoint me.  She has a wonderful way of mixing serious issues and sadness with huge amounts of laughter and fun.  Last Chance Saloon is no exception.<br />Tara, Katherine and Fintan have been friends since their small-Irish-town days.  Now living it up in London, the three friends have made a life for themselves in very different ways.  Tara, who just turned 31, is a wee-bit depressed that she's getting older and involved with a terribly selfish, penny-pinching boyfriend, Thomas.  For fear of dumping him and never being able to find anybody else, Tara manages to convince herself that being miserable is better than being alone.  Katherine, or as her co-workers call her, the Ice Princess, is a brilliant accountant and very independent woman.  Who needs a man when you've got success, right?  But there's more to that statement than meets the eye -- could it be that Katherine's forcing herself to stay single?  As for Fintan, growing up gay hasn't always been easy.  But he's finally found soulmate status with Sandro and life is good.  But then something tragic happens that completely tears Fintan's world apart.  But through tragedy comes wisdom, and Fintan has a few things to say to Tara and Katherine about the way they've been living their lives.<br />It's the Last Chance Saloon for these three friends, or so it seems.  There's a lot of growing up to be done, a lot of realizations to be made, and many changes to go around.  Will they somehow make it through to the other side?  Marian Keyes weaves a thought-provoking and humorous story and leaves no question left unanswered.  Toss in some side characters like the trio's friend, Liv, who is in search for spiritual wellbeing; Fintan's family, the O'Grady's, who look like Hillbillies compared to the modernization of London; and suave, debonair, Lorcan Larkin, Ireland's answer to Fabio.<br />Expect to be laughing and crying with this one!  Wonderfully written with a nice flow of short chapters that make the book fly by.  Last Chance Saloon holds within its pages a great cast of characters and an unforgettable story.  Witty, charming, and believeable.  Excellent job!h this one!  Wonderfully written with a nice flow of short chapters that make the book fly by.  Last Chance Saloon holds within its pages a great cast of characters and an unforgettable story.  Witty, charming, and believeable.  Excellent job!	2002-03-12
US	52768278	RZ6TR26YR5ILN	0312289189	153434248	Queenmaker: A Novel of King David's Queen	Books	5	24	29	N	N	All hail the Queen!	For those who have read and loved The Red Tent and are searching for the next great Biblical fiction novel, look no further than Queenmaker.  With vivid writing and spectacular, engrossing scenes, Queenmaker can be considered no less than a shining jewel in Queen Michal's crown.  And while this novel does have similarities to The Red Tent, I must say that Queenmaker truly is a sparkling effort of its own individuality.<br />The story begins when the prophet Samuel crowns Saul of Gibeah Israel's first king.  Once King Saul is established, many changes come for Israel.  One change comes in the form of a lowly shepherd's boy, David, who is employed to play sweet harp music for the king.  As the years pass, King Saul and David's friendship becomes stronger and soon the King gives his daughter Michal as David's bride.<br />Young Michal is truly a lovesick princess and David a brave warrior and hero to all.  Their marriage is an event worthy of celebration, but come morning, everything changes.  There are many twists and turns to the story, and all the scheming and manipulating had me turning pages quickly.  India Edghill has taken a story from the Bible and created another side -- the woman's voice -- and left me wondering what could have been.  Queen Michal is a true heroine -- full of wisdom and heart, strength and passion, a woman who dealt with life as it was given.  Thank you, India, for this beautiful novel.  Your next book has a reserved spot on my bookshelf.	2002-02-27
US	52768278	R30CV9ID1AE7PI	0060959037	822422067	Prodigal Summer: A Novel	Books	4	32	34	N	N	A whole new world....	Prodigal Summer is a novel of three stories running concurrently and each inhabiting ideals and statements about wildlife and the food chain, pesticides and the environment, and insects and reproduction.  While it doesn't seem like much of a premise for a novel, Prodigal Summer does have endearing characters that spark with life and humor all while being threaded with Barbara Kingsolver's own political platforms.<br />The three stories in Prodigal Summer gives us unique and carefully drawn characters.  In Predators, we have Deanna, a wildlife ranger who has made the forest her home for the past two years and who spends her days monitoring and protecting its creatures.  Then along comes rancher Eddie Bondo who turns her life upside down.  In Moth Love, there is young widow, Lusa, who is now alone and surrounded by her late husband, Cole's, unsupportive and unwelcoming family.  Lusa battles moral questions about the farm she lives on, dealing with her in-laws, and, most importantly, the difference between biological family and the family you inherit.  Finally, in Old Chestnuts, we meet old Garnett Walker, who seems plagued by his stubborn and eccentric neighbor, Nannie Rawley.  Nannie's anti-pesticide and evolution beliefs are about to drive Garnett to the crazy house.  But amidst of all the craziness and their hard-headed environmental and religious debates, Garnett manages to surprise himself.<br />The underlying theme of Kingsolver's political issues makes Prodigal Summer a glorious canopy for the beautifully crafted stories it holds.  I wasn't sure what to make of the book when I first opened it, but after getting familiar with each individual story, the wonder began to take hold and I was truly mesmerized.  Kingsolver has a poetic way with words, and I certainly came away from this book with a more clarified understanding about the world we live in and our place within it.	2002-02-20
US	52768278	RSYI4O2STATKI	0767905199	527463952	Mr. Maybe	Books	5	52	58	N	N	Mr. Maybe is a big YES!	It's been awhile since I've had this much fun reading a British Chick Lit novel.  I was expecting a fairly exciting but predictable read regarding the dating and mating plights of a twentysomething singleton.  However, Mr. Maybe surprised me with its genuine storyline, pleasant humor, and characters that you care about.<br />Mr. Maybe begins in a typical fashion -- single and searching Libby Mason has a great job in Public Relations (natch!), wonderful and supportive friends, and an overwhelming desire to find the man of her dreams, preferably with a very large bank account.  So, yes, I was bumbling along, enjoying myself, reveling in the familiarity, when suddenly this book turned serious (but in a lighthearted, fun sort of way....)!<br />First there comes Nick -- gorgeous, sexy, and unemployed.  Lots of great chemistry happening here, but since Nick is trying to devote more time on getting his novel published, the relationship hits a dead end.  But then Ed happens.  And while he isn't much to look at, he's loaded, and that's what's most important anyway -- right?  Well, figuring this one out is one heck of a journey....<br />Mr. Maybe is great fun.  Jane Green writes sincerely about Libby's emotions.  I recognized many of Libby's thoughts and trials as aspects in my own past struggles with relationships and commitment.  The style of prose is very upbeat and easy to read.  Ms. Green has created an exceptional character in Libby, a true heroine of British Chick fame and one I will always feel a kinship with.  Mr. Maybe is an explicit detail of one single woman's process of deciding what counts in life -- love or money.	2002-02-13
US	52768278	R1X7325GUGDZ0I	0060184957	769627875	Pride, Prejudice and Jasmin Field: A Novel	Books	4	21	22	N	N	I've you've never read the real Pride and Prejudice...	...then Pride, Prejudice and Jasmin Field will delight!  I admit I have never read the original classic by Jane Austen (no wet noodles, please), so all the events written in PPJF were a complete surprise.  Reading the reviews before me, it seems there were many who were looking for a good knock-off.  Since I've never read the former, I have no idea how well the parallel is drawn; my review will only observe PPJF by itself.<br />It all starts with a play:  an adaptation of Pride and Prejudice performed by a bunch of non-actors for a celebrity audience in order to earn money for breast cancer research.  Jasmin (or Jazz if you're her friend), sister George and best pal, Mo, are all auditioning in front of the criticizing and directing eye of Academy Award winner, Harry Noble.  Things get started on a rocky path, and as soon as rehearsals begin, Jazz can't imagine seeing the pretentious and callous Harry Noble any more than she has to.<br />There are many side stories in this novel involving many of the characters:  the ins and out of co-star love, love with your enemy, tabloid scandals, the search for the truth behind an unpleasant personality, the reality of an ideal marriage, and self-realization.  The novel weaves well together and is very readable and fun.  The ending was a little too rushed and tidy for my taste, but I still had a great time reading this book.<br />As mentioned before, I've never read the original Pride and Prejudice, so I don't know how Nathan's contemporary version compares.  As a stand-alone novel, I was very pleased with what I read and glad that I didn't recognize the characters from a previously told story.  Lighthearted, simple, and great weekend entertainment, Pride, Prejudice and Jasmin Field is a exciting teaser of more things to come from Melissa Nathan.	2002-02-05
US	52768278	RWJUDQNPFFU0E	0060977744	177229232	Crazy Ladies: A Novel (Girls Raised in the South)	Books	5	49	50	N	N	Best one yet...	Finishing Crazy Ladies marks the end of my tour de West, and I am so happy it has ended on such a fantastic note!  I loved this novel and all of its humor, quirks, sadness, eccentricities and love.  Michael Lee West is the best southern fiction writer in my book, and I can't wait for Mad Girls in Love to be published so I can read more.<br />Crazy Ladies is just that:  CRAZY!  A novel told in six voices, readers are treated to the intertwining lives of three generations of women, plus a maid that ties up the saga nice and tight.  Miss Gussie begins the novel in 1932 with a bang of a drama and the sparks keep flying up until the end in 1972.  Forty years of children, grandchildren, husbands, war, hippies, poverty, murder, rape, jealousy...it's all there.  Crazy Ladies is a pageturner to the nth degree and will give readers whiplash with all its goings-on.<br />Michael Lee West's writing has a cozyness about it, a nice relaxing feeling that will make the pages fly by.  She brings to life the signs of the times with passion and zeal; you can't help but smile and cry as your emotions are tugged in all directions.  Crazy Ladies is wonderfully addictive, sweet and poignant, and outrageously funny.  A fantastic epitome of southern life -- one that is not to be missed.	2002-01-31
US	52768278	RTFQF07EOTMIC	1573226521	117734468	The Beach	Books	5	58	66	N	N	An adventure you'll never forget...	Ready for some excitement and adventure?  Pick up The Beach and lose yourself on a tropical island...<br />Richard, a twentysomething backpacker who spends most of his time searching for bigger and better places to see, finds his way to Thailand for a little R&amp;R.  But something is definitely different about this trip and most of it comes in the form of his crazy hostel neighbor, Daffy, who talks incessantly and angrily about a beach.  Tucked away in a remote and off-limits part of Thailand, the beach Daffy speaks of is considered a utopia, a perfect world that is unspoiled by tourists, a prize at the end of a tiring quest.  Naturally Richard is curious, so he sets out with a French couple, Etienne and Francoise, and a map drawn by Daffy in search of this pristine fantasy land.<br />The island commune in The Beach would definitely pass for a secret Woodstock hideaway.  Richard's journey is like no other; a riveting and spectacular adventure.  Reading this book was the next best thing to swimming in their private lagoon, spearing fish and viewing the underwater corals.  Island politics and the obsessive desire to keep the island's secrecy plays a heavy role in this novel and is also a prime example of how, even in paradise, one can somehow manage to destroy it.<br /><br />Dark and sinister, as well as sarcastically funny, The Beach is a fast and furious novel that transports readers to another place in the blink of an eye.  Alex Garland's writing is razor-sharp and indicative of his amazing storytelling talent.  The movie cannot begin to touch the depth and fascination of this unforgettable novel.	2002-01-24
US	52768278	R1XVRMQJSYUD2D	0671776134	362447474	Plain Truth: A Novel	Books	5	171	182	N	N	A mesmerizing, addictive story...	My very first novel by Jodi Picoult has lived up to all the hype I've been hearing about for so many months.  I don't know what's taken me so long to finally read one!  Having closed the last page in Plain Truth just a few moments ago, my mind is now reeling from all that I've read this past week.  I have a feeling this story will be with me for quite awhile.<br />Plain Truth tells the story of an 18-year-old Amish girl, Katie Fisher, who secretly gives birth to a child out of wedlock.  Mysteriously the baby disappears and a few hours later is found dead in the barn located on the Fisher farm.  After an initial investigation, Katie is charged with murder and a Philadelphia attorney, Ellie Hathaway, is set to defend her case.  Adding to the fascination of this particular murder trial is the fact that Katie Fisher is Amish, and the Amish convictions are very different from others in the English world.  The fact that an Amishman, who by nature does not believe in confrontation and violence, would kill another is entirely unheard of.<br />Plain Truth is a very intricate and richly detailed tapestry of Amish life and a court case that shocked the small town of East Paradise Township.  Each page turned revealed a little more of the mystery and added to the bewilderment and beauty of the story.  There is much to be said about this novel because it is so much more than just what is written on the back of the book.  It is truly a three dimensional piece of work that kept me in awe and rapt attention until the surprising (and completely unalluded to) ending.  A novel of true page-turner status that will reveal bits and pieces, layer by layer, until the very end.	2002-01-17
US	52768278	R1SCEF2XLXTEKH	0553380400	115409886	Bingo	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Three cheers for Runnymeade!	Those crazy Hunsenmeir sisters are back, and this time, it's personal.... Julia and Louise, after 80+ years of sibling rivalry, still don't have it right.  And when Ed Tutwieler Walters saunters into Friday night bingo, the fireworks are on autopilot.  Vying for the attentions of the town's newest bachelor, Julia and Louise pull out all the stops.  And often at hilarious consequences....<br />Told through the perspective of Julia's adopted daughter, Nickel, readers are treated to small town life in all its glory.  Gossip, disputes, affairs, friendships and, yes, even pesky family troubles, run amok in Runnymeade, Maryland, and Rita Mae Brown uses every ounce of her literary talent to create this unforgettable story.  I was very impressed by what I read, and despite all their cat-fighting, Julia and Louise are two women I'd love to have lunch with!<br />I read the first book in the Hunsenmeir series, Six of One, a couple years ago, and I truly enjoyed Bingo so much more.  Funnier and more wisecracking, Bingo will have readers yearning for weekly bingo dates in the Catholic Church basement, socializing at the town square, and the chance to take your pets with you everywhere you go, even to the doctor's office during your annual check-up.  Wonderfully endearing.  Can't wait for Loose Lips.	2002-01-10
US	52768278	R158U90G73HFUN	0312261594	724183614	Female Intelligence	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Can't wait to read more!	Having never read anything by Jane Heller before, I wasn't sure what to expect.  I had an idea -- a nice, breezy, light read -- but I was in for a surprise.  Not only did I get that relaxing beach-read quality, but I got a storyline with mystery and surprises as well.<br />Dr. Lynn Wyman, linguistics expert and creator of the Wyman Method, a program specializing in teaching men how to communicate with women, has it all -- a thriving practice, a bestselling book, a monthly guest appearance on Good Morning America, four wonderful and supporting friends, and an adoring husband who is well-versed in Womenspeak.  What more could she ask for?  Then in an instant, the bottom falls out, and her career hits an all-time low.  Lynn is desperate to regain her status and the Wyman Method's credibility.  Seeing a picture of Brandon Brock on the cover of Fortune Magazine's America's Toughest Bosses issue, Lynn is determined to gain Brandon as her client and turn him into a sensitive, woman-respecting gentleman.  And in the process, she gets more than she bargained for....<br />I loved Female Intelligence.  It was a very quick read, and the writing pulled just the right emotions.  While not necessarily knee-slapping funny, I did laugh a few times.  Mostly, however, this novel was simply fun brain candy, a great weekend-filler or a breather between heavy books.  And then once you've begun your Jane Heller journey, there's no turning back!  I can't wait to get to her other novels.  Good Job, Jane; you've got a new fan.	2002-01-07
US	52768278	R2E92I9ML2CR70	0380814021	287069968	The Princess Diaries	Books	5	37	41	N	N	One of the best diaries I've read all year	The Princess Diaries gets two enthusiastic thumbs-up from me!  This book was extremely  cute and funny. The writing was very \\"authentically teenage\\" and the characters were an absolute treat.  A very quick read and enjoyable to the last page.<br />High school freshman, Mia Thermopolis, just wants to be normal... Oh, and to have the school's hottest guy, Josh Richter, to fall madly in love with her, but she knows THAT will never happen.  Then something very terrible happens:  her father, after finding out he can no longer have any other children, tells Mia she is the heir to the throne of his small, European home, Genovia.  Excuse me?!  So that would make her...a PRINCESS!!  Most girls would fall all over themselves with excitement, but for Mia, who just wants to be your average teenage high school freshman, vows to keep this disturbing news all to herself.  Well, as if THAT would ever happen...<br />So cute, so refreshing, so fun to read.  Deals with regular adolescent tribulations, as well as some that only happen in dreams, i.e., becoming a princess overnight.  I highly recommend The Princess Diaries to teens and grown-ups alike.  It has all the best qualities and is a great way to spend an entertaining afternoon.  I am not even kidding.	2001-12-31
US	52768278	R387U1ZP3VQ5AL	0380002450	110871072	The Awakening	Books	5	190	209	N	N	Immense talent in a little package	Thank you to all my reading friends who suggested The Awakening as one of their favorite classic novels!  I have been trying to branch out into new literary worlds, and the classics is one genre that I hadn't yet touched.  Still a novice, but my journey has been so profitable thus far.  The Awakening was one novel that is incredibly easy to read and holds such powerful prose in so few pages.<br />A taboo subject back in its day, The Awakening tells the story of one woman's emotional journey from a stifled, miserable marriage to a spirited and lusty freedom.  Young Edna Pontellier feels trapped in a loveless, although pampered, life with husband, Leonce.  Stirrings of independence begin one summer while resorting in Grand Isle, an island off the coast of Louisiana.  These new feelings have begun a profound change in Edna, liberating her beyond belief.  Thus ensues an infidelity that dreams are made of, although at the expense of her marriage and motherhood.<br />Hardly shocking in this day and age, The Awakening's subject of marital infidelity and physical lust for another is always a pageturner.  The theme of the novel -- Edna's torment at the chains that bind her and the flutterings of an unbridled passion -- is brought to life with beautiful writing in simple, elegant words.  I am surprised to find such a passionate and provocative story within its pages.  Short but penetrating, The Awakening will move you.	2001-12-27
US	52768278	R2M6NILFFLKMSC	1582341540	564704657	Motherhood Made a Man Out of Me: A Novel	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A lively and funny tribute to motherhood...	If ever a statement was more true, Motherhood Made a Man Out of Me is it!  I enjoyed this hilarious novel about the anxieties of pregnancy, the fears of labor and birth, and the joys and trials of being a mother.  And while this book may be perfect for mothers who have &quot;been there, done that&quot;, I believe anyone, mother or not, who enjoys a good, funny story with nice surprises at the end will love this book.<br />Brooke is a new mother of 6-month-old Stella when she finds out her best friend, Mary Rose, is pregnant.  Mary Rose, a successful landscaper and very independent, single woman, has the typical fears that most mothers-to-be experience.  And while being in love with and pregnant by Brooke's cousin, Ward Baron, doesn't seem like such a bad idea, having the bizarre, wealthy, pretentious Baron clan as in-laws and grandparents is another thing all together.  Sparks fly throughout the pregnancy regarding marriage, parenthood and grandparents' rights and culminate with a delicious twist at the end.<br />Looking for laughs?  This book will provide!  Motherhood Made a Man Out of Me is a gem, loaded with priceless wisecracks and situations that will have readers rolling.  You don't have to be a mother to enjoy this book.  Any reader who loves to laugh will definitely be entertained.  Highly recommended for a light, fun read or to lift a blue mood.	2001-12-26
US	52768278	RYBX7194CD9LK	0452282829	872593606	We Were the Mulvaneys (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	134	153	N	N	Good story, but tedious to read...	There is no doubt in my mind that Joyce Carol Oates is a wonderfully gifted writer.  However, I don't believe her writing style is for everyone.  We Were the Mulvaneys, however evident of Oates's talent, is a tedious, overdescriptive work that takes patience and perseverence to get through.<br />We Were the Mulvaneys is the story of the Mulvaney family in the mid-1970s.  They are the more-than-typical family, like the ones on TV who play games together in the living room after dinner.  A little on the corny side, but the love they share for each other is obvious in the beginning chapters.  Then something happens to one of the family members - a tragedy atrocious and unforgettable - that threatens to tear the Mulvaneys apart.<br />While the story itself was very good, I could not get into the book.  I was hoping maybe it would be a late-bloomer, but there was never a point that I reached that inspired me to keep reading.  I did finish the novel, but only after a week of exhausting myself.  However, there is an audience out there for this book, and my suggestion is this:  If you are the type of reader that enjoys a slow pace, highly descriptive writing, wordy sentences and a lack of dialogue, then We Were the Mulvaneys would be an excellent choice.  My own personal shortcomings about this book is in no way reflective of the talent or storytelling ability of Joyce Carol Oates.  Please read this and see for yourself.	2001-12-19
US	52768278	R1AZ1BR8AV21OA	038533494X	237199137	Sometimes I Dream in Italian	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Funny and poignant; a great collection	Rita Ciresi just gets better every time I read her.  I started with Pink Slip, which did not impress me very well.  Then on to Blue Italian, which blew me away.  And now with Sometimes I Dream in Italian, a book of connected short stories about the Italian Lupo family, I believe Ms. Ciresi has reached her pinnacle.  Definitely a book not to be missed.<br />Told through the eyes of the youngest Lupo daughter, Angel, the first half of the book documents her childhood with her beautiful, better sister, Lina, and their two strange and boring parents.  Growing up in New Haven, Connecticut, life couldn't be more stagnant.  Angel and Lina both long to rid themselves of their Italian heritage and be buxom and blonde Hollywood movie stars dripping with diamonds.  Instead they are stuck in an old-fashioned time-warp with a mother who quite possibly could be the World's Most Prepared and a father who is nothing more than a measly soda delivery man with stinky feet.  The second half of the book flash-forwards to Angel's and Lina's adulthood.  It is interesting to see how the two girls grew up and branched out in different directions.  Although, behind the normalcy, there is pain and heartache.<br />Sometimes I Dream in Italian explores the intricate relationship between the two sisters, their family, and their dreams.  At times hilarious, yet heartwrenching and poignant, these stories will draw emotions out of you as only good writing can do.  Nice flow and beautifully written.  Looking forward to reading more Ciresi -- she has now become a favorite.	2001-12-10
US	52768278	R1DW916K76CHN2	1573221937	319964836	How To Be Good	Books	4	36	41	N	N	The bad side of being good...	What would you do if you were married to the world's angriest man?  Having to put up with a husband so horrible, sarcastic and bitter is Katie Carr's nightmare come true.  More than anything she wishes David can change his ways, look on the bright side of things, smile every once in awhile.  Well, you know what they say -- be careful what you wish for....<br />How to Be Good is more sarcastic than funny, although sarcasm can be hilarious sometimes.  As for the pace of the story, it did not flow as well as I wanted.  I felt a little pushed into the story from page one, as if I walked in on a heated argument without even knowing the reasons.  I craved background information like water in the desert.  Normally, I like books to just get to the point, but How to Be Good was one where a little pre-story information would have been extremely helpful.  Probably a second read-a-round would be in order for me to appreciate the book fully.<br />As for the story itself, the premise is hilarious.  I love the idea of an angry man being miraculously transformed by a spritual healer, and now his overbearing goodness and piousness completely drives his family insane.  Snide and original, How to Be Good will make you laugh and scream despite any difficulties or dissappointments with the presentation.  Definitely not his best book, but readable all the same.  I suggest High Fidelity for a primo example of Nick Hornby's storytelling talent.	2001-12-07
US	52768278	R278UE2DOMO0ND	0060926317	318377142	Mutant Message Down Under	Books	3	54	77	N	N	Good message despite the controversy	Mutant Message Down Under is a book of many facets.  Regardless of how much is true, (and which, by the way, I feel is not the point of the book) the message has a universal approach and one that should be read with an open mind.<br />Author Marlo Morgan's story of her journey across the Australian Outback seems unbelievable at first.  Why would a tribe of Aborigines specifically select Ms. Morgan for this journey?  What makes her so special?  Also, it is hard to imagine a woman from a large U.S. city, dressed to the nines and getting excited for what she thinks is an award presentation for her civic work with half-breed Aborigines, then realizing her &quot;award&quot; is a 4-month long walkabout with The Real People -- and accepting this fate so readily!!  Eating bugs and tadpoles seems second nature to Marlo Morgan -- Survivor contestants would have nothing on her!<br />But Mutant Message is more than just this outrageous walk across the desert.  The Real People have something to say, and they have chosen Marlo Morgan as their vehicle to spread the word.  While I'm not sure if I agree with everything these Aborigines have said, there are several things that make good sense, regardless of how much into the controversy a person is.  Living life simply, but honestly; not putting too much importance into material things; harboring bad feelings or grudges instead of just closing the circle and moving on -- these are all wonderful life lessons that would make us all better people if only we could do them.<br />In my opinion, Mutant Message is not a full-on masterpiece; the writing mostly reads like a National Geographic article.  However, peel away the scientificness and controversy, as well as all the things that seems unreal or fiction, and what you would have left is this beautiful message about life, all living things, and how we are all one people.  Certainly this message needs to be heard.	2001-11-30
US	52768278	R2O0PKP9JQ76YV	0373250118	46887746	See Jane Date (Red Dress Ink)	Books	4	39	39	N	N	Great for Chick Lit fans!	Ever since Bridget Jones, I have been consumed by Chick Lit -- I can't get enough!  I am so pleased that the publishers at Red Dress Ink have made this genre their trademark.  I now know who to go to for my next fix....<br />It's not easy being the last single person in the family.  Jane Gregg feels terribly alone and small, especially in the glare of her younger (and engaged) cousin, Dana Dreer's, limelight.  And with everyone always asking her if she's got a boyfriend, Jane does what any single, 28-year-old, red-blooded American woman would do -- she lies.  Thus catapults Jane into a blind-dating frenzy in order to find a suitable boyfriend in time for Dana's wedding.<br />See Jane Date is -- yes -- your typical &quot;single girl from the City who wonders why she can't get a man&quot; novel.  But this time, there is something different in the mix:  Author Melissa Senate has managed to make our heroine, Jane Gregg, likeable and capable of evoking real sympathy from readers.  I was Jane Gregg's one-woman pep squad, rooting for her as she embarks on a frantic search for the &quot;one.&quot;  Concluding with a nice moral to the story, See Jane Date is a perfect example of one single girl's struggle to be accepted and loved.	2001-11-27
US	52768278	R1A0XA2WRIXP7T	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Another great year at Hogwarts...	J.K. Rowling never ceases to amaze me.  Imagination, creativity, magic and surprises take center stage in the fourth installment of Harry Potter, and it proves once again that Harry simply gets better with age.<br />Never a dull moment at Hogwarts.  This year something different is on the horizon and has all the Hogwarts students giddy with excitement.  This &quot;something&quot; comes in the form of the Triwizard Tournament, a competition of skill and bravery between three rival wizarding schools.  Only one champion per school is allowed, and Harry is too young to compete.  But someone, somewhere, has it out for Harry and concocts a plan that turns his fourth year completely upside down...and with fatal consequences.<br />Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire is more mature and humorous than the previous three, but does not devalue the adventure and magic that has become its trademark.  The ending will twist, turn and surprise you.  You think you know, but really you have NO idea!  I am eagerly anticipating the next book.  I'm already in withdrawls....	2001-11-21
US	52768278	R10VGB7VFUFDDO	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	443	485	N	N	No wonder it's a classic...	I just finished this book a few moments ago, and I am completely awed by this story.  Harper Lee has done an excellent job bringing this 1930s Alabama childhood to life.  I can see why To Kill a Mockingbird has won the Pulitzer Prize, garnered an Academy Award for the movie version, and ultimately become a timely classic enjoyed by many generations.<br />To Kill a Mockingbird tells the story of two children, sister Scout and brother Jem, and their childhood during three years in the midst of the Great Depression.  Scout and Jem spend most of their summers with their summer-neighbor, Dill, making up plays and spying on the town recluse, Boo Radley.  During the school year (minus Dill, who goes back home to Mississippi), Scout finds herself in trouble one too many times and struggles with the concept of being a lady, especially when all she wants to do is wear overalls and beat up her classmates.<br />Then everything changes one fall....  Scout and Jem's father, Atticus Finch, a lawyer in their town of Maycomb, Alabama, is appointed to the defense of Tom Robinson, a black man accused of raping a white woman (although not of the highest caliber), Mayella Ewell.  The fact of this case rocks the town of Maycomb, and with Scout and Jem feeling the brunt of their classmates ridicule when they realize Atticus is on Tom's side.<br />I was simply floored while reading this novel.  I wasn't expecting a &quot;classic&quot; to be so readable.  Now I know what I've been missing!  To Kill a Mockingbird is a piece of our American history that depicts racism and prejudice, childhood innocence, and the perseverence of a man who risked it all to stand up for what he believed in.  Wonderful portrayal and one I will read again.	2001-11-07
US	52768278	R3N29PNFV4GTMQ	0967370167	818351799	Ella Minnow Pea: A Progressively Lipogrammatic Epistolary Fable	Books	5	39	41	N	N	Get Ella Minnow Pea, ASAP!	How about something refreshingly original, amazingly creative, wholeheartedly unique?  Or maybe something containing whimsically plausible characters encasing hearty penchants for the written word and appetites for poetically stimulating language usage?  Look no further!  Read Ella Minnow Pea for a divine, utterly addictive, and monumentally appealing perusing experience.<br />In the fictional island of Nollop, home to the late, great Nevin Nollop, inventor of the sentence, &quot;The quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog,&quot; a pangram that contains all 26 letters of the alphabet, there's an uprising going on!  Seems the monument depicting said sentence (in an effort to memorialize the citizens' esteemed island founder) is falling apart, letter by letter.  High Council members determine this as a word from the great beyond, a way of communicating to us Nollop's wishes to eradicate that certain letter from use -- verbally or written.  As an island full of people who use letter-writing and communication as an art form, these wishes could only spell 'demise.'  If only there was a way to prove the tiles' falling as an act of faulty cement glue....<br />Ella Minnow Pea is an extraordinary book of letters from one citizen to the next that increase in hilarity and difficulty as each letter of the alphabet is increasingly banned from use.  Mark Dunn is an extremely talented writer in my eyes, especially given this amazing task to expand his vocabulary beyond normal conversation.  Have your Thesauruses handy -- Ella Minnow Pea will take you on quite an intellectual journey.	2001-11-01
US	52768278	RIISPH2FJMR46	0553801821	208460173	The Man Who Ate the 747	Books	4	27	28	N	N	A fine feast of a novel...	What lengths would you go to for love?<br />J.J. Smith, Keeper of the Records for The Book of Records (akin to the Guinness Book), is a &quot;been there, done that&quot; kind of guy.  He has traveled all over the world authenticating the longest kiss, the most splits of a single human hair, etc.  Then he receives this letter about a man who is eating pieces of a jumbo jet in order to prove his love for a woman.  A Tall Tale?  Maybe.  Could happen?  Probably not.  Plain fun?  You betcha!<br />The Man Who Ate the 747 is a feelgood novel with downhome humor and a sweet love story.  Most of the characters in this novel go through some kind of change, which is always a refreshing change of pace after reading novels where the characters are stuck in the same desperate loop, who never learn lessons or grow beyond their boundaries.  Ben Sherwood's writing is gentle and flowing and transports readers to wide open spaces where the unthinkable happens.<br />&quot;We chase wild dreams and long for all that eludes us, when the greatest joys are within our grasp, if we can only recognize them.&quot;  How true...  Read this novel and see for yourself.	2001-10-29
US	52768278	R1VCHVKQ8Z8NXT	0375756981	583942750	The Vagina Monologues: The V-Day Edition	Books	4	19	23	N	N	Every woman should read this	At my book club meeting a couple months ago, one of the members (who had just returned from a trip to London) was raving about this one-woman show she saw.  I had heard of The Vagina Monologues before but couldn't recall exactly what it was about.  Well, this member gave us all the gritty details and sparked quite a discussion about it.  And with us all being such book nuts, we had to know, &quot;Is there a book?&quot;<br />Reading The Vagina Monologues left me with a new feeling of empowerment and happiness at being born a woman.  The women Eve Ensler interviewed for the essays came across as strong individuals -- simply because they survived.  The essays cover a wide variety of topics such as birth, sex, rape, genital mutilation, and menstruation.  All different types of women were interviewed, and their stories will make you laugh, cry, and shout with joy.  Plus, reading the letters in the back of the book from people who attended the live performances was very moving.  Just hearing how the show affected the audience (men and women alike) was enough to see its worth.<br />I thank Eve Ensler for creating The Vagina Monologues and for believing in the power, uniqueness, gentleness and strength of women.  Makes me want to start my own show.  And to quote one of the women who directed the play, &quot;Viva Vagina!&quot;	2001-10-24
US	52768278	R2X4YJR31P0XQ2	0385319037	863089890	Animal Husbandry	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder at its best...	Talk about a bitter woman!  Jane Goodall has recently been dumped and wants to know why.  She embarks on a mission to find out the reasoning behind her ex's strange behavior, and in doing so, finds some interesting parallels of the seducing, mating and moving-on habits between animals and men.  Coming up with her own suggestion based on these ideals, Jane's Old-Cow-New-Cow theory is a sure-fire hit.  Or is it?<br />Laura Zigman has written a totally fun and witty novel about one woman's heartbreak and the desperation she has in proving it wasn't all because of her.  I laughed, I sympathized.  Jane Goodall embodies a gamut of emotions that comes with being dumped -- and believe me, we get to sample them all!  This novel is wonderfully written and contains fascinating insight into male behavior.  Easy to read and quick to get through, Animal Husbandry makes you a believer in the Old-Cow-New-Cow theory, and just as easily makes you think again.  Bravo, kudos, applause, applause.  Can't wait to read Laura's next book.  Oh, how I love to be entertained.	2001-10-22
US	52768278	R2WY8462ST9SA9	0670891568	739787521	Fiona Range	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A good bad-girl story...	I admit I did not get into this story right away.  However, when it begins to take off, BOY does it ever!  Fiona Range is a novel full of twists and turns, and even though I thought most of it was predictable, the ending threw me for a loop.<br />Fiona Range is probably the oldest teenager alive -- 30-years-old and still causing trouble.  Raised by her aunt and uncle after the hasty disappearance of her mother shortly after her birth, Fiona has always felt like an outsider.  Growing up in a house full of cousins who could do no wrong, Fiona looks at herself as the Black Sheep, the Trouble Maker, the Embarrassment Who Can't Get Her Life Straight.  Slipping in and out of different beds quicker than changing socks, and if there is a moment of goodness that lasts longer than usual, leave it to Fiona to break the monotony.<br />Fiona's story is one of sadness and trying to fit in.  It speaks of the different relationships that surround her:  with her family, who tend to cover their own transgressions with surface smiles and false happiness; with her ex-boyfriend, Todd, who is a troublemaker in his own right; her co-workers at the diner, Maxine, Chester, Donna and Sandy, who have their own stories to share; and her father, Patrick, who Fiona seeks out for answers about her mother.  The fun begins at an engagement party for Fiona's cousin, Elizabeth, and doesn't end until novel's close.  Excellent writing, very engrossing storytelling.  Will be reading more by this author.	2001-10-16
US	52768278	R27DOV92IAM8CZ	0671021001	785191741	She's Come Undone (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	119	142	N	N	A sweeping novel with an unforgettable heroine...	This book was terrific!  She's Come Undone is a powerful epic, an emotional journey in the life of Dolores Price.  Wally Lamb's Dolores is a perfectly flawed character and easy to get attached to.  Brilliant writing, a fabulous point-of-view of a female told through the hand of a male.  How did he do it with such spot-on honesty?<br />She's Come Undone begins in the year 1956 when Dolores is 4 and her family gets a brand new television.  Soon, this seemingly normal life begins to unravel, leaving Dolores the product of a marriage gone wrong.  While reading this book, I feel this moment of her parents' divorce became the crucial building block of Dolores's downward spiral.  And while I do not want to spoil the plot for you, I will say that Dolores lives through some of the most terrible events, and desperately struggles (though at times seems indifferent) to regain the normalcy she once had.<br />Vivid and emotional, this wild ride pulls your heartstrings and strikes your nerves, sometimes within the same sentence.  Pages full of pain and sadness, but also sprinkled with a snappy attitude that had me laughing in my seat.  I felt a certain kinship, an almost sisterly devotion toward Dolores, and I praise Wally Lamb for creating this wonderfully real and troubled character.	2001-10-08
US	52768278	R3EVET9R780H28	0452282195	331831848	The Bluest Eye (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	172	185	N	N	Surprisingly good...	I will admit to some apprehension prior to picking up this book.  I had heard that Toni Morrison, although a brilliant author, is a little hard to understand.  And there's nothing I hate more than wading through a book full of abstract poetic descriptions and thick symbolism that goes right over my head.  Despite all this, I pulled up my bootstraps and dived right in.  What was to follow was quite a surprise.<br />The Bluest Eye tell the story of the Breedloves, a poor black family living in Lorain, Ohio in the early 1940s.  Each chapter tells something different -- the journey of the dad, Cholly, from curious young boy to a drunk and unloving father; the history of the mother, Pauline, and her dreams of movie stars and romance; and the childhood of the children, Sammy and Pecola, and how they deal with life as they've been given.  Full of hardships and unfairness, the Breedloves have been through tough times most of their lives.  And young Pecola's wishes of blue eyes and blonde hair in order to be loved and respected by others is a testament to the unjust world they lived in.<br />My fear is that this review won't do the book justice.  There is so much written here that left me with feelings of sadness and horror, but also of hope -- hope that our world now has moved on from the racism of the past and will eventually surpass it.  The Bluest Eye is highly moving and sensitive, and written in an addictive easy and lyrical style.  I may have missed an important part of the book, any underlying symbolism or meaning that Toni Morrison was trying to convey -- I don't know.  All I do know is The Bluest Eye is a darn good story, and I'm extremely glad I read it.	2001-09-28
US	52768278	R2FEUFJ3F6TBIM	0140296298	187291878	Riding in Cars With Boys: Confessions of a Bad Girl Who Makes Good (Movie tie-in)	Books	4	39	44	N	N	A Wild Ride...	My curiosity was piqued while watching previews for the movie version of Riding In Cars With Boys.  I remember thinking it would make a great book.  Well, imagine my surprise....  Reading this book started off like a trip down High School Lane.  The further I read, however, I realized I was just a mere goody-two-shoes in comparison.<br />Beverly Donofrio, raised in a typical family home, was a smart girl.  But something happened along the way, and before we know it, Beverly is a rebellious boy-crazy teenager getting felt up in the back seats of cars and drinking.  With no hopes of going to college in sight, Beverly stops trying in school, trying to please her parents, trying in general.  Ending up pregnant, married and divorced by 19, Beverly begins a journey of drugs, sex, alcohol and parties, all with her son in tow.<br />Riding In Cars With Boys is the story of a girl who craves attention while eluding responsibilities, about growing up while raising a child, about innocence lost too early.  May be a triumphant novel in some aspects by book's end, and the long row to hoe in order to get there holds many lessons.  Would be an excellent read for a teen on the brink of adulthood -- what better way to tell them how NOT to live than with this book.  Excellent writing by Beverly Donofrio, and what guts to tell it like it is.	2001-09-25
US	52768278	RZ30532S9QFAL	0609606727	574254744	Julie and Romeo: A Novel	Books	4	14	18	N	N	Love story with a twist	For such a short novel, Julie and Romeo sure packs a punch!  Jeanne Ray has taken a classic Shakespeare tragedy and put on a lighthearted, fun spin.  Easy flowing reading style and laughs sprinkled throughout, Julie and Romeo may be one of the most fun love stories I've read in awhile.<br />No, it's not the Montagues and Capulets who are at each others' throats.  This time we come neck and neck with the Rosemans and Cacciamanis, two families and rival florists in a small Boston suburb.  The rivalry has spanned three generations now, but only the eldest living, 90-year-old and still feisty, Mrs. Cacciamani, knows its origins.  But when 60-year-old divorced Julie Roseman bumps into widowed Romeo Cacciamani at a small business conference, somehow all the hatred she had felt in the past for him seems to have disappeared.  Let the love story begin, right?  Not so fast.  The rest of the Roseman and Cacciamani clan have a few things to say first....<br />I truly enjoyed the fun and relaxing pace of this novel.  Julie and Romeo is cute and funny, but also sparks some heated moments when dealing with the rest of the feuding families.  Not only that, but it deals with older adults falling in love again and provides proof that you're never too old to rediscover your giddy side.  Very good debut novel.  Hope to hear from Jeanne Ray again.	2001-09-21
US	52768278	R19N4GTHBPAKKQ	014029628X	180693945	Girl in Hyacinth Blue	Books	5	116	118	N	N	Unique and lovely...	The concept of this novel, tracing the history of a painting by going back in time chapter by chapter, is just my cup of tea.  Susan Vreeland has done an excellent job in transferring this unique notion to paper.  I've always enjoyed antiques and wondered about its origination; Girl in Hyacinth Blue was like a dream come true in that respect.<br />The story begins with math professor, Cornelius Engelbrecht.  He was bequeathed a painting from his father, who claims it a masterpiece by the Dutch artist Vermeer.  There are no papers to prove this statement; however, the bigger picture is the way Cornelius's father obtained the painting...a way that has haunted him all his life.<br />Each chapter moves back in time to the previous owner of the painting.  Readers follow the painting from the wall of Cornelius's father to the actual inspiration and creation of it.  Each vignette houses new sets of characters with the painting as its central core.  Slowly, with each turning page, we reveal another part of the painting's history, layer by layer, and what it has meant to the people whose lives it touched.<br />Girl in Hyacinth Blue made for a wonderful reading experience.  I recommend this novel to those who enjoy lovely period pieces or like getting to the bare bones of a story.  A very in depth and beautiful premise.  I have Susan's next book on my list.	2001-09-14
US	52768278	R1G5P3TNGUSE5C	0399148019	723229047	The Absence of Nectar	Books	5	16	20	N	N	A thrilling masterpiece...	When I reviewed Kathy Hepinstall's first novel, House of Gentle Men, I remarked that I didn't know how she could top herself.  Well, having completed her newest, The Absence of Nectar, I can confidently say that miracles do happen.  Kathy's sophomore release is a true testament to her amazing talent.<br />Eleven-year-old Alice Fendar has a very cynical view of the world now that her father, a man she loved and trusted, left her family.  So when Simon Jester, her new stepfather, enters her life, Alice can't help but see him with a wary eye.  Mystery surrounds Simon and his first family, a wife and three-year-old son who died in a drowning accident.  And along with Simon's temper, crazy ideals about God, and discipline tactics, Alice increasingly become distrustful and hateful.  With her mother, Meg, turning a blind eye to everything regarding Simon, Alice's older brother, Boone, is the only one left to join her on her quest to discover the truth about Simon and his past.<br />The Absence of Nectar is a remarkable effort.  Each paragraph had the tendency to make you laugh but also chill you to the bone as only a thriller can.  The story line was captivating and had me riveted to my seat for hours.  Kathy Hepinstall is truly brilliant and one of the greatest masters of fiction that I've ever read.  Her books always seem to have some eerie quality or bizarre twist of fate that is utterly addictive.  If you've read House of Gentle Men, then prepare to be totally blown away again.  If The Absence of Nectar is your first Hepinstall experience, then congratulate yourself for discovering this treasure.  Kudos, kudos and more kudos.	2001-09-11
US	52768278	REIP8DVBS2U2J	0684838907	474108424	Jackie by Josie: A Novel	Books	4	13	13	N	N	An entertaining, light read...	Jackie By Josie is an excellent and impressive debut novel by Caroline Preston.  For me, a person who does not liked to be bogged down with heavy writing, difficult words, and poetically graphic sentences, I found the author's quick and clear style very refreshing.  And while the story itself took awhile to get my attention at first, I quickly become enmeshed in the story of Josie and her summer of dirt-digging, marriage-reflecting, and mother-sitting.<br />For Josie Trask, discouraged and restless over her unfinished dissertation, a chance to dig up the dish on Jackie Kennedy for Fiona Jones, celebrity biographer, is a welcomed distraction.  Josie and her 3-year-old son, Henry, move in with her mother for the summer while Peter, Josie's husband, drives across country with fellow classmate, Monica, to their respective teaching jobs in California.  Sounds cut-and-dried, but it seems moving in with Mom isn't all it's cracked up to be.  And having your husband riding shotgun with another woman does nothing for Josie's state of mind.  Full of all sorts of awakenings about herself and those around her, Josie's summer brings her more than she's ever bargained for.<br />Jackie By Josie is a novel that delves into the intricate weavings of marriage, family, trust and happiness.  Spiced with true quotes and events from the life of Jackie Kennedy, Caroline Preston has expertly blended the two story lines together and created a unique and life-enhancing parallel between Jackie and Josie.  Great first effort.  I will be reading this author again.	2001-09-07
US	52768278	R9JBT4G1MAXGI	0743205049	71635038	Cat's Meow: A Novel	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Oh, to be famous...	I have just finished reading this fabulous novel, and let me tell you, Cat's Meow is just plain fun!  While it is certainly no literary achievement of great strides, Melissa de la Cruz's book has nevertheless provided me with the opportunity to see how &quot;the other half&quot; lives and has done so in a tongue-in-cheek, sitcom-comedy sort of way.<br />Cat McAllister, former child star and teen model, is about to celebrate her 4th annual 25th birthday when she suddenly realizes she's quickly becoming a has-been.  Other celebrities her age have graduated to bigger and better things while Cat has remained in what she refers to as the &quot;seventh circle of celebrity hell.&quot;  Plus, as much as Cat enjoys buying the latest designer clothes, accessories, and tickets to the latest  charity-of-the-week soiree, it's no surprise her credit is suffering and trust fund depleted.  So armed with her best friend, successfully transformed transvestite India Beresford-Givens, Cat embarks on a mission to marry rich --  Stephan of Westonia (a Prince no less)  is the perfect target.<br />Shallow, vain, and ridiculous, Cat's Meow had me howling.  Full of spoiled-brat humor, celebrity-studded parties, name-dropping, and designer clothes, this book is one not to be missed.  It's like being invited to all the fun stuff without having to pay!  A fabulous and frolicking joy ride in the life of a New York socialite, her Sri Lankin au pair and transvestite friend, in a world where money, clothes and being popular is always in style.  Tr&egrave;s magnifique!	2001-08-31
US	52768278	R13U3KKQYH14FO	0375700269	719393029	Evening	Books	4	62	67	N	N	An Evening to Remember...	After spending a couple of years on my bookshelf, I was finally tempted to read this novel. Evening is unlike anything I've ever read before. The prose is not clear-cut, with ramblings and confusion throughout the entire novel, but once readers get into the flow of the story, this morphine-induced reality-versus-fantasy begins to take shape. Evening tells the story of Ann Lord, a 65-year-old cancer patient on the verge of death. Family and friends take vigil at her bedside, and through the haze and confusion of Ann's heavily sedated mind are many ramblings about unconnected things, short memories that pass through in an instant then quickly dissolve. Only one thing remains sharp in Ann's mind: the weekend she spent at her best friend's wedding and the man she met there with whom she fell in love. Harris Arden was not just a weekend fling, he became the pivotal moment in Ann's life from which love, loss, hope and reality begin. Susan Minot's stunning, eloquent prose writes of a love story between Ann and Harris; a life story involving Ann's three husbands and her five children; and a death story of the final moments of a woman's life and those things that can never be left behind. Choppy at times, confusing at others, but this unique writing style creates an authentic other world where consciousness slips between reality and dreams. Excellent and powerful; a vivid portrayal of the end of a life.	2001-08-27
US	52768278	R23ST5X72HJ148	0380729768	507436358	Sister	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Eloquent writing with a slow start	I will admit to not getting into Sister as quickly as I did with Vinegar Hill or Midnight Champagne.  But around the 5th chapter of so, something happened.  The groove of the story began to make an impression on me, and suddenly I found myself savoring the pages that followed.  And upon completion of this wonderful novel, A. Manette Ansay has finally and wholly proved herself to me to be an author of incomparable merit and style.<br />Sister tells the story of 30-year-old Abigail Schiller as she prepares for the birth of her first child.  During the course of her pregnancy, Abby reflects upon her childhood and its many facets.  Growing up in the Schiller household was not easy.  Abby's mother, a rigid Catholic housewife, was always good to her, but tended to turn the other cheek when it came to her father, a strict disciplinarian with chauvinistic views of male and female roles.  And then there was Sam, Abby's lovable younger brother whom she protected and adored.  Finally, after years of constant torment that dug at him by the picking hands of his father, Sam runs away for good.  And over ten years later, Abby realizes, as a mother-to-be, she needs to reconcile her feelings of loss and love for her brother in order for her to move forward in her own life.<br />Revolving between past and present, Sister's chapters delve into a seemingly normal childhood and its secret, dark undertones, then flash-forwards to a seemingly normal adult life where every movement has some direct correlation to a moment in the past.  A beautiful and powerful novel with action told in whispers that quietly unfolds as the pages are turned.  Not a novel of great activity and one that may be hard to get into at first, but certainly after novel's end, readers will be left with a feeling of awe and satisfaction.  Tremendously readable.  Ansay will remain on my bookshelf for life.	2001-08-22
US	52768278	R25MU1KMFYP9RH	0763615676	497318727	Burger Wuss	Books	4	31	35	N	N	A book with a side order of laughs, please...	Ever since I read Angus, Thongs and Full-Frontal Snogging, I've been on this fantastic young adult novel kick and stimulated quite a few forgotten memories in the process.  Well, the trip down memory lane has only gotten better with my most recent find, Burger Wuss.  As a former teenage employee of a major fast-food chain, I can definitely relate to some of the most hilarious antics I've ever read in a book.<br />Burger Wuss is not just about fast-food.  It's about being a teenager and falling in love, then having your dreams squashed by someone bigger and better.  And it's about revenge.  Sixteen-year-old Anthony has hatched this devious plan of payback after getting his girlfriend, Diana, stolen by school bully, Turner.  And what better way to put the plan in action then getting hired at Kermit O'Dermott's -- the exact place where Turner works.  And for good measure, throw in a little rivalry with the other burger joint in town, Burger Queen; a whacked out employee named Shunt who's made it his main goal in life to undermine the fast-food chain;  a too-serious boss, Mike, who spouts corporate lingo and upbeat team spirit pledges at any given moment; and two best friends, Rick and Jenn, who have found love with one another on a totally nauseating level.  Burger Wuss is a hilarious and sarcastic spin on love, hamburgers and getting even.<br />M.T. Anderson has written an easy-to-read, clear and concise novel.  The perfect teen angst novel that everyone can relate to, especially those who have been there, done that.  And not just for kids -- take it from me, grown-ups will love this story and all it can do for them.  Sit down, relax and enjoy this funny spoof of a book.	2001-08-17
US	52768278	RTE0KX7KXWPKN	0802137008	910496991	Pure	Books	3	22	23	N	N	Nothing &quot;Pure&quot; about this story...	In a nutshell:  Pure is the story of a 14-year-old girl who makes very bad decisions.  That's really all I can say about this book.  And while I didn't dislike the story itself, I wasn't in love with it either.  The prose was a little stressful at times and did not make for an entirely pleasurable experience.  However, I believe Pure is quite an accomplishment for young author Rebbecca Ray, and she deserves much praise for this effort.<br />The narrator (never does give a name) starts out as your basic trying-to-fit-in high school teenager.  Of course, her game -- allowing boys to feel her up -- is less than admirable.  So begins the story of Pure, a bumbling, tedious, and never funny jaunt through the troubled mind of a girl who craves attention in the most unhealthy way.<br />As for the surrounding story lines with the narrator's embarrassing, awkward friend, Dawn, who becomes increasingly obsessed with her, and the relationship between Philip and Liz, the narrator's parents, who seem to have some problems of their own, I felt the author could have explored their stories more and closed up some of the gaps.<br />I was drawn into the story, but the writing was too descriptive for my taste.  There were times when I read this book like it was my favorite, but there were also times when I was just plain tired of it.  Pure is definitely one novel that teeters the fence.  Also, by including more about the supporting characters and the reasons behind their actions, I believe Pure could have been more of a well-rounded novel.  But I will be keeping my eye out for the next Rebbecca Ray book -- with maturity and experience under her belt, I'm sure the next one will be worth it.	2001-08-14
US	52768278	RNB4OCW5GA7HT	0385334923	414482955	Tulip Fever: A Novel	Books	5	55	59	N	N	Catch the fever...	I absolutely loved this book.  Tulip Fever was a vivid and engrossing read that had me turning pages into the wee hours of the morning.  And while some feel this novel is only a Harlequin Romance in disguise, I truly believe it is much, much more than that.  The 1630s Amsterdam background lends rich definition to the characters and story line and makes Tulip Fever a highly readable, thrilling book.<br />Wealthy merchant, Cornelis Sandvoort, and his young wife, Sophia, have a good marriage.  Sophia is ever grateful to Cornelis for saving her family from destitution, while Cornelis feels Sophia has given him another chance at life after the death of his first wife and two sons.  But with there being 40 years of age between them, Sophia feels, no matter how grateful she is, that she has traded one life of imprisonment for another.  The couple is childless despite Sophia's dutifulness, and in the hopes of achieving some sort of immortality, Cornelis has commissioned young, passionate artist Jan van Loos to paint their portrait.<br />During their sittings, something transpires between Jan and Sophia.  Their love for each other becomes frantic, like another form of life support.  Desperate to be together, Jan and Sophia concoct a devious plan.  Lies, lust, greed and the dizzying passion of the tulip craze create an intoxicating and dangerous mix.  What ensues after is the devastating windfall of their deception and selfishness.<br />Very intense and fast once the love affair begins.  Each chapter is narrated by a different character so readers are treated to the minds of all involved.  I believe Deborah Moggach has written a solid, deftly written piece of fiction.  Although there are bits of Harlequin-ness, the historical references; allusions to actual Dutch paintings; sharply defined characters; and lush, vivid backdrop surely make up for it.  An exceptional and sensuous feast for the mind.	2001-08-01
US	52768278	R81RIGWU1X3QQ	0671775464	812693368	Playing Away	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Real and edgy (or &quot;Reasons to NOT Have an Affair&quot;)	What happens when a good girl has an affair?  Read this book and your questions will be answered.  Playing Away is a wonderful novel about a fairy-tale marriage and what happens after.  Highly recommended to British Literature fans or for those who want to read about the married side of Bridget Jones.<br />Connie Green Baker has it all:  a loving husband, fabulous friends, nice home, great life.  So why the affair?  It baffles Connie the most -- she loves her husband and is not unhappy in her marriage.  But once she meets sexy, uninhibited John Harding at a work conference, something stirs inside her (literally!).  Connie suddenly has a one-track mind on the John Harding Train and, try as she might, she can't (or doesn't want to) get off.  As an adulteress, Connie again experiences the crazy passionate drama that was a part of her former life, the life she led before she got married.  Which is not necessarily a good thing....<br />And then there are her friends:  Sam, Daisy, Lucy and Rose -- each unique in personalities who offer advice and support for dear Connie, who has found herself in quite a predicament.  Readers will laugh and smile in recognition, but will also shake their heads in dismay.  The story follows Connie through the many stages of her comfortable and seemingly boring marriage and her disappointment of the lustful, bodice-ripping fairy-tale she imagined it to be.  Playing Away is more than just a testimony to the awesome dynamics of a marriage -- it's a gritty portrayal of the toll it takes on a restless mind and the mistakes that can be made to fix it.	2001-07-30
US	52768278	RUZ6KK8JRBWZH	0140291873	680707728	Syrup	Books	5	37	37	N	N	Great taste, VERY filling...	Syrup is the kind of book that surprises you.  Not only was it a new type of fiction for me (corporate politics), but it grabbed my attention from the very start -- two things that I didn't think would go together.  I enjoyed the entire concept and laughed and got fired up with every turning page.  So, yes, a book that I thought would only be a pleasant time-passer has surprised me.  Never again will I look at marketing in the same way.<br />Scat, an unemployed marketing graduate, has come up with a million-dollar new soft drink idea.  Immediately taking the reigns, Scat embarks on a mission to make his idea become reality.  He markets his idea to the Coca-Cola Corporation, who in turn is very interested and willing to pay big bucks for the trademark rights.  Well, if it were only that easy....  Trouble comes in the form of his roommate, Sneaky Pete, who vies for a position on Coke's corporate ladder, sending Scat roadblocks at every turn.  New Products Marketing Manager, 6 (her actual name), befriends Scat in his time of need.  Sparks begin to fly as revenge is played out in full-force.<br />Reading this book was like the best rollercoaster but without the long lines and unstable equilibrium.  Chapters are interspersed with clever marketing snippets that can definitely change the way you think about the products you see advertised on television.  Syrup was chock-full of behind-the-scenes scoop of the corporate world and all the dirty tricks that can be played in order to get ahead.  Very juicy and hip.  Read this novel and be enlightened....	2001-07-23
US	52768278	R3JISG26JSVA2I	0688177816	362197980	Altar Ego: A Novel	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Wedding jitters?  Read this and be cured...	What a whirlwind of a book!  I finished this book yesterday and my head is still spinning.  Altar Ego is the kind of book that shocks you with its outrageous characters, naughty scenes and devilish humor.  Definitely a book to read for pure entertainment.<br />On her wedding day, 32-year-old Becky finds herself hiding in the bathroom with one pantyhosed leg hanging out the window.  With fears of marriage running rampant and the horrible idea of being monogamous filling her with dread, Becky does the only feasible thing - she jumps.  Naturally, fianc&eacute; Julian is devastated; however, he doesn't give up and decides to continue with their relationship as is.  Meanwhile, Becky gets all sorts of advice from her best friends:  anti-men, psycho-feminist Kate and desperate-to-marry-royalty Anouska.<br />And then the unthinkable happens....  Becky meets Zachary, an American rap star trying to make it big in Europe.  He's rude, crude and socially unacceptable, but he's also gorgeous, sexy and wild in the sack.  Torn between a comfortable and safe relationship with boring workaholic Julian or a glittering rock-star romance with Zachary, Becky does what she does best - she takes the fun, easy way out.  This one simple action begins a spiraling domino effect that will inspire shock and humor for the reader.  Finding out what Becky will do next is half the fun.  Seeing the unnecessary results of her actions is the other.<br />Altar Ego is an outrageous romp of a novel, candidly fresh and downright dirty.  Each deed done spawns another twice as bad and leaves the reader gasping and wide-eyed.  A true pleasure to read with an important lesson to be learned:  Future brides, beware.  This could happen to you....  Enjoy!	2001-07-17
US	52768278	R3BT24W8X4K8C2	0375506179	287871634	Big Cherry Holler	Books	5	21	24	N	N	A wonderful return...	Adriana Trigiani has done it again!  After reading this novel, I felt like I had been to the best family reunion ever.  Although a bit more serious than its predecessor, Big Cherry Holler was a pleasure to read and its characters a joy to revisit.<br />It's been eight years since Ave Maria Mulligan and Jack MacChesney tied the knot.  Their marriage started off wonderfully, but like most relationships, eventually things change.  Feelings regarding the death of their son and changes in the mining industry -- Jack's lifeblood -- has put a major strain on their relationship.  And with too many years as an independent spinster behind her, Ave Maria finds it hard to completely let go and be a full participating part in her marriage.  Plus, those rumors of infidelity don't help matters much. In hopes to fuel the dying spark, Ave plans a summer trip to Italy for her, Jack and their 8-year-old daughter, Etta.  But as they say, the best laid plans can often go awry....<br />Big Cherry Holler is a wonderful testimony to the joys and trials of marriage.  I related to both sides of the story and even felt I learned something about men versus women.  And of course those quirky Gap residents are back for more laughs:  still-sexy-but-married Iva Lou Wade Makin, who has all sorts of marital advice to share; savvy business woman Pearl Grimes; Theodore Tipton, Ave's best friend with a secret all his own; and Rescue Squad volunteer Spec Broadwater, who finds himself in an interesting situation.  I loved this novel - more so as it neared the end.  Vibrant cast of characters and a real drama that unfolds slowly throughout the book.  Hope there is another Big Stone Gap novel in the works!	2001-07-10
US	52768278	R2KZ8Q149LRH6I	0141001771	884489587	Welcome to My Planet: Where English Is Sometimes Spoken	Books	3	19	21	N	N	Good, but different	It's hard to say exactly how I feel about this book -- and probably even harder to explain!  Welcome to My Planet is a different kind of novel, one that doesn't just jump right out at you with a clear-cut, black and white, obvious storyline.  It's a thinker novel, not breezy or light-hearted.  While there are many funny moments, the dark tones outweigh the light ones by far.<br />Welcome to My Planet is told in parts and interspersed with many counselor sessions that tend to ramble on about the intricate workings of an under-stimulated mind.  The heroine, almost-30 Shannon Olson (oddly the same name as the author), is very disappointed in life.  She expected everything to be easy and the opposite of what she's gotten so far.  Beginning with a no-good boyfriend, a meaningless job, and a obsessive dependency on her mother, Shanny's story seems very miserable and lonely.  Her counselor sessions start fairly soon with expectations that maybe she can work her depression out, but the progress is very long and drawn out.  Reading this novel was very stressful at times.  Shanny was a very unpleasant character, very self-absorbed, never taking care of herself and always obsessing about those around her.  While this does not necessarily make this a bad novel, I think for me personally, it made it a little unattractive to enjoy.<br />Good points about the book:  Shanny has a very wry sense of humor which I always enjoy.  When reflecting on her growing up years, Shanny and her sister deliver some funny moments.  Also Shanny's mother, Flo, is an absolute scene-stealer.  I believe the humorous parts is the saving grace of this book -- without them it would be far too depressing.<br />Sounds like I don't have much good to say.  Welcome to My Planet is just a little hard to explain.  It's vagueness bothered me, as well as the continuous gear-switching -- going back and forth in time was a little tough to get used to.  For those who enjoy a mix of pleasure and pain (psychologists would have a field day with this one), endings that leave room for interpretation, and a diversity in characters, I recommend this book with two thumbs up.uld have a field day with this one), endings that leave room for interpretation, and a diversity in characters, I recommend this book with two thumbs up.	2001-07-05
US	52768278	R3VEHCY8MQGKBK	0679731148	669003939	A Year in Provence	Books	3	53	66	N	N	A sweet taste of France	This being my first entry into the world of travel memoirs, I'm not sure how A Year in Provence compares.  However, my uninitiated opinion is that of a pleasant surprise.  I thought this book was very well written; a nice and light story; and a tempting depiction of rural France and all its glorious food, festivals and residents.<br />A Year in Provence is written in monthly chapters and tracks the days in the life of the English author, Peter Mayle, and his wife who have purchased a home in a small village in Provence, France.  Readers are witnesses to blustery Mistral winds, torrential summer downpours, the finer points of wine harvesting, installing central heat, business practices of Provencal businessmen, and the joys of goat racing through the town.<br />While there is no action of great depth or importance, I found this book to be a pleasure to read.  At first thought, I wasn't too sure I liked it.  There is no plot, no surprise, no twists in the storyline like my usual reading.  However, if my mindset was set in low gear prior to the first page, I would've been prepared for the meandering, languid story that was to follow.  Also, beware of the liberal tossing of french words and phrases that are never explained or defined -- a translation dictionary would be a trusty and helpful companion.<br />Now that the book is complete and back safely on my bookshelf, I have decided that A Year in Provence was indeed enjoyable.  If one goes into the book with no ideas for a fast-paced, action-packed story and takes it for what it actually is -- a travel memoir -- the reader will undoubtedly have a wonderful reading experience.  It just took me 207 pages to realize it.	2001-06-29
US	52768278	R3F4VNSV5O86XJ	006098824X	956920947	Getting Over It	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Seriously funny story about very serious topics	Anna Maxted has made an impression on me.  She goes to show you that one can write a goofy, funny, Bridget Jones-ish type novel without coming off as a complete airhead comedy.  Sure, the heroine, 26-year-old singleton, Helen Bradshaw, is by no means a wise, witty, scholarly being, but this character has a good heart with real feelings and struggles, not just a whiny life-hates-me attitude that provokes no sympathy from readers.  Getting Over It, you could say, is the anti-Bridget novel that is uproariously funny with come-backs and one-liners that can put Henny Youngman to shame.<br />Just like any typical young twentysomething, Helen Bradshaw has a boyfriend that doesn't quite measure up (although very pretty to look at), a job that is less than glamourous, and a boss who she'd like to cross off her Christmas card list.  But when she gets the call that changes her life, Helen is beside herself with misery.  Her father, although not her best friend and barely an acquaintance, has died and left her mother in a state of hysterical depression.  In the meantime, Helen's friend, Tina, seems to be going off the deep end in a totally different way, leaving Helen with too much on her plate to deal with and not enough time to come to terms with her own feelings of loss.<br />Getting Over It is a very powerful novel that deals with very serious subjects.  Anna Maxted manages not to drag the novel into the ground with too much depression, however, and creates a highly readable and escaping story.  Humor runs rampant throughout the pages without making light of the seriousness of the situations.  A very good story with laughs on every page.  I couldn't even finish the book without ordering her second novel right away.  Definitely an author to keep on your shelf.	2001-06-26
US	52768278	R3UJCXJWZXTIWY	0786865504	186495277	World of Pies: A Novel	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Wonderful slice-of-life novel	For a refreshing and sweet trip down memory lane, World of Pies is the perfect novel.  Beginning with a 12-year-old girl named Roxanne and her obsession with baseball and daily Doreen's Drugstore visits, readers are transported back in time when they were young and carefree, when all that mattered in the world was perfecting your pitch, licking melting vanilla icecream as it runs down your arm, and barbeques on the Fourth of July.<br />Each chapter is based on a different stage in Roxanne's life.  We get to know life as it is in sleepy Annette, Texas, where the world seems to come to a standstill, where everyone knows everybody, a place Roxanne couldn't wait to leave, but also the place where she couldn't wait to return.  Roxanne grows up within these few pages, and readers will delight in every word.<br />World of Pies is a beautiful, homespun, feel-good novel.  Each story can bring about nostalgic recollection, change laughter into tears, and tickle tastebuds with delicious recipies.  Karen Stolz has written the perfect book for dreamers and thinkers, a home away from home, a story to pass on to friends.  A nice change of pace after a heavy-duty novel and perfect for a quick weekend read.	2001-06-19
US	52768278	R1F0NCH3S8V6E6	0375727345	498826779	House of Sand and Fog (Oprah's Book Club)  (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	5	40	46	N	N	An very intense page-turner...	I can't remember the last time I read such an explosive, unnerving story.  House of Sand and Fog is everything a dramatic, suspenseful, culture-clash novel should be.  I was intrigued and frightened, my emotions going through the wringer a countless number of times.  My loyalties went from one character to another then back again through the course of the novel, never really deciding who to love or who to trust.  A dark, drastic tragedy of a drama that unfolds in the most terrifying way.<br />Through an administrative error of the County Tax Department, Kathy Nicolo's house is seized out from under her.  On top of this, her husband has left her and she has no one to turn to.  Forced to live in her car and rented motel rooms, Kathy befriends one of the Sheriffs that came to evict her.  Deputy Sheriff Lester Burdon finds himself in love and completely infatuated with helping Kathy get her house back.  Meanwhile, Iranian immigrant Colonel Massoud Behrani is desperate to pursue his version of the American Dream:  to acquire the dignity, status and respect he once entertained as Officer in the King's Airforce in his native country and to provide for his family and secure a healthy future for them.  His desires come in the form of a house, an investment opportunity recently seized and up for auction at an unheard of low price.  These two incidents run parallel courses that eventually collide into an explosive downward spiral.<br />Andre Dubus has written an electrifying, hair-standing-on-end, riveting book that only builds more tense as readers turn its pages.  A fascinating and thought-provoking novel that shows how one simple thing can escalate into something huge and horrible through others irresponsibility and stubbornness.  Reading parts of this book was akin to a dreamworld, a fog if you will, that will send readers into a panic, struggling for air.  The writing evokes many opinions and emotions and will undoubtedly inspire numerous heated discussions.  Masterfully told with poetically bold language that breathe with life.  Awesome.told with poetically bold language that breathe with life.  Awesome.	2001-06-12
US	52768278	R2WZU34V36VIJZ	0446608955	721431789	A Walk to Remember	Books	5	152	158	N	N	The sweetest love story ever told...	Attention readers:  Invest in Kleenex!  After reading this book, you will know the reason.  Nicholas Sparks has such a gentle, sweet way with words.  I thoroughly enjoyed A Walk to Remember, this beautiful love story that pulled me in from the start and held me in rapt attention throughout.  So pull out your hankies and sit down for an enjoyable, emotionally charged read.<br />There was only one reason for 17-year-old high school Senior, Landon Carter, to enroll in Drama - a chance to take it easy for an hour.  Plus there was only one other boy in a class full of girls, a benefit of the highest degree.  Also in the class is Jamie Sullivan, the unpopular preacher's daughter who no one wants to hang around.  She is also the only girl left when it comes time for the homecoming dance.  Although not his first choice and the fact that he's running out of time, Landon asks Jamie to be his date.  Her agreement became the crucial moment, the pedal that got the wheel to spinning, the stepping stone to one of the most beautiful and courageous love stories ever written.<br />What a valuable lesson this novel serves to teach.  Those who may be different from us, status or otherwise, can be the most wonderful people to know.  Jamie Sullivan is a character that is pure in heart and would be such a joy to spend a day with.  There should be more people like her, and like Landon, a boy who took a chance on her and found a love unlike anything he'd ever known.  I applaud Nicholas Sparks for writing this bittersweet and uplifting story.  The time and tears spent on this novel was well worth it.	2001-06-04
US	52768278	R2BBUC8ERTT5M7	0060288132	605226542	On the Bright Side, I'm Now the Girlfriend of a Sex God: Further Confessions of Georgia Nicolson	Books	5	22	26	N	N	More Georgia antics in full swing...	Oh, to be young again!  Reading On the Bright Side had much the same effect on me as its predecessor, Angus, Thongs and Full-Frontal Snogging.  It was totally reminiscient of my by-gone days; if fact, I pulled out my old high school diaries and laughed myself silly.  Georgia is the epitome of a typical 14-year-old high school student, British or otherwise, and readers of all ages will most definitely relate to this wonderful character.<br />This time around, Georgia has landed the Sex God, aka Robbie, boy of her dreams.  But with his being almost 18, the relationship is short-lived and he breaks up with her via letter.  Well, of all things!  Georgia just will NOT stand for this.  Thus ensues Operation Elastic Band, Georgia's no-fail plan to get Robbie back.  The results are, as expected, spectacularly funny as only Georgia can offer.<br />Readers will no doubt have a great time with this novel - it's just plain, harmless fun.  Complete with hilarious observations and sparking with classic British humor, On the Bright Side is unforgettable.  I cannot say enough good things.  Clear a space on your bookshelf for this one.	2001-05-30
US	52768278	R2JIUCQ53553E8	0452281784	128488664	Bad Heir Day	Books	4	13	15	N	N	A Different Kind of Love Story	Add another good one to the wave of wacky British humor novels. Wendy Holden's submission has upped the ante. Wry, sardonic and blatanly intelligent, Bad Heir Day is a novel that will have you laughing, shouting and itching to wring someone's neck all in the course of one sentence.<br />Anna is not your everyday hopeless singleton. Of course, she wants to snag her a husband, and a rich one would be nice, but she also has a smart head with finely-honed red-flag detecting skills. After the first few days at her new job as writer's assistant to the wealthy and snooty Cassandra Knight, Anna quickly realizes she's nothing more than a glorified nanny. Cassandra's son Zak is a holy terror armed with devious pranks and dirty jokes. What's worse, Cassandra's husband Jett, a has-been heavy metal rocker with a lusty penchant for nannies, is the epitome of male sleaziness. And frankly, Anna can't take it anymore. So when she meets Jamie Angus, the heir to Dampie Castle on a remote island in Scotland, Anna clings to him tighter than stink on a junebug. And while the idea of being shacked up with a wealthy heir in an old royal castle amid the mist and heather of beautiful Scotland seems exciting and adventurous, well... let's just say Anna learns more about it than she ever wanted to know.<br />Bad Heir Day is a riotous story bursting with unforgettable scenes. The antics of Cassandra and Zak are what sitcoms are made of -- the novel could have completely went off on a tangent with their story and I would have been utterly satisfied. Although, while the first two-thirds of the novel had me in stitches, I will admit the ending tied up too conveniently and the humor became sparse. However, I am intrigued by the storytelling talent of Wendy Holden and haved placed her other novel, Simply Devine, on my list.	2001-05-28
US	52768278	R325NFX0IDFR5K	1551666189	224857817	Manhunting (Mira)	Books	4	126	132	N	N	Book hunting?  This one's a keeper!	As my first taste of a Jennifer Crusie book, I think I ordered well.  While not a book for those who enjoy stories that require heavy brain use,  readers of all types can gain pleasure from this book.  For the serious in you, Manhunting touches on commitment and career issues.  For the practical person, the orderly list-making and the perfecting art of finding a suitable mate will appeal.  But most importantly, for the romantic reader, Manhunting will have you climbing up the wall with anticipation -- like any good romance book should.<br />Kate Svenson has what she thinks any woman would want:  beauty, money, a successful career, and an apartment full of French Provincial furniture.  Unfortunately, she also has too much time and lonliness on her hands.  Tired of the single life, Kate and her best friend, Jessie, come up with the plan to beat all plans.  Thus begins Kate's search for the perfect man.  Armed with her list of qualifications (tall, distinguised and successful), Kate heads to Toby's Corner, Kentucky, home of The Cabins Resort and vertical golf -- a magnetic haven for the suave businessmen of Kate's desire.<br />Well, it started out a good plan...  Within the first few days of her arrival, Kate has managed to attract men that meet her requirements but with disastrous results.  The only thing decent out of the whole trip?  The two new friendships she's made:  Penny, gorgeous and engaged, who feels she needs to do a little harmless dating before she's tied down for good, and Jake, the rugged resort handyman and exact opposite of the man of her dreams.  Hopeless and exhausted, Kate is on the verge of giving up.  But wait...is there a light at the end of this tunnel after all?<br />Manhunting is a delicious romp of a novel, full of sexual tension and too much pride.  And while readers can guess the ending before cracking the spine on this book, it does not deter whatsoever from the sheer pleasure of reading.  Contains writing that veers toward inexperienced during the first few chapters, but soon Jennifer Crusie hits her groove and takes off like a woman on a mission.  Excellent debut from an author worth reading again.during the first few chapters, but soon Jennifer Crusie hits her groove and takes off like a woman on a mission.  Excellent debut from an author worth reading again.	2001-05-22
US	52768278	R2Q0X67L5H01OM	0064472272	46574095	Angus, Thongs and Full-Frontal Snogging: Confessions of Georgia Nicolson (Confessions of Georgia Nicolson, Book 1)	Books	5	81	83	N	N	Even Grown-Ups Will Love This Book!	If ever there was a book that matched the hilarity and wittiness of Bridget Jones, this is it!  And even if you are an old lady, like me, you can appreciate the teenage antics and woes of Georgia Nicolson.  After all, we've been there, done that...<br />Fourteen-year-old Georgia Nicolson is just like any other her age although she doesn't always see that.  She thinks she's ugly, has no boyfriend potential, and believes her parents are a little (or a lot!) on the naff side.  Well, what teenager HASN'T thought this!  Reading this book is like having a reunion with myself.  I was Georgia about 13 years ago and acted much in the same way.  And author Louise Rennison was Georgia's age at one time, too, which is undoubtedly the reason Angus, Thongs and Full-Frontal Snogging is pin-point accurate.<br />The humor, which spurs big bouts of fall-off-your-seat laughter, is this book's best asset, especially if you're in the mood to laugh.  Georgia's 3-year-old sister, Libby, is too cute for words, and if you are a cat fanatic, you will most likely enjoy Angus the Scottish wildcat, who plays a sizable role in the story.  A very quick book to get through, written in an easy-to-read diary format, complete with a handy British slang glossary in the back.  Must read this novel -- it'll take a few years off you, make you smile, and have you wishing you were 14 again if only for one day.  Kudos, Louise Rennison!	2001-05-18
US	52768278	R3VZ694XAZK8Y6	038072975X	892493747	Midnight Champagne (Mysteries & Horror)	Books	5	27	29	N	N	A toast to A. Manette Ansay...	Attention all Vinegar Hill haters: Midnight Champagne will change your mind!  Now, I am one that loved Vinegar Hill but know lots of people who didn't.  This time around, A. Manette Ansay has written a less depressing and more indulgent story.  It takes place in the course of one day with lots of characters that each get a turn to speak.  So I beg those who have put off reading anything else by Ansay to read Midnight Champagne and give her a chance to redeem herself.  You won't be disappointed.<br />After three months of dating, 22-year-old April Leisgang and Caleb Shannon are getting married.  Most of the family is against this marriage and especially the place where it's held - the nondenominational Great Lakes Chapel and Hideaway Lodge.  Formally a notorious dance hall, roadhouse and brothel, it is rumored to be haunted by the mistress of the house, Greta Flame, who was murdered by one of her lovers back in its heyday.  Such sets the stage for an unforgettable, eerie, and life-changing celebration....<br />The novel takes us from ceremony and reception through dinner and dance and ends with bouquet toss and midnight champagne.  Written through the eyes of various characters, we get the opportunity to know the feelings, thoughts and goings-on of parents, grandparents, cousins, children and hotel staff.  In doing so, I believe A. Manette Ansay has created the whole picture, a testimony of the love, pain, disappointments, hopes, and secrets felt, endured and kept hidden by the family and intensified by the union of April and Caleb and frequent visits to the cash bar.  Readers are everywhere at once, witnesses to this spectacular party, omniscient flies on the wall.<br />Midnight Champagne holds a goodie bag of emotions within its pages, a delicious and intoxicating mix, a declaration of the course of marriage and the many side roads it can take.  Like listening to stories around a campfire:  passionate and revealing, exciting and anxious, haunting and uninhibited.  Much better than Vinegar Hill and certainly places A. Manette Ansay at the top of my reading list.  Wonderful!Much better than Vinegar Hill and certainly places A. Manette Ansay at the top of my reading list.  Wonderful!	2001-05-15
US	52768278	RRYL4GIZR9D2B	0375504036	46292343	Big Stone Gap	Books	5	82	85	N	N	Ya'll read this book, ya hea'?	If Jan Karon, Billie Letts and Fannie Flagg could be made into one person, they would create Adriana Trigiani.  All the essentials are present:  Jan Karon's quaint community charm, Billie Letts's honest and triumphant storylines, and Fannie Flagg's quirky and one-of-a-kind characters.  A lively mix, to say the least....<br />According to the Chinese art of face-reading, something extraordinary is supposed to happen in the 35th year of Ava Maria Mulligan's life.  Well, it's been 35 years -- and Ava Maria is getting impatient!  Being the town spinster, town pharmacist, and all-around good gal just isn't good enough anymore.  Even though Ava Maria tries to convince herself that she likes being alone and predictable, fate has another scenario in mind.  With the discovery of a very big family secret, the entire world and life as Ava Maria has come to know and depend on is turned upside down.  But that isn't necessarily a bad thing...<br />Plenty of surprising things and supressed feelings come to the surface during the course of Ava Maria's 35th year, which makes it one that will never be forgotten.  Readers will fall in love with the town of Big Stone Gap, Virginia and all it's wonderful residents:  Sexy bookmobile driver and jewelry peddler Iva Lou Wade, who has sampled many of the town's male appetizers; Theodore Tipton, director of the high school band and Ava Maria's very best friend; Jack MacChesney, the big, burly coal-miner who lives with his momma out in the holler; and Pearl Grimes, a 15-year-old mediocre mountain girl with potential that's just starting to crack the surface.  Readers will see themselves in one or many of these characters, which makes this novel so appealing.  A must read for Southern fiction fans and those who enjoy down-home humor and characters with heart.	2001-05-10
US	52768278	R2JOW3SQIV84IR	037570504X	22478117	Breath, Eyes, Memory (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	61	65	N	N	Haunting look into another culture	Wow.  A pause while I catch my breath...<br />Edwidge Danticat has written an exceptional and beautifully crafted novel about a young Haitian girl and the family of women that surround her.  A somber, spiritual story told with a feverish tenacity that will bewitch you and leave you aching for more from this talented and gifted writer.<br />After twelve years of being raised in Haiti by her aunt Atie, young Sophie Caco has been summoned by her mother to join her in New York.  Sophie is terrified and does not want to go, especially since she does not remember her mother, who left Haiti when Sophie was just a baby.  What follows is a painful rendering of horrifying secrets and Haitian tradition that deeply affects Sophie and the way she lives her life.  Finally, frantic for justification and healing, Sophie turns to her homeland for the answers and refuge she so desperately needs.<br />The flow of the writing is smooth and lyrical, like music that rolls off the tongue.  There is just enough description to make vivid pictures, but not too much to overwhelm.  I do find it lacking in the development of the relationship between Sophie and her mother, although not enough to interrupt the beauty and quality of the story.  Readers will be awed at the strong determination of the Caco women and the unbreakable bonds that hold them together.  A very poetic and powerful novel that mixes a family, their culture, and a country in the midst of political upheaval.  Breath, Eyes, Memory is extraordinary.	2001-05-04
US	52768278	R19LS8BZBA0ZWE	0446605336	943154518	My Sergei: A Love Story	Books	5	19	21	N	N	One of the most memorable stories ever...	First things first -- grab your hankies and prepare yourself.  The journey you are about to embark upon will leave you breathless and sobbing hopelessly.<br />Of course, we all remember the story of the sudden death of Ekaterina's true love and ice skating partner, Sergei Grinkov.  What a heartbreaking day that was -- I didn't even know who they were but felt my own heart rip away anyway.  Reading this book brought it all back to me with as much power and poignancy as if I had heard it for the first time.  My Sergei chronicles the life of Ekaterina Gordeeva, young ice skater and Olympic medalist, from pre-skating to post-Sergei with lots of smiles and tears in between.<br />This book is not just for the ice skating fanatic or fans of Ekaterina and Sergei.  It is for anyone who has lost someone special in their life or has ever felt a pure and true love like Katia did for Sergei.  You will be weeping like a baby, but it is so very worth it.	2001-05-02
US	52768278	R3UKJT0B07LS6B	0385720211	517893800	In the Drink: A Novel	Books	4	13	15	N	N	A &quot;should have already came of age&quot; story...	I may be of the minority here, but I really liked this book.  Kate Christenson has written a real and gritty portrayal of a woman struggling to grow up.  Life can't always be bowls of cherries, and while this may not be the happily-ever-after story or the laugh-out-loud British literature clone that readers desire, In the Drink is, by far, not a let down.<br />This is the story of Claudia Steiner.  She has an unsatisfactory job as ghostwriter for an aging socialite, ever-growing debts with no shrinkage in sight, and a disappointing love life full of no-gooders and unavailables.  Her only refuge, it seems, is found at the bottom of an expensive, yuppie bottle of Scotch.  And while the reader hopes for a lesson to be learned somewhere, it seems Claudia is stuck in a continuous, desperate loop with no light at the end of the tunnel.  And the author writes so hopelessly and in a cry-for-help sort of way, you almost feel sorry for Claudia.  But you don't.  I had no sympathy for the character, but her life style was hard to turn away from: sort of like a car wreck on the side of the highway -- you don't want to see or know, but something inside you makes you look.  I know there are people like Claudia Steiner in this world -- this is their testimony.<br />To be fair, I can see how some people wouldn't like this novel because Claudia is not appealing.  But she is a flawed human like the rest of us, and I heartily applaud Kate Christenson for tackling this difficult character with perseverance through the hailstorm that is Bridget Jones chic.  The writing style is very aware and observant of human idiosyncrasies that normally go unnoticed.  Definitely not a fairy-tale, to be sure, but In the Drink is chock-full of wry and witty humor with a refreshingly candid style that makes this novel extremely readable and in your face at all times.	2001-04-30
US	52768278	RZELYB9XKI07H	0525945938	359050157	Scarlet Feather	Books	4	30	31	N	N	Hungry?  Scarlet Feather satisfies.	As an avid Binchy fan, I could not let her newest addition go unread.  While not as engaging or cozy as her others, I enjoyed every last page of Scarlet Feather, the novel which marks the beginning of Maeve Binchy's retirement.<br />Cathy Scarlet and Tom Feather, friends and former cooking school classmates, have embarked upon their dream -- owning and operating their very own catering business, aptly named Scarlet Feather.  For an entire year, from one New Year's Eve to the next, readers get a glimpse into the lives of Cathy and Tom and all the happenings surrounding Scarlet Feather.  And as usual, par to Maeve Binchy's excellent character derivation, we get to meet several fascinating individuals along the way.  Ingredients include Muttie Scarlet, Cathy's father and compulsive gambler; Neil Mitchell, Cathy's husband and an exhaustive workaholic; Hannah Mitchell, Neil's mother and rich snob (think Dharma and Greg's Kitty Montgomery); and Simon and Maud, nine-year-old twins with very inquisitive minds.  We also get an amble serving of Maeve's forte -- a story that delves into various characters' lives and how they relate to each other.  Mix everything up in a great big bowl and you have one big heapin' helpin' of Irish goodness.<br />All Maeve Binchy veterans will need to read this book, if only to finish up the collection.  If you are new to the wonderful world of Maeve, I suggest reading an older book first (Circle of Friends, The Glass Lake) because the content is much more indulging.  Individually, Scarlet Feather is an easy read with lots of breaks in the story to ease the flow.  Although I felt a little unattached in parts, I couldn't help but love this yummy smorgasbord.	2001-04-27
US	52768278	R14Q0QUK5PWVW0	0671041320	286696000	Lip Service	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Not just about phone sex...	Before you buy this book, you must be aware that it is not a dirty, sexual fluff piece,  and readers who are wanting to read bodice-ripping erotica will be extremely disappointed.  The phone sex is only one part of this highly intellectual, mature novel.  So read it and become totally submerged...<br />Thirty-eight-year-old Julia Sterling is stuck...stuck in a miserable marriage with her psychiatrist husband who can't stop treating her like one of his patients, stuck in a sex life that's a billion stars short of being stellar.  Times have changed since Julia was a wild college student in the midst of a breakdown and her four years of therapy.  But even so, her husband takes his role as protector to the breaking point, not letting go of the frail Julia that he met and married.  Julia is desperate to prove she's healed.  Then along comes the miracle...<br />A book.  As a journalist, getting the opportunity to write a book is a dream come true.  The topic?  A new form of phone sex therapy.  Julia decides to do research the old fashioned way - by becoming a phone sex therapist.  What happens to her afterwards...well, you just need to read the book to find out.<br />A mix of psychology, passion and pain, Lip Service will take readers on an emotional journey.  M.J. Rose adequately fleshes out the characters with expertise.  An admirable debut that is explosive, surprising and delicious - a fabulous look into another world.	2001-04-16
US	52768278	R307NLUYLP8HYN	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	5	13	15	N	N	And the adventure continues...	It is year number three at good ol' Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and what a year it will be!  Thirteen-year-old Harry doesn't know what's in store for him ~~ and us lucky readers get to go along for the ride.<br />Seems there is always an adventure awaiting the arrival of Harry at Hogwarts, and this year it is no exception.  The ruthless, much-feared prisoner of Azkaban, Sirius Black, has escaped and clues show he is heading straight for Harry.  Security is tight around Hogwarts since the Ministry of Magic has gotten word, and poor Harry has a horrible time while being sequestered at the dormitory for safety's sake.  Well, you didn't actually think he'd stick around anyway, did you?  Not even for someone as frightening as Sirius Black, because now Harry knows a big secret and it doesn't seem right just to sit idly back.<br />The third installment of Harry Potter's adventures is every bit as good as the previous two.  Plenty of action to satisfy even the pickiest of readers.  We get to learn a lot about Harry and his family this time around, plus Hermoine has a little secret of her own.  Excellent writing and imagination poured into the pages of this one.  J.K. Rowling has outdone herself once again, leaving fans with bated breath for the next in the series.  Harry Potter simply gets better with age.	2001-04-11
US	52768278	RAYGWAIAP0750	060980619X	849421589	God Save the Sweet Potato Queens	Books	4	29	31	N	N	I Wanna Be A Wannabe	What happens when a group of women all named Tammy get together with their fearless ringleader, Jill, and strut down the road in the middle of Jackson, Mississippi wearing green sequined dresses and pink majorette boots during the annual St. Patrick's Day parade?  Oh, I'd say a mild case of hysteria at best....<br />They're called The Sweet Potato Queens and every one wants to be one.  Founder of the Queens and author of this book, Jill Conner Browne has given us much insight into the wacky world of Sweet Potato-ness, all while making the rest of us mortals insanely jealous that we didn't think of it first.  Read on as Jill gives us advice on dating, marriage, divorce, children, men and acting like a lady -- Sweet Potato style.  While not for the tame at heart, one who enjoys bawdy and rated-R humor will most likely devour this book.<br />God Save the Potato Queens is an excellent follow-up to the pandemonium that is The Sweet Potato Queen's Book of Love.  I recommend that you read them in order since the first book's subjects are referred to in the second book, and Jill is not going to review them for you just to save you 13 bucks!  An excellent addition to the libraries of Southern fiction fans as well as readers who agree Fritos and margaritas is the fifth major food group.  Eat up!	2001-04-02
US	52768278	RWNSVPAFED3UQ	0595131069	35815229	St. Jude's Secret	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Good to the last drop...	I am very impressed with this first novel by author Daniel H. Jones.  Quite a swashbuckling story; had me on the edge of my seat throughout.  Opens with a mysterious death on the high seas that pulls readers in quickly.<br />St. Jude's Secret stars attorney Bobby Grace, who is placed on the case of the death of Cilton Roy, an able-bodied and healthy seaman employed by Leviathan Lines.  Once the investigation starts, Bobby finds ties to a New Orleans mob family and genetically altered coffee.  And to top it all off, the Cashio mob are no strangers -- Bobby's got something personal against them and the perfect opportunity for justice.<br />Surrounding this action-packed story is Bobby's girlfriend, Magda (for the romantic in you), and a lively New Orleans backdrop that will have you scrambling for your travel agent.  Daniel Jones has set these pages on fire with it's vivid detail and fast-paced dialogue.  Prepare to become totally enraptured.	2001-03-30
US	52768278	RI9A9NDPDF515	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	5	18	21	N	N	As good as they say it is...	Wow.  I am left breathless and awed.  I never expected to enjoy a biblical fiction story this much.  Full of beautiful language and imagery; reads like a poem or lyrics to a song.<br />This is the story of Dinah, the only sister of 12 brothers born to Jacob and his four wifes -- Leah, Rachel, Zilpah and Bilhah.  We only hear of Dinah briefly in the bible; here in The Red Tent, Anita Diamant has given life to Dinah before and after the passages that we know.  Told in Dinah's voice, readers will delight in her mothers' stories that are shared within the walls of the red tent.  We become witnesses to many births and the sorority of women who gather there.  And best of all, Dinah leads us on her journey through life as her traveling companion and dearest friend.<br />The Red Tent is a grand, sweeping story that spans an entire lifetime.  Dinah may be the only character I've ever read about that I feel I know completely.  Ms. Diamant has created a glorious tale about the strong bonds of motherhood and the power and tenderness of women.  Dinah comes full circle in this novel, which is always a pleasure, especially for a character who you care for so desperately.	2001-03-26
US	52768278	R270BE3KZZR1PB	0452281636	68466902	Ralph's Party:  A Novel	Books	4	16	17	N	N	A party I would LOVE to go to...	I will admit.  I was hoping for a goofy, Bridget-Jones-type British novel.  Ralph's Party did not live up, although it was a funny soap opera-ish tale in it's own right.  And for a first novel, it really was quite good.<br />Ralph and Smith are flatmates in search of a third person to share the load.  Their new find comes in the form of young Jem, a sweet-looking twenty-something who winds up with both her new roomies competing for her.  Of course, the story couldn't be as black-and-white as that...<br />Throw a couple of love triangles in the mix:  Even though Smith seems to be the winner of Jem's affection, he secretly harbors a five year passion for upstairs neighbor, Cheri.  Meanwhile, Cheri has been having an affair with the downstairs neighbor, Karl.  And of course Karl has his live-in love, Siobhan, who he's been with for the past 15 years.  And what about Siobhan?  Well, there are all sorts of changes waiting in the wings for her.  The lives of these six people that intermingle throughout the novel finally culminates with a bombshell of a party that you DON'T want to miss!<br />For readers who are in search of Bridget Jones humor, this novel is not for you.  But if you crave a breezy tale of mixed-up Londoners with some interesting insight into the male mind (plus a few paragraphs of disgusting male behavior), then Ralph's Party will surely suffice.	2001-03-19
US	52768278	RXHUQQV1J5WD	0316782653	728951005	The Dangerous Husband: A Novel	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Not as funny as expected	I believe somebody chose the wrong cover for this book.  The crowned, goofy-grinned picture on the paperback leads one to think The Dangerous Husband would be funny; it's anything but.  What a sad story this was.  Terrible thinking it could be true.<br />The narrator (never did give a name) marries Dennis after a whirlwind 3 month or so romance.  Their relationship goes through the many stages that most marriages do.  Except for that one other thing:  Dennis can't seem to walk in a straight line.  Throughout their 2 1/2 year marriage, Dennis falls down stairs, trips over himself, bashes his head against the wall, and sometimes, though on accident, includes his wife and pets in his destruction.  Now, his wife just wants out.  So, like any other average, red-blooded American wife would, she plots his death.<br />The Dangerous Husband seems funny since it sounds so unbelievable, and the writing is exceptional.  But you can almost &quot;see&quot; the wife's desperation and torment pour off the pages.  Reader's emotions will be tugged in different directions while reading this novel, rooting for one then the other.  A very good story, a dark comedy at best.	2001-03-13
US	52768278	R3S3B9JXV5J8M7	0385335482	841557271	Confessions of a Shopaholic (Shopaholic, No 1)	Books	5	15	20	N	N	Move over Bridget Jones!!	What a hilarious book this is!  All British literature and/or Bridget Jones fans will love Confessions of a Shopaholic--it meets every expectation.<br />Twenty-five-year-old Rebecca Bloomfield is in love ~~ with shopping!  She has maxed credit cards and an incredibly overdrafted bank account.  But, surprisingly, this does not stop her from frequenting shops and cafes during her lunch hour.  Rebecca is aware of her problem, however, and tries to do better.  Her schemes for cutting back, saving money and making more money are downright funny, inventive and quite honestly, desperate.<br />Confessions of a Shopaholic makes it's mark.  One of the Top 10 best British novels I have ever read.  Definitely a pick-me-up if not a confessional for others who suffer from Overshopping Syndrome.  Will absolutely appease those who crave lighthearted, fun comedy with a message.  Two dollar-signs up!	2001-03-11
US	52768278	R1BEVTYEDCZ1S3	0062502182	472619578	The Alchemist: A Fable About Following Your Dream	Books	4	9	13	N	N	A good lesson to be learned...	What better way to encourage someone to follow their dreams!  Paulo Coelho has written a beautiful and inspiring story with a wonderfully powerful message.<br />Santiago, an Andalusian shepherd boy, is told by the King of Salem that the reoccuring dream he has been having can be fulfilled, that it is his destiny to travel to the Egyptian Pyramids to find his treasure.  What seems like such an impossible thing turns into a quest to realize his dream, or Personal Legend.  And so the journey begins...<br />Santiago meets many people along the way--some who want to help and some who only hinder.  Readers will be uplifted by Santiago's determination and surprised by the outcome in his quest to follow his dream.  Although not a life-changing story, it does put a new perspective on the importance of goals and aspirations and having the courage to meet them.  Recommend this for a quick day or weekend read.	2001-03-06
US	52768278	R3V39BD3TGIV59	038542017X	507593319	Like Water for Chocolate: A Novel in Monthly Installments with Recipes, Romances, and Home Remedies	Books	5	75	84	N	N	Weird, but in a good way...	I really had no idea what this novel was about when I started reading it.  My book club chose it as their monthly selection, so I went into it blindly.  Imagine my surprise...<br />Like Water for Chocolate is part love story/part fantasy that delves into the lives of a Mexican family during the Mexican Revolution.  Tita, the youngest of three daughters, is the victim of harsh family tradition--she cannot marry and is subject to a life of taking care of her mother until the day she dies.  What a shame for poor Tita, who is desperately in love with Pedro.  So Pedro marries Tita's older sister in order to stay close to Tita.  What happens after that can only happen in Soap Opera Land.<br />Very mystical, erotic and enjoyable until the last page, Like Water for Chocolate will definitely be remembered for a long time to come.  Laura Esquivel has done a wonderful job writing this exceptionally creative, imaginative tale.  Now I'm off to see how the movie compares!	2001-03-01
US	52768278	R2BS8VPXJN53GV	014025448X	813188609	At Home in Mitford	Books	4	87	94	N	N	Pure escapism at it's best!	Call me crazy, but I'd LOVE to live in Mitford--a place where nothing happens but your occasional dog-napping, jewel-thievering, and finding strangers in your attic.<br />Sound boring?  Oh, but what a nice, calming change of pace that would be!  Jan Karon has written a terrific, wholesome story about a small village in North Carolina where wonderful and sometimes strange things happen.  Written through the eyes of the Episcopalian priest, Father Tim shows us a refreshingly old-fashioned life where goodness and kindheartedness prevails.  You get to meet many lively and eccentric characters who quickly become your friends and who make life in Mitford such a pleasure and a privilege.<br />At Home in Mitford is the perfect diversion from the hustle and bustle of our busy lives.  A calm, relaxing novel full of charm and sassy wit that &quot;celebrates ordinary people leading ordinary lives.&quot;  Though not for everyone, especially for those who need lots of action in their reading, this novel goes down like a cool glass of lemonade on a hot summer day.  Enjoy!	2001-02-26
US	52768278	RUGPGCI450HAR	068818071X	519845136	Rachel's Holiday	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Beats the other Marian Keyes books with a stick!	What would you say to an all-expenses paid trip, complete with three well-balanced meals a day, daily schedule of events, nightly activities, and limitless opportunities to meet people that share common interests?  Well, have I got the vacation for you!  Join 27-year-old Rachel Walsh on her journey from selfish, immature, irresponsible drug-addict to rehabilitated, humble and fully-functional adult.  Watch the transformation and prepare to be totally swept away.<br />Marian Keyes has written a humdinger here.  A lively and perceptive view of real-life addiction and recovery, spiced with humor and wit, and written in a breezy, chatty, conversational tone that will take reader from page 1 to 565 in two shakes.  All Keyes fans will revel in Rachel's Holiday.  A very fast-paced, mature novel, a hilarious take on a most serious subject, and one that will have you reading into the wee hours of the morning.  Her best yet!	2001-02-12
US	52768278	R3OFMAJWZH46KW	0670881791	598461998	Chocolat: A Novel	Books	4	32	34	N	N	Flat-out yummy!	What happens when an out-of-towner moves into an old-fashioned, quaint French village, opens up a chocolate shop across the street from a church during Lent, and charms most of the neighborhood with her delicious treats, easy-going manner, and her eerie talent for being able to read minds?  Well, it ticks the priest off for one thing...<br />...which then begins an all-out war between church and chocolate, good and evil, saints and sinners.  Father Francis Reynaud doesn't take much to outsiders coming into his community who do not believe in God, practice pagan rituals (most specifically Easter in the Easter bunny sense), and who tempt his parishioners with sinful chocolate at the beginning of Lent.  Reynaud refers to the arrival of Vianne Rocher as a single dandelion spreading her seeds, and soon the whole town turns upside down with all sorts of goings-on.<br />Joanne Harris writes with a skillful, intelligent hand.  Sometimes the sentences have to be read twice (what with the big words and all), but the text is pure poetry.  This novel builds slowly and takes readers on a magical carpet ride.  Definitely recommended to those who enjoy a sweet and sad story, a not regularly written about topic, and a writing style that's beautiful in it's symbolism, clarity and description.	2001-02-02
US	52768278	R24IEIPXEK6SOJ	0385502532	903040762	Drowning Ruth: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Good first try for Christina Schwarz	After several years of nursing soldiers wounded in war, Amanda Starkey comes home to live with her sister, Mathilda, and 3-year-old niece, Ruth.  Seems innocent enough until that one fateful night...<br />Drowning Ruth is surely a page-turner although the pace of the storytelling is very deliberate and gradual.  Ms. Schwarz doles out bits of the mystery like breaking off pieces of a brownie--you want to eat the whole thing at once although you know it is better to savor each morsel.  It takes the span of the entire novel before we finally learn the truth about the drowning of Mattie Neumann, so to those who like their mysterys in big, heaping gulps, be prepared.<br />I was truly captivated by the plotline even though it took me several chapters to get it together.  The flashbacks were a little hard to get used to and it took much concentration at times to keep everything in chronological order.  However, this novel is definitely a readable piece of work, and I love how the writing leisurely builds up to the climacteric finish.	2001-01-24
US	52768278	R3DID54NFTHTD5	0670894184	334925003	Back Roads (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	21	24	N	N	In a reading rut?  Try this one.	This book is a masterpiece.  Tawni O'Dell has created the darkest, most disturbing, yet insanely fascinating story I may have ever read.  Now that the father is dead and the mother is in prison for killing him, 19-year-old Harley finds himself with too much on his plate.  He's suddenly thrown into a new home life where he is the boss, moneymaker, bill-payer and legal guardian of his three younger sisters.  Such a big responsibility for someone who can't get a grip on reality.  Ms. O'Dell takes us into the mind of a teenager who has had to grow up too fast.  She writes with fury and ease, making Harley both frightening and loveable.<br />Back Roads is an incredible story with lots of twists and turns that leave you breathless, anxious and sick to your stomach.  Tawni O'Dell creates scenes that are horrific and terrifying, but something about the flow in which she writes keeps you going, poised on the edge of your seat, until the very end.  Very witty and funny for such a sad, depressing book.  Must read.	2001-01-19
US	52768278	RSI6JMVG1HYVY	0679781358	591342650	The Hottest State: A Novel	Books	4	17	22	N	N	Good fall-back, you know, if the acting doesn't work out	I was very impressed with Ethan Hawke's writing ability.  I thought he wrote a very creative, genuine story.  Sad and depressing (would make a good Oprah pick if she picked books about males), but undoubtedly a real love story.  Honestly, I was only interested in this novel because I'm a fan of Ethan Hawke, the actor.  Now, having read his debut novel, I'm a fan of Ethan Hawke, the writer.  A believable, bittersweet, desperate tale about William Harding, who falls in love with an unconventional girl named Sarah after four days together and becomes completely wrapped up in her in the most unhealthy way.  This novel is not for the weak of heart.  Would make an excellent movie.	2000-12-08
US	52768278	R3EARGPBNM2O9T	0440215625	983256815	Dragonfly in Amber: A Novel (Outlander)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Escapism at it's best!	What a wonderful story Diana Gabaldon has created.  It all starts with the gripping, powerful tale told in Outlander and continues on with even more thrills in Dragonfly in Amber.  I was moved to the edge of my seat in parts; left breathless in others.  This follow-up to the unsurpassed Outlander is a masterpiece.  Granted, it will take slow readers a good while to complete, but the end is well worth the wait.  The cliffhanger leaves the reader begging for more.  What relief to know there are two more novels written about Jamie and Claire, and their saga will continue.  Highly recommended.  If you've read Outlander, you must finish this series!	2000-11-28
US	52768278	R3TNFM0PSPF8CH	0375750223	800701418	Love Invents Us	Books	2	6	13	N	N	The title is the best part...	The title of this book, Love Invents Us, leads you to believe you will be reading a passionate love story, one with obstacles to overcome and triumphs to behold.  What I read was pure drivel!  I had no sympathy for Elizabeth, who never stepped out of the cycle, who loved the unloveable and continued to exercise meaningless, false relationships throughout her life.  Elizabeth was very unhealthy and used, and I had no room to find goodness or sincerity in her.  I could barely make it to the end of the 205 pages.  Although there were some allusions to the human body that were very well written, there weren't enough of them to redeem this book for me.  I'm sorry, but this book belongs in Bad Book Hell.	2000-11-27
US	52768278	R2AZM7E096T4IT	1573225517	138260184	High Fidelity	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Top Five All-Time, Desert Island Book	High Fidelity is a hilarious and witty take on the single 30-something male with &quot;what's it all mean&quot; issues.  Full of biting humor and shocking realizations of what's really inside a man's head.  I happen to think this novel is the perfect insider guide for a female!  Other than that, it's refreshing and funny, wild and crazy, a delicious romp through the male psyche.  And Barry and Dick were like the best friends I never had.  I would love to hang out with THEM for a day!  Also, the movie is an excellent companion to the book.  It's almost word for word, and understandably so--there was nothing to change or perfect upon in this novel.  High Fidelity will have you falling off your chair laughing.  And I recommend watching the movie, too, because Jack Black is the perfect Barry.  A wonderful reading experience.	2000-11-22
US	52768278	R3DB5V2OHMGQKA	0967313104	36233939	Remnants of Glory	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A powerful epic	Remnants of Glory is one book you shouldn't pass up.  This novel spans a huge portion of Kate Dexter's life, from age 18 to age 90.  Many roadblocks are thrown in her path, but she triumphs with grace and glory.  As a mother to a mentally challenged daughter, she does what most of us would do, much to the chagrin of others around her.  As a wife, she deals with her marriage and it's traumas with dignity.  And as a human being, she admits her weaknesses and flaws in spite of her perfect reputation.  Kate lives her life throughout this novel with a mad determination.  It is truly a beautiful and powerful piece of work.  Teresa Miller deserves a big round of applause for this one.  Those who love reading about a character from life until death, fully-formed and 3-dimensional will most likely appreciate this masterpiece.	2000-11-15
US	52768278	R7K2G7PXX6TAZ	068483751X	42520803	An Actual Life	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A mix of happy and sad	An Actual Life tells of the miserable marriage between Virginia and Buddy, two just-out-of-high-school sweethearts who married out of duty.  A year later, there is nothing between them but forced politeness, a lingering ex-girlfriend, and a daughter named Maddie.<br />Their story is one of sadness, painful truth, and the realization that marriage is no cakewalk.  Virginia and Buddy have their happy moments, but they are short-lived, especially when Buddy's ex, Irene, is around.  The best thing that came out of this shotgun wedding is Maddie, who brings out the best in mommy and daddy.<br />An Actual Life is a terribly sad and poignant novel written with a sense of humor.  There are very funny parts in this novel, even about not-so-funny situations.  A quick, easy read with a very powerful message.	2000-11-09
US	52768278	R3IERNLC778W6D	0688177751	445501217	Miss Julia Speaks Her Mind: A Novel	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Miss Julia's speaking my language!	Oh, you've just got to read this book!  Miss Julia will inspire you.  She is a firecracker, full of spunk, and witty to boot.  You feel sorry for her for the life she led as wife (or second-class citizen--same thing in her eyes), but root for her for the life she now leads as widow and step-momma.  And she definitely speaks her mind, which makes this novel so wonderful and fun to read.  The language is so vivid and fresh, the cast of characters are as loopy as all get out, and even Miss Julia shows a bit of naivete at times.  An absolute winner for southern fiction fans.  Just wish I knew more people like Miss Julia.	2000-11-06
US	52768278	R1DTWY2Y7JTA1Z	0439064872	667539744	Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Gimme more of the good stuff...	I am hopelessly addicted to Harry Potter.  I am a Harry Potter junkie.  I am compulsively obsessed with Harry Potter.  Need I go on?<br />What a fabulous, wonderful follow-up to the fantastic first installment.  Harry had me going places this time, for sure!  And what adventures we went on...sneaking off into the Forbidden Forest following a trail of spiders, hanging out in the girls' bathroom with Moaning Myrtle, zooming through the air in a flying Ford Anglia.  It is never enough to be a normal student for Harry, NO WAY!  He HAS to solve the mystery of the Heir of Slytherin (and get himself into lots of trouble along the way).<br />Harry fans, you will not be disappointed with Year #2.  Does not let you down after the attention-grabbing goodness of the first one.  And the better news?  There's 5 more to go in the series...	2000-10-31
US	52768278	R10MSV0W0NN27U	1573221562	595147475	Affinity	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Beautiful follow-up	Kudos to Ms. Waters for writing yet another beautifully crafted story!  I did not get into this book as easily as I did with Tipping the Velvet, but I wasn't any less fulfilled by novel's end.  Sarah Waters's words teem with life and her characters are expertly developed.  Affinity was a gripping tale, masterfully created--slowly but surely--to horrify and mystify the reader.  It does take 100 or so pages to get the plot rolling, but after having completed the book, I realize the pace of the novel was necessary to the entire flow of the story.  The ending did a complete 180 from what I expected it to be.  I was on the edge of my seat and holding my breath while reading the conclusion to this fascinating novel.  You will too.	2000-10-27
US	52768278	R3UZX08RQBUJE7	0449005569	474004755	Love: A User's Guide	Books	2	7	10	N	N	A Guide for who?	This was NOT the book I had hoped it would be.  What an egotistical and self-indulgent person Amy turned out to be.  She was dippy and conceited, and I had no sympathy for her whatsoever.  And what was that weird narrator thing going on throughout the whole book?  I felt like I was watching The Wonder Years, albeit a very, very BAD rendition.  The one positive thing I will say about this book?  Uh....hmmmmm....well, can't think of anything....  Okay, to be fair, despite the fact that the characters were less than appealing, the book was a total fantasy, so unlike real life, and that would quite possibly be some other reader's cup o' tea.  Just not mine.	2000-10-23
US	52768278	R1FH29D1ORAG6V	0375506039	878470234	Open House	Books	5	3	4	N	N	I'm movin' in!	&quot;Sam, I want to be your roommate.&quot;  Couldn't help thinking that the whole time I was reading Open House.  And how bizarre that Sam ran the gamut of emotions and actions--the same ones I did when I was in her place.  Elizabeth Berg is a genius.  She got right down to the very essence of a divorced woman.  All the stages of love and loss were there, peeled away layer by layer.  I laughed at the uncanny resemblance between Sam and me, saying to myself, &quot;I did that!  Oh, and I did that, too!&quot;  And most of all, I understood her.  I knew exactly what Sam meant when she said pain had walked right into her and had a seat.  Elizabeth Berg has done an excellent job with this one.  I have now been inspired to read more.	2000-10-17
US	52768278	R2YCW9C3HOTLDC	0380978091	838030657	The House of Gentle Men	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Worth every star!	What a triumph this novel is for Kathy Hepinstall.  I am astonished, floored, amazed!  I never expected The House of Gentle Men to be this good.  A totally unique and riveting story that kept my rapt attention from the very first page.  It's marvelous beyond words--I hardly know what to say here.  At first I thought this book was full of one dysfunction after another with Louise's cleaning neurosis, Charlotte's muteness and Milo's obession with fire.  But without dysfunction can there be redemption?  And without redemption, can we ever be fully satisfied with what we've read?  I am speechless; the lesson of forgiveness has overwhelmed me.  Truly one of the better novels I've read all year.  Thank you for this gift, Kathy.  I just don't know how you can top yourself now.	2000-10-11
US	52768278	R3GLU7YUARO8RV	0061097101	632958433	The Saving Graces: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	I'm their other best friend...	What a great group of women!  I loved the opportunity to dip into each Saving Grace's life, learning their secrets and feeling their heartbreaks.  Each woman was a pillar for the others, a beacon or a lifeline.  Reading their stories made me appreciate the strong bonds of friendship.  Ms. Gaffney created real characters that I truly cared about.  It did take awhile to get them straight in the beginning; but soon Emma, Rudy, Isabel and Lee became individuals to me, real 3-dimensional people, with unique personalities that were great credits to each other.  The perfect instructional for those searching a book on how to be a good friend.	2000-10-11
US	52768278	RARRZ96OJJC36	0060183713	892476030	Consuming Passions: A Food-Obsessed Life	Books	4	23	25	N	N	I, too, was consumed	I will admit:  I thought this was going to be another outrageously funny southern novel by Michael Lee West.  I had read two of her books previously and totally devoured them.  So naturally I had to read everything she had in print.  Well, imagine my surprise when I discovered a cookbook in my hands.  I LOVED this book...and I HATE to cook!  As a matter of fact, my menus consist of nothing more than boxed macaroni and cheese and different varieties of Hamburger Helper.  And you know what else?  I didn't know you were supposed to &quot;season&quot; a cast-iron skillet.  I learned a lot of things reading this book, and it has even inspired me to cook something REAL.  Not only that, but Michael Lee West has real-life eccentric characters--her relatives--that keep this book moving along.  I would just love to have an Aunt Dell in my family!  I highly recommend this book to everyone who enjoys a good southern novel.  Even to those who don't cook....like me!	2000-10-02
US	52768278	R3HR5B7CTH976T	0385333005	230034308	Driving Mr. Albert: A Trip Across America with Einstein's Brain	Books	4	8	12	N	N	I was the fifth passenger...	What can I say about this book that hasn't already been said before?  Michael Paterniti is a talented, gifted writer who turned this small piece  of Einsteinian history into a full-fledged book and made it a terribly  enjoyable read!  I was on this road trip with Michael, Harvey, Einstein and  The Brain, seeing the things that they saw, living each moment along with  them.  Michael writes Harvey as very eccentric, quirky and elusive; so much  so that I had to keep reminding myself that he is a REAL person, not a  fictional character.  In addition to a great  adventure/memoir/non-fiction/travel book rolled into one, I got a great  history lesson.  One that I didn't know anything about, but am now piqued  to learn more.  Excellent.	2000-09-19
US	52768278	R1WHC3VUG8FBRX	0553109847	838101255	Neurotica	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Neurotic is right...	This book started off very funny and Bridget Jones-ish.  But then  something happened to the sizzle.  The humor, wit and brassiness went the  way of plastic jelly shoes...just disappeared.  This book wasn't a struggle  to read; actually it was quite readable.  The storyline about a woman doing  research into why women have affairs was something that I would never do  personally, but could live vicariously through Anna.  Parts of this book  were very memorable (like the flasher in the grocery store), but other than  that, Neurotica fell flat.  All I can say is I'm glad it ended the way it  did.  I couldn't stand to read this much adulterous sex without there being  a moral at the end of the story.	2000-09-14
US	52768278	R1R8PAQOEOJMNB	059035342X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Harry is addictive!	All of this hype about Harry Potter...Harry Potter this, Harry Potter that...well, I wasn't about to sit still until I found out for myself.  Wow!  Go with the hype, everyone; you WILL NOT be disappointed.  Harry  Potter is incredible.  J.K. Rowling is a genius, a triumph, an author who  will be remembered always.  What an imagination!  You will be hooked once  you start.  I wasn't even halfway through #1 when I had to go out and buy  #2.  It's the perfect adventure for those who love to live vicariously.  And it's not just for kids.  It's for anyone who enjoys fun, lively,  entertaining reads, for those who read for pure pleasure.  Now, off I go,  to read the second installment.  And not a moment too soon!	2000-08-18
US	52768278	RF7S2ISIGE4RB	0553380370	775677179	Six of One	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Love that sibling rivalry!	I had never read anything by Rita Mae Brown prior to reading Six of  One...what an introduction!  Ms. Brown came highly recommended to me, as I  love authors who write southern fiction, complete with quirky and eccentric  characters and a laugh on every page.  And Six of One offers a heapin'  helpin' of the good stuff!  Juts and Wheezie's revenge against each other  will keep you rolling.  It is sibling rivalry at it's best.  Plus, I love  the fact that the book spans eighty years, so we get to see what happens to  most of the characters from life until death.  Thank goodness there are two  other books in the Hunsenmeir sisters series.  Don't want to miss out on  any more of their crazy antics!	2000-08-15
US	52768278	R1IUH854ZKDVB1	0375704329	173120785	Simple Gifts: Lessons in Living from a Shaker Village	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Plain and simple	Well, there isn't much to say about this book other than it was a cozy, meandering read that doesn't take a lot of energy or concentration to read.  Nothing happens in this book, either.  However, I learned something about  the Shaker way that I hadn't known before.  It was entertaining in that  respect, but nothing more.  Would probably only appeal to those interested  in Shakers.	2000-07-11
US	52768278	R2JHYL1955BG1K	0670892963	787771217	Bridget Jones : The Edge of Reason	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Laughs in one sitting: non-stop (v.v.g.)	I didn't think Helen Fielding could top herself, but she did.  Bridget is even funnier this time around!  I laughed 'til tears ran down my face (yes, it's THAT funny).  Who else but Bridget can get herself into the situations  she does and pull it off with such finesse?  I hope, beg and pray there is  another Bridget book out there and that Helen Fielding is listening.  I  want my own Bridget...heck, can I just BE Bridget!	2000-06-07
US	52768278	R12N9Q904UIOR2	0965250245	786280170	Pretzel Logic: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Pretzel Logic made sense	Although I could not relate personally to this novel, it made perfect sense to me.  It is not about a husband telling his wife he's gay, it's about losing and trying desperately to get back the person you married.  It  could happen to anybody.  I felt for Emily and understood her confusion and  feelings of betrayal and heartbreak.  The ending was how I pictured it...I  wouldn't have liked it any other way.	2000-05-31
US	52768278	RRO4QNJ8JPXDR	0156004992	592061841	Heart Conditions	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Loved, loved this one	It was like reading my diary all over again!  I knew EXACTLY what Alice was going through, and I admire her strength to pick up and carry on.  And what a hoot Gram was!  She was so lively, spunky and very wise to boot.  Everyone should be so lucky to have a &quot;Gram&quot; around.  This was my  second Sara Lewis novel and the best so far.  Kudos!	2000-05-31
US	52768278	REDGXTA1XDDF4	1571780831	476073010	Bloodland: A Family Story of Oil, Greed and Murder on the Osage Reservation	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Incredible, fascinating	I read this book with my book club members which culminated with a &quot;speakerphone chat&quot; with the author.  I must say that this was a wonderful and powerful novel that gets the reader thinking.  I am not an  Indian, and I am ashamed to say I had no idea about the Reign of Terror or  the prejudices felt by Indians of any tribe.  This book opened my eyes.  I  was on the edge of my seat waiting to see how this true murder mystery was  going to turn out.  In the meantime, I got an awesome history lesson that I  will never forget.	2000-05-23
US	52768278	RZB69KTA3JN00	1571780831	476073010	Bloodland: A Family Story of Oil, Greed and Murder on the Osage Reservation	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Incredible, fascinating	I read this book with my book club members which culminated with a  &quot;speakerphone&quot; chat with the author.  I must say that this was a  wonderful and powerful novel that gets the reader thinking.  I am not an  Indian, and I am ashamed to say I had no idea about the Reign of Terror or  the prejudices felt by Indians of any tribe.  This book opened my eyes.  I  was on the edge of my seat waiting to see how this true murder mystery was  going to turn out.  In the meantime, I got an awesome history lesson that I  will never forget.	2000-05-10
US	52768278	R3CXQL6SVRZO90	0440207770	903260495	Silver Wedding	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Good, but not one of her best	This was only my 3rd book by Maeve Binchy, and compared to Evening Class  and Echoes, Silver Wedding wasn't near as entertaining.  I feel that if  Binchy made the novel a bit longer to allow for better character  development, Silver Wedding would have been quite a page-turner.  However,  I enjoyed this book from beginning to end, and I will continue to read  anything Maeve Binchy has in print.	2000-04-28
US	52768278	RNEHEWBGM2H4X	0440224594	860906750	The Return Journey	Books	4	19	21	N	N	A Nice Change	I had never read a collection of short stories before, by Maeve Binchy or any other author.  What a pleasant surprise!  The short story format made for a quick read, which is a nice change after reading The Glass Lake!  The  stories themselves oozed with Maeve Binchy's creative and imaginative style  that I have come to enjoy after reading five of her books.  Definitely a  winner!	2000-04-28
US	52768278	R2QQMXDTX8RIWO	0440122090	726595351	Echoes	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Charming Story	This book started out somewhat slow and I almost took a trip to boreville until about the 60th page or so when it picked up a little.  From then on I was hooked!  She writes with such a charming flair, that it's hard NOT to  like any of her books--and I've got 12 of her books to prove it!  I  recommend this book very highly...take patience in the beginning, it WILL  get better!	2000-04-28
US	52768278	R1CY1GESHM611X	0440221595	976995808	The Glass Lake	Books	5	1	2	N	N	This book is incredible!	You HAVE to read this book...it was absolutely fantastic!  Definitely one of her best.  It usually takes me a few pages to get into a book, but with The Glass Lake I was drawn in at the first page and stayed that way  throughout the whole book.  Maeve Binchy is simply amazing.  She has yet to  disappoint me.	2000-04-28
US	52768278	R2N9YX37HX9T5P	0440223202	785923114	Evening Class	Books	5	6	7	N	N	I want to take an Evening Class!	This was my first Maeve Binchy novel, and I have to say it was absolutely incredible!  I LOVED the way she intertwined the students' lives, allowing us a sneak peak, then spoiling us with their own chapter.  After reading  this novel, I couldn't wait to try another one of her books--I went  straight to the bookstore and purchased nine of her previous works!	2000-04-28
US	52768278	R28YJ14589VMCZ	0525944532	289489832	Dreaming Southern	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Dreaming FUNNY!	What a hoot of a novel!  I thought Lila Mae's antics and her brutally honest children were knee-slappers and a half!  Of course, there really wasn't a plot or much of a point for that matter, but I enjoyed the pace of  this book immensely.  If you read it as an account of one family's journey  from Kentucky to California and all the funny stuff in between, then you  will like this book, too.  I could've appreciated a better ending only  because I like things tied up in a nice little bow.  However, this was not  a waste of time for me.  A great trip down Route 66!	2000-04-19
US	52768278	R3695WZTF3P9Y5	0156005646	233328922	The Answer Is Yes: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Loved it!	What a wonderfully written story!  I enjoyed reading this book from start to finish.  It was an easy going, relaxing novel with characters that you care about.  Sara Lewis has definitely became one of my new favorite  authors!	2000-03-28
US	52768278	R3F1CX1K7KSOVA	0060193123	369093723	The Bingo Queens of Paradise	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Gets better the more you read	This book started out not so good for me.  I was expecting it to be a funny novel for some reason (the title?).  But the more I read, the more I enjoyed the storyline, the more my heart went out to those children, and the more it made me appreciate the good life that I've had.  Bingo Queens  is a &quot;thinker&quot; novel that gets better the further you go, so  stick with it.  The end makes it worth it!	2000-03-14
US	52768278	R33EL1CWYJCUZ0	037570485X	610660223	The Inn at Lake Devine	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A good intro to Lipman	I have never read anything by Elinor Lipman before.  What a great start for me!  The Inn at Lake Devine is a well-written novel with interesting dialogue and sarcastic humor that kept me laughing.  I don't know much  about being Jewish, so that was a problem for me (although minor ).  Other  than that I was very drawn to her writing style and will now begin my  search for her other novels.	2000-02-25
US	52768278	R2STC0AS5FHURM	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Gorgeous	Wow.  What an amazing and beautiful story.  I didn't even understand what a geisha really was before reading this book; now I feel like an expert.  Mr. Golden has created a masterpiece so delicately written, it almost  seemed like a poem to me.  Very intriguing and thought-provoking; gorgeous,  gorgeous writing; plus a history lesson like you've never had before.  Wonderful!	2000-02-21
US	52768278	R228A1L1NY6MEH	0345433173	434459317	The Tall Pine Polka	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Wonderful new Landvik	I have officially completed my tour o' Landvik and must say she is quite a gifted writer!  I love all her characters and the storylines are always so original and smart.  Out of all three of her works, I believe Your Oasis on  Flame Lake is my favorite, but The Tall Pine Polka is a great follow-up.  Bravo, Lorna Landvik!  Keep 'em coming!	2000-01-21
US	52768278	R16CXE54DUPGZ6	0385319959	983256815	Outlander	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A fantastic adventure...	I can't really say anything new about this book, because it has already been said by the countless reviewers before me.  I am just in awe.  What a wonderful journey I was on!  Diana Gabaldon has spun quite a yarn, leaving  me to make my own &quot;Scottish noises.&quot;  Luckily, I have the next  book in the series to ease my withdrawl!	1999-12-27
US	52768278	R2AI823NZZ1U4G	0345416260	21574649	Pope Joan: A Novel	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Only allowed 5 stars?  Too bad...	Pope Joan by Donna Woolfolk Cross deserves a million stars!  I have read many many books since I have read this one, and Pope Joan still reigns as being the best book I have ever read.  I even voted it Amazon.com's best  book of the millennium, it's that good!  There are so many people that have  read this book and loved it, and I recommend it to all of you with the  utmost confidence.  Pope Joan is fabulous!	1999-12-01
US	52768278	R4UR1F96EIY4C	067088300X	221101137	The Girls' Guide to Hunting and Fishing	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Good, but not as expected	I wasn't actually expecting a book of short stories.  Although they were connected to each other, I felt I missed a great part of the book.  I didn't really get to know the main character, Jane, as much as I would have  liked.  But, the parts that I did get to learn were wise and funny,  especially the last chapter.  My only question is why the author threw in  those two chapters that had nothing at all to do with the rest of the book.  Didn't make any sense and did not add to the value of the story.  My  recommendation:  wait for the paperback or see your library.	1999-12-01
US	52768278	R2VZRR81O5FHVG	0380730138	979924066	Vinegar Hill (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	23	28	N	N	Like the book says...Haunting	Vinegar Hill was indeed a chilling and haunting portrayal of a midwestern wife and the despair she feels in her marriage and life.  Some of the scenes are very disturbing, and make you wonder about how one's personality  can be shaped by their environment.  I mean, if I was abused as a child,  maybe I, too, wouldn't be a very cheery person to be around.  Vinegar Hill  is expertly written by the careful and poetic hand of A. Manette Ansay.  I  now have Sister in my possession that I plan to dive into as soon as  possible!	1999-11-29
US	52768278	R1Y61MDQ7MS1D6	038079487X	311612619	What Looks Like Crazy on an Ordinary Day (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Fast paced and exciting	This book was just overflowing with the good stuff.  I really enjoyed the &quot;mini-mystery&quot; involving the church, as well as delving into the lives of the good and the bad of the people living in Idlewild, Michigan,  the all-black paradise.  Exciting and unexpected twists at the end left me  wanting more.  Ms. Cleage gets kudos from me for this wonderful first  novel.	1999-11-17
US	52768278	R2QSB4ZSJ33RKM	0679764925	89898104	Quite a Year for Plums: A Novel	Books	3	9	20	N	N	Very odd	I don't really know what to say about this book.  It wasn't bad, but it wasn't good either.  As a matter of fact, it wasn't really a book.  No plot, no climax, no resolution, no nothing.  The humor is quite blah.  It  reads more like a play if you ask me.  The characters were very quirky and  eccentric, but I felt Ms. White could have made them funnier.  Their  qualities were hilarious, but she never talked much about them, just let us  know they existed.  I am only keeping this book because I like the cover.	1999-11-09
US	52768278	RNSLX005SOH7K	0375703055	220076440	Ellen Foster	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Good, but read A Virtuous Woman first	If you have never read anything by Kaye Gibbons, start with A Virtuous Woman.  It is a great introduction.  Ellen Foster was a little hard to follow at times since it jumped between past and present, plus there isn't  a quotation mark to be found.  However, I enjoyed this sad, bittersweet  story and the ending is wonderfully redeeming.  Ellen is quite mature for  her 10 years, but I guess that's what happens when you grow up in her  world.  Recommended to the busy body who doesn't have time to read a book.	1999-11-04
US	52768278	R396G5N68XOYT0	0316899984	508044138	River, Cross My Heart: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A so-so book	This book took quite a few pages to get the ball rolling, but towards the middle it got better.  However, my criteria for a good book gets better WAY  before the middle!  My book club read this together and we all decided it  wasn't a great big deal, but it also wasn't the worst thing we have ever  read.  Personally, I liked it for what it was:  a book.  Nothing more,  nothing less.	1999-11-01
US	52768278	R3Q2S818LJS89X	0375703063	844780162	A Virtuous Woman (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Wonderful, beautiful story of love	I don't care if Ruby and Jack were together for true love or for need, but this novel was a definite story about love of some sort.  I was touched,  moved to tears, and laughed off my seat.  A VIRTUOUS WOMAN was beautiful,  heart-wrenching, sweet and honest.  Definitely one of Oprah's better  choices, but read it for other reasons, too.	1999-10-27
US	52768278	R20SH0TOGRPJSA	0140283625	122319491	Once upon the River Love	Books	2	1	4	N	N	Difficult and confusing	I had such a dreadful, struggling experience reading this book.  I couldn't understand a word of it except what the back of the book said.  When the author went off on his poetical tangent, I was just lost.  I  couldn't see the symbolism, although I knew it was there.  Don't get me  wrong, Mr. Makine is a very talented and gifted writer, but I think only  those who read poetry and novels that you have to concentrate on would  enjoy this one.	1999-10-25
US	52768278	R2MH9TQ3D71OZ2	0375703675	742933968	Dear Exile : The True Story of Two Friends Separated (for a Year) by an Ocean	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Read this one, fast!	I really enjoyed this book.  At first glance, you wouldn't think a book based on letters written between two friends would be any good, but it really, truly was.  Kate and Hilary were so very different from each other,  but the contrast is what made this book worth reading.  I recommend DEAR  EXILE to everyone, especially to those who don't have time to read a  full-length novel.  It was very short, very sweet, and so very, very, very  enjoyable.	1999-10-20
US	52768278	R19LUKZJGNC2BN	0679426140	293874514	Welcome to the World, Baby Girl!: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	I loved this book!	What an amazing book!  I have read all three of Fannie Flagg's novels and they are all wonderful, but Welcome to the World, Baby Girl! is so different from her other two.  Less funny than Daisy Fay, but definitely  more engaging.  I read this almost-500-page book in 6 days, it was that  engrossing.  Loved the mystery about Dena's missing mother and the slimy  tabloid reporter stuff.  Kudos, Ms. Flagg, for yet another fantastic read!	1999-10-18
US	52768278	R3AHS27J4X84GI	0966335201	897572617	The Cheerleader	Books	5	6	7	N	N	What wonderful memories!	This book hits the nail on the head!  For awhile there, I thought I was ready my diary, and then realized that Snowy had gone through many of the things that I did when I was in high school.  A great way to remember those  by-gone days and the sweet, simple life of a teenage girl.  Now, I want to  read the sequel, Snowy.  Must know if there is life after high school!	1999-10-11
US	52768278	RBDPD1R1N80KO	0380976188	122477335	Lucy Sullivan Is Getting Married	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Funny, witty, but more serious than Watermelon	I really like Marian Keyes.  She is a wonderful author.  But, her two novels, Watermelon and Lucy Sullivan, are day and night to me.  Watermelon was a fall-off-your-seat kind of funny, very lighthearted and refreshing;  Lucy Sullivan was still funny and just as good, but dealt with more serious  topics like alcoholism and depression.  However, I really liked all the  characters, except for Karen, that ol' meanie, and Gus, that ol'  freeloader!  Lucy was very sweet and her buddy, Daniel, was even sweeter.  Ms. Keyes did a wonderful job.  Can't wait for Rachel's Holiday to be  published in the U.S.	1999-10-05
US	52768278	R2DXF4A9Z7K1FC	0060175400	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good, but a little too long	I had never read any books by Kingsolver before this one, and I have to say she is a wonderful and gifted writer.  The Poisonwood Bible is a great novel, different from anything I've ever read before.  I enjoyed the  contrasting accounts of Congo life told by each girl.  However, I felt this  book was too long.  After their mission in the Congo, I felt I wasn't as  interested as before.  I like to hear what happens to the characters after  ordeals such as theirs, but it just dragged on for me.  It became very  political and symbolic in the end and I got somewhat confused.  Other than  this, the novel was expertly written and I am glad I took the time to read  it.	1999-09-22
US	52768278	R30QLNHFY5UQ97	0060977493	521720988	The God of Small Things	Books	4	1	2	N	N	I'm mixed on this one...	I'm not really sure how I feel about this book.  I know I didn't hate it, but it was way too poetic for my taste.  It became so metaphorical and dream-like that I was confused and had to read paragraphs twice or three  times to try to get somewhat of an understanding.  However, Ms. Roy is a  brilliant writer and the storyline (well, the parts that I comprehended!)  was very good.  Her descriptions are very vivid and the characters are  adequately fleshed-out.  The last chapter was soooo worth it.  A very  different read.  But take your time or you'll get lost!	1999-09-13
US	52768278	R31T61WSI3GJ0Q	0446521582	775003712	The Honk and Holler Opening Soon	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A great follow-up	What a truly engaging novel.  I loved Ms. Letts's characters in Honk and Holler just as much as I did in Where the Heart Is.  Somehow she makes you really care about them, which is a hard thing to do in my opinion!  A word  of warning to some who hope that this novel is a Where the Heart Is  knock-off:  it's not, far from it.  You cannot compare the two, if you do  you will be disappointed.  Honk and Holler is a completely different novel  that stands tall all by itself.  Please read this one, it's fantastic.  Can't wait for book number 3!	1999-09-06
US	52768278	R2X7JJRTE4QHUZ	0684853027	736882669	Run Catch Kiss: A Gratifying Novel	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Just your average soft-porn novel....	It's not deep.  It's not thought-provoking.  It doesn't have much meaning either.  But if you're into books that are quick, light and very...ahem...descriptive...then you will probably enjoy this novel.  There  are parts that are really funny, parts that are downright nasty and  granted, it is somewhat interesting.  I just wouldn't buy it until it's out  in paperback.  One last point, the way Ms. Sohn ended this novel, you can't  help but wonder if RUN CATCH KISS is an autobiography.	1999-08-31
US	52768278	R4HGXTNY1JX9Q	0375406522	312828157	Otherwise Engaged : a Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	What was the point?	I'll give this book some credit:  Some parts were funny, others were sad, and I'm sure some bride-to-be out there can relate.  However, I thought, &quot;Geez, woman!  Get a grip!  You're getting married, not executed!  Get  over your whiny self!&quot;  This book was actually depressing to read.  I  finished it because it wasn't horrible, but three stars is all it really  deserves.  Actually, 2 1/2 stars, but there isn't a selection for that.  If  this book was any longer than 209 pages, I probably would've had to force  myself to the end.  If you are engaged and really excited and optimistic  about it, please don't read this book.	1999-08-25
US	52768278	R17H8TO9K7PAOK	0609804138	849376137	The Sweet Potato Queens' Book of Love: A Fallen Southern Belle's Look at Love, Life, Men, Marriage, and Being Prepared	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A hilarious how-to	What a gloriously funny book!  Even the recipies were funny, and well, how funny did you think a recipie could be?!  I &quot;discovered&quot; this book en route to Jamaica back in May--the stranger next to me read it all  the way there.  Well, the cover just grabbed me and I HAD to have it.  It  was a quick, light read that had a very wise and uplifting last chapter.  Oh, and for those who are clueless like me in the beginning, this is not a  fiction novel, but a wacky manual about life, love and other good stuff  that we should all follow to the hilt!	1999-08-13
US	52768278	RPGYCKRIMUEDK	0060926201	434382076	She Flew the Coop: A Novel Concerning Life, Death, Sex and Recipes in Limoges, Louisiana	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Oh, how I love Michael Lee West!	This is only the second book I have read by Ms. West (first being American Pie) and I was totally enthralled.  It took me a few chapters to get the ball rolling, but after that I couldn't stop reading.  I loved every single  second I spent in Limoges, Louisiana with Vangie, Henry, DeeDee, Harriet  and the others.  Some of the storylines were quite sensitive (i.e. Reverend  Kirby) but I really didn't mind, it only made the book seem more real.  I  have her other two books, Crazy Ladies and Consuming Passions, and I can't  wait to start on them.  Thanks and kudos to Michael Lee West!	1999-08-09
US	52768278	R11V0NAAKSNFE6	0316601950	760222125	The Pilot's Wife (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Predictable yet enjoyable	I figured out the pilot's secrets (well, most of them) even before I cracked the book.  Yes, it's very predictable, but it's also fun to read and realize how smart (or psychic) you are for guessing!  This book is a  breeze to read--if I hadn't had four step-children in the house for the  past four weeks, I would have finished it in a matter of days.  A nice  in-between-books book.  One thing is puzzling me, though:  Who is  &quot;A&quot;?  A character?  A place?  I never figured it out, maybe I  skipped over the explanation and didn't realize it.  Maybe I missed a crucial point!	1999-07-28
US	52768278	R2AS6FFRJFS4I9	1573221368	440138927	Tipping the Velvet: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wow!  This one is fantastic!	I have never read a book quite like TIPPING THE VELVET.  Like the back cover suggests, it is absolutely gorgeous.  The writing is virtually flawless, somewhat poetic, and the story has a wonderful mixture of happy,  sad, twists and turns.  Reading this book, after a character was introduced  and played a bit, then forgotton when the story moved on, I was afraid I  would never find out what happened to them.  But Ms. Waters saved the best  for last and tied up everything in the end.  Even if you don't have  anything in &quot;common&quot; with the characters, you will delight in  this book.	1999-07-21
US	52768278	R1SA6UMR91AVET	0449911357	8343212	Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Cafe (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Hard to follow, but still very good	Fannie Flagg is such a gifted, talented writer.  I could read her books over and over again.  However, this particular writing style, jumping back and forth between time, was a bit confusing.  It would be 1986, then 1944,  back to 1986, then drop down past 1944 and go to 1936.  Huh?  What came  first?!  Oh, but after a while I got used to it and rather enjoyed the book  and the mystery.  Not as good as Daisy Fay but still a readable and  engaging novel.	1999-07-06
US	52768278	RTG1OL2045FLV	0385319401	485514812	Blue Italian	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Very real and touching...	Gary and Rosa--what a marriage!  At times I wanted to jump in the pages and break up the fist-fight and other times I laughed at their silly arguments.  Ms. Ciresi paints a very vivid portrait of marriage and all it's swirls and brushstrokes.  This novel was funny and smart with all of  Rosa's hot-headed italianess and Gary's quirky Jewish personality, but also  very touching for the same reasons.  Throughout the whole novel, I had a  hard time figuring out why these two were together, but after reading the  Epilogue and finally closing the book, I realized why.  Much better than  Pink Slip, so read this one first!	1999-06-24
US	52768278	RNZ9GG8QX8274	0449002985	397288126	Your Oasis on Flame Lake (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Landvik just keeps getting better!	I really really REALLY liked this book.  Lorna Landvik is incredibly funny and talented and this book is her monument.  I loved her quirky and endearing characters, especially Dick and Darcy--they cracked me up!  YOUR  OASIS was a better read for me than PATTY JANE, although the latter was a  great book as well.  I can't wait for her next release in September.  I  will be the first in line.	1999-06-18
US	52768278	R3EGUITR9CLE9Q	0385333951	870989999	Tara Road	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another great Binchy!	Having completed all 13 of her novels/short story collections and enjoyed each and every one, I now feel I can comment on this novel with somewhat of an expertise.  TARA ROAD was exactly what I expected of Maeve Binchy.  I  loved the idea she had for this novel and she carried it out expertly.  I  even liked the bad characters!  She tied up the ends nicely--except for  Rosemary and her &quot;secret&quot;, which disappointed me.  I would have  loved to see how that would have turned out.  However, as good as this  novel was, it wasn't my favorite.  I personally enjoy her novels that are  set in earlier decades, i.e., The Glass Lake or Firefly Summer.  But  regardless, I remain an avid fan and can't wait for her next novel to come  out.	1999-06-14
US	52768278	R2NL80PZ9T37Q4	0060984333	264001180	American Pie: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	I was entertained the whole way through!	Michael Lee West has written a jewel.  Her style is so refreshing and smooth, she could have been writing about how to bait a fishing hook and I would have enjoyed it.  Ms. West paints a funny, quirky picture of three  very different sisters and their sweet, endearing grandmother.  The story  was very smart, a bit sassy, but poignant all the same.  Can't wait to dive  into her other two books.	1999-05-17
US	52768278	R3A94G7YOBHL0Q	0375707972	153296191	The Reader	Books	4	0	0	N	N	I should have read up on my German history first!	What an interesting and thought-provoking novel.  I have never read a book quite like this one, one that deals with the Holocaust, Jews or concentration camps.  I have to admit I am pretty ignorant about the topic,  so I had a hard time understanding the trial.  Aside from that, I was moved  by the story and how it developed and ultimately how it ended.  Very quick  read, so even if it isn't your kind of book, stick with it because it takes  so little time to finish.  And, as in my case, you may even end up liking  it.	1999-05-07
US	52768278	RIW97BC071N3I	038532362X	337263488	Pink Slip	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Toss up between boring and interesting	The beginning of this book began incredibly slow and boring.  To be  honest, I didn't even start to get interested until 150 pages later, but as  soon as it started rolling, it slumped again.  I thought Lisa and Strauss  were obnoxious together; they fought like two elementary school children.  Lisa's drug use grossed me out and made her seem very immature, especially  for a 25-year-old corporate employee who yearns to be the head of her  department.  However, to give this book some credit, things got so much  better around chapter 14 and I read like crazy to see how it would end.  If  I could give it an accurate score, I would have chosen a 3 1/2	1999-05-05
US	52768278	R2ND45PIT1DIXB	0446394521	802397301	Daisy Fay and the Miracle Man	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This book cracked me up!!	What a hilarious novel!  I have never laughed so hard while reading a book in my entire life.  Fannie Flagg is gifted.  She made the characters come to life for me.  Daisy Fay is the friend I wish I had in high school, if  not for companionship but for the crazy, fun-filled memories.  DAISY FAY  AND THE MIRACLE MAN is a wonderful pick-me-up and such a pleasure to read.  Thank you Ms. Flagg for creating such a fantastic story!	1999-04-27
US	52768278	RPP1EPX0R6QJT	0060928336	859404350	Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not what I expected	After hearing (and reading) all the hoopla about this novel, I was very excited to finally get to read it.  It started a bit slow for me and I really couldn't understand Sidda's problem and reasoning for &quot;going  away for a little while.&quot;  The high points were definitely all about  the Ya-Ya antics, and I feel guilty that I couldn't appreciate the message  about mothers and daughters until the last few chapters.  However, I did  enjoy this novel and I was kept interested until the very end.  But I liked  LITTLE ALTARS EVERYWHERE tons better.  It's a lot darker and more sad, but  it touched me deeper than DIVINE SECRETS.	1999-04-21
US	52768278	R1NMM00ODDP9B4	038097617X	962133592	Watermelon	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Reading this book was like talking to a friend	What a unique writing style.  I have never read a novel where the narrator actually &quot;talks&quot; to the reader, as if she was telling me, and only me, a story.  I really enjoyed the &quot;conversation&quot; I had with  Claire.  And the ending was exactly the way I hoped it would be.  After  having a nice slice of WATERMELON I feel very full and satisfied.  Now I am  ready for a nap.	1999-04-14
US	52768278	R3G9HU0BSXCFQY	0449911004	777164082	Patty Jane's House of Curl (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Don't let the title fool you...	I have to admit, I purchased this book because I was looking for a story that was going to make me laugh.  The title and the description on the back was the prime reason for buying this book.  But I have to say how surprised  and pleased I was that PATTY JANE'S HOUSE OF CURL turned out to be so  meaningful.  I laughed as I knew I would; I cried, especially over the last  chapter; and I was completely fulfilled after reading the Epilogue, which  cinched the entire purpose of the book into a few pages.  I enjoyed this  book immensely and recommend it highly.	1999-04-07
US	52768278	R3R08P1FLS5Q9M	0385324057	902500282	Summer Sisters	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great story...unbelieveable friendship	Reading a Judy Blume novel is like a refreshing spring day after a long, hard winter.  SUMMER SISTERS reminded me why I held her young adult novels so dear to my heart.  This book stirred many feelings inside of me.  I was  rooting for Vix, then cursing Caitlin, then cursing Vix for putting up with  Caitlin.  I laughed out loud (Dingleberry Award!), but was sad at the end.  I really enjoyed this novel.  A great work by an even greater author.	1999-04-03
US	52768278	RUPJC0V8DDL7S	0802134297	722282634	Candy	Books	3	10	16	N	N	Good grief!  What a strange story!	What in the world was this book about?  I'm all confused.  Indeed it held my interest, but what a bizarre way of doing it.  I don't remember recognizing a plot, only lots of sex.  I can't say it was either a good or  bad read, because honestly I have no idea.  It was definitely different and  unlike anything I have ever read.  But, if you're interested in a quick  journey down Weird Street, this novel will absolutely take you there.	1999-03-29
US	52768278	RBX1H8PA57DI4	0312147015	253392869	The Persian Pickle Club	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Hard to get into, but ended okay	This is the first book I have read by this author and I am not sure if I will read her others.  I found it a chore to read until about the fifth chapter when the &quot;mystery&quot; began.  Granted, I was eager to find  out who did it and was surprised by the outcome, which I guess is a  telltale sign of a good mystery.  Don't get me wrong, THE PERSIAN PICKLE  CLUB is not a bad novel.  Actually, the story is quite good once it starts  rolling.  I probably won't be as quick to recommend this to others as I  have been with other novels.  But if you want a quick  &quot;mini-mystery&quot; to pass the time, this book will provide.	1999-03-26
US	52768278	R2V1DAQHRXQ4TC	0446672211	17564972	Where the Heart Is	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of the best books I've ever read	I am floored!  What an incredible novel!  Billie Letts has written a masterpiece in 3-D.  Her words jump off the page and create characters and lives that you can actually &quot;see.&quot;  The story of Novalee is sad,  but ends in such a triumph, kind of like fireworks on the Fourth of July.  Ms. Letts doesn't forget anything, and she uses the same theme throughout  the entire book to remind us how some of the things people say can change  your life forever.  I will never forget this book.  I am ready to pass it  on to others, but only to those who promise to give it back!	1999-03-20
US	52768278	R3H9NJGRT8AUE4	0684839776	787821381	Cupid and Diana: A Novel About Finding the Right Man the Right Career and the Right Outfit	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Hmmm....sounds familiar	This book reminded me of my younger years and history with guys.  It also made me grateful that I have finally found someone (my husband) who fits me like a glove.  Christina Bartolomeo has written a very sweet first novel  that was a pleasure to read.  I didn't care much for the soap opera updates  or the details regarding every person's outfit, but the plot was definitely  identifiable.  CUPID AND DIANA was good enough to make me want to read her  next novel when she writes one.	1999-03-16
US	52768278	R23PS86F7UXRPY	0060976845	82289117	Little Altars Everywhere	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Had tears in my eyes the whole time	Wow.  I'm breathless.  I read the last page of this book no more than five minutes ago, and I'm absolutely speechless.  I didn't even realize how much meaning this book would have, and how much it would touch me.  I actually  wanted to crawl inside the pages and hug those children and cry their  tears.  LITTLE ALTARS EVERYWHERE was very poignant and powerful, funny and  sad.  Wow...this one will be with me for a long, long time.	1999-03-16
US	52768278	R31UBCTAUQ2FXH	0670880728	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good for a few laughs, but just a few	I enjoyed this book as a fun, quick, easy read.  It was semi-laugh-out-loud and a little goofy, somewhat reminding me of myself---when I was 16!!	1999-03-01
US	52768278	R2QGTI1M3J05L8	0440204194	621254880	Firefly Summer	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Touching, sweet and powerful	I have been on a Binchy marathon for the past nine months which has culminated with this novel, Firefly Summer.  Let me tell you, this book was utterly fantastic.  The story of Mountfern touched me from the very  beginning when the kids learned their &quot;special place&quot;, the burned  remains of an old, once powerful mansion, would be rebuilt.  Because of  this, their entire world changed.  Maeve Binchy spins a wonderful Irish  yarn that takes a surprising plot twist at the end.  If you liked The Glass  Lake or Light a Penny Candle, this book is definitely for you.  I can't  stop raving about it!!!	1999-02-17
US	52768278	R36D0IZPTKGQX8	0440212359	891553486	London Transports	Books	4	15	16	N	N	An easy, readable book	Maeve Binchy is, by far, my favorite author and I find it difficult to criticize anything she writes.  London Transports was definitely a readable collection of short stories, although it wasn't her best.  She repeats  herself in one story...it shows up later in The Return Journey.  On the  plus side, however, some of the stories deal with topics not presented in  her other books.  They shine with Binchy's wit and style that I always  enjoy in all her books, and I never thought once about stopping.  If you  are a die-hard Binchy fan who has made it your goal to read all her works  (like me), go ahead and read this book.  It's worth it.	1999-02-05
US	52768278	R1XNI6BBW369X3	0440223571	426185457	This Year It Will Be Different, and other stories	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Her best collection of short stories	I bought all of Maeve Binchy's books back in May.  I saved this one for December because I figured it would be the perfect month to enjoy reading Christmas stories.  Was I ever right!!  This book was fantastic!  Beats her  other collections with a stick--and that's a tough job.  Plus, the short  story format is such a breath of fresh air.  I caught myself driving down  the road catching a glimpse of this book laying on the passenger seat and  saying, &quot;That right there is a great book!&quot;	1998-12-30
US	52768278	R3EQVKIOKQWWGQ	0451192028	348815754	Light a Penny Candle	Books	5	1	1	N	N	My new favorite!	Everytime I read a Binchy book, it becomes my new instant favorite.  I have read nine of her novels and this one ranks in the top three (along with The Glass Lake and Circle of Friends).  The ending is quite a shocker;  it didn't really jive with the way Elizabeth's personality is portrayed.  However, I devoured every last page, and once I have read the rest of Maeve  Binchy's books, I will definitely go back to this one.	1998-12-14
US	52768278	RX9R41IARJCDJ	0745128033	196912840	Dublin Four (Word for Word Audio Books)	Books	4	43	45	N	N	Small but satisfying doses of Binchy	As usual, Maeve Binchy has captured my full attention!  After each short  story, I felt as if I just finished a complete novel.  All the details were  there, the characters nicely developed.  The endings could have been a  little more conclusive, but by no means was I left thinking,  &quot;And...?&quot;  Bravo for Maeve Binchy!  I can't wait for her next  release.	1998-10-19
US	52768278	R1FWOE35C3UXA4	0440213029	638393961	The Lilac Bus	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Nice, but missing something	I am a huge fan of Maeve Binchy and everything she writes.  So, even  though The Lilac Bus was not her best, it was still good.  However, I think  she needed to include a last chapter to sort of pull the ends together.  I  was left wondering and wanting more...but maybe that was her intention!	1998-10-12
US	52768278	R1542EDSQ32HRI	0440211263	817486072	Circle of Friends	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Everywhere I went I was reading this book!!	This book was utterly incredible.  Not only did I read it at home, at  work, at the park and in the dentist office waiting room, I read it while  driving and stopped at stoplights.  Yes, it is that good!  The characters  are expertly developed and the book wonderfully written.  I have read  nothing but Maeve Binchy for five months and am starting my eighth  novel--let's just say I'm on a Maeve Binchy binge!!  I will not stop until  I have read everything.  However, to this point, Circle of Friends tops  them all.	1998-10-04
US	52768278	R19W90XZ2WKKMP	0440213290	176496173	The Copper Beech	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Wonderful Book About Friendship	I can't say enough good things about The Copper Beech.  I loved the  characters, and most of their stories left me filled with joy.  Reading  this book should remind us all what it was like growing up, and for some,  bring back some nice memories.  Maeve Binchy has once again captured the  true spirit of those she writes about.  I highly recommend this feel-good  novel.	1998-08-27
